[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike isrel here for
Renaissance periodization glute growth
program you wanted it you just weren't
ready to admit it and now you're finally
rubbing the tears from under your eyes
you hit a namaste moment you're here
listening to How to specialize on glutes
it's okay join the club it's 2020
whatever glutes are
in but why would we be specializing on
them could we just train glutes in the
concert of an overall well balanced
program the answer is yes but there's a
couple reasons why you could want to
specialize on your glutes you just want
your glutes to grow in relation to
everything else so you may think that
your quads look pretty cool your
hamstrings look nice but damn it your
glutes are just a little small and if
they were bigger everything would be in
harmony a guy the Earth goddess would uh
you know bless you in her own special
way which I'm sure is sexual um by share
I mean hope number two is if you do want
bigger glutes altering your program to
limit the focus on some muscles can make
the glutes bigger because somebody could
just say well specializing you just do
more for the glutes and the same for
everything else yes but if you reduce
the everything else the glutes get even
more recovery adaptive resource and then
they can really grow and take off and so
you can just train everything normally
but at some point you'll realize that
prioritizing is a good idea
that begs the question
of when do I know prioritization is
something that I'm going to need when do
I know specialization is something I'm
really going to need versus just
training all around question is this
with all of the muscles that you train
and your glutes included are you able to
take each muscle close to its own
performance limits towards the end of a
Mesa cycle like the muscle itself is
what's crapping out on me my overall
feeling is that I'm feeling great but I
just can't match my PRS and the muscle
itself is tired and sore and beat up it
just needs a break that's great that's
how you know you've taken a muscle all
the way to where it's meant to go as far
as stimulating growth but if the fatigue
is systemic your biceps are ready to go
but you're just so godamn tired from
doing leg curls and squats and pull-ups
and all this of the crap you're doing in
your program then no amount of you know
training your biceps hard is going to
fix that because all of your hard bicep
training at that point is Just Junk
volume you unable to train hard enough
to stimulate your biceps because the
systemic fatigue is togr and if you push
hard enough to do that systemic fatigue
rises even more and it's kind of like a
self-cancelling phenomenon so in that
case if you're not able to train
everything with due diligence let's say
you've got eight major muscles of the
body and you're only able to train seven
on front burner if you add an an eighth
one everything kind of collapses you
need to take out the eighth one put it
on maintenance and say okay seven is all
I can train and at that point you know
that you can prioritize specialize on
seven muscles at the same time but as
you grow bigger and stronger it may be
less than that top ifb Pro physiques can
probably only prioritize really put
their front burner specialize on half of
their muscle groups at the same time
with the other half going on maintenance
volume much less than normal maybe a
third of the total volume that they used
to be able to do and remember that
doesn't shrink those muscles it just
keeps them about the same size while
your glutes for example are growing and
then later on you can go back to normal
training
so if we're choosing to specialize we
have to understand what that really
means and that's in context for the
glutes but it works the same for every
other muscle there is first specificity
you don't want to choose good exercises
for the glutes you want to choose great
ones exercises modalities drop sets
super sets Etc and repetition ranges
that preferentially stimulate the target
musle so for example if lower rep sets
of lunges really fry your glutes but
they don't hit your quads much but
higher rep lunges really hit your quads
and your glutes are not nearly as hit if
you really serious about glute
specialization you're going to do most
of your lung ing in the lower petition
range that really targets your glutes
all of our best weapons forward and
because we want to use all of our best
weapons when refresh we're going to
follow the idea of prioritization which
in any given session with multiple
exercises you want to train glutes
relatively early in that session many
days of the week it should be first in
that session if you're really serious
about changing something you've got to
do it fresh like if you are an elite
artist and you want to really get your
game up to where you're unbelievable
artist you probably don't want to
practice your craft when you're fucking
dog tired from the rest of the day of
work and other art you do for work and
not your passion projects you probably
want to wake up early in the morning and
get that shit done right when you're
focused to make sure it's the best
quality work same way if you want to
train your glutes you can't say oh I do
my normal shit and then at the end of a
workout I do three sets of frog pumps or
something you got to do glutes first
maybe second in most of the days of
training in which you do glutes that way
they're always getting great workouts
frequency generally speaking higher
frequencies work a little bit better
than lower frequencies tragic for me to
see people who are trying to get their
glutes bigger but only train glutes once
a week at least twice a week maybe even
three or four times is much better
whenever your glutes are recovered you
should be training them again generally
speaking now the glutes are a big muscle
and they are involved in big heavy
movements that have a large amplitude
and ton of weight used the total work is
really high and thus systemic fatigue is
high as well so when you are interested
in really specializing on your glutes
and going fucking hard you should
probably consider tuning down the volume
to maintenance volume or a little bit
above that for many other muscles of the
body especially other lower body muscles
if you're training your hamstrings like
crazy you might be able to also train
your glutes hard if you're training your
quads like crazy fuck unfortunately a
lot of the times is when your glutes are
going to be ready and recovered and good
to go your quads might be tired and sore
from the Quad work and then your glutes
never really have a fresh take so yes
you can train glutes and quads and hams
all really hard at the same time but if
you really really really want to put all
your best weapons and get the biggest
glutes you can during the time that
you're specializing on glutes I would go
maintenance volume with hamstrings
maintenance volume with quads it's
actually quite easy because the glutes
involve a lot of those muscles anyway
not that many exercises or sets directly
for those muscles more work on the
glutes so not only are they getting ton
of work but they're fresh and it's hot
quality
work all right so when you are building
your glute plan just for one Mesa cycle
consider a training frequency of three
or four glute sessions per week glutes
are big and they're gnarly so you could
even start with two sessions a week or
three I wouldn't start with four
eventually you can work up to it ideally
of course you train them fresh at the
beginning of every leg day and on their
own day that's three days a week the
glutes can be the first thing you train
awesome as far as exercises lunges are
incredible for the glutes because they
allow that super crazy stretch of the
glute when that lead Le lead leg hits
the floor uh a foot or two away from you
that is the Real Money Maker lunges are
incredible there's a trillion different
variety of lunges make sure you are
stable make sure you are lunging very
deep uh one of the lunges is actually
the Bulgarian split squat which is just
another type of lunge as far as I'm
concerned that's also great for the
glutes and the deeper you can go the
bigger the stretch the better that is a
really good core for glute work in
addition to deep wide stance work which
hits the glutes really well
so wide stance Sumo deficit deadlifts
wide stance sumo squats there is a
technique alteration which Jared feather
has talked about in many of our videos
in which we train females for their
glutes in which how how you execute
those exercises can actually make your
glutes a huge limiting factor and the
other way to execute those exercises
means the glutes are not a b limiting
factor and you have to use way more
weight to do the same thing so I would
clue in on those potentially we'll have
Jared do a little mini glute seminar on
how to arrange your Technique to hit
your glutes but if you do that properly
the deep wide stance work also works
incredibly well and of course hip
thrusts are are very good exercises for
glutes not some kind of magic that's
necessarily categorically better than
exercises the good thing about hip
thrust is they really one of the only
exercises that emphasizes that Peak
contraction at the top of a glute you
guys ever had sex for a long time it's
all Peak contractions and then you legit
have a huge glute pump I should stop by
accident to those of you who have never
had sex refer to what pretend sex would
probably be like and then get a pretend
glute pump someday you'll have the real
thing I
promise maybe maybe not at least with a
robot hopefully soon that's my plan all
of my sex is theoretical so hip thrusts
are great lunges are great some other
options good we'll talk about in a sec
but wide stance work for glutes is a
really really really good idea set
numbers again glutes are not special and
magical like almost every other muscle
two to six sets per session for glutes
and whatever gets you a decent pump and
uh a feeling like you worked out a bit
and then go slowly from there based week
after week upon your ability to recover
and get sore Etc I will say that if you
haven't done walking lunges ever or in
months one set of lunges close to
failure will give you what I like to
call ioms instant onset muscle
soreness your glutes get crampy and
fucking weird and if you do any more
sets than that you'll have Doms in your
glutes for like I don't know a week and
a half or two which is really stupid so
highly effective exercises like lunges
start with just one set and stop
literally one set that's your whole
glute workout next week you can do two
sets then three etc etc etc so some of
these exercises you really really need
ease into and lunges are a really good
example of that loading and repetitions
Whatever Gets your best sfrs which how
do we tell tons of tension in the glutes
tons of burn in the glutes close to
failure great pump in the glutes it
makes the glutes really tired and unable
to perform and it makes the glutes
either really fatigued feeling perturbed
feeling uh and or gets them actual
delayed on that muscle soreness that's
how we can tell where our best sfrs are
while at the same time minimizing how
much joint and connective tissue
disruption we
feel there's a big difference between
the best sfrs for the glutes and shit
you want to do for example every other
girl in America seemingly hip thrusts
405 pounds but last I checked their
glutes aren't that big right how come
well it's easy to leverage the exercise
of the hip thrust in such a way that may
not feel ideal for your connective tis
issues but you can lift a shitload of
weight in and it's in the 5 to 10 rep
range so you can really lift a lot of
weight but if you had to be honest with
yourself and ask after one of those sets
how do your glutes feel most people's
answer would be like I don't know they
feel fine like they were trained but
it's not exactly getting in there really
zapping them well what would they say if
I really had to be honest I would hold
the peak contraction of the hip thrust
for one or two seconds I would do a slow
Rec Centric I would do sets of you know
15 to 20 hip thrusts and then that would
fuck me up my glutes would be dead well
that's the fucking point and then you
might have to use two plates instead of
four plates for hip thrusts you might
have to use barbell walking lunges with
25s on each side of the barbell instead
of 45s it's really cool to be Ronnie
Coleman and do three plates for walking
lunges but the reality is it's just
that's out out of the cards for most of
us and glutes are a muscle in which the
technical change in the exercise can
really change what is being involved
remember anytime you do any kind of hip
thrusting motion your ham strings your
adductors your quads your lower back can
all help the glutes to some extent carry
out that motion and thus if you just try
to go for Max Force production all those
muscles will start to help and the
glutes won't be working as much anymore
relative to the other muscles so the
stimulus Rises a little bit for the
glutes maybe not even at all Rises a lot
for the other muscles but the fatigue
Rises a shitload because now you're
lifting a fucking metric tone whereas if
you really focused on the Mind muscle
connection for the glutes really chose a
technique that blasts the glutes to
nothing else you get a ton of winnings
as far as stimulus very little fatigue
to pay for it the only thing you have to
rationalize to yourself is why that girl
over there hip thrusts more than you but
bitch gets curious you just turn to the
side and pull your shorts a little bit
and she's like
hiy sty see I speak Spanish too and I
have no idea what I said but maybe
Spanish speaking folks can translate in
the comments that would be helpful a
little uh little Rosetta Stone
I sure hope I said
something there is no avoiding hard
training if you want to grow but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results and anyway something I overheard
Jared feather talking about in any
case again same as most other muscles if
you do have an exercise for glutes that
is really good in the five to 10 rep
range great sfr and other exercises that
are better for higher reps start the
workout with a sets of 5 to 10 like if
it's Sumo deficit pulls or something
because you got to be fresh for heavy
but you don't have to be fresh for light
and high rep get the heavy done first
light and high rep after and if you have
within the week maybe three glute days
do your heavier work earlier in the week
moderate work in the middle of the week
and later in the week do lighter work
really recover that way your joints and
connective tissues kind of get to
recover the entire time and they get
blasted again next time you train
heavy progress through your plan is
going to be very similar you essentially
want a set of Baseline of volume which
we talked about sort of two to six sets
for each session for the glutes and then
you see okay how is the stimulus going
and how is my recovery going so if you
feel really strong next workout before
to train glutes and you're not you have
no delayed onset soreness or anything
like that the next time you do glutes
you can add a set so if Wednesday I
train glutes Monday and Wednesday I'm
feeling phenomenal next Monday I go from
three sets to four sets of
glutes ideally you want to heal just
before you train glutes again train get
train your glutes get either sore or
like pretty fatigued and tired you're
like my glutes aren't sore but like fuck
I don't I'm definitely going to
underperform with hip thrusts and lunges
by the time you train gluts again you're
just recovered enough to hit that mini
PR you stuff as much volume as you can
overtime recover from that usually leads
to the best gains voila if you are sore
all the time if you do lunges on Monday
and you're still sore doing hip thrust
on Wednesday too much reduce the volume
so that you heal on time we don't want
to train when we're sore on occasion
it's okay but it's not something you set
up over the long
term reps and Reserve three reps and
Reserve like with anything else start
and then you progress by 2 and A2 PBS or
5 lbs on the bar 10 lb on the bar
whatever it is every week a little bit
on the bar maybe add a repetition or two
here every week so you're always making
things a little tougher over time
eventually you hit failure on stuff
you're not able to mash repetitions Delo
get rid of the fatigue choose some
exercises repeat another meso voila
that's all the program design and while
we're at it what would a glute plan look
like I'm just going to show the glute
exercises I've integrated no quad or uh
hamstring training or anything into this
but basically it's Monday Wednesday
Friday we have a sample plan here right
there Monday we start with barbell hip
thrusts sets of 10 to 15 reps and three
R and then we do Sumo paw squats for two
sets of five to 10 reps now hold on a
second suaa squats great glute exercise
but they're five to 10 reps but they're
second in the order I thought you said
five to 10 reps should be first in most
cases but in some cases the stimulus to
fatigue ratio is higher if you
pre-exhaust with a lighter exercise so
you don't have to go crazy heavy on a
compound movement Sumo squas pretty
fucking heavy so if my glutes can be
blasted with hip thrust which don't even
affect most of my body sets of 10 to 15
reps that means my glutes are nice and
weak coming into the actual sumo squat
itself and then when I do the squats I
do my super glute technique and the
glutes just don't need that much more to
get going it's like doing some flies
before doing some push-ups if you get
through all your flies first and then
you do your multiple sets of push-ups
it'll be easier relative ly to train
your pecs versus your triceps because
your PS will already be pre-exhaust
Wednesday okay so we got basically five
total sets of glutes on Monday we come
in on Wednesday we do machine hip
thrusts or glute Kickbacks because
there's some good glute kick uh glute
Kickback machines having trouble saying
that for some reason and afterwards we
do Sumo paused deficit deadlifts again
the deficit means we have to lean over
more we got a huge glute stretch
especially if we do the Sumo with the
right technique we reach our glutes
really far back and focus all of our
energy on bringing our hips back and
then underneath us it's actually
mechanically really shitty leverage
advantage and your glutes have to get
you out of there at a deep stretch which
means it's very stressful for the glutes
you do those deficit pause deadlifts
like that again that's another five sets
for glutes on Wednesday really good
stuff Friday the abductor machine I
guess it's called the badir machine
because you open up your legs like that
some normative sexual implications there
I won't brooch but uh in any case the
opening leg up that actually is one of
the functions of the glutes not a hugely
major function so you don't want to have
your whole routine be the bad girl
machine but it's something good to
Pepper in there it takes care of other
parts of the muscle maybe aren't hit
well with other things so you do that
for three sets of 15 to 20 reps and then
of course barbell walking lunges
especially great once your glutes have
been pre- exhausted two sets of 15 to 20
reps gee that's a really good exercise
get nice and sore take two days to
recover come back again add a few more
sets reduce the RS a little bit stay in
the same rep ranges by adding a bit of
load maybe a few reps here and there
it's week two week three week four Etc
at the end we get to a
sample final pre- Deo week and there you
notice that we're still in the same rep
range but everything is a zero R and the
sets have increased
substantially again increasing sets is a
matter of asking am I recovered enough
and if you say well I'm for sure recover
enough I could definitely do a set and
still recover you go to the EXC
exercises that because remember it's two
exercises per day so if you're saying
okay my Monday recovery tells me that
next Friday I can add a set to my Friday
workout you might look and say okay I
have the abductor machine and barber
walking lunges which one of those do I
add a set to the answer is whichever one
for you at the time has a better
stimulus to fatigue
ratio not that hard to figure out you
should already know that in your program
you be like okay well I'm already doing
six sets of abductor machine there's no
fucking way I'm doing another set of
that the sfr that last set will
definitely suck because I'm already
psychologically checked out but I could
do another set of barbell lunges so
instead of four sets I'll do five sets
that's how it
works all right how long can you
specialize for under glutes ideally
forever and actually you can do that so
you can do a whole training block of
specialization three mesa Cycles in the
row the Mesa cycle progressively
becoming focused on slightly higher reps
because your joints and connective
isssues can't keep up if it's just
stronger stronger stronger all the time
potentially increasing the training
frequency as your glutes get used to it
and of course the average volume is
going to go up as well and incorporating
different movements as the various
movements lose their sfr rankings so
barbell walking lunges were a great
movement for you in the first two mesos
by the third they're not so great and
they're kind of weird on your adductor
then you do some regular you know so
let's say Bulgarian split squats or
something with a deficit uh alls well
then ends well and then voila or after a
really good start so
exercises that are no longer working you
replace exercis that are working great
you keep
in one whole block which is three mesle
Cycles potentially something like 18 to
20 weeks that's a lot of training after
that you should do either a four-week
low volume resensitization phase or a
twoe active rest phase and then you can
come back and do another block of glutes
and just repeat that over and over and
over or you can come back and do any
kind of normal training because maybe
just maybe your glutes are finally big
enough and JLo insurance people came up
to you and they were like do you need
that insured because damn Daddy finally
somebody called me Daddy all right if
you need more information about how to
do this don't worry we have got you
covered in the links right below in the
description we have a free exercise
video library where you can look up
Jared feather training his glutes isn't
that a treat just by itself there's a
muscle group training guide which
includes the the glutes so if this video
made some sense but you want something
physical to hold on to and read then
we've got that as well all free the
hypertrophy Made Simple training videos
if you're like what the hell is sfr
there's a video on that don't worry give
you the whole Grand architecture of how
we look at aery training on this channel
it's so different than everyone everyone
else it's not that
different now that's the free stuff not
free stuff is the hypertrophy book if
you're a real super fucking nerd like me
you'd want to buy that shit and of
course if you want to create a custom
Training template but you need some
architecture with which to do it you can
do it on our website it's super valuable
it's not we're not trying to rip you off
it's it's actually a good program
generator you can build whatever you
want on it it's going to make a whole
lot of sense and remember I
still have team of 19 Butlers
supervising as of now 27
Lamborghinis I even have the old 1980s
Kash and everything means something it's
a memorabilia and if you guys want to
support the lambo fund buy more shit if
you don't like me having Lamborghinis
what the hell is wrong with you do you
even support theer dream in any case
folks thanks for tuning in and I'll
vroom by you next time and leave you and
your girlfriend the mud water on the
side of the street as you hear and see
and smell Lamborghini
exhaust