tiny incremental progressions over
months and months of training lead to
Big gains some people get impatient and
they want to slap the wheels on like
they've been leg pressing four plates
for a while like yeah man I'm feeling it
today put five on that it's
like okay but you could get hurt we have
smaller plates we do have smaller plates
and you you'll be baffled as to why we
have them it's for that slow steady
progression there's another thing that
happens as well which is people who are
still using the exact same weight that
they were 10 years ago it's my weight
that I use I've heard people describe
that like yeah I use three plates on the
bench like okay you've attached yourself
to a load very interesting E I imagine
that must happen a lot to you attach
yourself to a load oh boy Chris if you
saw our dungeon gy you I I get attached
to all sorts of things