you can bench for six months straight
and someone's like bansh you're like I'm
fucking done benching for a while my
elbows are starting to feel weird my
pecs aren't responding anymore you
switch to dumbbells or machine and now
it's fresh and now it feels good so you
rotate through that top five or ten best
sfr stimulus to fatigue ratio exercises
and that's where that's where you go for
for your really good training so if you
can just relatively objectively and at
least honestly
tell yourself okay I know I love the
bench press
but is no longer working for me at least
for the time now as well as let's say
something else dumbbell press for a
while just do some dumbbell presses
until maybe the bench press feels less
stale try it again see if you can alter
your Technique to feel it more and if it
goes great if not you have tons of other
exercise to choose from