[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and you have probably
seen these bug cakes like taking over
the grocery store so there's protein
wands there are just really you know
sweet fad for you once with my kids love
but I decided that I wanted to make a
mud cake for you guys that was super
quick and easy and had you know real
ingredients in it so that's what we're
gonna do today and it's really quick and
it's meant to be you know just a pure
carb source I didn't work any protein
powders into it or anything like that
this is just a straight-up carb source
and fat source so it has a half a gram
or I'm sorry a half a serving of fat in
the mix and then if you're lucky enough
that you get a whole serving of fat on
your templates then it's totally
phenomenal to spread that second
tablespoon of peanut butter right over
the top when it comes out so I'll show
you that alright so let's get going
we've got quick oats the little ones
I've got some unsweetened applesauce
I'm sweetened almond milk at our first
tablespoon of peanut butter natural nut
butter you can use almond butter cashew
butter or whatever you like doesn't
matter whatever is your favorite we've
got some sugar-free pancake syrup if you
do not like that stuff and the whole
sugar-free thing weirds you out and you
don't like the sugar-free pancake syrup
you could sub in date syrup
you could sub in honey if you want honey
is not necessarily a template item but
you know if you like honey go ahead and
stir that in and then just a little
smidge of vanilla and some cocoa powder
and that's it we're just gonna mix this
around grab your favorite our pee mug or
any mug you want but not one of those
huge ones because this isn't a lot if
you get like you know this shape of a
mug
the smaller taller seems to work better
for this recipe and just spray it really
good on the inside because it will stick
sure it's so funny this mug has like all
kinds of scrape marks on the inside
because I've made this mug cake in it so
many times and I scrape it to get it out
sometimes so it's got some battle scars
all right and then just dump all this in
this is a recipe from something sweet
our sweets only fifty recipe cookbook
that came out right before the holidays
in 2017 so that's it you just dump it in
it looks like that ugly that's cool
doesn't matter some I taste phenomenal
and then we're just gonna put it in the
microwave for two minutes alright so
we've taken our mug cake out and just
let it set for a bit you can't work with
it right when it's really hot right out
of the microwave it's just not gonna do
what you wanted to do and then just run
like an offset spatula around side or a
knife butter knife whatever just to kind
of loosen it up and it'll start to
release you can dump it out
in your pan there on your bank and then
this is where if you get that second
tablespoon of peanut butter or if you
want to use like powder peanut butter
mixed with water that'll keep your fat
lower and use that and then like split
half of it whatever you get for fat you
know mix up that with the powdered that
you know in the powder peanut butter and
use half of it in the mix and half of it
on the top it's got the oats in it and
the chocolate but then you put the
peanut butter on top it's like warm
gooey it's just off the charts people
that's so good
[Music]