hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization and i'm here with a very
important message
cheat reps are stupid
no seriously they are but don't worry
i'm not just going to say that
we'll be breaking it down
now i can think of at least four reasons
for cheating that make some amount of
sense
the good news is we have ways around
almost all of them
or all of them almost all the way
that don't require cheating so here we
go people will say well
one of the reasons i use cheat reps is
because i can use more weight
and that's a good point and more tension
sometimes is the answer
but what you can also do is just
increase the load on the bar you know
strange idea that creates more tension
you continue to do strict reps for more
sets but you just use more load and thus
do fewer reps per set so if you're doing
cheat curls or sets of 10 you can just
do non-cheat curls for sets of six to
eight and the movement is now safer
probably more effective and if it's not
enough volume then you just do more sets
problem solved at least philosophically
it's solved on the idea of well i need
more tension and that's why i'm cheating
we also know that
anything sort of beyond your five rep
max anything heavier than that is
probably so sub-optimal stimulus to
fatigue wise for bodybuilding and for
hypertrophy training
that if someone says well i know i need
a lot more weight it's nothing i can
even lift one strict that's probably bs
probably yes
second reason people say they cheat is
they say well i can go beyond failure so
i do a certain number of strict reps and
then after i do some cheat reps to make
sure that you know i get to close to
failure and then i stick around close to
failure for a little while using cheat
wraps or even go sort of beyond
technical failure and get some good
stimulus there a fine idea on some
occasions however you can do zero
cheating at all and get the same effect
with rest pause reps my reps being a
good example do your set of 10 you know
get 10 reps with your 10 ram or
something like that or your 11 rm and
then you rest
a couple seconds and then you do another
two or three and rest a couple seconds
another two or three same beyond failure
or milking out the failure portion
effect as with cheating except with none
of the downsides there are lots of
downsides we'll get to them in the next
slide so rest pause solves that problem
another claim people say
is that they feel the target muscle
better like when i do cheek curls my
biceps like i feel like i'm hitting my
biceps better than if i do strict reps
so the first thing i'll say to this now
you probably don't okay it's probably
just not true it's not true for you
inside your own head you're lying and
you're justifying cheating because
cheating as we all know actually done
for only one reason and that's ego
you want to be able to be a person that
lifts a certain amount of weight you are
not that person because your muscles are
insufficiently large to do so but you
want to feel like that so
you do the equivalent of renting a
lamborghini and telling people you
bought it
you're faking it and cheating does that
now everyone's smart and jacked they
know you're bullshitting but a lot of
the gym doesn't and so you can fool some
people and probably yourself which is
the most important so no you probably
don't feel the muscle better
almost everyone who says this has such
terrible technique when you look at them
train uh you go wow that's probably
impossible if you give them a couple
technique pointers are thoroughly minded
all of a sudden they're like oh wow i
can really feel that and i could check
it out you don't even have to cheat now
there is a tiny tiny probability you
actually do get something out of
cheating as far as feeling the muscle
more
and what you should do is say okay
that's the truth here but maybe i can
alter my exercise selection or my
technique
and get the same good feeling without
having to cheat so maybe if you curl
with your hands on the bar like this
when you do cheat curls you feel a bit
more tension in the biceps if maybe you
come in and bring the curl sort of grip
inside all of a sudden you don't have to
cheat and you feel the biceps more so
cheating is kind of like a very
uncreative way to chase a higher
potential stimulus to fatigue ratio or
muscle feel
so i would say do that first that solves
almost every problem now let's say that
you do that and cheating actually still
works better for you as far as you feel
the target muscle better well if that's
really still true which it almost
certainly isn't but there's a chance
that it is and remember when you comment
in the comments later and say well
cheating works better for me maybe
you're one of those people remember
you're probably not um a little body
language is a whole lot better than a
ton so if cheating really feels better
for you cheat as little as possible or
at the very least do as many strip drops
as you can and then put in just a little
bit of cheating not this nonsense insano
uh insane clown posse great band
are they a band they're a rap group an
urban group um just do a little bit of
cheating uh you know when you do like
what i would term like insane fuckery
cheating or just like trying your best
to use every muscle in your body to
successfully complete a lift from point
a to point b uh man you're probably not
feeling shit at that point and it's tons
of tons of downsides which you get to in
just a sec
last claim which is pretty common and
i'm sure i missed a few claims here so
let me know in the comments if i missed
any claim that how cheating works better
i'll potentially address it in another
video the last claim here is i get
better results at least in the stimulus
proxies when i do cheat reps so maybe my
pump is better my burn is better tension
perception in the muscle is better the
perturbation is better so like my
muscles feel weaker afterwards and they
tend to twitch weird which means like
something happened and the disruption is
higher so maybe you get more sore after
cheating
a lot of the time and probably like 99
better technique and exercise selection
actually solves this problem altogether
and then strict reps really are going to
rule the day
now
if it's you've ruled out all these
things
and you still feel that cheating hits
these stimulus proxies better then
if you must cheat again do it as little
as possible do as little as possible and
you pay fewer of the downsides
now let's get to the downside so what
are the downsides of cheating because at
this point you could be saying quite
rationally well you know like gee is it
like this like nerd bro thing
like you have to be strict like it seems
kind of arbitrary maybe there's a bit of
like a cultural artifact there that we
judge people for not going squatting low
enough or being strict and maybe like
your muscles don't care right maybe but
turns out that's not true so cheating
has at least six downsides i can think
of
relatively off the top of my head
first extra systemic fatigue anytime you
swing with a curl using tons of other
muscles and those muscles all generate
fatigue of their own and then your total
systemic fatigue goes up
also you're using physically more weight
and moving it through the same range of
motion or a similar range of motion
which means your total work output is
higher and there's no way to do total
work with a human body and not
accumulate more fatigue remember your
target muscles probably not being
stimulated more often times it's
actually stimulated less so extra
systemic fatigue spills over into your
other muscle groups means you have to
deload sooner and all these other things
and systemic fatigue by the way at a
very high level actually prevents you
from getting the most out of your
training so
bad news
next there's a lot of local muscular
fatigue not of the target muscles for
example let's say you have deadlifts on
wednesday and on tuesday you're doing a
workout where you're doing biceps if you
do a lot of swing curls and cheek curls
your lower back your spinal erector
complex and your glutes will actually be
somewhat fatigued and it might knock a
rep or two off of your deadlifts
precisely the repertoire that occurs
just before failure which is a very
hypertrophic repper too so if you want
to go fresh into deadlift and grow the
biggest back you can you'd better leave
your back the fuck alone when you're
training biceps and just here's a crazy
idea train your biceps instead of using
your back to the whole goddamn curl so
yeah extra
muscle fatigue for not the target muscle
interferes with your program about a
bunch of different levels and the
simplest way just make sure that your
muscles are less fresh when you actually
want to train them right
another one more long-term wear and tear
because remember you are stressing the
joints to a higher degree of the muscle
at a higher degree because cheating on
almost every case every case
results in you lifting more weight which
remember secretly all secret between us
is fucking the only reason people
actually uh cheat is because they want
to use more weight and look more
impressive to themselves often and to
others and you use more weight and you
will pay for it okay a real interesting
thing about especially bodybuilding
training hypertrophy training and
intelligent approaches to powerlifting
weightlifting is getting the most out of
exercises using the least weight
cheating is the fucking opposite of that
so i've done a sort of critique of doug
brignal's you know brig 20 method before
where i said um maybe something you know
not enough raw stimulus magnitude etc
maybe some of the calculations are off
but i will say one of the great things
about that method is that he really does
put a fine point on the idea that like
look why would you want more long-term
wear and tear from using heavy weights
if you can leverage your body in such a
way that you can use smaller external
loads valid as fuck there's a great
point and the cheating is the opposite
of that
point number four you get a higher acute
injury risk
okay uh
chris bumstead
and that other gentleman uh good god
what's his name callum von mugger i
believe they did like a partner cheat
curl
the entire thing upsets me with like 405
pounds or something and i believe calum
tore his bicep for like the fifth time
uh i'm a big callum von mogler fan i
think he's great i've seen a bunch of
his like documentaries and stuff he just
seems like a really good person and a
really really open soul it's just sad to
see him do dumb shit like that
right um what is exactly the point of
doing that thing other than youtube
views you can get youtube views in a
bunch of different ways not getting hurt
what i'm saying hopefully
unless i'm really in a place i don't
understand i'm probably not gonna get
hurt i'm getting plenty youtube views
just talking to the camera and it's okay
training is dangerous right don't make
training any more dangerous than has to
be and if you're using crazy loads with
uh you know some sort of wild flailing
technique you are more likely to get
hurt it's just a plain matter of fact
it's not a ton but it's enough to ask
the question of why am i doing this
what's the trade-off and we saw in the
earlier slide the trade-off's pretty
negative so
really interesting uh kind of the
equivalent of investing your money by
burning it in a trash can not a good
idea
point number five cheating makes things
tough to track
so
for example how do you assess progress
okay you're cheating on the bench by
lifting your butt your hips off of the
bench and sort of fucking the bench into
the air i'm sure you guys have seen that
and 15 000 commercial gyms all across
the world
and sometimes you bring the bar all the
way down sometimes you don't sometimes
you really cheat by pushing your hips
through and then you know you benched
let's say 225 for sets of five or sets
of 10 in one week and then next week you
bench 225 for sets of like 11 to 12. a
question comes up is that because your
pecs and triceps and shoulders got
stronger and potentially bigger and is
that a good thing uh and are you doing
well is your program working is the
intervention working is the muscle
expanding in size or is it that you
cheated marginally more and that
actually nothing has happened very good
with your biceps or sorry with your
chest shoulders and triceps and
fundamentally your program is suffering
from some kind of error and actually
maybe the programming is fine but your
diet your sleep or your pharmaceutical
protocol is just not aligned well to get
results but now you can't tell cheating
essentially in put another way really
really really shits on the signal to
noise ratio in a really profound way
that's bad news it's bad news is the
opposite of what we want and also it
becomes very difficult to plan increases
in difficulty okay today i benched 225
for instance 10 next week i'll do 230
for sets of 10. but if you cheated today
to do 225 sets of 10 what the fuck is
the plan next time 2 30 with as much
cheating here's a question how do you
regulate cheating do you really know how
much you're cheating like oh like i kind
of had sex with the air a little bit
during the curl next time i'm going to
be like fucking peter north
of
bar
curl air sex
is that am i too old
scott the video guy is that too uh
you don't uh you're not as
as involved in the adult film industry
as myself all right uh so
bad bad news really tough to track
really tough to plan really tough to
know where you're at a lot of noise not
as much signal uh cheating here's the
really messed up part there's probably
less stimulative rep for rep set for set
why because it usually misses the highly
loaded stretched position look when guys
cheat on the bench they usually cut the
range of motion and they usually as soon
as the bar gets nice and low they hip
out of it to make sure that another
muscle takes over when you're at the
bottom of a bench you want your chest to
take as much of the tension as possible
really expand i very rarely have seen
someone cheat and actually get to a full
extended range of motion people who
cheat with pull-ups by doing the fuck
your way up the pull-up thing you guys
know when you're like jumping through
mid-air they almost never go down all
the way for a big stretch so cheating
doesn't at least to me it's not very
convincing that it's more stimulative it
could be less stimulative and more
fatiguing oh my god it's the end of the
world so
can you do cheat reps
yes you may be in the wild minorities
people for whom the stimulus to fatigue
ratio or the raw stimulus magnitude of
cheating is actually marginally superior
um with a limited amount of cheating in
some exercises and then you can do it
but you better have a damn good reason
and if you don't
the ghost of
dr mike will visit you in the gym ooh
spooky we're actually recording this
right around halloween so um
i feel kind of spooked out i'm just
gonna shut the fuck up you never want to
ask about uh talk about ghosts too much
because you talk that shit but then it
gets late at night and then uh you're
trying to fall asleep and you're like
i'm sorry ghosts i should have never
said shit i love all of you unless you
don't want to be loved and then i don't
see you next time