hey guys sean allewany here seanell.com
bodytransformationtruth.com
uh in this video i wanted to talk about
something a little bit different and
that's the idea of having some balance
in your life and not allowing
bodybuilding and fitness in general to
consume all of your time and energy now
i'm not trying to tell you that this is
how you must live your life
i'm just giving some perspective here if
you're someone who makes a living
through their physique then that's
obviously a little bit different but for
almost everybody
if not every person watching this video
i'm sure that probably does not describe
your situation
but plain and simple there is more to
life than working out and in my view
fitness should be viewed as one thing
that revolves around your life rather
than having your entire life revolve
around your fitness plan it's totally
fine to have like a primary goal at any
given point
and in terms of success over the long
haul i do think that that's actually
more effective than trying to excel at
three things at once
and so if your primary goal right now is
to gain muscle or to lose fat or to get
stronger then by all means go for it but
if you're doing it at the expense of
everything else
and you're shutting out other things in
your life
just for the sake of your fitness plan
then i really just don't think that
that's healthy for most people for
example
if you're turning down social
invitations because you're worried
that you won't be able to get your
proper meals in not a good thing or if
you're sitting at home alone on a
saturday night
eating chicken and rice at your computer
and not going out
because you want to fully maximize your
workout quality the next day or if
you're ignoring other areas of your life
that require attention like your work or
your school
or your business because you're so
absorbed in fitness
again i just don't think that's good for
you overall now a lot of people will
look at that type of behavior and say
well that's just dedication it's
respectable that you're willing to
sacrifice to succeed at your goals and
that's somewhat true but only up to a
very certain point because the thing is
this there's no need to neglect other
areas of your life in order to get into
really good shape again if you're
somebody who is a high level competitive
athlete then obviously that's different
but if you're just somebody who
wants to bulk up or you're overweight
and you want to lean down or you're just
somewhere in the middle and you're
trying to get into really good shape
there's really no need to sacrifice your
social life or your work or not have
other hobbies in order to reach those
goals and i'm not criticizing because i
personally used to be that guy who was
totally obsessed with bodybuilding
uh at the expense of other things and it
took me quite a while to actually
realize
that that was just unnecessary in terms
of training three to five workouts per
week for an hour to an hour and a half
each that's really all you're going to
need and that literally represents an
average of about five percent of your
total waking hours per week
if you slept eight hours a night five
percent that's it in terms of nutrition
uh even if you weren't training you know
you're still gonna have to eat anyway
probably three typical meals a day with
some snacks in between so the fact that
you're trying to gain muscle or lose fat
doesn't necessarily mean that you're
going to have to spend more time eating
it just means that it'll probably
involve a bit more preparation time
and a bit more focus in order to hit
your nutritional goals and with the
research that we have now showing that
you don't need to eat every two to three
hours
and then as long as you hit your
nutrition goals for the day as a whole
you'll basically get the same results
there really shouldn't be any reason to
skip a social event
because you can just eat
a bit more before or a bit more
afterwards and still get all of your
meals in now i don't want to overly
downplay it
yes getting into great shape
does require hard work and consistency
just like anything else worthwhile does
but once you get used to it and kind of
fall into a groove with things
it's really not something that you
should need to spend too much time
thinking about and as long as you plan
things out properly there is no need at
all to give up other enjoyable things in
life like going out with friends going
on trips
eating your favorite foods having a few
social drinks
working on your school or your career or
your business
having other hobbies you absolutely can
reach your fitness goals and do all of
these things at the same time
as long as you map things out properly
always remember that in any given day
you only have a limited amount of time
and a limited amount of physical and
mental energy so my suggestion is to
only use up as much of those resources
on your fitness plan as is absolutely
necessary in order to reach your goals
and then just forget about it and use
the rest of your time and the rest of
your energy for other things not only
are you going to get the same or
possibly even better results because you
won't burn yourself out but you'll also
be more productive
in other areas of your life at the same
time and you'll probably just be happier
overall
so thanks for watching i hope you found
this advice helpful
if you want to get a complete
step-by-step plan that shows you how to
reach your fitness goals in a practical
and productive way without having to
revolve your life around your program
then you can check out my body
transformation blueprint system over at
bodytransformationtruth.com by clicking
the icon here or using the link in the
description box if you did enjoy the
video make sure to hit the like button
leave a comment and subscribe to stay up
to date and you can also check out my
official blog over at shawnell.com for
all of my latest articles tips and other
updates talk to you again soon
you