getting confused are the conflicting
information given by various Fitness
influencers here's how to solve that
here are a few green flags that I look
for when picking information sources
does this person have a degree in sports
science or nutrition does this person
walk the walk do they lift or do
whatever you're interested in and do
they have coaching experience within
this area is most of their content
cautiously expressed and yet easy to
understand rather than making absolute
statements this is a big red flag if
they don't do this many Fitness
influencers are selling you [ __ ] by
being alarmist and making things up and
fear-mongering especially around food
and pain and injury because most of
their content or marketing center around
their own physique are the results of
people they've coached if this is the
only thing they offer and they don't do
anything like I mentioned earlier beware
they likely have gotten to where they
are not because of what they know but
more so because of good genetics and
hard work follow these Fitness
influencers for inspiration and
entertainment but not for education