hey guys doctor is Rachelle here
continuing on our personal training
course with lecture number four which is
on the nutrition basis just the real
basics of nutrition so that you can help
your clients change their body
composition their strength their health
etc not just from a training perspective
but also from a nutritional perspective
because as we've covered before clients
will inevitably ask you about how to eat
you are their model of good health and
physical fitness and appearance
hopefully and they're gonna want to know
what to eat because they already know
almost all people already know that diet
is very important to actual results in
there absolutely right so a quick word
before we get into nutrition kind of an
insult right off the bat but really a
statement of fact you're not a
nutritionist of us of course you are
you're taking this course to add to your
knowledge in that case great you can
ignore the slide but if you are not a
certified clinical nutritionist do not
give nutrition advice the following
groups of people the elderly pregnant
women and individuals with any disease
conditions these people require special
nutritional training to work with but
you do not get in this course as a
matter of fact from a legal perspective
it's a very dangerous thing to try to
give some of these people detailed
advice because you can be sued for
essentially malpractice or not
practicing what you've been taught which
is kind of correct in this case so for
special populations leave those to the
clinical nutritionists however for
people who want to you know insert goal
here lose fat gain muscle etc etc it's
fine to give up basic nutrition advice
it's okay to say hey you know you can
lower your carbs increase your fats blah
blah so on and so forth but before you
do that before you write people
nutritional programs or give you
nutrition advice check the legal status
of advice in your area for whatever
state you plan on working in whatever
county there are some different legal
statuses so for example in some areas
you can give nutrition advice to
basically anyone
their special population you're good to
go in other areas but it's so sometimes
you don't want to write anything down
because as soon as you start writing
things down it could get into a problem
where you're essentially stepping over
the legal boundary of what each licensed
nutritionist is and you could get into
legal trouble and you might not even
hurt the client yet people can just find
out about it and start suing you so make
sure you find out if or to what extent
as a personal trainer you're allowed to
give nutritional advice to your clients
wherever it is you're working once you
have that knowledge you could do your
best within those ramifications
now why are we talking about nutrition
at all I thought there's a personal
training course it's not a personal
nutrition course well here's the real
reason number one nutrition is the
single biggest variable of body
composition change it's a single biggest
variable in a person's appearance and
yes more than training diet is more
profound than training in its ability to
change a person's appearance so if we
want results for our clients we had
better be at least educated and diet so
we can steer them in the right direction
number two weight gain or loss which is
by the way the single biggest effect on
appearance that nevermind everything
else body composition or tissue change
weight gainer lost is number one for
appearance and it just happens to be
mostly nutrition you could train all the
time and just a couple of extra donuts
per day can take all that training and
make you not gain or sorry make you not
lose the weight that you want and you if
you want to put on muscle mass if your
clients want to put on muscle mass and
they're not eating enough calories the
training is really kind of a moot point
you can train super super hard and that
much will happen without the requisite
calorie what's the variable that
determines weight change it's really
simple calories in versus calories out
and it's our number one nutritional
priority that we'll learn about later so
without proper nutrition your clients
can get good results but also they can
stall or backpedal and even on the best
program so if you have the best training
lined up for your clients they might
still not do very well through attrition
is particularly crappy but if you talk
with them and if
you'll stuff aside and we'll mention
that anymore we'll just assume that we
can work with our clients to a full
capacity
if you engineer their nutrition
particularly you could get all the best
results for them and not be hamstrung
for that part of the process
now Splore nutrition before we talk and
this is I guess a form of sport
nutrition body composition nutrition
before we talk about the impacts of
sport nutrition it's important to really
grab it ourselves in expectations now
first as traders we have to ground
ourselves to make sure that we
understand if we tell a client to eat
differently when should we expect to
start seeing results but even more
importantly is this something this next
slide is something to tell your clients
just they know what to expect some
people and I'm sure you guys have run
into this before will start a diet and
expect it to work like tomorrow they may
really pop up can't see if I am still
that guy doesn't work and we know these
sorts of things take time and the
question is how much time well in a
single session the effect of proper
sport nutrition is small so for example
if your clients are looking to have more
energy in the gym telling them what to
eat 1 to 3 hours before they start
working out whether it's nothing I can
do are or the best type of carbohydrate
protein mix that you come up with based
on science that gives them the ultimate
amount of energy it's really a moot
point the effect is going to be tiny
either way if you have the willpower and
you're ready to go it kind of doesn't
really matter what you eat through one
of 1 to 3 hours ago
so in a single session the effect of
proper sport nutrition is rather small
and that should be the expectation
however in a single bite per cycle or
about a week of training the effect is
small but it's no longer very small that
might be noticeable if you proper if you
properly take in the right foods over
the course of a week or if your client
does you might notice you had a really
good week of training
nothing crazy still no ABS but you're on
your way there in a Meza cycle or about
a month of training the effects can be
small to moderate so climb I lose 5 or 6
pounds
now five or six pounds of fat is that
gonna make them look completely
different no if they're in a suit are
people going to be able to tell they've
changed no but you know in the bathroom
mirror they're really starting to notice
that other people might notice it too if
they're at the beach you know Jim you
look a little bit slimmer which is great
but here's the real big ticket in a
single macro cycle the effects start to
be really quite noticeable and moderate
here I'm using very conservatively I'm
using that term in a single macro cycle
over several months of training strung
together a client can lose twenty pounds
of fat realistically on a physique that
starts up maybe a 180 pounds for a male
that's five ten twenty pounds of fat
looks like a much different version of
themselves
everybody will notice and that client
will love it and they will look good and
that's the time when you look in the
mirror like holy crap I have abs so
we're starting to figure out that for
clients what they want of course is that
big change and they have to be able to
put in several months of work so it's a
real simple sort of key for you guys in
your future personal training practice
if clients say what cares how long back
to do this diet for it to really show
off you say a couple of months that's
your answer pretty standard now in a
quadrennial plan and I've adapted these
slides from actual sport nutrition
course so a quadrennial plan is a
Division one athlete of high school
athletes or collegiate athlete high
school athlete or an Olympian pizza once
every four years in a really big way or
a career length for your clients this
means if your clients hang in with you
four one two three four plus years if
they hang in with you for a while they
can literally make profound changes to
their body composition okay we're
talking about people are going to look
nothing like they used to look and the
big question you get sort of from
beginners every now and again is how
much can I change my body the answer
really is how long are you willing to
work for not hard of course you have to
work hard
now go diligently of course diligently
do you have to use science yes but the
real answer to can I change my body look
like I want is in the length of time if
you're willing to put it in four years
if you have a client that's consistently
doing what you tell
for years on end they can look pretty
close to like whatever they want now if
they want to look like Ronnie Coleman
you know eight-time mr. Olympia they
might be a little bit disappointed but
can they look really really muscular and
really really lean and shocked most
normal people after years no matter
where they started the answer is yes so
there's a real awesome bright light at
the end of the tunnel here but before
you get to that light you gotta go
through all those stages and for you
guys this is mostly to remember so that
your clients can get a realistic idea
from you of what to expect on their
training and nutrition journey they
gotta put into work that's about it
simply like at some bad all right some
very technical scientific terms for you
guys to take into the next part of this
lecture now here's the deal with this
particular lecture I'm going to be
uploading for you guys we already have
uploaded the nutritional priorities
basically the meat and potatoes all this
stuff in different videos all together
they're already on YouTube and I'm gonna
link them for you so we're not actually
going to talk in this particular lecture
we're gonna skip over all that and kind
of finish up but for you guys to have a
really deep scientific understanding of
the basis of some of those other
discussions we're going to talk about
two very important the first term is FS
r FS R stands for fractional synthetic
rate and it's literally literally how
much muscle growth is going on per
minute per hour per day something like
that
now fraction of synthetic rate doesn't
happen a ton during training we already
know from our training principles you
don't grow muscle during training you
grow muscle in the hours and days
afterwards so the fractional synthetic
rate curve literally the measured amount
of muscle growth attack
our starts to rise slowly after training
it usually Peaks
one to two days later and falls off two
to five days later an average of half a
week or so so it rises and then Falls
and as soon as it's back to its earlier
sort of starting point you've got a
training and we kind of already know
that the FS R curve is almost a direct
way to measure the SRA principle it's a
very cool it's a very crew linkage it's
almost a direct measurement of SRA but
keep that in mind right there it's a
very very important stop and what's
important to take away from it is they
have to start curve is continuous it
rises as smoothly it stays elevated and
then it falls off smoothly now over the
course of an hour a minute or something
like that but over the course of days so
the implication here is that you need to
supply a constant amount of amino acids
from consume protein in to or from food
in order to supply this curve and here's
the implication and it's actually stated
right there if you don't eat immediate
if you don't get amino acids from food
sort of around the clock you're going to
be taking them from muscle so clients
that are interested in maximizing their
muscle mass and minimizing their muscle
losses are going to be interested in
eating in such a way as to take it as to
make sure amino acids are always being
supplied for food and later in the
nutritional priorities we cover exactly
how to do that another important term
the evil twin of FS r is FB R which not
surprisingly stands for fractional
breakdown rate it's the measured amount
of muscle loss and the fractional
breakdown rate has a bit of a different
behavior than the fraction of synthetic
rate the fractional breakdown rate as a
couple of times work really gets out of
hand where we have to really make sure
we address that with nutrition number
one is during training or during any
kind of hard exercise the fractional
breakdown rate starts to rise so we
might have to do so
about that in a nutrient timing
discussion we will be talking about that
during the lack of nutrients in the
blood the FBR goes kind of haywire so if
you're like oh I forgot to eat today
it's 4 p.m. your fractional breakdown
rate has been really high why because
some of the muscles that you train have
fractional synthetic rate curves that
you need to supply so where does those
amino acids come from or the fraction of
breakdown rates of other muscles that
haven't been trained in a while go crazy
to release those amino acids and make
them available for the consumption by
other muscles and other parts of your
body that just need protein to function
so if you starve or if you don't need
for a while lack of nutrients results in
a high fractional bread covering not
great in the long term for maintaining
muscle so that's the deal with the FBR
right so the implication here is that if
you go without exhaustion of amino acids
for hours and hours an hour on end you
will probably lose muscle and your
clients will also so that will be
addressed to nutrient timing but we kind
of want to give you a real good
scientific base here for understanding
those terms so when you look at the
nutrient timing discussion it's gonna
make a lot more fundamental sense what
some of our recommendations are alright
and are really quickly we're gonna go
through the top priorities of body
composition change and then if you guys
don't have all the other videos in this
lecture so we'll skip ahead after you've
learned everything we're going to talk
about and kind of close up the
discussion with a couple of advanced
concepts and wrap up so the Prok top
priorities for body composition change
RS models number one calories in versus
calories out if your clients want to
lose fat and build muscle calories
should be the number one concern and
yours as well number two is
macronutrient amounts how much carbs
proteins and fats that climate eats in a
day so what they've got their calories
right now it's time to look and see are
they eating enough protein are they
eating the right amount of carbs in fact
new trade timing is a smaller concern so
with a lot of your clients you'll never
even address it because most of them for
them to get their calorie and their
macros right that's about all the stress
they can have as far
thinking about diet throughout the day
so that will mean that but new trade
timing
what do you be before during and after
training do you be differently on on
training days how many meals you eat per
day those are important questions
especially for clients that are ready to
take that next step and start to really
make profound changes in our physique or
they're already leaning already muscular
may need that extra a last or almost
last and pretty much least is food
composition and this is something that
clients will beat you to death about but
it's actually the least important of the
variables - the last one which we'll
talk about in a second food composition
refers to protein carbs and fats
themselves so should I eat soy protein
or should I eat mostly animal protein
the difference is it almost doesn't
matter what kind of car should I eat
tiny fruit loops and candy all day long
or should I eat brown rice and oatmeal
in reality it matters very little the
total carb amount the nutrient timing
over one that almost completely in the
calories I mean it's a open-and-shut
case yes it matters a little bit but not
a lot for fat sources for example should
I eat natural peanut butters and avocado
or should I just have bacon and donuts
for my fats or as well if you're taking
care of your calories and your macros in
your nutrient timing it's a very small
question and those particulars all get
into what should actually be done but
it's a tiny little benefit if you follow
it correctly last and of course least
are supplements supplements just aren't
very powerful compared to actually
paying attention to the rest of your
nutrition so what does that mean that's
probably about the last thing you should
ever address with clients and usually
only if they ask about it I really made
my personal training practice I almost
never push any kind of supplement of is
literally just not worth it they're
gonna spend this money they had a body
something's are getting really excited
they're gonna get a tiny tiny game they
might not even notice especially if they
get their calories arm or something like
that but the macro is wrong every now
and again a supplement would be overall
entire so what's the wrong thing to do
if a personal training clients do says
hey I want to get more muscular what do
I do if the first words out of your
mouth are you should buy creatine you're
doing things wrong the first thing to
say is you should eat enough calories
and get enough protein you're doing
something right there are some rules of
supplement
effective months we will talk about that
in that lecture but generally speaking
supplements are not very powerful that's
a very important to understand a lot of
people are under the illusions to the
contrary some people just start lifting
weights immediately send your question
what supplement should I take and the
answer is matters very little now how
many calories should I eat that's a very
important question and here we are as
far as orders of importance this is a
very good graph that kind of shows us
approximate sort of educated guesses at
how much magnitude on the effect of body
composition do these priorities have so
if you get your calories right man you
could be almost halfway to having the
best kind of diet there is to maximize
muscle minimize fat if you get your
macronutrients correct which is that red
area my god you well anyway so if you've
only paid about tension about how many
grams of protein carbs and fats you eat
per day and I'm gonna counter you per
day that's why 80% of all sport
nutrition right there nutrient timing is
a pretty big chunk but it's a detail so
if you get that with nutrient timing man
everything else is a tiny moot point
food composition up there barely visible
in yellow and supplements have purple
all the way at the top tiny tiny tiny
fractions so if you've got a client gets
their calories right they get their
macronutrients right they had enough
carbs proteins fats their timing is good
but they say hey listen you know I went
out last night with some friends and I
kept my calories already kept everything
else right but I had some bacon you know
I had you know we had some of your
pieces of a couple you know don't
we had a couple of donut holes or
something like that it's really a moot
point and if they got everything else
right it almost doesn't matter also keep
that in perspective and to really the
perspective is get your clients or
understand to get the big picture right
if you get the big things right here at
the bottom the little things I wouldn't
worry about at all a personal training
clients now if you got a client
preparing for a bodybuilding show they
have to look like a god or a goddess on
stage you've got to pay attention to
everything because that those two
percent up there the difference between
10th place in the second place but if
you've got something about to get in
shape get these things first and
probably only these things alright so
skipping all the details of that because
you guys have those lectures already
linked for you we're going to get into
sort of mesocycle basis generally
speaking within a mesocycle within a 4
or 5 weeks of an accumulation of any
load of training harm should be paired
to training volumes as our calories if
your client is trying to maintain their
body weight carbs and calories should go
up and up and up throughout the weeks
why because we're burning more calories
doing more work so that's pretty
straightforward so when you're building
your diets for your clients you're
giving them advice make sure you take
that into consideration deal ordering
actually require similar nutrition to
accumulation the question is why we'll
hold on we're doing less work why we in
almost the same foods because D loaded
part of the process is to replete
glycogen stores to really bring down
fatigue how do you do that with enough
carbohydrate more than usual and a hyper
caloric diet just mildly so if you
change very little about how you eat
between accumulation and D load that D
load is a time of reset relation of
nutrients but bringing down a fatigue
and everything goes well if you try to
starve yourself through a D load you're
not gonna drop a lot of fatigue in that
dealer the kind of a waste of time
general tip fat loss and we get into
this of course in the calorie balance
lecture one to two pounds per week where
the question is where should we take
away those calories from alright first
you cut fats because they'll let the
least essential of the nutrients they
don't supply it for
that are great curves and they don't
directly power training of like
carbohydrates do after you've got a
significant amount of fat and you really
don't want to cut anymore because that
will dip into two little fats and even
other lectures we cover that you've got
carbohydrates outside the workout window
because if they're not directly inside
the workout window they don't work like
each other as well they don't provide
energy as much and they're secondary to
our purposes as long as we've gotten rid
of a lot of fats alright so let's say
the clients keep keep losing weight
keeps losing weight that's just a stall
and you're almost to your goal what do
you do that well you've got a car cut
carbs in the workout window eventually
you'll have to get to them and start
lowering them but if that's a real last
step and rarely will you ever cut
protein amounts with normal clients with
people that want real real serious
changes with people that are getting
ready for shows yes but your protein
level should be relatively stable for
most clients on the other hand if you're
gaining weight one to two pounds per
week still applies and the reasons are
in the other lectures first thing you do
is you add workout with no carbs back in
for or you took them away because
they're the most powerful thing granted
that your proteins are about stable or
about the same workout window carbs of
the most powerful sort of anabolic part
of your daily consumption fats are added
in second because they have a relatively
low impact on somebody's insulin
sensitivity so you can eat a lot of
extra added fats especially healthy fats
and not get SuperDuper fat or encounter
some mild versions of insulin resistance
later on your bad carbs later in the day
or carbs on training on non training
days or carbs on training days and then
on training days so you can pile on
carbs after that but the first thing you
have to do is so long as they've
received enough carbohydrate you really
want to up those fats somebody can't eat
past a certain amount of fats you get an
ingestion
then it's time to add some more carbs
but generally speaking once you have
your workout window and are not daily
cards to fit your goals which has
addressed how much of that
dressed in other lectures you want to
really pile those fats on to gain weight
primarily alright so for macro cycles we
actually have three different kinds of
map we could call these macro cycles
really a macro cycle is a couple of them
strung together but so we have a couple
of different types of mesocycles which
strung together our macro cycle in
nutritional term we have something
called a mass mesocycle which
essentially builds muscle it does a
couple of other things which are listed
here on the slide for you add some fact
and after a while you can't add much
more but you can't gain much more weight
because most of that weight becomes fat
damn so after if a person wants to get
no muscular they have to do a mass phase
which lasts for a couple of months after
that they have to do something called a
mid phase or a maintenance base it
basically retains your muscle in fat but
it gets you ready to perform a cutting
phase by resetting your setpoint up or
if you do a mid-face after a cup-- days
it resets your setpoint down essentially
layman's terms gives your body a break
to do the next part of whatever it is
you're going to do whether or not you're
gaining weight or losing weight how do
we implement the space a little bit more
on the next slide in more in detail on
the mid phase last but not least is the
cutting phase you're going to be
decreasing fat and hopefully retaining
muscle the space tends to add a lot of
fatigue and if you drag it on for too
long you start to lose a lot of muscle
these spaces have strung together in
particularly after several months at a
time for each phase they tend to promote
the best long-term results for your
clients whether or not be mostly fat
loss for mostly muscle gain these phases
tend to perk to promote the best
long-term results if strung together in
particular sequences so let's look at a
little bit of how the sequencing could
work weight stability phases most of
your clients will want to get jacked
they're going to be in the minority of
people gaining muscle is a very small
percentage of people want to get extreme
muscle the big priority with most
regular clients
to lose that so the question is how do
we get clients to lose a lot of fat in
the long term weight stability phases
are really important here we also call
the mid-face so cutting for too long
essentially ends up priming the client
for basically a massive rebound effect
where they gain back all their weight
and then some because you get a
metabolic lowering you get these crazy
hunger cravings you have lost some
muscle which lowers your metabolism
further your hunger is up your cravings
are up and it really enhances the
probability that the client will return
to more than a normal eating and fall
off the wagon completely be completely
psychologically and physiologically
burned out who gained a bunch of weight
so in the long term to long of cutting
fees is it a really really bad idea so
if somebody says hey listen I want to
lose 70 pounds the answer is not alright
let's do it over a six month cutting
phase you have to do it in blocks so
every 10% body weight loss or so about
tempering when a client loses 10% of
their body weight you want to return
them to an isochoric diet that means
their weight should be stable for about
1 to 2 months then during that time
you're going to slowly raise their
calorie level and their body weight is
going to stay stable because their
metabolism is gonna be returning a
little bit once that happens their
metabolisms back to normal they don't
have crazy cravings anymore they feel
comfortable they're set point is at that
new weight no you're gonna talk to them
and they're gonna say you know I pretty
much feel like dieting again 1 to 2
months later of this weight stability
you were turned into
and you reach a new role maybe 80% of
their body weight then you do another
maintenance base so on and so forth in
that manner by doing them taking a break
do they're cut taking a break
you achieve what you want it's a it's a
very similar process to Pawnee and have
a productive month at work you work
really hard during the week and during
the weekends you really try to relax to
drop all that fatigue off and get ready
for another heart we could work this
same idea applies in dieting if you want
to have a really good month at work you
take weekends and make productive use of
them to really relax if you want to have
a really bad month at work and possibly
quit at the end take new weekends
whatsoever and see how that works you're
gonna burn out so for long term goals
you have to make sure these maintenance
phases are included they're absolutely
going to be the clients best friend and
yours as a trainer because it'll get you
really good results for your client some
basic tips to remember before we close
up this discussion number one mind the
priorities and make sure to remind your
clients of that calories a really big
deal how much food your clients are
eating you want to lose weight eat less
food you want to gain we eat more food
protein carb fat Emmaus those are very
important nutrient times give it
important everything else is just small
details which are ok to get into with
your clients as long as you have the big
picture first number two keep the goals
realistic this is just as much of a job
as yours as it is the clients probably
more your job the client will come to
you and say listen I want to lose 50
pounds in 3 months it's your job
exclusively your job as a personal
trainer to say I know you want to lose
weight and I think it's 50 pounds is a
great idea but it's gonna take longer
than that if it's going to be
sustainable and safe so let's go for 15
or 20 pounds on the next three months
we'll take a little break and then we'll
keep whittling away at what
safe and you might get to a compromiser
to clients where they say well I can do
25 all right 25 in three and a half
months I'm good good you'll shake on it
you're keeping them realistic and that's
going to make them successful if I have
a dime for every unrealistic goal that I
was approached about as a personal
trainer I'd have like in I don't know a
couple of dollars or something that
allows you broke down okay but in
essence you have to keep their goals
realistic because remember you're
getting the results the only problem
with unrealistic goals is that they
don't get results if you want results
you got to make sure you give your
clients realistic goals or tailor their
goals down into something that is
realistic number three
slow and steady dieting with occasional
maid or maintenance phases that's how
you achieve profound fat loss I've had
clients that have lost 70 up to a
hundred pounds total and it kept it off
for years they didn't do it in one fell
swoop they didn't do it in three months
before and after transformation pictures
are really cool but they should really
look like 15 to 25 pounds or so in
within a couple of months the real goals
the real way to success yes is to be
very formal about a diet
make sure your clients are losing weight
but also give them breaks so that they
can maintain sort of reset all their set
points and they can all the way through
a diet they're trying to go for really
big numbers which is good they take a
long time and they take a slow and
steady approach nobody else or very very
few people very tiny minority succeed in
any other way we'll have a whole lecture
about fads and fallacies and personal
training avoid that what do you think
about carb nite carb backloading if it
fits your macros intermittent fasting
blah blah blah all those things have
good and bad about them but there's no
replacing just logical sound scientific
diving so if your client said hey what
do you think about the blah blah blah
diet you say how about the diet that
makes you lose 15 pounds in three months
then we hold you for two months
ten or twelve more pops away think about
that ago that sounds really good if it's
a fad if it sounds like it doesn't work
it probably doesn't you have to be the
one to keep your clients grounded
because remember they're not educated in
this field like you they could think it
really does work fads
almost never work and you have to be
aware of them that's all I've got for
you today see you guys next time for the
next lecture