all right what's up everyone so today
we're going to be discussing a new 2017
paper that was published in the journal
of strength and conditioning research
and I just want to quickly go over the
study design I think that this study is
going to convince a lot of you that
maybe you aren't trained in quite as
hard as you could be or as hard as it
should be so this study basically took
160 males and they all had at least six
months of training experience and the
bench press was a regular part of their
training routine and they were asked by
the researchers what would be a typical
weight that you would use for a set of
10 reps so this doesn't necessarily have
to be their 10 rep max just a weight
that they would choose on a normal day
going into the gym for a set of 10 and
then the researchers put them in a gym
or put them in the lab and actually had
them carry out a set with that weight
except they took it to failure instead
of stopping at 10 reps and what they
wanted to figure out was how many reps
on average are your typical trainees
leaving in the tank when they perform a
set especially on the bench press for
this video actually managed to hunt down
one of the researchers on this study and
he decided to come in with us today and
he actually brought in one of his
subjects as well and they're gonna take
us through an example of what the study
design would look like for educational
purposes we're gonna go chat with them
right now okay so guys I'm here with the
professor from the study and we've
recruited one of the subjects his name
is Stefan and I'm gonna let them take it
over from here
okay thanks Jeff so guys I'm here with
Stefan and Stefan what we're gonna do
for you today is we're gonna imagine
that you're going into the gym so it's
just a Monday and chest day and we've
got a quick exercise for you to do you
were gonna do a quick warm-up and then
you're gonna jump into a working set on
the bench press you're gonna be doing 10
reps so what's a weight that you think
you use for a working set for 10 reps
right now like
shoulder thing so let me just I'm just
gonna be modest I'm stuff just gonna do
let's start with the bar I'm a hundred
sister bar
okay so Stephane is gonna go with forty
five pounds just the bar because he has
a shoulder issue normally what we do is
we pair them it up so we do a loading a
simple loading pyramid as a warm-up in
your case we're just going to do some
simple dynamic stretches and then jump
right into the working late and what
we're going to do is you're actually
going to take that forty five pound
weight two failures so you're gonna do
as many reps as you can alright so let's
get right into that set right let's do
it
alright start good and warmed up let's
see what you can do with 45 pounds we're
going at maximal exertion let's go
[Music]
so guys Stephane managed to get 16 reps
with what would be a normal 10 rep
weight so basically if that's what you'd
normally do for 10 reps you actually
have six reps that you're leaving in the
tank most times right so this is
actually an important finding because
the average in this study was 16 reps so
you hit right on the average now I
noticed that you probably stopped a
little bit shy of failure and notice
that you were like you probably could
have actually gotten maybe a rep or two
more there and where Stephane is injured
you'd probably be excluded from the
actual study but for educational
purposes you follow right in the average
which i think is really interesting so
we're gonna head over to the whiteboard
right now and talk about what the
results of the study were I'm should
remember there were 160 subjects in
total 0% so not a single subject got
less than 10 reps so every single
subject was able to do more reps with
the way that they typically use on the
bench press 22 percent got 10 to 12 reps
basically meaning they're working
somewhere in an RPE of 8 to 10 31
percent of subjects this was the biggest
group had 3 to 5 reps left in the tank
there were 3 to 5 reps over what they
normally do 21% had 16 to 18 they were
leaving 6 to 8 reps in the tank and this
is extremely impressive or depressing
depending on how you
look at a 26% of subjects got 19 to 20
or more reps meaning they were
practically doubling the reps that they
typically do in the gym and if you think
about it depending on how you define RPE
the subjects who got more than 20 reps
so they was leaving more than 10 reps in
the tank
technically training at a negative RPE
and are be less than zero they supplied
to 13% of the study subjects and over
40% of the study subjects we're training
at an RPE 4 or lower so do these results
imply that all or at least most of the
subjects in this study are simply not
training harder well I think so yes
however there are some alternative
explanations first I think it's
important to point out that the majority
of subjects were training for
hypertrophy as their primary goal and
80% of the subjects typically did the
bench press first in their workout this
is important because had the subjects
been accustomed to doing the bench press
later on in the training session they
may have performed better in this study
simply because they were fresher than
they normally be however I don't think
this was a significant confounding
variable because 80% of subjects did
perform it early in the workout so again
the fact that most of these trainees
didn't have the primary goal of
hypertrophy I think that these results
are enlightenment because we know from
previous research that there is a
certain intensity threshold that you
need to cross in order to see really
significant muscle hypertrophy and that
threshold isn't perfectly clear but it's
probably somewhere around in RPE upset
so if you're leaving more than three
reps in a tent for most of your sets
then you're probably leaving some gains
on the table and certainly trying to get
it perfectly a4 or lower is just a
guaranteed way to leave a lot of gains
on the table another interesting point
here is it's been shown in other
research that when subjects are being
supervised perhaps by a coach or in this
case a researcher they're more likely to
perform better and to have a better work
ethic it's like they're trying to
impress
other person or people who are in the
room and that could be playing in here
however I don't think about it count for
the huge disparity that you're seeing
between the actual reps achieved when
taking to failure and the typical reps
that are achieved on a day to day basis
I don't think it quite bridges that gap
alone and on the flip side you know I
could see it as being the case that some
subjects might come in and want to
impress the researcher from the outset
and they might actually over report the
weight that they typically use as a way
to sort of brag so I think that this
would sort of cancel out and I don't
think that this sort of researcher
presence bias is really coming into play
here another study I think is important
to highlight here is that by Steele and
colleagues where they set up a similar
study design to this one but they sort
of flipped the question around a little
bit so instead of asking subjects what's
a normal weight you use for 10 reps they
said here's a normal weight you do how
many reps do you think you could get
with that set wait
so using Stephan as an example we'd
probably get a different answer if I'd
asked him how many reps do you think you
can get with 45 pounds he may have said
something like I'm 13 or 14 reps it
doesn't mean that that's the reps he
typically do it just means if you did go
to failure that's how many of these
things he'd get so that was the question
that this study was looking at they were
looking at what they thought their max
reps would be with a set specific load
and on average the subjects
underestimated how many reps they get by
3 to 4 reps so what this study tells us
basically is that people especially
beginners are bad at aging their RP
particularly by 3 4 reps so if we look
at present study we see that people on
average we're getting 16 reps with their
usual 10 rep weight so they were
actually able to get 6 more reps then
they had or than they would normally use
and from this study we know that people
usually bad at estimating their their
proximity to failure by three to four
reps so I think that combining these two
we can conclude that probably half of
this six-pack is coming from being bad
at our PE and the other half is coming
from being lazy or just the discomfort
that's involved in taking a set closer
to failure I think that all things
considered that study is an important
reminder that many of us probably could
stand to benefit from taking our sets a
little closer to failure not being
afraid to push outside of that comfort
zone and it's also an important reminder
that especially those more in the
beginner level are sometimes bad at
judging how close they are to failure
and that's something that you want to
get more psychologically acquainted with
so I want to thank you guys so much for
watching the video I really hope that
this was helpful I want to give a huge
shout out to Stefan for being a good
sport and happy very enlightening for us
all I'm sure make sure you check out his
channel I'm gonna put his button right
there and you can go subscribe don't
forget to like the video if you liked it
I've also got the whole article about
this this whole video is based off of a
fantastic review by Eric Helms you can
check that out in the description box if
you'd like to subscribe to mass also
we're both gonna be at the le fit Expo
so if you're going hit us up we're gonna
get the PE science booth I'll have the
details up in the description see you
guys next time