if you if you truly want to be
successful
you have to truly want to be successful
and put forth the time and effort it
takes to building or the muscular
foundation and respect the fact that you
may have to take a little bit more time
before you can get on scene we are
individuals but we're not Islands you
know we can't get through anything
that's difficult or anything that we
want to pursue by completely by
ourselves I don't think you'll ever be
exactly where you want to be but you
have to find beauty in where you are I
think people underestimate the
physiological impact of stress and
making it just a mental thing but I
think that large amount of stress that I
place on myself in past reps really held
me back from unlocking my full potential
this prep so I told myself I was like
we're not gonna do that this time
hello everyone welcome to the ice cream
for peers podcast my name is Jeff
Nippert and I'm your host and I've got
my co-host Robin gallant joining me this
week hi everybody and we also have a
special guest Emily Duncan joining us
Emily is a nationally qualified NPC
bikini competitor sports nutrition
specialist certificate holder from the
ISSN she's a PE science athlete I think
I'm saying that right it's either pet
yeah I interrupt yeah every boy's head
size like okay good I'm glad I got it
right and Emily's going to be joining us
today for a conversation about contest
prep psychology and mentality and other
lifestyle considerations for the contest
prepping athlete and we're going to take
a specific focus on the bikini division
because I feel as though that's
something that has been a little bit
overlooked in the history of this
podcast
especially since Robin went on a little
hiatus so that's going to be the focus
of the conversation so Emily it's a real
pleasure to have you on the show so
welcome to the podcast
oh absolutely go thank you guys for
having me I've been listening to this
podcast since before we were even
friends so like I've kind of low-key
fangirled slash peed my pants a little
bit like thinking about being on an
episode and I do think it's really
awesome that I feel very honored to be
able to speak about bikini because I
think not just
on your podcast but like in fitness in
general especially when people are
talking about more in-depth matters
bikini gets left out of the conversation
a lot and I think that if we want to
improve bodybuilding as a whole but
especially the Dakini division then
there just needs to be more conversation
about it
awesome yeah thanks for having me on
thank you pleasure is all ours you
wanted to do this for a while now so I'm
glad we're finally getting the chance to
do it yeah um so Emily the first thing I
want to talk about is just your most
recent season competitive season class I
know you did a string of shows and like
I follow you on your Instagram and
YouTube and yeah I just think that your
progress throughout the last year has
just been really inspiring for me and
thank you very impressive like how
you've managed to have such a successful
competitive season so why don't you just
tell us a little bit about that okay so
this past season I ended up doing four
shows um I started out with the Arnold
sports festival the amateur show in
March I prepped for 20 weeks for that
show I ended up placing that was an
international show so it wasn't just
limited to the United States it was
actually sanctioned by the IFBB and not
the NPC and I placed second in my high
class I am in the F class for bikini
because I am very tall I'm 5 foot 9 and
that class is 5 centered over that show
is a really really cool show being an
international show there was an
international judging panel so I think
there was only one or two judges from
the United States itself so earning you
know top 5 placing where it's people
from other countries that have literally
no idea who you are they've never seen
you on a stage before was extremely just
gratifying to me and it was also amazing
to be able to compete on the expo stage
at the Arnold on Saturday for finals
that was insane like I think my favorite
competitive memory of my career so far
was stepping out on the stage at finals
and just like hearing people chewing
because there's tons of people at the
Arnold obviously it's a huge convention
so just seeing people that I knew in the
audience and just the masses of people
that was a really cool experience and
obviously taking home second was a
pretty cool experience as well and then
eight weeks after the Arnold I competed
at a regional show the Kentucky Derby
this one was actually more of a
sentimental show for me it was my two
year anniversary show it was the first
show that I ever competed at back in
2014 so I did that one a little bit more
for sentimental reasons than anything
and it was close by to where I lived at
the time but on at that show I took home
first in my height class which was again
f class I took home first in my
collegiate class and then I won the
collegiate overall title so if you're
not familiar with the NPC there are some
shows that have varying divisions open
class is always there but there's also
divisions you know collegiate four you
have to present a college ID or copy of
your transcripts there's teen divisions
novice divisions masters yada yada yada
so I did take home first in my
collegiate class and I won the overall
for that show that one was also really
really cool to see because my coach
actually Nick Tong he competed that show
and he took home a class win and the
overall men's bodybuilding wins so that
was an awesome just team experience
overall and then three weeks after that
I headed to Charleston South Carolina
for junior USA's junior USA's is one of
the pro qualifiers to move from the NPC
to the IFBB that was I don't know if I
already said this that was three weeks
after the Derby I did end up winning my
height class so bikini F class at that
show however this was a show where only
the top three in the overall earned
their pro cards so I missed it any
overall and I would say that this was
the hardest show mentally for me just
coming so close to my pro card
especially and I think I might have
talked to Robin about this a touch but
um coming from a class when f class I
was the last class to go up on stage
going from that high of having a class
win not really getting like a moment to
think about wow I just want my class and
then going for the overall and missing
it that was kind of a low so coming out
of that show was definitely mentally the
toughest and then we decided Nick and I
decided that if I had a shot to win my
pro card it would be a junior nationals
three weeks after junior USA so Junior
Nationals was another pro qualifier in
Chicago Illinois
who excuse me and that was three weeks
after junior USA's
and so basically we were like like I
said if I had a shot it would be at this
show so I knew
so we knew that I could physically do it
but I knew that I would feel a lot more
at peace if I tried Junior Nationals so
I did approach that one a bit more from
an emotional standpoint but it ended up
being the best I ever looked and I did
take home fourth place in my height
class at that show it was a bit larger a
bit more competitive than junior USA so
still overall very very happy with that
season it was a very successful season
very long season but definitely my best
season today so if you have any specific
questions outside of like placings or
anything of that nature
feel free to ask them I have my notes
jotted down here sure no that's all that
incredible art of competing in one year
well thanks see and people always say if
the ton of shows but I'm like yo I'm not
gonna diet for like half a year and do
one show like exactly yeah I'm gonna get
the bang for my buck here guys yeah no
that makes perfect sense so are you are
you done competing now yes for the year
yeah I definitely welcomed growing
season with open arms uh after junior
Nationals I was definitely ready to
enter a more homeostatic place with food
and dieting and everything and I was
like and like I said I felt at peace
with how this season ended so I was like
okay we're done it's time to get better
cool um so how are you approaching that
post show period like you still look
really lean to me and like you're thank
you really well so how how is it you
went about so like okay first how many
weeks ago was your last show Junior
Nationals was two weeks if it was two
weeks ago from this past Saturday so
just over two weeks ago okay so not too
long ago at all right so how are you
finding transitioning into that point
now where if you wanted to eat more you
can like you don't have any more shows
on the immediate horizon how have you
found that psychologically
psychologically this has been the
easiest transition that I've had into an
offseason simply because I definitely
felt a little bit scrawny towards the
end just you know seeing myself
day-to-day and you probably deal with
this when you get down you know you're
like I don't even look like I lift and
just knowing how close I came to my pro
card this season setting myself up
mentally for growing period which a lot
of women struggle with
instead I took that as a time to be
excited because I know that I'm building
my pro physique now because next time I
go on stage I will be irrefutable they
won't be able to question me but that
wouldn't happen if I didn't take a long
growing period to get better and to
build more quality tissue instead of
just perma dieting but I will say just
the past two weeks have been the hardest
physical transition I've ever had into a
growing period I'm sleeping a ton I
think my bod I think because I prepped
for so long my body became very used to
prepping and while there were still
fluctuations throughout the period where
I was dieting you know where food would
come up and what not just the actual
transition into okay we're growing now
physically has been a lot harder I've
been very tired recovery has been a
little bit it's not the greatest but um
it's starting to slowly get better I
think just transitioning out of that
there's a lot I mean you know you know
peak week throws things off a little bit
when you're manipulating sodium water
even just acutely but all of those
things compounded into one has
definitely made it physically a bit more
difficult but mentally it's been a great
transition for sure yeah so that's what
I mostly want to talk about so but first
I I'm just curious about how your prep
went because I haven't personally done a
prep that quite that long I physically
there in Irvine and then hit like one or
two shows right all right just because
of availability like locally moralize
and i can't just travel around the
states all year being from Canada I'm
kind of limited in what I can do but so
did you diet say for that first 20 week
prep get ready and then start a reverse
diet or did you keep dieting the whole
way through like what are you in a tell
um were you in a deficit for um I mean
so okay we started at 20 weeks out from
the Arnold and I definitely did not plan
on dieting for you know 36 weeks by the
end of it um but so we dyed it for 20
weeks for the Arnold we got most of the
work done before the Arnold so we really
fell into my groove I would say I
started pret mid-october I think we
really fell into you know my fat loss
groove right around January which was a
little bit unsettling for me being look
you know eight weeks out for Michelle's
like you know I should probably look
but better but you know that's when we
found the dieting style and cardio
protocol that really really worked for
me
so I like I said we got most of the work
done before the Arnold because there was
such a long time period between the
Arnold and the Kentucky show there was
an eight week time period in between we
did bring food up bring cardio down and
you know that would happen over the
course of even the 20 weeks leading up
to the Arnold Nick was very dynamic with
how my prep went he's very he's very
attentive to you know when I need to be
fed when I need a little bit of
relaxation time when I need to be
reversed when I need to push harder
things of that nature so he is very
attentive to those cues that biofeedback
that I give him so it wasn't just 36
weeks of diet diet diet cardio cardio
cardio there was a lot of ebb and flow
there's kind of a wave-like progression
so right after the Derby we did bring
food up considerably given the timeframe
I was allowed to you know just chill out
a little bit and then after the Derby
going into Junior USA's there were only
three weeks in between but still things
did come up a little bit in between not
you know a full-on
like we did with the Derby but yeah food
come came up a bit there and then same
thing with Junior Nationals and that
would happen I guess I should clarify so
after a junior usa's there were three
weeks after was Junior Nationals um so
for about probably I mean this isn't
really time to let anything remotely
come back into balance but about you
know half a week to a week right after
the show things would come up a little
bit just more for I think mental
restoration and anything there I mean
there's not a whole lot you can do
physically at that point but I think
that helped keep me mentally in check as
well so I think there there were very
intelligently planned reverse diet
periods and you know cardio reductions
throughout the course of prep so yeah
like I said it wasn't just 36 weeks of
hardcore dieting because that I would
have been dead yeah um so I guess I mean
like a lot of people end up getting to a
point where they didn't feel like a
zombie all the time during prep and then
that's usually the point where people
are like why am I doing this like I'm
just gonna write right here so did you
get did how often did you feel like that
throughout the prep
and what was it that pushed you to keep
going and push past that if you didn't
feel like it it was actually kind of it
was wild to me because I have definitely
had that you know dieted feeling we call
it I've had that where you hit that Fogg
brain at that certain point in the day
where your mood is crap or your energy
is crap or your strength is crap all of
those things in this prep even though it
was the longest prep I've had and I
would say definitely the most aggressive
dietarily I would say that that's the
least prepped I've ever felt in the four
preps that I've done which was wild and
Robin said in LA she's like you're the
happiest prepping person I've ever sees
like actually like crazy all the time
like she just has holding she I was like
more splashing she wasn't like I was
like eating five like has so much energy
I don't know it's just it was really
cool is really inspiring for me to see
how she did things in person and like
that's when I came when I came home I
told Jeff I was like oh my god like I
don't know how Emily does it like we
need we need to interview her so I think
that's kind of what inspired this
podcast but yeah sure yeah but I mean
there's definitely times when things
don't feel the greatest and that's just
a reality of prep you know and there's I
have so many notes on this of how I get
through things um so one thing that's
been really big and actually I found out
about this app through it was either one
of your YouTube videos Jeff or one of
your podcasts I don't recall but I'm
just mindfulness meditation I downloaded
the call app a long long time ago after
hearing about it in one of your one of
your videos so I definitely utilized
that literally on the daily I force
myself to do it um so just taking those
mindfulness and meditation breaks I
think and you both can attest to this
I'm competing in any fashion is largely
a mental battle so the more that you can
master where your head is at going into
things the better off you're going to be
and I knew going into this prep that it
was going to be harder than I had ever
had to prep before because the caliber
that I was trying to compete at was far
different than I had ever competed at
before um another thing that was huge
and again you made a video about this in
your mentality of a pro video I was less
emotional regarding prep
so in the past especially the prep that
I had before this one I was very very
emotional regarding my diet regarding my
training etc etc so I would let bad
training days really take a toll on me
mentally like that I had lift swear I
would straight up just break down and
sob throughout the whole thing and that
just I think people underestimate the
physiological impact of stress and they
think it's just a mental thing but I
think that large amount of stress that I
placed on myself in past preps really
held me back from unlocking my full
potential this prep so I told myself I
was like we're not going to do that this
time and you have to accept sometimes
you feel fifty Shades of shitty during a
prep and that's a reality and you can't
really do anything about that um it just
happened so you have you can't get
emotional about it and I think that's
especially hard for females because we
tend to be more emotional than men our
email is Jeff you know going into
workouts where I didn't necessarily feel
a hundred percent it's one of those
things we you just have to take it rep
by Rep and set by set and you know step
by step if you're on
you know stairs or whatever but I think
another thing that was really really big
was the coaching aspect so this was the
first prep that I'd ever had with Nick
and I think he helped me to be much more
objective and not subjective um so he
helped me remove my emotion from things
a lot which ended up making me better
and I I tend to have um the urge to try
and micromanage everything including
past preps so I would always question
what coaches that I had previously we're
doing like oh is this really right oh is
this what I should be doing yada yada
yada
but with Nick he makes me like I trust
him I trust him and mentally and that's
why you know it's important to have a
good coach that you trust so I don't
feel the need to question him but he's
also very direct and you don't question
him obviously if something was you know
a huge red flag he's not the type to say
don't ask questions but he's very good
at making objective calls so I didn't
have that that mental block of am I
really doing what I should be doing
like it another layout layer of like a
burden added to your prep to come on I
feel like you're the backseat driver in
the coaching experience and it's just
like mentally taxing so like I've heard
you say before that like you're the
athlete and that's your job
so doc you listen to your coach and you
perform and and yes I right you have to
do and and this is a thing that you know
Nick helped make a little bit mentally
easier on me and I would I carry this
mantra throughout my prep you know I am
controlling my variables and so I can't
get upset you know I'm controlling I'm
hitting my macros you know I'm hitting
my training I'm doing the cardio that I
need to do I'm doing everything that was
that's within my control some things
physiologically we can't control we
can't understand we don't know exactly
what's happening but as a competitor as
an athlete if you're doing everything
that you can you're truly giving
everything that you're doing you know
100 percent minimum effort every day
then you have to you have to find peace
in that you have to find satisfaction in
that and not be overly critical on
yourself or on your coach and you just
have to kind of let things happen as
they happen um but in terms of like
hating prep or hating training I this
prep I never was one of those people
that you know dreaded going to the gym
but term in terms of when things were a
little bit more struggle bus like I'm
also really I mentioned meditation I'm
also really big on visualization so
especially during cardio sessions where
like I did a lot of lists this prep
where things are a bit more mindless
when you're just you know truck and away
on your cardio I close my eyes I
visualize myself on stage I visualize my
hand being raised you know and you kind
of have to have that competitive you do
have to have that competitive mentality
and that's something that I've had when
I was little and I've kind of just grown
up with that and Jeff I'm sure you can
attest if you want to be a great athlete
you have to be competitive so I would
visualize myself on stage and then this
is another like weird mental trick that
I had bodybuilders are big on patterns
we love patterns we love structure we
love you know sameness so the last five
minutes of every single cardio session
that I did throughout this prep I had a
certain song that I would play and I had
a certain mantra that I would repeat
over and over in my head for the last
five minutes
cardio every single day put my
headphones on put my head up like just
tune everything out and that kind of
would Alta mentally Center me again if I
had been having you know struggle bus
lift but in terms of things that push me
and motivate me I know you I know you
brought that up um I like I said before
kind of briefly in the beginning I think
that bikini is underrepresented in terms
of you know what we talked about and I
also think bikini gets a bad reputation
um and I think that people view bikini
competitors as little punks like we're
just you know the ones that you know
flow around and flitter and like at the
kini competitor yeah but like so part of
my motivation and what gets me through
is showing people and showing other
women that females even in the bikini
division are just as tough as men if you
allow yourself to be so I think there's
a large stigma that you know bikini
girls you shouldn't have to dye it as
hard you shouldn't have to do XYZ you
know you're not to be taken as seriously
and I don't resonate with that so part
of my like whole Drive and purpose is
showing people that that's not how this
is that's not how bikini is um and yeah
that's that's kind of how I stand on
that but then another big thing this is
my last big thing I have so many big
things all the big things but um I kind
of kept to myself more this prep
I didn't announce you know what shows I
was doing on social media I kept that to
myself and I do that intentionally for
psychological reasons you know the prep
that I had before that was a super
stressful prep I did announce what shows
I was doing and I made it known to
people you know I'm X weeks out of said
competition yada yada yada and that prep
did not go you know according to you
know how you expect to look at 12 weeks
out eight weeks out four weeks out
etcetera so having said on social media
that I'm doing these shows granted I
could have always pushed shows back but
when people would be like oh how many
weeks out are you I was like I know
they're not trying to insult me but it
was just me like I'm you know I'm like
I'm eight weeks out but I look like I'm
sixteen so just wow I hope you're
watching the video so you can see the
facial expressions
oh but uh so I just I decided this crap
I was like you know what I'm gonna keep
this to myself and this is also just to
reconnect with my own why's I do feel
like with the boom in bodybuilding
especially in the bikini division there
are a lot of people that compete for
Instagram and that's not me that's never
been me so by keeping to myself and not
saying you know I'm X weeks out from
this show yada yada yada I'm a very I'm
an introvert I internalized things a lot
and so my motivations are largely
internal and I find more motivation by
keeping to myself and connecting with
myself than by sharing everything with
everyone so I think keeping that to
myself a bit more helped me to I guess
have a mentally more stable prep and
just remember why I do what I do as
opposed to just blasting it on the
internet yeah it seems like the theme
overall is that you're cutting out all
the extraneous external factors that
women see you like you really just honed
in on like things that you needed to do
and held true to the fact that you
competed for yourself and Danza and then
what you chose to share was just extra
all right exactly like I had to remind
myself and I still have to remind myself
of this to this day when I set out in
fitness and in competing in bikini my
goal and my goal remains to be a
professional athlete my goal was never
to be you know a social media
personality and that's kind of happened
as a side effect and I love that and I'm
so grateful for that but at the end of
the day my goal is to be professional
athlete so I have to do what I have to
do and you know block out what I have to
block out in order to make sure that I'm
pursuing that goal optimally on all
fronts physically and mentally and I
think that that reason like that why
like why am I doing this like you have
to be able to answer that truthfully for
yourself and just as an example of this
like I was in almost exactly your
position two years ago when I just
wanted more than anything to be a
natural pro and so during that prep I
was like very strongly motivated for my
own reason like I really wanted to do
this I was doing it with Robin and it
was like a been a goal of mine since I
was like 18 years old or something
right so when I achieved it it was like
ecstasy
guys yeah extremely happy and then a
year later I realized that there was a I
guess a rule in the organization that
you have to compete again in order to
retain your pro card after one year and
so after having just like a six month
very short offseason I was essentially
required to prep again which was
something I hadn't been aware of when I
earned my pro card for whatever reason
um and so I felt like I was kind of
forced into this prep that I didn't
really want to do it was like almost
like a radicality was forcing me to do
it and I will say that that prep was so
much more difficult emotionally
physically probably as a result of it
being more difficult emotion right than
any other prep that I've done and I
think that that really just resonates
the fact that you have to be doing it
for your own reasons and if not then you
have to even the art it absolutely and
that reason has to be something you know
there will always be people that
question your motivations in questioning
your reasonings and you know people will
say oh that's not a good reason to do
this but it doesn't matter it doesn't
matter if someone you know loves your
motivation your motivation has to come
from yourself first and foremost because
nobody as you both know nobody's doing
any work for you so you have to be the
one that puts your head on your pillow
at night with your motivations and with
your purpose and be cool with that you
know Instagram goes away after a while
like yeah you have to more like you know
people telling you that you have to do a
show to maintain qualification it has to
come from inside you and nobody else
damn I feel like I want to compete again
now you're like going to 500 yeah I'm
like taking note of an item I hear you
it's a nice way yeah yeah yeah but you
do compete again though dude cuz yeah
yeah I will I'm looking at 2017 maybe
2018 but I'm thinking 2017 might be my
year because I really I'm starting to
get that itch again but um one of the
things that you said there that really
hit home is that like you have to be
proactive in person and purposeful and
you can't take the victim mentality in
prep I'm like you just have to be like
I'm choosing to do this because
otherwise everything that goes wrong you
just feel like oh why is this happening
to me like why am I doing this and I
feel like that that really ties in with
having your own purpose because if
you're doing it for someone else's
motives or someone else's reasons then
you feel like oh they're doing this to
you
right right if you're doing that
yourself and it's like well this is just
a sacrifice I'm making just to be true
to my own goals and out
oh absolutely nobody's holding you at
gunpoint telling you get up on stage in
a bikini like I hope not at least
otherwise like there's a lot more wrong
with the world than I realize but uh
know it yeah nobody's forcing you to do
this and I think that this is another
reason why I'm glad that I've kind of
pulled back from social media a little
bit while still being present on it but
I think that it it perpetuates the
collective complaining mentality you
know people love to complain and misery
loves company so just not partaking in
that like it makes your shitty
experience much less shitty if you don't
harp on how shitty it is mm-hmm like
scare true yeah it is what yeah it's
what you make of it yeah yeah and in the
people who do it for social media almost
are forced into that victim type
mentality sometimes because it's like
well you're doing it for social media
you're not doing it for your own values
and reasons necessarily right um so I
think that yeah finding a balance
between like competing for your own
reasons and then motivating people who
want to see your progress is sometimes a
difficult path yeah to traverse but I
found probably psychologically some of
the easiest preps I've done have been
the ones where I didn't even have like
Instagram didn't even exist right so and
I wasn't on Facebook so I literally had
no social media I didn't post one
progress photo it was just me in in my
bathroom nearby myself kind of thing and
like oh I see a new muscle today yeah in
those those were psychologically I think
the golden days for me because I didn't
feel like yeah like I said I felt like
all of the all of the outside factors
were not really present anymore
absolutely um but I think that you just
presented a ton of really really good
ways to deal with it with the fact that
we do live in that society
now and that worry so you have to learn
to sift through those I guess right and
one thing that I really like that Robin
has said you know just with regards to
herself and being more of an introvert
you know if you don't want to deal with
social media at a given time you can
turn it off you know you can step away
from it but that's where you as the
individual have to be attentive to your
own mental state and realize oh maybe I
need to stop spending so much time on
social media because it's really
weighing on me and some people can't
make that decision for themselves but
you have to be you know attentive to
that yeah for sure I definitely agree
yeah um
so other than okay so like most
important thing is that you prep and you
you get ready for the show so other than
that how can you set yourself up for
success in the bikini division I think
one big thing and part of this is due to
the fact that there is such a boom in
the bikini division right now is people
don't want to take their time so my
biggest advice to people is grow your
muscles you know bikini is still
bodybuilding and I use the analogy of
you know people that just jump into you
know wanting to cut wanting to do a show
you go from being a baguette to looking
like a breadstick like there's not
really a whole lot a whole lot different
like you you just end up looking like a
smaller version of what you were so if
you if you truly want to be successful
you have to truly want to be successful
and put forth the time and effort it
takes to build you know the muscular
foundation um the stage is always for me
yes so many people just see someone on
the internet and they're like oh I want
to look like that I need to cut that's
not always the case
even with bikini even even if you have
to you will have to get lean at some
point but if you don't have the muscular
foundation to support the look that you
need to have you're gonna set yourself
up for failure like it's not going to be
as rewarding as it could be you only get
one first show experience you know and I
mean every prep you only that's your
experience but the stage will always be
there so something that I talk about a
lot and I talk about this with my
clients as well is respecting your goals
so if you truly want something you
respect it and that means for you know
body building that you respect the fact
that you may have to take a little bit
more
before you can get on stage in order to
either build the correct muscular
foundation that you need for your given
division or take more time to dye it
down um you know I dyed it for 30 36
weeks I mean I mean I knew I needed a
minimum of 20 weeks and that's a huge
time commitment so you have to be
mentally ready as well and then for
bikini um I also think it's really
important for people to educate
themselves I think part of why the
bikini division gets such a bad rap and
why there are so many horrible bikini
experiences that people have is that
girls just jump into it because they
want to do it and they don't educate
themselves on basics of training and
nutrition and whatnot and you know they
get taken advantage of by coaches and
they get taken advantage of by people
that are just in it for the money
so educate yourself on the basics spend
time in the gym before you think about
competing because prep is a whole nother
kit and kaboodle oh my gosh I totally
agree like what I always tell people or
like people who ask me like especially
if are you going to compete again and
everything like first of all I say I'll
compete again when I feel ready but also
I say that like if your goal is to be
fit it doesn't necessarily mean that you
have to compete so exactly you can oh my
gosh you can just like you know you can
do your thing like go to the gym train
for the sake of training and to better
your physique before you even think
about competing and often I think that
is the best Road because like it says
yeah like like you said you build that
foundation ahead of time and can kind of
learn the ins and outs before you jump
into something that's like a huge
commitment on top of just regular
training Oh most definitely because you
know prep does require 100% every day
and if you aren't okay with that if you
aren't okay with that commitment if you
struggle to simply enjoy training
without being in a prep you're gonna
have a hard hard hard rude awakening
when you go to prep and when you face
those times and you feel like crap
and I also think this is another big
thing especially for women is do not go
into a competition prep
preexisting body-image or eating
disorder or you know any kind of that
kind of behavior going into a prep
that's massive that's huge it's not you
know feeling feeling bad about yourself
is not going to be fixed by a prep
that's fixed by what's inside of you as
a human being and prep is not going to
fix that a lot of times prep just
exacerbates that you know there's body
dysmorphia and body building in that if
you have any pre-existing issues with
your food and tracking your food and
anything like that it's only going to be
made worse by prep and I think that's
something that needs to be said more and
like you said you don't have to compete
to do Fitness there's plenty of people
that do fitness and don't ever step on a
stage you know like you haven't stepped
on stage in a hot minute and you are a
wonderful example to females in the
fitness industry and males and then look
at you know Katie her and she's never
sat on a stage she has never had the
desire to so she doesn't let that
pressure force her to hmm and that's I
always use her as an example I was like
just look at how good she looks
and look at how successful she I was
about to say yeah she looks amazing and
she does amazing and you know people
think that I mean yes competing does
help you from a marketing standpoint
giving you some efficacy in terms of
being an athlete but you can be a
successful professional without ever
stepping on a stage um you just hi did
you yeah drives you and what motivates
you and alright and that yeah that all
goes back to your why uh and then I
guess in just terms of other things to
be successful in bikini um just random
not as heavy of things but attention to
details so things as small as the
connectors on your suit like when I was
transitioning from junior USA's to
junior nationals one of the pieces of
feedback I received from a judge was
change your suit connectors change to
your bottom connectors because that I
used to have one of the like stain tears
neckties yeah and they were like get a
straight across one because it'll make
your lines look longer and I did and my
leg looked I already have long legs that
it made my legs look like a million
times longer and then just you know the
little things like hair and makeup and
your posing this goes across all
divisions not just bikini but you're
posing is so so important and I can't
stress that enough um because it's not
the body you have it's the one you
present that day so if you haven't put
time and
for into developing a strong stage
presence and a strong routine you will
fade on stage especially when you're in
the larger classes at national shows
where there's 30 40 50 girls in a class
like they won't even see you so that's
another big thing and then to be
successful not just in bikini but I
guess in anything in life your support
system so you know you and Jeff for a
great support system for each other I
have a really supportive family I have a
really supportive coaching environment
my friend environment all of that so you
need to have it's going to be a lot and
Nick and I talked about this in one of
the q and A's that we did on my channel
but you're going to have a much harder
time if you feel like you're going it
alone because we are individuals but
we're not islands you know we can't get
through anything that's difficult or
anything that we want to pursue by
completely by ourselves so you need to
have a strong support system in place
yeah for sure
that's awesome Emily so just because
we're limited on time in this one we're
gonna take some viewer questions from
Instagram right now sure so if you guys
have any questions that you'd like to
hear answer on the podcast in future
episodes you can follow me on Instagram
it's just at Jeff nipper and also add me
on snapchat
Jeff Nippert now those are usually where
I'll take the questions from so we're
just going to answer two questions today
the first one comes from healthy blonde
fitness she says I feel like EM dunk
gets even more motivational and Wonder
Woman
when she's prepping how do you keep a
positive attitude and overcome your
body's natural inclination to be crabby
and sluggish um I think oh gosh yeah
well first of all thank you I appreciate
that a lot
um I like bad movies like are you ever
like angry you're like like how do you
get hangry sigh they're like is she in
German past before first training
session for a little too long especially
of other people prolong it get home
until 4:00 p.m. and it was like
California time like 7 p.m.
yes Ohio time it was like something good
yeah just gonadal Curt a little bit
shorter I'm not as bubbly as a lot guys
right I think one thing with that with
mood um is you have to remember that
like kind of we talked about before this
is a personal decision so if you're
feeling crappy or beaten down or
downtrodden or whatever the people
around you don't deserve the backlash
from that because you are making a
personal decision but um so like you
don't so I just kind of get quiet when I
feel that way because I don't want to
take it out on the people around me or
the people that I love because they
don't deserve that is being like
slightly masochistic the correct word
for an athlete like for a bodybuilding
competitor like putting yourself yeah
some bad stuff and finding motivation
from that like I do I find motivation
from struggle I find motivation from
from not feeling a hundred percent
because life is so easy obvi obviously
by default when things feel great life
is easy life is wonderful and I think
one of my favorite things about
bodybuilding is that I've been able to
draw or just lifting in general as I've
been able to draw a lot of parallels to
life and a lot of analogies to life when
things don't feel great you're you're
doing something right you know you're
whether you're prepping for a contest
and you feel a little bit crappy because
you're getting leaner like you're
getting a little bit better when life is
testing you that's giving you an
opportunity to make yourself a stronger
person and a stronger individual
mentally physically emotionally
spiritually all of that so I find
motivation in that in that crappy
feeling because I know that it's
teaching me something that I'm going to
be able to use down the line and just I
know that you know any struggle reminds
me of any struggle that I've had to deal
with in the past
so um something that people don't know
really about me that I've never really
shared actually I share this with you
Robin when you when you're actually
helping me like write my bio when I was
eight years old I grew up in ballet I
grew up from the time I was like a year
and a half to dance and I when I was
eight years old my teacher told me that
I would never be a professional dancer
because of the way that my body looked
and so when I'm prepping and when I'm
getting ready for a bodybuilding
oh that uh is based on how I look I
remembered that my body's now my
celebration whereas someone in my in my
youth told me that I couldn't do
something now it's become the thing now
I can do it you know now my body is my
power and my body is my celebration so
like I'm so motivated by that every
single day even when I feel like crap
like my body is freaking awesome and
like no matter anybody told me when I
was little and so it's just been like a
big metaphorical like come around full
circle you know like your body is
amazing it's capable of some pretty
freakin awesome stuff so just seeing
that day to day is pretty if that
motivates me and I want to share that
with people for sure yeah one thing I'll
just add on top really really quickly
that I used to do was I would remind
myself every morning of five things like
people or just circumstances that I was
grateful for so it's like if you're
embracing every day from a perspective
of gratitude it's like okay yeah well
maybe I don't like get to eat for
another hour or something but like
you're still you still should be
grateful for what you do have and I find
like that when you put when you frame
everything that happens to you in that
perspective it really lessens those
emotional relations you know what I mean
what you realize you're able-bodied
enough to even lift you're like okay
this is not that bad yeah and I'm not
immune to those mood swings by any means
but these are strategies that can be
implemented and I've found that do help
but I don't think you can ever get to
the point where you're like no I don't
ever get moody or anything like that on
prep I at least I've never been able to
get to that point so when it does happen
like forgive yourself I guess and try to
do better next time so right you have to
acknowledge how you feel like you can't
just hide from it because then you just
suppress it but yeah I think gratitude
lists are an amazing way to kind of
refocus your mind to being like okay
this really is not as bad as I'm making
it out to be I have a lot to be thankful
for um and I wanted to just like
slightly interject and like answer a
little bit of the rest of the question
for this girl on behalf of Emily um I I
would assume that Emily becomes more
motivational
and Wonder Woman II when she's prepping
because she's going through struggles
and she's trying to communicate with
everyone else and relate to everybody
else on how she purser of years and how
she gets through it like she's
motivating herself by writing the post
that she does right oh definitely yeah
we don't just we don't just talk to talk
we talk to understand our we write and
listen my friend Alyssa said there's so
much we write to understand even if
that's just our own feelings so being
able to share that with someone who may
be going through the same thing that's
that's just happening it's kind of like
a personal diary you know like this is
what I'm dealing with and it just it
just so happens to help someone so I'm
gonna take one more really quick
question and then we'll wrap things up
for now but I really do want to keep
this conversation going because I have
so much more that I wanted to ask you
well we're just limited on time so maybe
in a couple weeks we'll call you back
you do it again yes there are to come so
the last question will take comes from
Aaron iron bars and I won't read the
whole thing but it basically just says
how do you deal with not being satisfied
like not feeling feeling like oh I'm not
ready or constantly having that internal
dialogue going you know yeah yeah so in
terms of lack of satisfaction I
definitely felt that after junior usa's
for example when I miss my pro card by
like a place or two and that was very
very hard for me to deal with and kind
of like I briefly mentioned with the
last question you have to acknowledge
how you feel you can't just try and say
oh I don't feel this way you know you
have to acknowledge what you're feeling
so if you're not feeling satisfied with
how you look ask yourself why and I
think one big thing for me in terms of
feeling satisfied you know I am I'm very
very hard on myself and I kind of have
to pull back and this sounds so cliche
but remembering where you came from and
remembering what you have overcome
already I go look at my you know the
first time I ever competed or I think
about you know the times in my life that
have been really really hard like
struggle best times and I remember that
I'm so much stronger where I am now you
know I don't think I don't think you'll
ever be exactly where you want to be but
you have to find beauty in where you are
and you have to find peace in where you
are and what you've come from so I think
as a competitor
um you know even if you don't win even
if you don't feel like you look as best
you could you still you still done
something amazing you've still
accomplished something you still put
forth a hundred percent into a goal that
you gave yourself where at least I hope
you put a hundred percent into it and
find satisfaction in that because that
in and of itself it's hard to go after
what you want and so respect yourself
and you know don't be so hard on
yourself that's so cliche but don't be
so hard on yourself remember where you
came from remember why you love what you
do and why you deserve to be happy where
you are because we all do we all deserve
to be happy where we are yeah that's a
really good answer I don't think I have
anything to add but I would just say
that to tie in with what you said about
giving it your hundred percent like if
you can honestly say to yourself I hit
my macros every day I did everything I
had to do I gave it my all then what
happens happens like at that we are just
worrying about something you can't
control and if you can't honestly say I
gave it my all and you're worrying about
not being ready then now is the time to
change that like start giving it your
all now and see what you can do right
and then if you would have plan in place
for next time to do better yeah exactly
exactly um so yeah Emily there's so many
good informative and motivational
nuggets in everyone so good I'm gonna
look I'm gonna make a coffee table bug
yeah no I like coffee table book can you
guys remember personally I was a
imagining like how we're gonna edit like
maybe like a little video for it and
like picking out the most motivational
oh yeah I would be good quit like a pro
and like Rover Lang with like Emily's
physique pictures and like maybe little
videos from stage and stuff Oh be super
motivational I really hope you overlay
at the end with my sloth face yeah just
have that at the end that's my most
motivational thing in my life yeah no
yeah alright Emily well thank you so
much once again for the interview and we
are going to schedule another one guys
so stay tuned for part two and just a
quick reminder for all of you guys where
you can find this podcast you can
subscribe to the audio versions on
iTunes and stitcher if you are listening
to this on iTunes please go over there
and give me a rating
and review that's actually very helpful
for me as a podcaster so if you're
liking this sort of content and you want
to support us the best way you can do
that go over to iTunes give the podcast
a rating and write register review you
can also find it on YouTube now so
that's just on my personal fitness
youtube channel youtube.com/ forward
slash Jeff knit bird and you can find
all of Emily's stuff and all of Robins
stuff in the show notes if you're
listening on itunes and in the
description box on youtube strongly
recommend going over and checking out
Emily's YouTube channel it's super
motivational and informative and the
same thing for her Instagram and Emily
thank you so much for coming on the
podcast and again thank you for having
me with my pleasure I look forward to
meeting you everyone
sweet we'll see you guys in the next
episode