this video on the five super foods I
recently added to my diet it was
sponsored by Squarespace so I recently
added five new foods to my diet it's
tempting to call them super foods but
there's a reason why there's scare
quotes around that word in the video
title honestly the term superfood is
just another meaningless nutritional
buzzword like Cleanse or detox with no
established definition in fact the term
is so anti science that a word search on
PubMed the largest online database for
peer-reviewed articles returns a goji
berry study also qualified with scare
quotes in a suggestion that maybe I
meant Superfund instead an area of
research focused on pollution cleanup
but the terms still abounds in grocery
stores magazines and on the news which
according to science-based medicine is
an unhelpful fed because designing what
you eat based on superfoods to make meal
planning more complex with consumers
focusing on single ingredients rather
than overall dietary choices in other
words folks get convinced that if they
just eat these magic secret foods
they'll lose weight get healthier and
even cure their sickness which can be
dangerous because the key to losing
weight is a caloric deficit the key to
getting healthier is a nutritious diet
and exercise and the key to curing
sickness is modern medical science still
there's no question that some foods are
more nutritious than others and some
foods really do have profound health
benefits so we're gonna take a look at
the science behind five of them up first
is blueberries so in a cup of
blueberries you cut 85 calories 21 grams
of carbs about four of which are fiber
24 percent of your daily value for
p√©tomane c and 36 percent for vitamin k
but what makes blueberries stand out in
comparison to other berries is their
very high concentration of phenolic
compounds in anthocyanins phenolic
compounds are small molecules found in
fruits and vegetables that act as
antioxidants antioxidant is another
catch-all buzzword that according to dr.
Steve novella
has made its way into marketing in the
public consciousness long before the
science has been adequately understood
so basically this is how antioxidants
work when you metabolize food exercise
smoke cigarettes or get exposed to
pollution or even sunlight your body
creates free radicals which can then
react with other molecules such as DNA
causing oxidative stress oxidative
stress is thought to play a role in many
diseases including cancer heart disease
and Alzheimer's and as you might guess
from the name anti oxidant
defend against this oxidative stress by
fighting free radicals and may help
prevent those diseases
unfortunately the beneficial effects
from antioxidants only seem to be
effective when consumed in food not in
supplements with some evidence
suggesting that taking antioxidant
supplements may do more harm than good
so always try to focus on whole food and
sources so when it comes to these
antioxidant all ik compounds blueberries
ranked very highly beating out
raspberries strawberries and
blackberries and falling just behind
black currants which I learned used to
be really popular in the US until
current farming got banned in 1911 which
led to Russia absolutely dominating the
global black currant game today also
shout-out to aronia berries another
berry I had never heard of until I read
this paper but they packed a ton of
antioxidants also notice how highly
blueberries rank for anthocyanins
Visayan is the pigment responsible for
the berries of bright blue color and
because anthocyanins are able to cross
the blood-brain barrier they might be
responsible for blueberries positive
effects on brain function 1 2016 study
by Bothwell and colleagues found that an
anthocyanin rich blueberry concentrate
improved brain perfusion or blood flow
and activation in brain areas associated
with cognitive function and other
research from Krekorian natal showed
that blueberry supplementation improves
memory in older adults other research
showed significant decreases in
diastolic blood pressure LDL cholesterol
and improvements in insulin sensitivity
despite no difference in caloric intake
between the blueberry in control groups
and based on this research for health
benefits I'd recommend eating a half a
cup to a cup of blueberries per day
unless you're in Russia in which case
you should go for black currants instead
up next is garlic according to the
examined calm nutrition database
including cloves of garlic in your diet
is one of the healthiest habits you can
have one of the coolest benefits of
garlic is that it really seems to help
keep you from getting sick the study
from Nancy tall found that taking garlic
for 90 days
reduced severity of cold and flu
symptoms and resulted in significantly
fewer sick days off school and work
garlic is also great for your heart
and that analysis looking at 39 trials
found that garlic reduces total
cholesterol when used for at least two
months I basically just try to add
garlic where I can
garlic powder to my scrambled eggs in
the morning and you can easily add some
diced garlic and cloves to your regular
veggie stir-fry and if you don't like
the taste then I recommend a dose of 600
to 1500 milligrams per day in capsule
form since my last video on kiwi fruit
Kiwi farmers have been sending me videos
of their harvests my video is played at
zest Brees 2017 annual marketing
conference and a bunch of youtubers
attempted my Keaney eating challenge and
despite the fact that kiwi fruit still
occupies less than one percent of the
global fruit bowl which is still
dominated by apples oranges and bananas
despite having lower values than Kiwi
for pretty much every vitamin I might
add according to the new 2018 New
Zealand kiwi fruit book sales are
definitely on the rise which is great to
see so Kiwis aren't a new addition to my
diet but I wanted to include them here
in case you weren't aware of just how
amazing they are and also since my last
video have come across more research
showing the peel to be a very beneficial
which will not only increase fiber
intake and preserve much of the vitamin
C it also may be responsible for Kiwis
positive effect on sleep with one study
concluding that kiwi peel might be
useful for the development of natural
sleep aids
up next is muscles but scallops and
other shellfish will have similar
effects 150 grams of muscles pack 18
grams of protein for only 129 calories
in the protein contains about 7% leucine
giving it a similar quality to chicken
and beef for stimulating skeletal muscle
protein synthesis a serving of muscles
also packs nearly 1 gram of omega-3
fatty acids while also being quite high
in potassium magnesium and zinc and this
is important because weight trainees and
athletes can become easily deficient in
zinc especially if they sweat a lot
which can then lower testosterone as
natural test production it seems to be
as inc dependent so eating shellfish
might help preserve or even boost
natural testosterone levels personally
I've been eating mussels or scallops
once or twice a week I like my mussels
boiled in salt water for 2 minutes and
then eaten fresh without any seasoning
or as part of a prepackaged entree and
for scallops I usually eat them hand
fried with a little bit of olive oil or
macadamia oil and some garlic leafy
greens are an obvious choice on any
superfoods list and most people know
that greens are good for us but not as
many people know that they can also help
with weight training perform
this is because of their very high
concentration of nitrates which
increases a nitric oxide production in
the blood because nitric oxide acts as a
vasodilator it not only helps give crazy
pumps in the gym it also lowers blood
pressure and protects the heart a paper
by Moser at all found that taking 400
milligrams of beetroot nitrates per day
for six days increased total reps and
total weight lifted on a bench press
program so I recommend eating leafy
greens such as spinach and kale every
day as frequently as you can not only
for their incredible nutritional profile
but also for the gains so guys those are
the five superfoods that I'm eating
these days but I'm always looking for
new foods to add to my diet so just let
me know in the comments below what your
favorite superfood is and before we go I
want to thank Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I used to run Jeff nipper
calm where I sell all my training
programs and they make the entire
process of setting up your website and
your online store very simple they have
really aesthetic designer custom
templates and really helpful 24-hour
customer support and I've actually been
using them since around 2015 so it comes
highly recommended
and you guys can go to Squarespace comm
forward slash get bird if you're looking
to get started with your own website or
creating your own online store and
that'll save you 10% off your first
purchase as thank you Squarespace so
much for sponsoring the video I really
appreciate it
thank you guys so much for watching
please leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one