hey everyone and welcome back to another
episode of the ice cream for Pierre's
podcast my name is Jeff Nippert and
joining me this week I've got a
gentleman James Krieger on the line so
James is the founder of weight ology LLC
which is a subscription-based research
review that I strongly recommend he
actually holds two masters degrees so
one in nutrition and the other in
exercise science he's worked with some
of the some pretty big names from the
founder of the Sylvan Learning Center
the vice-president of Costco as in the
the grocery chain and also the former
vice president of MSN so some pretty
decent credentials there in terms of
coaching clients and James is also a
published author
so he's published work in scientific
journals including the Journal of
Clinical Nutrition and he's written over
250 articles on training and nutrition
so it's a real pleasure to have you on
the podcast James so thanks for joining
us yeah thanks for having me for sure so
before we get into things and I do want
to talk to you mostly about training
volume today just wondering do you have
any current fitness related goals for
yourself like I know you
I did a physique contest probably a few
months ago was an hour yeah I did a
physique contest back in end of
September so and I kind of would like to
do one again but I need to put on quite
a bit more size and so I'm gonna spend
the next couple years just seem like and
do you know I'm 42 years old now so it's
getting harder and harder to put size on
but but I want to see what I can do
especially I'm experimenting now with
high frequency training and kind I
really want to see what how that goes
I'm I'm you know only two months into it
are not even two months really six weeks
into a program I kind of developed for
myself and I'm so far happy with it but
it's way too early really to tell you
know how it's going to go but yeah so if
I can put on you know some more size
over the next couple
years you know I'd placed second in the
novice class in my in my show but but to
compete in the open I start I gotta have
more size than what I have um probably
not like a huge amount more size but but
definitely a decent amount more so I so
we'll see what I can do so you know I
thought you looked good like I saw some
some photos on Facebook and like for a
first show like your conditioning was
good and like your your abs were good
and the chest was there like I had that
you had a nice look so I'm sure after an
offseason like after the first show I
feel like as long as you take enough
time then you tend to make pretty good
improvements even if you have been
training for a while yeah but yeah so I
was actually curious what what division
was it there or what organization rather
was it that you there was I think WNBA
okay cool yeah so that's that's what I'm
a pro in so yeah I think that's the best
organization but I'm a little biased of
course so yeah so I wanted to get into
talking about training volume I know
this is something that you've written
quite a bit about
so as I see it it's it's become
relatively uncontroversial within the
bodybuilding community that you know
sort of volume is king so like that's
the sort of main driver of of progress
especially in the sort of science-based
community or whatever and I know you you
publish a paper in 2010 that sort of
looked into the question of whether
single sets versus multiple sets are
better for hypertrophy so I was hoping
maybe you could just talk a little bit
about sort of what you found in that
paper and the applications of it yeah so
when I did that paper let me give you
some background on it one of the
problems you have is with weight
training studies in general is is the
sample sizes are pretty small you know
usually have you know ten people per
group and and when you're trying to
measure hypertrophy number one there's a
lot of variance from one person to the
next and how they will respond to a
training program and then the other
problem is is changes in muscle size are
pretty small there and so when you got a
lot of variance from
one person in the next and you have you
and you're trying to measure small
changes it can be really difficult if
you're trying to compare two different
training programs over a you know say
12-week period it can be really
difficult to see differences between
groups even if a difference might exist
I mean just because the magnitude of the
differences are too small and there's
and you're a number of subjects is is
you just don't have enough subjects and
I had actually when I wrote that paper
in the intro I include in an example I
picked out one study and I don't
remember call the author's off the top
of my head but they compared I think six
sets to one set of bicep curls and then
I think a leg exercise I don't remember
what the leg exercise was there's either
leg press or leg extension I don't
remember and they didn't see any
statistically significant differences
between the groups but but when you look
at the data the the mean increases in
the six set group were quite a bit
different from the one set group and and
I did what's called a power analysis
which kind of tells you okay well how
many subjects would you need to actually
make that statistically significant well
you would have needed like almost 100
subjects per group and you just don't
get resistance training studies with
that many people per group so you're
going to get a lot of studies that will
show no differences even if maybe a
difference that it exists so the reason
I did the meta-analysis is one thing
that you can do is okay well maybe I
don't have enough subjects in each
individual study but maybe if I can
compile a bunch of studies together I
can see if there's some type of trends
that I can detect and so I did the
analysis and unfortunately there weren't
a lot of single versus multiple set
studies that looked at hypertrophy I
ended up only I think with eight studies
or something like that which is not a
very large amount but I did see an
effect of training volume as at least in
sets per you know I did it in sets per
exercise and you know I think three sets
per exercise I think you had around
forty percent greater effect sizes
compared to one set
and then four to six sets per exercise
was even bigger but it wasn't
statistically significant compared to
three at the time but it there was only
a couple studies that used four to six
sets per exercise so that was kind of
hard to to do that so there was
definitely a dose-response relationship
when I did that paper at the time the
interesting thing is now is the Brad
Schoenfeld and I have actually done an
updated version basically of that paper
because there's a lot of research that's
come out since then and we recently
submitted it now for publication so it's
in review right now so I can't really
say much about it right now since it's a
review but but it it'll definitely you
know it definitely gives more
information than what was available when
it the last time I did the analysis so
oh that's that's very interesting so
there are a couple things I just like
for you to just sort of clarify with
what you said there so effect size can
you just briefly explain what that term
is in case ya don't have the statistics
background and exercise or go ahead with
the other question then I'm sorry there
was another there was another one but
let's just go with the effect size first
yeah yeah so when effect sizes really is
a fancy statistical measure for the
meaningfulness of an effect and what
effect sizes allow you to do is it
allows you to compare different types of
measurements so let's say let's take
hypertrophy example there are different
ways you can measure hypertrophy you can
do let's say muscle fiber area or you
can look at overall muscle circumference
for example or you can look at lean body
mass in the arms and legs and that type
of thing those are all measures of
hypertrophy but they all have different
scales and everything so basically what
you're trying to do is an effect size is
really it's a standardized way of taking
these different measurements creating
one number and giving you an amine
apostle in this of an effect you know
unfortunately it's harder to translate
back into something meaningful like
percent games or something like that in
the paper that Brad and I've submitted I
I did an additional analysis that work
at least gives some meaningful lists of
numbers in terms of
games but but yeah that's what an effect
size is it's just like it's like a
standardized measurement really sure and
then the other thing you said was dose
response relationship yeah so can you
just elaborate on that briefly yeah dose
response really I mean think of it terms
of a drug right I mean most drugs have a
dose response so if you increase the
dose of the drug let's say let's say
it's ibuprofen right and I take 200
milligrams and then I take 400
milligrams I take an or milligrams
there's a the response of my body will
increase for each increasing dose up to
a point and then that response will
plateau off and then if you take too
much then obviously the response could
actually be negative or something that
you don't you know you could get
negative side effects and things like
that so so that's what we talk about
when we talk about a dose response
effect so in this context you're
essentially saying that there is a dose
response relationship so as you add sets
yeah give an exercise there's more
hypertrophy scene and that would be the
response yes yeah
so based on the data that we have where
would you speculate that point might be
so we mean based on your paper you said
three sets is better than one set by the
forty percent for two six sets might be
better but it's not statistically
significant yeah
where would you probably draw that line
well the interesting thing is so you
know when I did that paper sets per
exercise and the new paper I've done
with Brad we actually looked at weekly
volume in terms of sets per muscle group
which i think is a better way to look at
it because if you do let's say you're
doing multiple exercises per muscle
group and things like that it can kind
of make things a little bit convoluted
so so we did a weekly sets per muscle
group and so I'll give you some hints I
can't talk too much about the paper but
basically we saw an increasing dose
response relationship all the way up
into double-digit sets per week and
unfortunately there's not enough studies
that do double-digit sets per week where
we can identify where does it plateau
off right so all I can say is at this
point is more the data definitely
indicates more is better where that
point is where it
plateaus off I can't I'm not sure you
know certainly you know you're gonna get
most of your benefit in you know a good
check your benefit in the lower volume
and then obviously there's still going
to be a point of diminishing returns but
our data right now indicates that if you
want to maximize hypertrophy you'd
actually want to be in the double-digit
sets per week as far as your weekly set
so that's a tenner at least 10 yeah at
least 10 per week yeah so okay but we
need more we need more studies we need
to you know we need studies that do you
know 20 to 30 per week so you can
identify kind of okay well where does it
where does it plateau off and and yeah
so I know Brad has a proposal out to do
a study just like that on train subjects
because the interesting thing is on
train there's only one there's only one
really one study on train subjects right
now that looks at a dose-response
relationship in terms of volume in
hypertrophy and that's one by Ostrovsky
and that was published all the way back
in like 1999 or something like that
so or 98 I don't remember the exact year
so and that's the only study on train
subjects that looks at hypertrophy in a
dose response so so definitely there's
there's a need for more data on train
subjects so I mean like apart from your
meta-analysis which itself was comprised
of eight studies yeah I think seven of
which actually didn't detect an effect
yeah right yeah do you think it's like
jumping the gun a little bit to say that
like volume is definitely the driver of
progress or what it may be seem more
reasonable to say well taking sets to
failure or at least close to failure
might be more scientifically grounded at
present but we can speculate that volume
is important well I'm not sure I would
agree with that and the reason I say
that is this number one we don't while
we don't have much training studies like
good dose response training studies we
do have protein synthesis data and
there's probably three or four studies
out there that have looked at set volume
and and protein synthesis response
and it shows a clear relationship that
as you increase training volume you
scent you stimulate more protein
synthesis in muscle which is really the
driver of hypertrophy is synthesizing
new muscle protein so that data would
would agree with the meta analysis type
data and outcomes that we have regarding
training to failure the interesting
thing there is again in terms of
hypertrophy there's not much research
out there comparing failure versus non
failure training and some of the
research that has been done has a lot of
limitations in the way they did they do
it so for example there there's one
study out there well they didn't measure
well a number studies didn't look at
hypertrophy and the few that have
there's one that I'm familiar with they
looked at lean body mass and not
necessary hypertrophy but they compared
a failure group to a non failure group
and there was no difference so I would
say on a volume equated basis so I would
say there's probably a small edge to
training a failure but it's pretty small
at least from the data that I've seen
but but then you think about well why
would you not train to failure well
really the reason is reason we wouldn't
we won't actually I guess I should put
it this way on a volume equated basis
there may be a slight edge to training
to failure but really the whole reason
you don't train to failure is to allow
you to do more volume right so really
thinking in terms of a volume equated
basis isn't really the way to look at it
because the whole reason you might not
train a failures to allow yourself to do
more sets you know with with a certain
amount of weight and do more volume so
so yeah I would still say I would still
say oh and then there's a few other
studies that look at volume load and
hypertrophy there's a out of a out of
stew Philips lab you know he had some
studies on protein synthesis and
training volume and they did a I think
it was three sets
of 30% 1rm to failure then they had a
three sets of 30% 1rm but work match to
like a 90% group and then they had a
three sets at 90% to failure and the
work matched group that did not trainee
failure did not achieve the same degree
of hypertrophy as the 90% group but the
30% group to failure definitely had the
most protein synthesis and everything
but at the same time they also did the
greatest volume there their terms of
about volume load so so even that data
suggested there was definitely a
relationship between volume load and the
stimulus for hypertrophy so because
seemed like when I've interpreted those
those studies that that look at you know
the very high reps or even like say you
know some of the more moderate rap yeah
it seems to be the conclusion that
provided they're taken to failure any of
these rep ranges can be effective at
maximally stimulating hypertrophy and
that that is that seems to be true at
least over the short term I mean I know
I know Brad wouldn't would suggest and I
would probably agree that there may be
some benefit to actually mixing
repetition ranges and because of target
and different fiber types there again
there's not much there's not much
research out there so look at especially
in train subjects I mean well Brad
hadn't had the good study on on where
they didn't know he had that on train
subjects where you know three sets of
like 30 to 40 reps to failure versus
versus the three sets of I think eight
to twelve or I Renee had he pretty much
equivalent hypertrophy so yeah so I
would agree that with that to a point
you know as long as the sets are taken
to failure you know it's it's probably
not going to be a difference unless the
repetitions are so low so let's say if
you do three sets of three reps to
failure you're probably it's not enough
volume load to where you're probably
going to stimulate much hypertrophy and
I know Brad's got a study in review now
and he kind of hinted that
sounded like I think it was a three-set
one group did three sets of three to
four reps to failure and another group
did three steps to look like eight to
twelve reps and from this from what he
hinted it sounded like the three sets of
eight to 12 reps got superior
hypertrophy so so there still seems to
be you still got to get some that seem
suggest you still got to get a little
bit of volume in there even if you're
taking your sets to failure and and one
thing I do want to note if you're doing
really high rep sets you know if I do
three sets of thirty reps to failure
versus three sets of eight my volume
load actually in the three sets the
thirty-two failure is actually quite a
bit higher than three sets of eight or
whatever so there's some data suggest
that if I'm doing pretty light weights
let's say less than sixty percent one
rep max I definitely have to do not more
volume in terms of sets but my overall
volume load is gonna have to be somewhat
higher to get similar hypertrophy myself
so I guess what I would say like in
favor of train to failure like one
argument would come from like a size
principle basis yeah so like if you
recruit the full spectrum of motor units
when you take it to failure when you
don't it seems as though some motor
units are being left unstimulated and so
that seems to be like a fairly strong
mechanistic case for me and it just
doesn't seem to be from what I've seen
clear within even the scientific
community that one set taken to failure
might not be sufficient for maximally
stimulating hypertrophy I bet at least
seen some people who I would consider to
be experts in the field make that claim
and then secondly it would also be that
like just from a practical perspective I
feel like when people shy away from
failure they tend to shy away perhaps
more than they should and so maybe they
just don't reach that threshold of
actually stimulating enough muscle to
maximally stimulate hypertrophy that's
like practically speaking when people
are said to leave a couple reps in the
tank for the sake of optimizing volume
they leave like a lot in the tank and
end up hindering themselves in terms of
like pushing themselves a little bit
closer to that failure point and so yeah
so maybe you could address the first one
first so the people who say that all you
need is is one set taken to failure so
like the low and the low volume high
intensity crowd and then maybe you can
speak to the claim of whether that is
the majority view with or even a s
moment or a sizeable minority view
within the community yeah so one such
very first I wanted I will say that
definitely one set to failure will
achieve hypertrophy I mean there's
absolutely zero no doubt about that
I mean that's been demonstrated in a
number of studies and everything so
really I think the question more becomes
well if additional sets provide more
hypertrophy what is the the cost-benefit
ratio in a sense so you know if three
sets let's say you know takes three
times long in the gym but doesn't give
me three times the hypertrophy is that
worth it to the person so I really I
think it depends on I think it depends
on the goals of the person I think for
someone who wants to maximize
hypertrophy now I will say there's
there's number one there's not gonna be
a lot of individual variants and there's
gonna be variance in how people respond
to Train rent respond to volume but
there's there's too much data to me in
terms of protein synthesis data and
everything choose to suggest to me that
one set to failure is going to be
equivalent to multiple sets and the
other reason why I want I'll say that is
because let's say I have a body of
resistance training studies let's say
twenty studies right and let's say let's
say half of those show no significant
difference between groups and the other
half do show significant their words so
well actually let me put it this way you
mention my old meta-analysis it might be
easier to put it in the Eastern
there were eight studies in that
original meta-analysis seven did not
show a statistically singing in a
significant effect for hypertrophy in on
and in in each individual study well but
here's here's the thing is that the
effect size favored the multiple set
group in every single study now if there
was truly no difference between step
between the two conditions and there
truly was no difference what you would
actually see is a random variation
around zero so you would see some single
set studies showing superiority for
single sets some showing superiority for
multiple sets and then some showing
right around like no difference at all
but that's not what you see you see
almost the effect sizes favoring the
multiple set group in almost all the
studies which says that there is a
benefit definitely as a benefit to
multiple sets but the tools that we have
to measure hypertrophy and the number of
subjects we have per study are just not
enough to to to basically say with
absolute certainty that oh you know so
that's why we have to resort to meta
analyses or looking at the protein
synthesis data and things like that we
have to look at more indirect I guess
type type things I would say for most
people for your for your average person
who's not competing or anything like
that they just want to put on some
muscle
I think single sets gonna are perfect
doesn't work great but but for for a lot
of people not necessarily maybe not
everybody because again there's gonna be
genetic variance I just think there's
too much data that that ways towards
towards the higher volumes for
hypertrophy or for maximizing
hypertrophy I would say you know again
in the paper that we just submitted the
double-digit people that did double JIT
and weekly sets hypertrophy was about 30
percent more than if you had
single-digit weekly set so so again now
you probably have to spend twice as long
in the gym to get three
percent more games but that's you know
there's a trade-off there and it depends
on you know what's you know what what
exactly are you interested in you know
so so one set to failure will be
sufficient to promote hypertrophy yes
not but perhaps if you if you want to
max out hypertrophy then you're gonna
have to add more volume but there's
going to be diminishing returns on that
volume yes and it'll come some point
we're probably adding more volume would
actually be detrimental do you would you
agree with that yeah yeah I would agree
with that and especially I think not
necessarily in terms of the muscle
itself but I think more in terms of your
joints and soft tissues and things like
that I think that's where the additional
volume can become problematic so okay
and then I suppose the last thing I
would just probably have you comment on
so there was a criticism written of your
meta-analysis which is going back to
just because it's so widely cited as
evidence for the dose-response
relationship of volume yeah per trophy
and this so this sort of criticism was
written by Fischer in 2012 yeah and
basically I think he he titled it beware
the meta-analysis yeah and so I think
I've seen it I've seen the paper I've
never had a chance to respond to it
though but okay fair enough
yeah well I think his main point was
that like in the studies that you looked
at there was there were so many
different variables that could come into
play like for example some groups were
trained some groups were not trained
somewhere on elderly I believe one group
was on people who had coronary artery
disease so it was like in pooling these
studies together how reliable are the
the results that come out the other end
sort of thing so I mean like I know
there was that one study I forget the of
the author's name right now but it was
actually untrained individuals I think
it was like a Ostrovsky husky that's the
one yeah and and that showed no no
significant effect I believe or at least
in in one of the measures yeah so I
guess could you just
comment on on how much weight we should
be putting into a meta-analysis that is
comprised of studies that didn't
actually detect an effect for the most
part yeah so well first time he
mentioned them Ostrowski study they did
not again this is where I want to get
back to statistical significance on one
hand and this is where I really disagree
with Fisher and some of his colleagues
there I think they really get hung up on
statistical significance weight and all
statistical significance is it's an
arbitrary threshold that has been agreed
upon by the scientific community whether
we want to call our results significant
or not and it's based on a probability
value on they used to be point zero five
which means you know if I get a p-value
of 0.05
I can call that statistically
significant and say basically if I were
to repeat this experiment 96 out of a
hundred or a hundred times
96 out of hundred I get the same results
basically right but here's the problem
with that what if I get a p-value point
zero six or point zero seven is that
does that suddenly mean there's no
difference I mean you're still talking
you're still talking a type 1 error a
probability of a type 1 error which
means a type 1 error I should say is
where you detected a difference but
there really isn't a difference of so of
only six or seven percent right in which
is still very low that's why I have a
problem with statistical significance
really I think whether it's more
important or effect sizes confidence
intervals
I think studies should report the
p-values because to me if there's a
p-value at point zero eight or point
zero nine it still could be very
meaningful and so that's one of the
problems I have with the Fisher
criticism is that I think they're they
get really hung up on statistical
significance when statistical
significance is a completely arbitrary
threshold is completely arbitrary second
I want to talk about the Ostrovsky study
again this is where statistical
significance becomes a problem because
if you actually look at the the outcomes
hypertrophy in the in the highest volume
groups was almost double that of the
lower volume groups but it wasn't
statistically significant and so there
must have been like a handful of people
in the industry there was only like 10
10 people per group in that study so I
mean that's that's where I'm get out
when you know there's something again
you know I mentioned what's called a
type 1 error there's also in statistics
what we call type 2 error and what a
type 2 error is is where I say there's
no difference even when there really is
and it's when you take the pregnancy
test and it says you're not pregnant but
you actually are yes yeah if I have very
small number of subjects per group I'm
gonna get a type 2 error a lot
especially with hypertrophy it's gonna
happen a lot and that's why I think we
got to be really careful about getting
too hung up on statistical significance
because again if you look at that
Ostrosky study the group that did double
digit sets per week they're there in
terms of percentage gains it was they
had twice the high basically twice the
hypertrophy that the luring groups did
so and just quickly in the in that study
were they comparing a single set two to
three or was it they actually have three
groups that it was a they had group that
did one set per exercise and they had
three exercises per muscle group so had
one group that did one set per exercise
which is basically three sets per muscle
group they had another group that did
two sets per exercise which is six sets
per muscle group and then they had
another group that did four sets per
exercise which is twelve sets per muscle
group and so the group that did twelve
sets per muscle group their hypertrophy
was definitely better than the other two
groups when you look at the alright so
say 12 weekly sets if you look at the if
you look at the the quadricep data if
you look at the tricep data the
interesting about the tricep data is the
that did the thing about triceps is they
actually trained triceps twice per week
in that study where they just did legs
once per week and so both so there's
really 12 in in the moderate volume
group there was actually 12 sets per
week and then the high volume it was 24
sets per week and there wasn't really
much difference in hypertrophy between
the 6 or between basically that 12 and
24 per week but it was definitely better
than the you know six per week or
whatever so so even that even within
just that study it suggested the
double-digit sets per week was was
definitely and much better for
hypertrophy so but again there was no
statistical significance and and when
you're dealing with real small changes
with small subject numbers yeah I mean
most a good chunk at the time you're not
going to see statistical significance
just because just random probability you
won't so so just kind of like a
tangential question but like do you
think that the problem then is that the
p value is set to arbitrarily low
because i think that the point 0 5 is is
from the medical community i think that
that's their standard yeah yes well
actually it came from it even I mean
it's been used in the medical community
for a long time but it actually came
from I don't even remember where it was
started with now it's something that
wasn't even related to the medical
community and it's just I don't remember
it had I wish you have to look it up on
the internet where the where that point
oh five threshold I know in physics it's
like really really low like yes the
standard is higher in the sense that the
p-value is really really really low yeah
but yeah I mean like it almost seems
like almost like cheating the system if
you're putting it if you know if you're
like claiming that like Oh point zero
seven or what have you is is worth
something I don't know I mean I'm not a
statistician but I I mean I guess how do
we combat this do we just get larger
sample sizes longer study durations or
well the hard part is with with
resistance training studies is almost
impossible to get large enough subject
numbers
to really to do anything with or a study
this long enough I mean you know most
resistance training studies are on
college-age people and usually the
studies only last long enough for a
semester or a quarter which is why most
resistance training studies are you know
12 to 15 weeks long or so and it's just
tough it's tough to get you know it's
you know I did it I didn't do a
resistance training study but I did a my
my study that was published in Journal
of applied physiology you know it was an
over training study on runners and I had
a hell of a time and we even paid our
subjects I had a hell of a time
recruiting people and I we actually had
to do - I had some drop out some things
from the first round so I had to
actually run the study again with some
more subjects just to get enough and and
I had like I ended up with like six
people per group I mean in my study and
and it was just it's just really hard to
get people free for these type of
studies you know unless you pay them a
hell of a lot of money and usually for
studies like this you're not going to
have enough money to pay him enough you
know so so it's almost we're almost kind
of stuck with what we have you know most
a lot of studies with small sample sizes
and which limits us - yeah sometimes
we're gonna have to resort to meta
analyses or you know accumulating data
over time or looking things like a
protein synthesis and kinda making
projections from there you know until
someone does a study with you know 50 to
100 people per group you know that's
kind of what we're stuck with right so
okay so at the beginning you kind of
mentioned that you're trying a high
frequency yeah before we get to that I
think there was another question you'd
ask me about Fischer I wanted to bring
out Oh comparing different studies that
kind of got off tangent there but
comparing a you know one study has
elderly and one study has this yeah well
here's the thing with meta-analyses so
at least the way that meta-analysis is
done and I think this is where Fisher
makes a mistake is what
they don't understand is that when I'm
compiling effect sizes from from
multiple studies I'm looking at the
effect size basically the difference in
effect size within each study so really
I'm not comparing it it's it's not like
I'm taking it's really hard to explain
you're saying actually it's not like
you're taking all of these individuals
and cooling them together you're pooling
the effects from the controlled study
itself together yeah yeah yeah and so
and basically I'm just looking at okay
you know does the overall effect size in
each of these studies you know does a
favor one group or does it not and and
so the fact that the studies are headed
what we call heterogeneous doesn't
doesn't take you know it doesn't mean
that we can't do an analysis like that
and actually another thing that that
Fischer didn't really seem to understand
is that I used a statistical model that
is specifically basically meant for
meta-analysis which accounts for the
fact that you know when I'm compiling
stays together there's a lot of sources
of variance between studies that I can't
account for I mean like you said some
some studies are an elderly you know
there's different program designs all
these things but I use a statistical
model that basically says it's a very
conservative model it's extremely
conservative actually I would call her
it's called a random effects model you
know for any statisticians that might be
listening but but basically it in this
model it's basically says that okay I
can't account for everything right so
we're going to kind of put a lot of
uncertainty in our into our model right
basically I'm incorporating a lot of
uncertainty in the model and I still saw
an effect even when corporated all this
uncertainty into the model basically I
used a statistical model that's actually
very hard to see significant differences
and I and I still saw an effect so so
that would be my counter
Fisher's criticism about about looking
at various heterogeneous studies it's
not uncommon in meta-analysis to have a
lot of heterogeneity among studies I
mean it happens all the time but you can
statistically control for that I should
say right so that actually makes a lot
of sense that's something I wouldn't
have read into the discourse that's
published online so yeah so there was
one thing that I actually did want to
get back to though with training to
failure and that was my point about the
practical perspective and that people
tend to shy away from they they're
really bad at gauging how close they are
to failure essentially so training to
failure is sort of like a way of
standardizing how far people are gonna
take their sets essentially yeah yeah
definitely especially for beginners I
think it's important because over time
it's really important to kind of get a
feel for you know III don't think
beginners will have a real good sense of
how far away they are from failure now
for more experienced trainees I would
say it's different and I want to bring
it there's a study actually published in
in actually the same journal that
Fischer published his his critique in
Journal of exercise physiology online
this was a study on power lifters and
they didn't look at hypertrophy but it
but I think it's important study to
bring up these power lifters actually
trains quite a bit quite a ways away
from failure you might be kind of
surprised on on how how far short of
failure that they trained and they
trained with a pretty high frequency and
the results that they got and these were
experienced power lifters so these were
competitive power lifters very advanced
and they had some amazing games and
these were power lifters that and these
were trainees that they were not even
training close to failure so so I would
say for more advanced
ball you can definitely train short of
failure although I think you have to
make up for that in other ways either
increasing your training volume in each
session or increasing your training
frequency and maybe that'd be a good
foray into training frequency because my
my current program I'm doing for myself
I'm actually stopping three to five reps
short of failure but I'm not but I'm
training extremely very high frequency
I'm training each body part like five to
six days per week so so there's a little
bit
what are you being coached by Meno by
anything no I'll not being coached by
Meno but the results he was getting with
some of his clients was one of the
things that kind of got me interested in
in experimenting with this type of
training along with them along with some
other data that I had seen so that's why
I'm experimenting with it right now but
again right now it's just an experiment
and you know we'll see how it goes
so just I do I definitely want to talk
about training frequency I love talking
about that but I first like what do you
think of the idea so I hear that
argument all the time that you should
leave at least a rep or two in the tank
for the sake of maximizing overall
volume so if you take your first set to
failure let's say you do 10 reps to
failure with the same weight the next
set you might only get 8 reps and then
with the next set you might only get 6
reps or whatever so the total volume
will be limited whereas if you just went
like 9 and left or up in the tank you
might get 9 again and then 8 or
something so you get more overall reps
at the same weight right yeah I think
that's the general idea so what if
instead of leaving a rep in the tank if
we assume that there is some value to
taking a set to failure if not from
training studies then at least from a
mechanistic point of view from a size
principle point of view then we could
take the first set second set third set
to failure or what have you and then
then do like it's just a drop set or
whatever to make up for the the volume
that you would have lost by not leaving
a rep in the tank I think that would be
as effective it might it might be it's
hard to say because there's really not
much there's almost no data on drop sets
yeah
and actually I was I was experimenting
when I first started doing some of the
high frequency stuff it was actually
right close to at the end of my contest
prep and for a period of three weeks I
three weeks before the contest I
actually way ramped up my training
frequency you know to four or five six
days per week per body part and I was
doing a bunch of drop sets to make up
for the fact that I was that I decreased
my volume per session and I also thought
well drop sets you know it's a lighter
weight it won't be as tough on my joints
and everything so I would say there
definitely could be some benefit to it I
unfortunately there's no data out there
to to suggest you know whether it would
work or not theoretically I think it
would then the question becomes as you
know again it would have to be balanced
with training frequency and things like
that
and overall fatigue management but I
think theoretically there may be a
benefit and it's something that's been
in the back of my mind and I actually
want to mention it to Brad you know I
think there there there's an area of
research that can be done there as far
as on on drop sets and things like that
interesting yeah because it's more of
like the hardcore bodybuilder and me
like kind of favors that approach cuz I
could kind of just go as hard as you can
although it kind of to failure and then
like I'll make up for the couple of sets
that I lost or the couple of reps that I
lost just with a drop set or two right
yeah yeah but yeah you're right as the
research stands it's it's hard to know
one way or the other and then the
downside of that approach like you kind
of said would be then the subsequent
exercises if you have more exercises for
the same body part you might be so
fatigued to the point that like the
total volume just will end up being
lower yeah yeah so what I do is I make
the practical recommendation like
probably leave a rep in the tank and
then take your last set of each exercise
to failure or at the very least the last
set of your last exercise for a body
part yeah that's and that's actually the
way I trained for quite a long time I
used to do you know if I was doing you
know let's say four sets of eight or
whatever
basically I would try to choose a weight
so that the fourth set you know I'd be
hit and failure by the eighth rep you
know so so yeah I mean that's that's
definitely other way to approach it
right
okay so now let's let's go on to the
frequency stuff so do you think that it
makes more sense to have a greater
perception training volume or does it
make more sense to space that volume out
more evenly across the training week
well I would say that if you look at the
research as it stands now it definitely
seems to indicate it's better to space
out your volume over the week with a
higher frequency one of Brad's Brad's
recent studies show that he had guys
just doing a regular bro split where
they were basically training each body
part once per week and then he had the
other group basically do the same number
of sets per week but now he split it up
so they were basically training each
each muscle group three days per week
and the hypertrophy there was definitely
superior hypertrophy in the higher
frequency group and that's actually an
agreement with another study that was I
don't remember if it was on trained
subjects or not the author was McCluster
the training volume was pretty low but
but basically they had a three sets to
failure once per week group and then a
one set to failure three days per week
group and the one set to failure three
days per week group showed superior
hypertrophy and then Brad and I did a
meta-analysis on training frequency that
we published and it's definitely
indicated that the the higher
frequencies at least two to three days
per week seemed of would be better than
one day per week on a volume equated
basis so definitely the existing
research seems to indicate that the
higher frequency is better for
hypertrophy unfortunately there's not
much research looking at frequencies of
more than three days per week I mean
almost all of it is compares 1 to 3 or 2
to 3
one two two or something like that
there's really only two or three
published studies that I can think of
where they've actually looked at
training frequencies higher than three
days per yeah there's three studies I
can think of that what the training
frequencies higher than three days per
week
all of those showed a benefit but
there's caveat Stu each one so so we
definitely need more data along the
lines of very high training frequencies
from a theoretical standpoint when you
look at protein synthesis response and
how it responds to training there
theoretically there is a benefit to
higher frequencies but but we need way
more research in that area yeah I I
agree that I think two to three times
per week is probably maybe like a
effective minimum that I'd probably
recommend broadly speaking but I guess
one of the issues that I have with the
training frequency literature and Brad's
in particular not that it's like an
issue but just one of the things that
Brad commented on himself is the the
novelty effect so oh yeah right I mean
like he put yeah he had one group that
did a bro split and then he had another
group that did an upper low or something
like that so they were hitting it I
don't know two or three times a week of
forgetting the exact frequency now but
all of the subjects were running bro
splits from yeah so one group
essentially got no change and the other
group got a change I think it would be
interesting to then switch or or have
have a study where you have people
leading into the leading into the study
running up or lower or something like
that's something a higher frequency and
then split them into a bro split and
upper/lower and see if they're still in
effect there oh yes I would actually
agree agree with that I mean that that
is a definite limitation with with this
type of research yeah you don't know if
the effect is true an effective training
frequency or just a novelty effect and
and I would agree
it would be interesting to look at it
have the people switch and then look at
it that way yeah yeah for sure but I
think that like as as things stand it
seems like even on a mechanistic scale
so like you said in terms of rates of
muscle protein synthesis and how quickly
they tend to return to to baseline it
seems like recommending a frequency of
at least twice a week is better than
having a chest day back day arms day
legs day shoulder day yeah at this point
yeah definitely I mean that the data
definitely seems to indicate that for
sure so even when volume matched yeah
one of one of the criticisms that I've
voiced of the higher frequency style
training is that like when I've tried it
myself and I have run like upper lower
splits push-pull leg splits yeah I've
never done like what you're doing like
five days per week but I would imagine
it would only exacerbate the christams
that I have upper lower which is that I
just find like I don't get to push
myself enough or something like I feel
like I get like one exercise for my back
or two exercises at best for that day
and then I'm done it's like I don't I
don't feel like I'm getting enough
intensity of effort um yeah any given
training day and I that could be more of
a psychological than a physiological
factor but I do think it's significant
in my specific case and some of the
people I've worked with as well
yeah and it's definitely especially with
real high frequency training you have to
you definitely have to approach it
differently like like like I said I mean
basically I'm I'm now yeah I'm training
each body part five six days a week per
week and I'm not taking almost any sets
to failure I'm actually stopping well
short of failure but but but to me that
the the the overload stimulus for me is
the volume and the frequency that I'm
manipulating so yeah I mean it really
there's a certain personal preference
involved I'm I remember seeing a a post
blog post this is a while back though by
Martin Birkin and he's always been a
very low-frequency training guy and yeah
low volume - and he had a blog post back
then but he never did a follow-up post
but that he was he was gonna experiment
with some high-frequency training but he
was just it didn't seem to I guess it
didn't seem to fit his personality
because he was a guy that when he went
in the gym he had to just go balls out
right and and if you're gonna train with
a really high frequency you can't train
like that because you'll you'd elfing
will over train very quickly so there's
there's a trade-off there if you're the
type of person that you gotta just you
got to have that feeling like I want to
train balls out when I'm training then
higher frequency training probably isn't
the best for you just because you know
it doesn't fit you know what it doesn't
fit your I wouldn't say it doesn't fear
your goals but it doesn't fit I guess
maybe your personality in a sense I mean
so so yeah cuz that's the thing with
higher frequency training you have to
actually hold you got a hold back you
have to hold back because you maybe
you're gonna be coming back again
sometimes like for me I'm coming back
the next day so I can't be pushing
myself too hard because I know I'm gonna
be doing this again tomorrow
so on the same body parts so right so
the last question that I have free James
is one that I've kind of just been like
playing around with my mind myself and
it kind of comes from this idea that so
like I'm a power lifter in my offseason
and the reason the whole reason I got
into powerlifting was so that I would be
stronger so that I could push more
weight in the bodybuilding rep ranges
when I get back to them be able to move
more volume and then get bigger might
have been a bit of a lofty goal for me
I'm not convinced that I'm significantly
I mean I I think my physique has
improved but not to the point that you
might expect it to be given that
absolute tonnage like the increase in
the absolute tonnage that I'm now
handling or able to handle because of
the strength training that I did yeah so
I guess the
question would be do you think it's do
you think that relative volume or
absolute volume is more important from a
hypertrophy standpoint that's what
really let me let me just clarify for
the listeners in case they don't know
what what I mean by those terms yeah
relative volume would be sets times reps
times the percent of your 1rm whereas
absolute volume would be reps time sets
times the actual load that you're
lifting so it stands the reason that my
relative volume might not have actually
increased as a result of my powerlifting
but my absolute long did right yeah so I
don't know I'm still undecided as to
what I think is more important but yeah
that's a really tough question because
it's and I don't know if there is a good
answer to it because there's so many
variables that are at play even there so
I mean let's just take absolute volume
for example even you will get absolutely
I mean why I've mentioned earlier that
you know let's say if I'm doing really
high rep sets I have to do more absolute
volume to get the same hypertrophy if
then if I were using heavier weights you
know so so just looking at absolute
volume alone is kind of limited I can't
just look at that there's there's
because there's other variables at play
and I would say it's probably the same
is true for the the relative volume as
well so I don't know if there's a really
good answer to that question I think
probably both variables are important to
a point but you know one of the
limitations of looking at absolute
volume of stuff and and this is probably
I think comes along with your experience
as a power lifter and I'm seeing this
more and more in the research you know
there's so many people to say well you
know you know if I want to get bigger I
got to get stronger right and so many
people say that and I don't think people
have an appreciation for how much neural
adaptations yeah play a role in
increases in strength and actually I
just reviewed a paper I actually I had
accepted it with minor revisions but the
other two reviewers rejected it so it
looks like it's not gonna get published
unless it has some major revisions
but what I saw in the paper was that you
know they had a they had one group do
high load training they had another
group do low load training and then they
had a mixed group that did some high
some low load for a period of time and
and also all the sets were taken to
failure and this gets back to the point
that hey as long as you're taking the
sets to failure and you're doing the
same number of sets as your hypertrophy
is going to be similar now this was this
was on untrained subjects so they
weren't they didn't have much training
experience but the hypertrophy was
similar among all the groups but the
strength gains like here's what was what
was interesting for example the low load
group didn't have much in the way of
strength games even though their
hypertrophy was similar to the high load
group but the highway group had enormous
strength games right and what I think
that shows you is that I'm yes a bigger
muscle is a stronger muscle but there's
way way way more things that play a role
in strength development than just just
muscle size and so so I think that's why
we need to be careful when saying oh hey
my poundage azar going up in the gym I
must be getting bigger well they may not
necessarily be the case especially if
you're doing powerlifting style training
yeah so yeah and that's been my
experience and it's been my experience
when you go around to powerlifting needs
oftentimes this the best guys in the
weight class have less or yeah the best
the strongest guys I should say in my
weight class for example have a lot less
muscle than me yeah so I do think that
all else being equal a bigger muscle is
a stronger muscle but I'm not
necessarily convinced it goes the other
way around that a stronger muscle is
necessarily a bigger muscle I feel like
yeah it doesn't it doesn't go the other
way around yeah yeah so for people who
might be listening who are considering
getting into powerlifting for the sake
of improving their physique which is a
extremely popular thing within the the
natural bodybuilding community do you
think that that's a good idea from
purely physiological perspective hard to
say yeah I don't I don't know if you
need to get into powerlifting - you know
I mean there's some data but I don't
think the data is really strong at this
point that may be varying your
repetition ranges is probably best for I
per to you but really to do to do full
power lifting cycles you know of
training I don't know I'm not sure I'm
not convinced myself that it would
really I think that's probably ties with
your experience I'm not really that
convinced that it that it would really
be beneficial from a physique standpoint
I think there's probably some benefit in
incorporating lower repetition ranges
within your training but if you're going
to start going fall out competing for
powerlifting and training that way I
don't know I just not sure it's gonna do
a whole lot for overall hypertrophy and
physique enhancement I mean I kind of
agree with your assessment I mean I've
seen some pretty you know skinny guys or
not very big guys that can deadlift a
lot of poundage oh yeah I mean you know
I think even minnow has said this you
know about the deadlift you know the
dead a lot of people like to deadlift
but you think about I don't know if the
deadlift is really a great size building
exercise I'm I've actually kind of
decided to cut it out of my own training
because I just think there's probably if
I'm just trying to purely get bigger I
think there's better choices but yeah I
just think you know powerlifting is you
know the goal and powerlifting is
totally different in some of the size
you get from it is just more of a
byproduct or a side-effect I should say
rather than rather than rather than yet
something that oh yeah I should be
powerlifting - to get as big as possible
so yeah I think like I think
powerlifting too much with like losing
sight of your bodybuilding goals and
totally focusing on powerlifting which
is essentially what I did can be a way
to notice some imbalances in your
physique so like the arms clearly don't
get much where it clicks triceps not bad
but the biceps get personally enough
yeah this the shoulders like the side
delts and rear delts get very little
work like a lot of power lifters are
kind of rolled forward I must say they
do work for the for the upper back and
the rear delts and so on and but I did I
do think it added quite a bit of size or
at least density to use a bro term to my
lower back glutes even hamstrings yeah
and I do attribute that to all of the
dead lifting and then another positive
from the from the from the powerlifting
would just be from a psychological
perspective because like off season
after offseason of kind of doing the
same bodybuilding style training can get
a little bit dry and lifting gives you
something like objective to actually
measure like I'm this song at this lift
so it's motivating in that sense yeah I
would just caution people to make sure
that if they want if they still have
physique related goals and keeping in a
sufficient enough volume for the like
accessory body parts that's really
really important and yeah yeah like you
said if your goal is just to maximize
your physique then yeah if you want to
get into powerlifting would probably be
more a matter of personal preference or
whatever yeah yeah yeah
so James I guess that this will conclude
it here but I thought it was a really
enlightening conversation and it was
really really nice to chat with you
about some of that stuff because it's
tough I've been playing around with in
my mind for a while and I know so we
connected on a lot of the ideas so I
appreciate your time very much oh yeah
thanks for having me yeah I'd love to
have you come on I I know you were
supposed to debate D I was at each
Kieffer's at first yeah that didn't go
that didn't go through after did it cuz
I never heard anything about it I wasn't
there no I
Keifer never showed up okay so it was
just me talking it's just me talking for
two hours which actually was probably
the best thing because a lot of people
just love the talk and I had so many
people come up to there actually said oh
I'm glad Kiefer didn't show up because
they actually they really enjoyed my
talking stuff so yeah I just find your
stuff on insulin and
everything to do with metabolism just to
be fantastic so I'd love to have you
come on and maybe talk about some of
that stuff that's oh yeah I'm sure our
listeners would love to hear from you
again yeah all right so that's going to
conclude this episode thank you so much
guys for watching and thank you James
for your time before we go I'd like to
give you a quick minute to just tell
people where it is that they can find
you so your website and any social media
yeah so you can find my white website
wait all Ginette w e IG HT l o GOI
Annette you know you mentioned my
research review I don't I just have back
issues now because I don't regularly
write on it now but that's called rate
ology weekly and you can access all the
back is use for a one-time fee you can
follow me on Twitter I've actually got
two different Twitter accounts but my
main fitness related one is would be
weight ology so you can just look up
weight ology on Twitter and I'm also on
Facebook you can look me up on Facebook
just James Krieger and you'll know it's
me because I'm friends with a lot of
people in the fitness community so and
also be giving a number of talks this
year I'm talking it in England in April
the personal trainer collective
conference so if you're going to happen
to be in England or you know if you're a
listener that's in England or in Europe
that's April 23rd and 24th I think and
you can go the personal trainer
collective calm then I'll be talking in
Australia in June and we that's called
the pro pocalypse is another poster for
that yeah so that's you actually you
look like the most sensible person on
there I'm not gonna lie right Bret is
shirtless Allen has the American flag
reflects glasses and I forget what Brad
is doing anyway
yeah so that's in Sydney Australia in
June and it's put on by 8x2 buff girls
so and then I'll be speaking at the AFP
tea conference in Norway in August so so
if any of your listeners gonna or in any
of those areas and want to catch one of
those conferences I'd love to love to
meet them so yeah excellent okay well
thank you once again James and thank you
guys for listening to another episode
and we will see you in the next one