hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization hypertrophy training
modalities video number three
giant sets
this is skyscraper
that's how i think of giant sets maybe
you should as well so
what are giant sets and where in the
program are they a good idea to
implement
as we define them at rp giant sets are
whatever number of sets it takes to get
you to a certain total rep goals you
show up to the gym and say i want to do
50 reps of lat pulldowns
and each set i'm going to do to whatever
rep in reserve for that week is so for
example let's say it's your second week
of training so maybe it's like two reps
in reserve for every mini set then you
say you do 13 in the first one and then
seven and then blah blah blah and in all
the sets total remember you don't care
how many sets it takes add up to 50 reps
and once you hit 50 reps then you move
on to the next exercise or something
like that so that's a giant set
it's also called a marathon set probably
more accurate i think originally this is
called a marathon set what a lot of
people call a giant set is actually when
you do like a bunch of exercises in a
row like lap pull downs no rest rows no
rest whatever that to me doesn't sound
like the wisest way to train because
you're so tired towards the end you're
basically having to crap a load of junk
volume so i'm gonna go ahead and
i'm gonna put my foot down and say we're
gonna call this giant sets if you wanna
call them marathon sets word up
so
what are the upsides of these things
they have some really cool upsides
here's the thing
anytime you look at your log book from
last week let's say for lat pull downs
it says last week you did 13 reps with a
hundred pounds this week it's 105.
yes
the goal is to have excellent technique
in mind muscle connection the entire
time but we know that in the real world
especially on some exercises especially
ones you might have trouble feeling the
mind muscle connection
you get so caught up in hitting that
number 13 13 reps that you
may let the technique slack and if not
the technique then at least the mind
muscle connection
sometimes that's not ideal yes
performance is important but if you're
sacrificing your technique and your mind
muscle connection for just getting more
reps that usually doesn't pay off in the
long term what giant sets can let you do
is because there's no pressure to do any
certain number of reps in any of the
mini sets like your first set isn't 13.
your first set is like just your first
set whatever number you get you write
down and then whatever number you get
after you write down and add to that and
add to that and add to that so what if
it takes you five sets or seven sets
doesn't matter
to get all the way to 50 reps
what you can do here
is because it you don't have to perform
at a certain level in each set
you can use each set as an almost pure
expression of technique and mind muscle
connection every rep is perfect in your
mind okay i'm really gonna flex my lats
here i'm really gonna flex my lats and
i'm too tired and my technique is
breaking down i rack okay how many reps
did i get that was 12. sweet i write
down 12. there's no pressure to get 13.
there's no pressure in order to make
your technique something that it
shouldn't be so if you're having a real
hard time on an exercise mind-muscle
connection-wise or technique-wise but
you still want to use it to do mega work
you don't just want to do it like to try
to figure out how it works giant sets
are really really really awesome way to
do that they really take the pressure
off of performance the performance
guaranteed so you're going to do all the
reps are going to be sets are going to
be hard and you do enough of them to get
up to 500 reps that's out of your hands
so no big deal there you can use it to
really focus on the quality
second thing
you can use giant sets as a way to do a
little bit of the opposite thing which
is to make yourself do enough work
for example let's say lateral raises
give you a really crazy burn and it's
really hard to go close to failure you
don't really know am i close to failure
am i really bitching out you can say to
yourself i'm gonna do four sets of
laterals
and then you do the four sets but you
really slack off and it turns out those
four sets are really only the
hypertrophy equivalent of like two and a
half sets because you're slacked off so
much
here's the thing if you tell yourself
look i need 50 reps
you just got to get 50 reps done you
can't say like oh yeah set one that was
eight reps if it was you still have a
shitload more reps to go
if you get set one as 12 reps real close
to failure then you just
have fewer sets left to do so if you
want to really hold yourself up to do a
lot of work and not let yourself sort of
like cut the sets a little short to be
like oh i did four sets but we know the
sets were shit if you give yourself a
rep total there's kind of no way to
escape doing the work more brutal is
like let's say leg presses you just hate
him and you're going to give up way
before failure you know this if you just
say look i'm going to do a total of 60
reps in the leg press and with this much
weight i'll give you how many sets it's
going to take you're going to get fucked
one way or another and you don't even
have to try that hard within each set if
you try hard within each set you get to
do fewer sets if you don't try as hard
with each sets you have to do more sets
it auto fixes the thing to give you just
that kick in the ass that you need
lastly
if you have moves
that don't allow load progress giant
sets can be a way of progression for
example lateral raises you use the tens
for week one you get 12 reps what you're
gonna do in week two use the 15s you get
like four that's dumb as shit a way to
progress in these is to do the tens week
one a total of 40 reps week two still
the tens 45 total reps then 50 then 55
then 60 then deload then you come back
and maybe you do the 15s right so it can
allow a form of progression that you
know if the load isn't something you can
alter then maybe you can alter the total
number of reps super awesome
there are some downsides with these so
where are they good to do anything that
fits that what i just said anywhere in
the program will you need to focus on
technique more or you need to force
yourself to put in the work or you you
know you don't have loaded ability to go
from tens to fives or tens of 15s is too
much that's a great place to use this in
your program here are some downsides and
maybe considerations of when not to use
giants at your program first they need a
long time to do okay you know your
girlfriend's with you at the gym and
she's like hey how much longer do you
have we have to meet up with
brett and allison sounds like fine
american names in like half an hour and
you're like i had a giant set of hack
squats she's like all right how much
longer is that going to be like i don't
know like two hours or something i could
die in the middle of it she's like
hoping you're going to die because then
she can still make the date and say she
waited so
take a long time to do this is for the
dedicated that really are pissed off at
a certain muscle or exercise not working
for them or not growing and they just
want to take some time to really work on
it
another thing
how do you detect your maximum
recoverable volume if you're not even
keeping track of set performance and you
say well hold on we're doing 50 and then
55 and then 60 over the course of the
weeks yeah but you can always rest more
and do more reps you may be way beyond
what is recoverable but still actually
doing the stuff and still doing more
reps and further
sinking yourself way beyond your body's
ability to recover
so if you use giant sets in one exercise
or one session of the week another
exercise that day or another session at
least of the week for that muscle group
should be straight sets
regularly monitored
for its
performance so you can say okay i'm
doing giant sets on pull downs on
thursday but on my mondays i do regular
pull-ups regular try to match and you
know match the reps and then beat the
reps and match the load and beat the
load
that way when you hit your performance
limit and you start to get a little
weaker you can say hey okay the pull-ups
say that my lats are fried and yes i can
come in and do more pull-downs but i'm
not gonna because that's way beyond my
ability to recover again the big problem
with giant sets is because you're not
focused on each individual mini sense
performance you actually have no idea
when you're getting weaker
on straight sets you do so always keep
some straight sets in like canaries in
the coal mine uh just to make sure that
you don't get over mrv in other words if
you take your entire program and turn it
all into giant sets
you're going to like get bigger and
stronger for a while and then you're
going to start getting worse and you'll
have no idea shit's not working and i
feel really tired and you look at your
actual reps that you've done you're like
seems to have been getting weaker for
weeks but oh i wasn't trying that hard
and then who knows you have to have some
straights in there some straight sets in
there
some more conventional training that
actually is mirrored exactly to your
performance abilities so that you know
when it's too much and when it's time to
back off
folks that's it we'll see you next time
for another training modality in the
meantime i want to leave you with a
thought experiment
imagine what it's like to be a canary in
a coal mine
some strange man with a large hand and
gloves let you into this coal mine and
you're thinking yeah
it seems like i'm flying towards freedom
but gee whiz it smells real weird in
here and i don't feel so good
terrible things we do to canaries see
you guys next time
you