[Music]
[Applause]
hey what's up guys I'm Maddy mad dog for
Berg and for those of you who don't know
me I am a strength coach and a 57
kilogram power lifter on Team USA and
this is a video on my training and
eating using the RPI
[Music]
so it's breakfast time and usually for
breakfast I wake up at 6:30 I use the
app it's super easy for protein I have
30 grams for fats I have 25 and carbs I
have 20 so I use the app to weigh out
how much I want for my protein and
typically for breakfast I just go with
eggs spinach avocado or guacamole and
some toast just something simple on my
body I have a few meals before training
so this is just the best one to start me
on for the day
[Music]
so it is lunchtime now I usually have a
pretty basic meal but it is my pre
training meal I keep it simple for lunch
especially because I don't want my
stomach to feel sensitive anything crazy
so I keep it with like a chicken and I
usually have some rice and I have some
avocado guacamole here I'll weigh that
out get it all set and I'll be create
our protein is 40 grams fat is 15 and
carbs for this meal are 35 it's a little
bit higher because I am going into
training it's a light session but gotta
stay fueled for it so I just finished my
second meal of the day my pre training
meal the app is awesome because it times
me perfectly so that I'm fueled and
ready to go before my training session
so we're gonna go do that now
[Music]
show them the typical meals that I have
at home during my workouts I usually
have an inter workout shake consisting
of protein and carbohydrates usually
about 20 grams of each and the main
purpose being to keep me fueled and
excited and ready to train you can have
like happy and you during your workout
but having the substance is perfect
[Music]
[Music]
so just finished training and I'm going
to have my post-workout meal since I'm a
person that likes to train at night I
like that I can program into the app
what time I'll be training and even if
it's a light heavy moderate kind of
session and that will you know
differentiate the kind of macros that
I'll need and it can let me put in how
long my training session I'm going to be
so my macros for this are 30 grams of
protein 10 grams of fat and 50 grams of
carbs because it is post-workout and
this is where I'll need carbs the most
to recover build muscle get stronger so
that's what we're gonna show you here so
every single day when I'm done with work
then I go train I've had all my meals
something I like to do is first check in
with my clients because I am a strength
coach so I check in with my clients and
we always take mr. Benji here for either
a walk or we go to the dog park but yeah
so we keep it pretty simple I check in
with my clients dog park shenanigans or
you know just the usual watching the
office on Netflix for the hundredth time
[Music]
so this is my last meal of the day
post post-training meal protein is still
pretty high carbs are moderate and fats
are a little bit lower and I've got some
turkey that I'm going to weigh out here
yes I hope you guys enjoyed watching
this video of my day in the life with
training and eating with the RP diet app
I use the app during all seasons of
powerlifting whether I'm cutting weight
bulking up or even right now maintenance
keeping on the same weight that I am but
yeah I hope you guys enjoyed and got to
learn a little bit about me and my skin
[Music]