to this day the general public is under
the impression that running or any form
of cardiovascular exercise is healthier
than lifting weights is this true is
lifting weights bad for
you welcome back Dr Mila wolf here PhD
in sport Science tackling the idea that
lifting weights might be bad for you
what spurred this video was the
publication of a new paper on the
relationship between how long you spend
lifting weights on a given week and your
RK of all cause mortality just like Mama
used to tell me all this lifting isn't
good for you and that's actually the
name of the author of the study what did
they find well in this metanalysis they
included 16 prospective cohort studies
essentially studies that take a group of
individuals and follow them over time
alongside tracking different behaviors
they perform and see which ones end up
dying and which ones don't when
combining all 16 of these studies they
had hundreds of thousands of
participants in this study let's break
results first when you compare
participants who performed some lifting
to participants who didn't do anything
Physically Active the ones who lifted
had a lower risk of dying via Ora
mortality had a lower risk of getting
diabetes a lower risk of Cancer and a
lower risk of cardiovascular disease
we're talking about a reduction in risk
of about 15 to 20% however here's where
it gets interesting they also did the
met regression to see how the risk of
allal mortality cancer diabetes and
cardiovascular disease changed as the
amount of lifting participants did per
week changed essentially they were
asking the question of is there an
optimal amount of time spent lifting
weights in a given week that will
minimize your risk of being in poor
health and to make it long story short
yes there was however that amount was
Far lower than you might expect and in
fact the best benefits were seen between
30 to 60 Minutes of lifting per week the
exception here was diabetes risk where
more lifting did seem to be better
however for all CA mortality risk
essentially your likelihood of dying
cardiovascular disease and cancer past
about 30 to 60 Minutes of lifting per
week your risk actually started
increasing again and by the time you got
to about 2 hours of lifting a week your
risk was actually the same as if you
didn't lift at all and past about 2
hours a week your risk actually went up
in terms of dying in terms of getting
cancer and in terms of cardiovascular
disease in other words if you're
spending more than about 2 and 1/2 2
hours a week lifting you risk of getting
cancer cardiovascular disease and dying
is higher than if you didn't lift at all
in case you couldn't tell from my facial
expression I am a little bit skeptical
or surprised by these results
interestingly when the authors is then
considered not just participants who
just lifted but participants who
specifically lifted and performed
aerobic exercise which by the way
includes things like walking so we're
not talking about intense cardio here
the reduction in Risk to things like
cancer diabetes cardiovascular disease
and all cause mortality actually
increased by quite a bit now you often
saw reductions of 40 to maybe even 50%
so what's the deal with lifting
increasing your odds of dying
essentially past around a couple hours a
week well let me mention a quick
limitation of the study and that's that
the study included mostly older subjects
so whether or not this generalizes to
you young whipper snapper lifting your
weights a few times a week trying to get
jacked not entirely clear with that
being said this isn't actually an
isolated finding this has been found in
a previous metanalysis as well there are
potential confounders that aren't
accounted for right for example people
are generally unlikely to report that
they take Peds right it's just not
something people like to report and so
in these studies the participants who
spent more time lifting each week
presumably are also the ones more
serious about lifting who may also be
taking PDS and yet not report it and
since PDS AKA steroids are well known to
impact Health in negative ways it could
be the idea that hey the participants
who lifted for a l of time in these
studies they're also the ones who took
steroids and therefore had less Health
as a result of the steroids not as a
result of lifting for more time each
week and there are probably other
confounders that could explain this and
this brings me to the examples of many
younger lifters in the fitness industry
passing away early for example let's
talk about ziz right he passed away at a
very early age likewise more recently
Dallas McCarver Joe lintner while these
are anecdotes and I'm not claiming that
they make a broader point about whether
or not lifting makes you die and these
were also so people on PS these tragic
deaths do hit me a bit differently in L
of This research you know with that
being said I want to come back to the
research on whether or not lifting is
actually bad for you above a certain
dose because one thing that isn't really
being explained here is what the
mechanism might be ultimately the
outcome is what we care about the most
and if we have sufficient evidence of
the outcome occurring then that can be
sufficient but in this case we only have
a few papers so knowing whether the
mechanism is clear might be helpful one
of these papers suggested that
resistance training above a certain
amount might make your health wor by
adversely impacting your heart rate your
blood pressure or even your arterial
stiffness indeed one study for example
compared the arterial stiffness of a
group that didn't do any exercise to a
group that performed consistent lifting
week to week why is arterial stiffness
or arterial compliance a marker of
Health well reductions in the compliance
of central arteries exert a number of
adverse effects on cardiovascular
function and disease risk in this study
the group that was lifting actually saw
reduction in the compliance of their
cared artery of about 20% likewise when
it comes to heart rate and blood
pressure there was a study by lot and
colleagues they compared a lower volume
approach of lifting lier weights for
more reps to lifting heavier weights for
fewer reps this doesn't really tell us
anything about duration of lifting per
week but it is a comparison of lower and
higher volumes I guess they found that
after lifting systemic blood pressure
and heart rate increased to a larger
extent with higher reps which the
authors of this previous metanalysis use
this evidence alongside the previous
study on compliance to suggest that
maybe lifting above a certain amount
with a high volume causes negative
Health adaptations with that said a
short-lived acute increase in your
systolic blood pressure and heart rate
shouldn't necessarily result in any
long-term complications with your health
that said the mechanisms as to why too
much lifting could worsen your health
are still pretty unclear so I'm not
really willing to say just yet that too
much lifting is going to have you
walking to an early grave so much past
about an hour of lifting a week doesn't
actually seem to benefit your health any
further what you may not know is that
the same kind of trueu cardiovascular
exercise like running for example a
recent metanalysis actually found that
the maximum benefit of moderate physical
activity which includes things like
walking for example was had with around
5 to 10 hours of walking or any other
physical activity that is moderate in
intensity per week so just 5 to 10 hours
is going to be sufficient in maximizing
your health what about more intense
cardio like running well in that case
it's actually even much lower around 1
to 4 hours per week is sufficient to
maximize your adaptations however while
this is sufficient to optimize your
health and there is a plateau after this
point in contrast to lifting you don't
have an increase in Risk if you go too
high at the very least that wasn't
evident in this metanalysis there are
complications associated with being for
example an elite endurance athlete but
that's outside the scope of this video
at least when just looking at beh
behaviors AKA how much cardiovascular
exercise you do per week that increase
in Risk when you do too much wasn't
apparent H however for both lifting and
cardiovascular exercise it seems like
you can get most if not all of the
benefit with pretty low doses around an
hour of lifting a week and only a couple
hours of cardiovascular exercise a week
too my personal takeaway from this
research on lifting and how it impacts
your risk of dying and overall health is
this if someone comes to me and wants to
maximize their health and they ask hey
should I lift and how long should I lift
for I say you should lift however I
would say start with around an hour a
week based on my research that's going
to roughly maximize your health and much
more than this I'm not sure will improve
your health any further and just might
make it worse I don't think we have the
evidence to Clearly say that's the case
yet and we certainly don't have an
understanding of the mechanisms involved
which makes me a bit more skeptical but
the evidence is leaning in that
direction and importantly the same broad
message of a low dose is actually best
for your health is true for both lifting
and for cardio you don't need to do a
ton to get a great health benefit that
is the video if you enjoy the video
please comment like subscribe leave a
comment down below if there's anything
else you want to see me break down if
you'd like me to take care of your
training nutrition for you consider
applying for coaching somewhere above I
hope you enjoy the video have a great
day and I will see you guys in that next
one peace