here are some ways to make your pull
Downs more effective first don't lean
back this much ideally you should be
perfectly vertical at the top to
maximize the lat stretch and then Lean
Back by about 10 to 15Â° as you bring the
bar down to your chest Second Use a
thumbless grip almost everyone feels a
better mind muscle connection with their
lats when they don't wrap their thumb
around the bar that's probably because
it causes a looser grip preventing your
forearms from taking over if your grip
fails this way use straps you want your
back to be the Limited Factor not your
forearms third control the negative on
your last rep almost everyone gets the
bar down but then thinking the set is
over lets the bar fly back up but this
is a mistake that final negative on your
final rep may be the most important part
of any rep you'll do lower the weight
slowly as you feel your back pulling
apart