thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to part three of
the myth bust
Monday season one finale on this video
we're gonna take on the final eight
myths we've covered in the 25 episode
series so far and this will officially
mark the end of season 1 I'm thinking
that season 2 should boot back up
sometime in the middle of 2019 and I'm
hoping to debut my new technique Tuesday
series a little later this month
I'm so as before I'm gonna skip many of
the details here now so just make sure
you check out the corresponding link to
the full length video for each topic in
the description box below if you'd like
more of that detail but without further
ado here we go so up first is the idea
that you should eat breakfast to sort of
provide the nutrients you need to get
your day started off on the right foot
and while it sounds perfectly reasonable
and I'm sure we've all heard it plenty
as it turns out it doesn't have much
scientific legitimacy research from bets
and colleagues found no difference in
resting metabolic rate between groups
eatin and skipping breakfast which makes
up the biggest chunk of total metabolism
here and while this study did find that
breakfast eaters moved around more and
burn more calories during the day this
was nearly perfectly offset by the fact
that they also over ate by about the
same number of calories because of the
calories included in the breakfast meal
so unbalanced under free living
conditions that actually isn't much of a
difference in total daily energy balance
between eating and skipping breakfast so
whether you choose to eat or skip should
be tailored to your appetite and your
preferences and I think a weight ology
research review article from James
Krieger summarizes as well eating
breakfast is a personal preference if
you eat breakfast make it large and high
in protein and if you don't just make
sure your first meal of the day is large
and high in protein but ultimately
skipping breakfast is just one strategy
to reduce caloric intake and you'll need
to determine whether skipping breakfast
helps you eat less overall during the
day so this has been a controversial one
for me on the original video I laid out
for studies examining targeted fat loss
the idea that you can selectively lose
fat from specific body parts
now the first study found that active
swinging arms weren't leaner than non
of non swinging arms and tennis players
but this study was limited by being
merely observational not interventional
the second study showed that when you
only train one arm across 12 weeks you
don't find any difference in fat volume
between the trained and untrained aren't
but this study was also limited because
it didn't find much fat loss overall so
perhaps spot reduction just wasn't
detected here now in contrast to this
third study did see significant overall
fat loss and again didn't find spot
reduction in trained versus untrained
legs however a new study published just
last year really applied pressure to
these earlier findings when one group
that trained upper body only for 12
weeks lost way more arm fat and another
group that trained lower body only for
12 weeks lost way more leg fat implying
that local targeted fat reduction was at
play which I think maybe it was now an
important detail here is that all
subjects performed 30 minutes of light
cycling after training implying that
perhaps the body does increase fat
mobilization from stores nearby the
exercising muscle and if it's burned as
fuel immediately after training this
could lead to more net fat loss in that
specific area but to me I think this is
mostly just boiled down to a new
launching pad for future research on
this paper did have a small sample size
and is running counter to the general
scientific consensus up to this point
I'm so despite impressive findings here
I'm still not confident actually making
the recommendation that you can
selectively target body fat and so I'm
just gonna leave a highly skeptical
question mark on this one for now so
similar to whether fresh or frozen
produce is better which cooking method
is best is going to depend on what
specific food you're looking at on the
whole it seems that steaming is slightly
better for preserving nutrients and
boiling seems to be the worst especially
for water soluble vitamins like vitamin
C and of course this supports the
general advice that you should avoid
high heat in lots of water when cooking
and also there's no reason to avoid the
microwave that's a safe technology and
can often have favorable effects on
nutrition I'm so generally speaking I
think the best advice is to
simply have a diet filled with a variety
of different fruits and vegetables and
try to use a variety of different
cooking methods when you can so I don't
personally like the 8 glasses per day
water recommendation because it doesn't
account for the fact that water
requirements will vary from person to
person based on size activity level even
geographical location and climate so
based on pretty much every academic
source that I've read most healthy
people can adequately meet their daily
water intake by simply using a thirst as
a guide and several sources have noted
that coffee should count as a water
source since it doesn't increase urine
output or negatively affect hydration
status in those accustomed to consuming
caffeine and of course since dehydration
levels as low as 3 percent has been
shown to impair athletic performance
including strength and power that's
important but strength trainees stay
well hydrated Allen Aragon's research
review makes a specific pre and intra
workout recommendation but I personally
prefer lyle mcdonald's advice that your
pee should be clear or slightly yellow
throughout the whole day and you should
be peeing about five times a day also
increasing water intake has a near
negligible effect on metabolic rate so
increasing it past that needed to quench
your thirst won't do anything extra for
fat loss of course unless it helps you
feel fuller and reduces your total daily
caloric intake overall I'm sorry to say
other than my sugar video my video on
milk probably drew the most controversy
in this series I actually found that
surprising since many of the
high-quality meta-analyses and
systematic reviews we have including
this one with over seven hundred
thousand participants all have
consistently found no association
between dairy and milk consumption and
all cause mortality total deaths
coronary heart disease and
cardiovascular disease now in the
ensuing commentary that followed my milk
video many many people pointed out the
potential for funding bias from the
dairy industry and then use that to
discredit this entire body of data but
as I said in the original video while
potential for funding bias should give
us legitimate pause and encourage us to
look at datasets with less bias risks
I can't discredit a well-done study on
its own unless there's also evidence of
malpractice but in this case this
actually isn't much of a concern because
there actually is other high-quality
data without funding conflicts showing
the same basic findings and the counter
evidence that I've seen almost without
exception coming from vegans or
vegetarians such as this very popular
China study is pervaded with vegan or
vegetarian ideologically driven bias
pulling whatever it wants from 8,000
correlations cherry-picking references
and omitting data so I would say despite
the concerning ethical shortcomings of
the dairy industry as I see it the
weight of the scientific evidence still
is in support of milk as a nutrient-rich
beverage that can offer many health
benefits to those who choose to consume
it
um so the idea that there are three
distinct body types or somatic types so
the endomorph mesomorph and ectomorph is
based on some old eugenics riddled
pseudoscience from the 1940s where the
goal is to associate each body type with
personality intelligence future
achievement etc and a later caught foot
in in the fitness industry and
bodybuilding community now the main
issue that I have is that these body
type classifications tend to imply that
you can't change your body composition
or even your body shape over time which
you clearly can of course you can't
change your bone structure the way your
muscles insert but whether you currently
look like an endo or an ecto you will
still lose body fat by putting yourself
in a caloric deficit and you'll still
build muscle through progressive
resistance exercise while eating
sufficient protein in calories and while
the actual results may come more and
less easily to different individuals
based on genetic differences differences
in actual training protocols should be
based on specific goals level of
advancement and personal preference not
somatic types so I really wouldn't
recommend doing a detox diet first they
can be dangerous
especially if they have you drinking way
more water than you need or excessively
restricting foods on their entire basis
comes from the faulty physiological
assumption that the
and kidneys need any help clearing out
toxins which they don't and while they
may lead to short-term rapid weight loss
for some through the extreme caloric
restriction these diets are rarely if
ever sustainable over the long term and
often lead to weight regain and given
that there is a huge list of other
weight loss diets with adequate protein
and micro nutrition pretty much any
weight loss diet you can pick at random
will be better than even the best detox
diet out there so not a big fan of those
although in my original video I do
discuss what an actual science-based
detox diet might look like
in the future if you'd like to check
that out so the last myth actually turns
out to probably be not as much of a myth
as we once thought it was as it turns
out the bros were actually kind of onto
something when it comes to the mind
muscle connection as new data shows that
you can see significantly more biceps
hypertrophy when focusing on
establishing a mind muscle connection
however this effect may be body parts
specific since it didn't seem to work as
well for the quads in this study I
granted the subjects were untrained so
perhaps in more experienced bodybuilders
who might be better at mindfully
activating muscles of their lower body
perhaps you'd see more growth in the
quads as well I'm still this is a new
area of research so my personal
recommendation is to not use the mind
muscle connection for all exercises but
rather just reserve it for isolation
single joint exercises that have rep
counts higher than eight and for
everything else for the most part you
want to just focus on how your body is
executing the movement as a whole
ensuring proper technique and lifting
tempo alright so that's the final eight
fitness myths covered and that's going
to be a wrap for this season of myth
busting a ton of fun producing this
series in the last year is just totally
flown by I'm really looking to elevate
the content and production value in
season two so I'm really excited for
that anyway before we go I want to give
a huge shout out to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I've been using to run
Jeff nipper calm and I've been using
them for at least the last three or four
years and they have really sleek
designer custom templates 24-hour
customer support and just the entire
process of running my website and online
store really couldn't be more simple
through them so if you guys are wanting
to get started with your own website you
can go to Squarespace comm forward slash
Nippert and that'll save you 10% off
your first purchase over there so thank
you so much Squarespace for all your
support on the mythbuster series and the
channel in general I really appreciate
it thank you guys so much for watching
don't forget to leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video I'm gonna be back next
Monday with a new training vlog so I'll
see you guys all here then