so what i specifically mean today uh in
terms of things that are screwing up
your gym progress is things that are
interfering with your ability to
accurately track progressive overload
which is the underlying driver of the
entire muscle building process uh
basically all progressive overload
really means is that number one you
train close enough to muscular failure
on your sets in order to stimulate an
adaptive response and b that you
gradually increase the workload over
time to force your muscles to adapt to
higher and higher levels of stress and
in order to achieve progressive overload
with maximum efficiency you need to be
tracking your workouts in terms of the
specific exercises you did the weight
lifted for each set and the number of
reps executed because that's going to
give you an objective record of exactly
where you stand at any given time and
what you need to do in order to improve
further if you're more advanced then
there are a variety of different
progressive overload methods that you
can use
to make further gains besides just
lifting more weight or performing more
reps but as a beginner to intermediate
lifter in the first couple years of
proper training there is no question
that basic linear weight and rep
increases are going to be the fastest
way to add overall muscle mass to your
frame so here are four things you might
be doing in your current training
program that are making it more
difficult to accurately track your
strength progress and are slowing down
your overall rate of muscle growth as a
result mistake number one is the most
obvious one but it has to be mentioned
because there are still a ton of lifters
out there who don't do this or who even
disagree that it's necessary in the
first place but that is quite simply
that you are not tracking your workouts
and instead you're just trying to keep
everything in your head i'm not saying
that you can't make progress by not
writing things down or that keeping it
in your head doesn't work but what i am
saying is that for the vast majority of
people out there it won't be as
effective or as efficient as objectively
tracking your workouts by either writing
them down in a workout logbook or using
a tracking app in your phone when you
have things recorded out in front of you
in a concrete form it's going to allow
you to be much more precise with your
training and it's going to give your
mind a crystal clear target every single
time you go into the gym you'll know
exactly what you did last time and
exactly what you need to do this time in
order to achieve further progress just
knowing the amount of weight that you
lifted last time that's still good but
it's not as good as also knowing exactly
how many reps you perform for each set
and i doubt most people truly remember
exactly what they did on every single
set because remember that even
performing a single extra rep with the
same weight on a given lift that's still
meaningful progression you know if last
workout you did let's say a lat pull
down with 150 pounds for seven reps and
you remember that you did 150 pounds but
you're not quite sure if it was seven
reps or eight or maybe even nine and now
you go back into the gym and you load up
150 pounds and just do seven reps again
then assuming your form was the same for
both sessions you didn't progress okay
you did the same thing as last week and
you basically just wasted that exercise
whereas if you know you did seven reps
and so now you go back in and you target
eight reps and you're able to achieve
that that means that you progressed and
you stimulated new growth now you know
you did eight reps so next time you go
and you target nine reps then maybe ten
and then you can increase the weight and
so on it just makes the whole
progression process much smoother and
much more efficient overall um you're
already going to be resting for probably
at least a minute and a half on most
lifts up to three to four minutes or
more and it literally takes about five
seconds to just write down a given lift
so i don't see any reason at all not to
not to mention that it can be really
motivating to be able to look back at
your workout logs from you know six
months one year three years or more down
the line just to see all the progress
that you've made along the way i can't
even count the number of people who have
encouraged to start tracking their
workouts in detail and who then came
back to me and told me what a huge
effect it had on helping them progress
more quickly in my opinion if you're
truly serious about putting on muscle
and transforming your physique in the
shortest time a training logbook is an
absolute must all you need to do is
write down which exercises you did how
much weight you lifted for each set and
how many reps you performed it's really
that simple but it will pay dividends
for your training over the long term and
comment below and be honest let me know
if you've been tracking your workouts up
to this point or if you've just been
trying to memorize things i mean if you
have just been trying to memorize then
start tracking in detail using a logbook
or an app like i just talked about and
then let me know in the next few months
how things are going for you because i
guarantee this one simple step is going
to help speed up your progress
significantly mistake number two is that
you're just winging it and you're
performing different workouts every time
you go into the gym a lot of lifters
mistakenly fall for the whole muscle
confusion idea and they think that they
need to be always rotating their
exercises and doing something different
every time they train in order to
shock their muscles into new growth or
they just get bored easily and they find
it more enjoyable to be always mixing
things up or the other possibility is
that they never really feel confident in
the plan that they're using and so they
constantly program hop from one plant to
the next thinking that the next workout
or the next system they implement is
going to be the magic solution that
finally produces the rapid gains they
were hoping for in reality this is
actually one of the worst things you can
do as far as workout programming goes
because when you're always mixing around
your training variables in terms of
exercises exercise order rep ranges
tempo etc when you're always mixing
these things around it becomes way
harder to properly assess your strength
changes from week to week if during one
back workout you do an overhand pull up
for five reps and then a dumbbell row
for eight reps and let's say a cable
pullover for 15 reps and then the next
time you go in you completely switch
things up by doing a
lat pull down for eight reps and then a
t-bar row for 12 reps and a barbell
shrug for 20 reps you're just all over
the place and it's going to be way more
difficult to track progressive overload
because you can't directly compare your
lifts side by side and then not only
that but you also prevent yourself from
becoming
highly proficient at any one single lift
because you're always bouncing around
between exercises so forget this whole
muscle confusion thing okay the real way
to shock your muscles into new growth is
by placing them under more stress than
you did in the previous workout and that
can be done by using the same exercise
but just increasing the weight or
increasing the number of reps performed
with the same weight so get a concrete
training plan in place with the same
lifts in the same order using the same
rest periods stick to that plan for a
consistent cycle of training i'd say at
least four to six weeks minimum and
focus on maximizing your strength gains
on that specific program before you go
ahead and switch to something else
otherwise you might end up doing what so
many other lifters do in the gym which
is basically just running around in
circles for months on end making some
progress but nowhere near what they
could be making if they just plan things
out properly and if you want to get
access to a solid reliable training
program mapped out step by step to help
maximize your gains then make sure to
head over to shawnell.com custom i'll
link it up here or in the description
box just follow the form on that page
and i'll personally send you a
customized program for you based on your
current goals and experience level it's
100 free so make sure to check that out
if you want to get onto the proper path
toward your goal physique if you're
getting value from this video so far
then make sure to hit that like button
below to let me know and now moving on
to mistake number three which is that
your lifting form is inconsistent so i'm
talking about things like the amount of
momentum that you're using to move the
weight the range of motion and the
lifting tempo as well always keep in
mind that true strength progression
means that your lifting technique
remains the same each time you increase
the weight and if you're altering your
form uh just for the sake of lifting a
heavier weight then you won't be able to
accurately track things because you
won't know if your ability to move that
new load is because your muscles
actually got stronger or if it's just
because you've made the lift easier by
changing your form so the bottom line is
that each time you increase the weight
or perform extra reps with the same
weight your form should remain the same
so that means you're not using extra
momentum to make the lift easier you're
not performing the negative faster so
that gravity can just take over and do
all the work and you're maintaining a
nice full range of motion all the way
through rather than cutting out an inch
or two or more out of the bottom or top
portion of the exercise now your form
might not necessarily be a hundred
percent perfect every single time you
make a weight increase but if you do end
up altering any of these factors very
slightly as you move to a heavier weight
the main thing is to just be aware of it
and to work on correcting back to your
original form with that new weight
before you go ahead and make a further
weight increase for example if you bump
the weight up on let's say a barbell
curl and you need to use a slight bit of
extra sway with your back maybe on those
last couple reps that's probably okay
but the key is to just be conscious of
it and to work on being able to lift
that new weight without the additional
momentum before you increase the weight
again but you definitely don't want to
be that guy who just keeps adding more
and more weight and the form
consistently just gets worse and worse
which is something that i see in the gym
all the time not only does that mean
that you're not making true strength
progress but it's also going to increase
your chances for injury as well and it
might actually make the lift less
effective by directing tension away from
the targeted muscle and onto other
surrounding muscles instead and then
lastly mistake number four not as common
as the previous three but it's still
something that i see in the gym all the
time and that is the incorrect use of
spotter assistance at the end of the day
if you are using a spotter then the
primary purpose should just be for
safety reasons and not to have the
spotter actually assist you in lifting
the weight for more advanced lifters who
maybe want to throw in a forced rep or
two at the end of a set every once in a
while that's fine but for beginner to
intermediate lifters there's really no
need for this and what there's
definitely no need for is having your
spotter jump in to assist you halfway
through your set when you're still
perfectly capable of lifting the weight
on your own
or even worse what i see is when a
spotter literally has their hands on the
bar throughout the entire set i even see
personal trainers pretty often doing
this in the gym with their clients and
it just makes no sense whatsoever
there's no reason to ever knowingly
select a weight that you can't lift on
your own for the duration of the set and
if your spotter is assisting you in
lifting the weight even if it's just on
the last few reps then you're not going
to be able to track your strength
progress properly because you won't know
exactly what percentage of the weight
you're lifting versus how much the
spotter is lifting so if you want to use
a spotter for safety purposes on certain
lifts like a bench press or just for
extra motivation then that's fine but
they shouldn't be helping you lift the
weight aside from maybe the odd forced
rep here and there for more advanced
trainees guys if you found this advice
helpful then make sure to hit that
subscribe button below to stay in the
loop on all of my future content and you
can also follow me over on instagram as
well uh for more daily no nonsense
fitness advice at sean nalawani make
sure to hit the like button below if you
enjoyed the video and let me know down
below in the comments what you want to
see me cover in my future videos because
i do read all the comments and i do take
your guys suggestions into consideration
thanks for watching and i will see you
in the next one
[Music]
[Music]
you