hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
how to build your training program for
hypertrophy it is a video number oh let
me look number seven yeah
yeah hey Scott the video guy I knew his
videos I was just testing you bro don't
mess with my audio I'm out here I'm a
Hollywood baby
in any case before I was so rudely
interrupted
we're gonna chat about how to do
technique properly
and if something is bothering your
joints
how to alter it it's a big part of
programming because you're going to
guess as an exercise is good for you and
then you realize you wrote it down you
programmed it into your hypertrophy app
and it just doesn't do what you want it
to do and it's hurting your joints you
have options and we're going to talk
about all of them and how the app
enables you to exercise those options
so
this is all part of the series by the
way every Tuesday for a little while
back and a little while into the future
we're going to be doing the how to build
your program series and even though you
don't have to use it we do have a
hypertrophy app now it's out for release
and uh it's really sweet
I would recommend you use it because of
two things thing number one is it's
probably the best hypertrophy app that's
ever been made I've used a bunch of them
they're all pretty cool but this one's
the best because I designed it and I
have the brains
I think that's what my mom tells me I'm
pretty smart number two reason is that
uh it gives me money which is nice for
me so it's high I'm highly incentivized
to say please get the app because
Lamborghinis are awesome and they're
unfortunately not free though I have
continued to petition my local Congress
person for a Lamborghini subsidy uh he's
not answering the letters so it's quite
sad so in any case
uh Pro tip on the purchasing thing
buy it for a month it's like 35 bucks a
month or something
yeah that's like you know it's pretty
expensive for an app but one that you
use every single day for your training
it starts to be pretty good deal but I
don't even better deal if you like it
for a month and You're Gonna Keep it
you're gonna say well look this is like
how I'm gonna train from now on that's
what I'm doing
just by the year
because the year is discounted like an
insane amount off of the monthly so over
month over month if you buy the ear
You're Just Gonna Save Oodles of money
in any case that's my marketing pitch
let's get into technique for the joints
the right technique has to stimulate the
muscle well but if the right technique
quote unquote is hurting your joints
making them feel really uncomfortable
and creaky and hurting them over time
that's no good
how do you want your joints to feel to
make sure that it's correct
first you want them to feel stable
weird Wiggly joint feeling not good can
it cause acute injury some point when
you mess up and your joint goes this way
and the rest of you goes that way
stable
comfortable and I don't mean like oh
this is the greatest thing that's ever
happened to my knees I mean not actively
painful
or actively a feeling of incredible
weakness
so you don't want insane joint weak
feeling you don't want incredible pain
in your joints and you don't want
instability as long as you have that you
have almost all of the criteria for a
good exercise for your joints except one
and that's time
some exercises can feel totally fine on
your joints in one session and maybe
even in two but sessions three four five
through the weeks that you're training
they can start to really start to hurt
and most good exercises just don't do
this or over any time scale that's
relevant it would take a year or two for
you to just do the same exercise over
and over which is kind of stupid anyway
for your joints to start hurting and
most good exercises properly done
technique
but some exercises they're just not
gelling with you and then your joints
hurt after session two and here's the
real kicker you gotta start getting
concerned if they're hurt even more
at session three you come in you start
warming up session three you're like bro
this doesn't even wait on the bar my
knees hurt what the hell is going on
that's not a great sign you have
something to do about it the first thing
you have to do about it is to make sure
you're doing the technique correctly and
the way we do this in hypertrophy app is
let's say we have a bar Albert row you
got these little icons in the top right
here you got a little icon that looks
like YouTube you click on it and look
it's Jared feather demonstrating your
Bible about row and if you put your
headphones on it's going to be me
talking about it
in the background going through the
technique
every single exercise that we've indexed
has a video to go with it over the time
that the app is out we're gonna re-film
and film extra exercises that you guys
suggest to us by the way there's a
really easy way to just if you add your
custom exercises we can see we can
tabulate the custom exercises everyone
else is adding
and it's uh easy for us to every several
months go and film those get them in and
then they have videos so there are video
instructions for pretty much every
single exercise in the app so if you're
like yeah the bent rows are hurting my
elbows the hell am I doing you click on
there you see the video
oh crap I'm pulling up like this it's
supposed to be down got it you fix it
and then it's good to go so you can
always fix your Technique another point
is the way that Jared is demonstrating
the technique is one way which is cool
but there are slight alterations you can
make that make you better
so
gripping the bar here for close grips
could be great for your triceps but it
hurts your elbows
if you just move your grip out by one
finger length it can completely fix any
elbow pain and feel almost as good or as
good or even better for your triceps
muscle as far stimulus is concerned so
when you see an exercise technique
demoed make sure you realize that small
alterations of which way you point your
feet how far apart your feet are which
way you point your hands how far apart
your hands are where you're moving
exactly do you move to the clavicle with
a pull down do you move to the upper
chest those are not right or wrong
answers there's a spectrum of totally
awesome options and within that Spectrum
you have to find by experimenting which
one hurts your joints the least so if
you're running into some joint pain
don't just abandon the exercise and be
like well like shit this isn't working
for me I've done the technique it
doesn't work it still hurts my joints
try to play with some grip widths foot
positions where you're pulling or
pushing the bar to and from and just one
tiny little fix can fix it all let me
give you an example in the skull crusher
for me I used to do Skull Crushers and
then I stopped because it would just
nuke my elbows every single time and
that's when I would start the skull
crusher and my first movement would be
to have my fist go back towards my head
back over this way
I was like Skull Crushers just don't
work for me they just fuck my elbows up
I hate them I wrote a letter to my
congressman Skull Crushers are hurting
my elbows again no response
then just on sheer dumb luck I was
playing around and what I did was I
broke at my elbow first
towards the hip so the first movement
wasn't me pushing my fist back it was me
pushing my elbow down once I got that
break then I would push the fist back no
elbow pain ever again and I'm skull
crushing like a gazillion pounds my
triceps the biggest they've ever been
small technique I know it sounds fucking
wacky I know it sounds like some Joe
seidman bullshit but one little tiny
technique fix can actually make your
joints feel amazing versus an almost
externally the exact same exercise if
you look at somebody else doing
this takes a bit of sort of insight into
your into how you feel but it can help
you along so don't just demand an
exercise
now
the app does all cool all kinds of cool
stuff with tracking your stimulus to
fatigue ratio and it does this by
assessing how your joints feel so you
don't just have to remember this kind of
stuff you can actually note it in the
app and it'll ask you a question so for
example on barbell Metro over here we
did we're gonna do two sets we checked
in the first one already we checked in
the second one
and it asks us
pump and workload and all that stuff
we'll get to that another video at the
top it's going to ask us a question
about joint pain and it asks how did
your joints feel during the barbell bent
row and you can say oh no pain because
legit like that's what it should be
hopefully you can say low pain like and
there's a little something or nothing
I'm too scared of moderate pain and then
a lot of pain
okay so you can click whichever one of
these you want I don't say no pain don't
just push whatever crap here we'll get
that later and boom the app remembers
your joint pain later it will start to
make exercise recommendations based on
how much joint pain and stimulus you get
out of an exercise it will remember all
of your entries forever
and so if you think man should I do
Barbara about rows next month or should
I do cable rows I forgot which one works
better for me the app will remember
which one works better for you and if
you click the drop down it'll push up
the bent row higher let's say or the
cable or higher whichever one was better
and the other exercise gets pushed lower
so the best suggestion of what you
should do next is something the app is
going to keep track
now let's say your joint pain is awful
okay this exercise sucks I hate it
I want to replace it
what do you do because you already built
your mesocycle do I have to go and
rebuild a new meso nope the answer is no
you go up here
and just go to replace exercise
and it says sets have already been
performed
so are you sure you want to replace it
because it'll delete all that data by
the way you can replace any other
exercise that you haven't done yet let's
say you're just warming up for it you're
replacing it so you can do this anytime
you want say ignore and then it goes
okay it's assuming it's back so it's
going to keep that for you you could
just make a new exercise in the top menu
here if you wanted but you're like where
a barbell row sucked and I'm gonna go to
Cable flexion row and I'm going to
repeat until the end of the meso because
I'm fucking done with barbell rows or
toasting my elbows replace and voila
it's got cable flexion row right here
replaced and by the way because this was
a duplicate exercise from our last times
discussion Barbara stays here and you
can always change that if you want so
now we have a new exercise hey this is
good stuff it works
folks that's it just make sure to
remember this
hypertrophy training is not a situation
in which you want continuous chronic
escalating joint pain I've seen this
done in a bunch of gyms all the time
and it's terrible there's some old guys
like yeah that leg press starts wrapping
his knees what you're doing with the
knee wrap there buddy he's like yeah
knees are gonna hurt I gotta get through
it like but it shouldn't be hurting if
your Technique is right
if your loading is correct
if your minor technique adjustments are
good you're paying attention and
honestly bro if that doesn't fix it stop
fucking leg pressing there's a trillion
other quad exercises you could be doing
that shouldn't hurt your knee unless
you're really old and really beat up
like me and everything hurts I'm kidding
it doesn't do not settle for joint pain
don't let anyone tell you like oh yeah
Skull Crushers just fuck up your elbows
but you want big triceps that's what it
takes that's a whole bunch of bullshit
in any case Link in the description give
the app a download pay me money I need a
Lamborghini next week we are going to
talk about how to interpret and rate and
manage your pumps and your soreness what
they tell you about growth response and
how the app handles them as well and
it's the only app that does this as far
as I know see you guys next time