for muscle growth training to failure is
beneficial however for strength training
to failure might be making you
weaker welcome back Dr M wolf here today
with wolf coaching and today we're
talking about training to failure for
strength and why it's probably not
beneficial first off let me set the
scene for you Robinson and colleagues
published a met analysis on the effects
of how close to failure you train and
how beneficial a given set is for
strength improvements basically his is
what they found they found that when a
set had a given load a certain
percentage of a win or Max whether you
went closer to failure or trained
further from failure how much strength
you gained from that set didn't actually
change in fact if you look closely you
might see that as you went really close
to failure say within one rep of failure
for example you actually saw worse
strength gains and by strength gains I
mean improvements in your One Max so for
example how much can you squat bench or
deadlift for one rep now you might be
saying wait a minute if this is when
load was matched what about when you go
closer to failure for example you do a
single at rp8 with two reps on the tank
versus doing a single RP 5 with five
reps on the tank right if you're doing a
single at rp8 you'll be able to lose a
lot more weight than you would be if you
do a single at rp5 and therefore what
about how RP influences load what if by
going closer to failure you're able to
lift more weight indeed if you look at
this SM analysis by swin and colleagues
you'll see generally the heavier you
train in terms of percentage of One Max
the more strength gains you'll see from
a given set this is where a study by
Robinson and colleagues again same
authors it's like all they do is
research RP and training to failure
comes it in this study there were four
groups group one trained on average on
the squat and bench press to an RP of 4
to six which means four to six
repetitions in reserve on any set the
second group trained to an rpe of 7 to9
the third group trained to an RP of 7
to9 but took the last set every time
they trained to failure finally the
fourth group trained to an RP 10 every
time they trained so every set was taken
to concentric failure where they
actually fail a rep as I mentioned they
used The Squat and bench press in this
intervention they also did some
accessory upper body work there some
shoulder pressing some La pull Downs
some curls some triceps but the RP was
kept the same for all of these as far as
a squad and bench press went the
participants in all groups performed 10
sets per week importantly the authors
made sure that the groups were actually
training at the intended RP or intended
proximity to failure by cross validating
what their RP was supposed to
with the velocity with which they were
able to lift the weight on any given rep
on that set and what turned out to be
the case is that the group who is trying
to train to 46 RP AKA 46 rep in reserve
was actually training closer to a 2 RP
so actually eight repetitions in reserve
so when we're interpreting results keep
that in mind and well here are the
results in terms of strength gains on
the squat and bench press one rep max
the 4 to six RP group The Group Training
eight reps away from failure and the 7
to9 RP group generally saw the best
results when you compare these two
groups to the 7 to9 RP group that also
took the last set to failure and the
group that took every set to failure of
the 10 RP group they made substantially
better Gams if you look very closely
you'll see that the 7th to RP group
technically made the best gains but the
gains were comparable between the 46 RP
group between a whopping eight reps away
from failure and the 79 RP group
importantly the higher RP groups the 7
to9 plus RP group and the 10 RP group
actually had heavier loads during trade
so if you look at the average percentage
of One Max they Ed during training it
was actually meaningfully higher than
the lower RP groups in spite of this the
lower RP groups actually saw better
strength gains why well as the authors
put forth it might be due to specificity
when you go closer to failure on a given
set especially a higher rep set what
happens is that from the first rep to
the last rep your Force output will drop
meaningfully and so by the time you get
to those last few hard close to failure
reps your Force out output will be
substantially lower than it was at the
start of the set importantly this might
make training less specific when you
think about a Wonder Max what happens
well by definition it's a One Max so
you're exerting as much force as you
humanly can and so when you get to those
last few reps on a hard close to failure
set the force production on those reps
May simply not be very specific to your
outcome anymore and you know how the
saying goes practice how you mean to
play and so because the practice became
less specific it might be that that's
why the lower RPA group that have higher
Force output and less of a drop off
throughout each set saw better strength
gains and this actually seemed to have a
bigger influence than the exact
percentage of One Max that was being
used by different participants and
ultimately to an extent that kind of
makes sense when you're training for
strength your body doesn't really know
what weight is on the bar all it really
knows is how much force you're producing
in order to overcome gravity so a big
takeaway here is lift explosively when
you're training for strength on the
concentric phase you should be aiming to
lift the the bar as quickly as possible
importantly these results applied when
sets and Reps were matched between
different groups now in practice that's
rarely the case if you're training at a
lower RP keeping your sets more sub
maximal that will generally cause less
fatigue and therefore you can do more
sets and more reps and so even when sets
and reps are matched you see better
strength gains when training a lower RP
however in practice this might be even
more so the case because by training a
lower RP you're able to do more sets
across the week and that's this analysis
by rason colleagues showed that is
generally going to lead to Greater
strength improvements interestingly
though this study also measured fatigue
initially within the study the higher RP
groups specifically the 10 RP group did
experience slightly higher psychological
fatigue specifically they felt like they
were less well recovered and they also
felt as though each session was more
challenging however while this was the
case initially this quickly got better
over the course of the study by the end
of the study there weren't really any
major differences between the groups
anymore in terms of either how hard they
found each session or in terms of how
recovered they felt interestingly
physiologically in terms of two enzymes
we used to measure fatigue creatin cyas
and lacto dehydrogenase there were no
differences between the groups
importantly though when you look at the
wider field of evidence it does seem
like the closer the failure you train
the more fatiguing a given set will be
now I do think this effect on fatigue
attenuates over time so if you've been
training to failure for a while you
might not see such a big difference
anymore so it seems like high rpes for
strength are kind of all bad news right
you get seemingly worse strength gains
when sets and reps are equated for and
in fact by training a lower RP you're
typically able to do more sets which
will then lead to more strength games
however when might you actually want to
train at higher rpes for strength I
think there are about three cases in
which you might want to consider
training a pretty high RP the first one
is when you're very close to a
competition or to a max out the scale of
grinding out a heavyweight might be
something that you do need to eventually
practice it's probably not something you
to spend the whole year practicing for
but doing at least a few heavy singles
close to competition to practice that
skill of grinding out a heavy rep where
you might end up slightly out of
position at times that is a very useful
skill to build up to the second
situation might be far out from a
competition when you're trying to
maximize hypertrophy as I've discussed
in this video here the closer to failure
you train generally the more effective a
set will become for hypertrophy so if
you're trying to maximize muscle growth
build up some size in those Prime movers
in say the squat bench n then training
closer to failure during those phases
where you're far away from a competition
and the additional fatigue or direct
strength Improvement doesn't matter as
much might be a wise move finally the
one place in your program where I would
generally be okay with going a bit
higher in terms of rpes maybe all the
way up to an 8 or9 typically is for
heavier work because of the relationship
between how many reps you can do and the
percentage of One Max generally you'll
see the greatest Improvement in how much
load you can have on the bar with low
rep sets so if for example your program
calls for a single and then back off
sets of five I would generally recommend
having a higher RP on that single versus
the back off sets by going closer to
failure on that single you're able to
load the bar substantially more than you
would be able to if you went higher in
terms of rpe on the back down sets so
let me summarize this video training
closer to failure does not improve your
strength gains in fact there's a good
chance that it might make it worse even
when sets and reps are matched however
more importantly in practice when you
train more sub maximum you're typically
able to do more sets therefore training
more sub maximally is generally going to
be superior for strength gains I would
keep most of your training between rpes
of about 3 to eight for strength closer
to competition when you're trying to
practice that skill of grinding out lift
far away from your competition when
you're trying to maximize hypertrophy
potentially this is where I would
potentially go higher in terms of RP and
maybe go all the way to failure that's
the video If you enjoyed the video
please consider commenting liking
subscribing let me know if there's
anything else you want to see and I'll
see you guys my subscribers in that next
one
[Music]
peace