[Music]
come on stand up stand up all the way up
stand all the way
[Music]
up folks I'm Dr Mike isrel for
Renaissance peration that is my actual
physical in reality biological son Jared
feather ifbb Pro and since it's a family
day today we have Brooklyn sitner and my
parole officer because she's 16 years
old I'm not legally allowed to be here
without supervision just kidding this is
her father and he also does MMA so I
better uh be nice and I haven't been
around children in a long time this is
strange I'm on work release program from
prison for crimes that can't be talked
about in public or on YouTube but in
order to pay back Society for my crimes
they said look you got to train a child
but this child is stacked up girl got
abs and I don't know what the hell
I got myself into but she's a
crossfitter she's dabbled in damn near
every sport there is and she straight up
contacted us she's like you guys are RP
right and we're like yes what do you
want and she's like I don't give a
what workout you have for me I'm going
to crush that and afterwards I'm
gonna punch Jared feather Square in his
ugly face and I was like but but Jared's
a fine looking guy look at him please
don't punch me in any you look like you
pack a lot of power in a punch so look
we got to punch first we're going to do
legs we're going to do hardcore free
weight Basics few machines thrown in
there we'll see if Miss Brooklyn
survives and if she does Jared you're
taking one square to the teeth it's just
in the contract folks okay let's get
going first exercise is going to be a
belt squat straight leg deadlift uh you
guys have seen us do many hip hinch
variations on the channel before this
one may be a new one to you all we're
going to get a straight bar and attach
it to this belt squat here it's going to
allow her to get a pretty big range of
motion because this belt squats really
nice sometimes you have a pit shark belt
squat there are different ones but we're
going to be working on that 7 to 10 rep
range here uh exact same cues as most
hip hinges big chest fo hold in the back
corner of the ceiling we're going to use
that one for sure and uh just making
sure that you're feeling a lot in the
hamstrings and glutes so let's get to it
that was kind of challenging yeah a
little bit you feel that weight a little
bit gun to your head how many reps you
got there with good technique 56 56
perfect this will be our working weight
then your straps straps yeah I can go
grab them super big chest but back these
back nice slow all the way down good
knees back knees back knees
back beautiful big chest tight lower
back big chest the whole time there you
go hell yeah Brooklyn let's go good
stuff one
[Music]
more knees back big chest big chest yes
up up up up up and as if you're going to
do another one perfect lower the bar
slow slow knees back big
Beau perfect nice that's tough I'm happy
I'm not you right now all right folks so
Brooklyn is 16 years old some of you may
be thinking like is it okay for a
16-year-old to train that hard and to be
completely honest of all of the evidence
that we have and all the theory that we
have in sport
Science at the very least age 12 is the
time in which almost all people
developmentally are able to start
training Sports really hard just like
adults but there's one caveat that
especially applies to younger people if
they want to do it it's totally fine to
start them full boore training obviously
work up to it at around age 12 General
Athletics for fun before then and then
specific sport training at age 12 at the
certainly 14 and above so 16 is very
much in the clear if they like it
because then they'll stick to it they'll
love it they take personal ownership of
it and then it goes really well if
you're trying to get your kids into
Sport and at age 12 14 16 you getting
them in the gym you get them lifting
weights it's not going to stop their
growth but it can absolutely make them
hate it a lot because they don't want to
do it and it's your idea not theirs so
make sure that if they have that passion
they want to do it often because they
come to you anything north of age 12 is
totally fine to be in the waight room 14
for sure 16 by a mile all
right set
two there you go there you go hips back
nice you're just on the way
up big moves good stuff so just like
with most other hi hinges as I mentioned
before the biggest things that you're
looking for is making sure that when
they set up they're keeping that nice
lordotic posture in the lower back so as
people go down you're going to see a
tendency for one of two things to happen
lower back going like this into a kyotic
position and secondly when they go back
they try to bend their knees and this is
only for one reason to get more load
people try to differentiate between an
RDL or straight leg deadlift almost
every argument is to get more load on
the bar so that they can do more just
more load and look impressive in the gym
so what you really are trying to focus
on is keeping this chest nice and Tall
nice tight L doed posture and it's going
to feel very shaky almost because you're
in a super disadvantageous position for
those hamstrings when your ass is way
back here it's supposed to feel that way
it's supposed to be hard you're putting
it all in the Target musculature which
is the hamstrings lastly on the Belt
squat one specifically a lot of these
models have um the actual pulley system
is pulling in this direction so you have
to kind of cue them as you saw with her
to step forward almost in front of that
system because you're pushing your hips
back it's a fixed Implement so when when
you're doing that similar with a Smith
machine you have to step almost in
forward in front of it so when you're
pushing your hips back the entire time
you're able to put that Target on the
hamstrings and not Reaching Forward
because it's already out here and
putting it more on the Erectors which is
going to create that issue that I talked
about in the beginning lots of potential
kyphosis here or just hurting the lower
back in general because it's way too far
out in front of you so try to be close
to the bar let it naturally fall where
it should but if you find yourself
drifting way out here on any of these
types of straight leg deadlifts it's
probably a bad idea keep that bar pretty
close let it kind of go naturally but
keep the target the hamstrings and not
the lower
back good perfect knees back more tight
lower back big chest
perfect try to keep those knees back on
this one okay good technique even on the
way up knees back straighter knees back
knees back KNE back is beautiful good
one more full rep and then a half rep
down he's back he's back a ton come on
now come on now beautiful good
great rep and then as if you're going to
do another great rep big chest knees
back slow hold that deep stretch good
back hell yeah that the best set awesome
all right folks the next exercise is the
high bar weightlifting style squat which
is the same thing as the bodybuilding
squat well with a few nuances so it's a
little bit bit more bodybuilding but e
they're so close to make it even more
bodybuilder friendly we have the prime
10° wedge which is an awesome investment
for your gym she's going to have
weightlifting shoes on as well which
allows her knees to get really far over
her toes with an upright stance which
Ultra biases the quads with this 10°
wedge it's even more quad bias if she
can still generate a lot of strength
from her heels and whole foot we're
going to be in some really really good
territory sets of
8 to 12 here we'll see how it ends up
this is a real test but she's a
crossfitter which means this should be
like Duck and water territory listen for
the specific cues Jared and I are going
to be giving chest up knees forward
super deep a lot of people who squat
CrossFit weightlifting style they're
going very very deep but Jared and I
always think that most people can go a
little bit deeper still let's test that
hypothesis on a child
all right that is a very good spot very
very good Mr Jared feather has some
corrections for you Jared what would you
like to see modify so today you're doing
H pry workout that's an awesome spot
obviously CrossFit time and things like
that so beautiful spot um what we're
going to do is put your feet just a tad
closer Point your toes out a little bit
and really open your hips and as you
descend just like we did over there I
want you to really control especially
past 90 that's when it really counts
really start to control so even if you
get to the top and this is a little fast
just make sure you're really mindful of
slowing down the E trick when you get to
the hole well you're going to go even
deeper than that I know you think that's
for range of motion and it is you know
for CrossFit squatting but we're going
to get you way way way down there okay
so let's try it again bar you want to do
25 or what do you want to do bar bar
again let's get the technique right
first knees forward big chest knees
forward a ton even more even
more up do you notice how your feet
turned out even more as you went down
your St big chest hit it slow knees
forward way over your toes yes there it
is out knees out too keep them open open
up good good I love the depth do it
[Music]
again did you know that when I was a
high school athlete he's about to lie to
you anyway it's rude rude what you're
doing did you know that when I was a
high school athlete back in
1967 okay I won States look at dad over
there who left this guy into the gym
every time I won States in 17 different
sports name them wow you name him Jared
I have no idea I don't know the story
name a sport sport 17 is crazy isn't it
name a
sport I'm asking you to name all 17 I
did absolutely win States and CrossFit
in 196 to 196 I invented it 1968 in i1
States you will not embarrass me in
front of the camera
hello these kids right you try to raise
them good and all they do is embarrass
you so here's the deal it's going to get
really hard as you keep going and you do
CrossFit and I've been in CrossFit boxes
so I know what's going to happen you're
going to shoot your ass up and you're
going to go like this knus right you
hear it all the time we want you to try
not to do either of those things try to
keep all that tension you feel in the
quads whenever you're going down like
that we say knees forward you feel all
that stretch try to keep that pitching
there the worst thing that happens is me
and Michael on either side and we just
grab the bar off you theonis is on you
you don't know 17 sports that's my thing
oh why don't we get the counter
going lacrosse States rugby States
wrestling States Judo States jiujitsu
states Hawaiian Kempo States you're just
naming MMA T shut up tennis States
badman States twice but I don't count it
twice because I got more Sports
basketball I used to slam dunk in
reverse on people I don't even know what
that's called I know I invented it in
1969 seven hey Jared remember when
people were going to hippie stuff and
protesting the war in Vietnam I was
winning States Jared in what baseball
State football state soccer watch this
watch this you guys want proof hold up
States
states big chest let's push this
set what I said about those quads keep
them out make sure you're keeping it
there
perfect good little bit more force on
the way up straight up into that bar
everything we tell you is only going to
make this exercise harder it's good get
deeper I know you can
[Music]
chest
up yes good stuff finish one more fix
sounds perfect get your
together there it is deep deep keep it
in the quads keep it in the quads keep
it in the quads hell yeah hell yeah and
one more Brooklyn you showed up to train
didn't you let's go big chest same thing
no vus all quad all
quad stand up let's go stand up
woo WRA hell yeah holy crap hell yeah
that was a grinder some people try I can
now officially tell a few people we've
had on the channel That You Train less
hard than a 16-year-old girl one of them
in
the camera don't do it don't do it
what's the count out so far no uh 13
hockey okay uh see how long it took him
to think of 17 sports that was we did
you win States in so many I I already
said baseball prison I've been to prison
a few times we were playing hard ball
though if you know what I mean has
nothing to do with sports
uh softball handball handball i w season
reminded me because I forgot I'm so old
I once I did do so I was the first male
on our gymnastics team and guess what I
beat all the ladies in one States you
beat all the ladies yeah whatever oh my
god dude and then and then it took you
half the video I had my son and he's
going to win States even more even for I
want I want bodybuilding States
[Music]
for chest up come on quads use the quads
no vgas use the quads use them stand one
more we're here to all day Brooklyn all
quads open hit it go go help him help
him try your best good stuff good stuff
holy yeah that one hurt me that was
great Brooklyn we're going to be doing
something extra fun okay as soon as you
rack the bar you are going to do body
weight squats until you don't feel like
squatting anymore or your body stops
working yeah but there's an extra
special tip for the body weight squats
you're going to go do everything
identically except you know have your
hands here here but when you're coming
up you're going to stop at the 2/3 Mark
and then go back down and only when we
say rest do you get to Stand Here
locking on your knees
cool I mean I might cry but I'm down Hey
listen I cry every day it's
propac hell yeah Brooklyn good
stuff right back down let's
go all quads come on now right back down
quads knees forward control hips opening
quads come on power yes ooh come on one
more deep deep yes yes up yes stand up
you're strong there you go rack that
weight right away begin full pause at
the bottom
too up 2/3
down
yeah up
[Music]
down up come on stand up stand up all
the way up stand all the way up stand
all the way
up and that's it yummy that was
awesome that's the greatest thing ever
said about a squat YY yummy so today uh
brookin is getting a special treat
because a lot of the things we're doing
she already does in CrossFit training
uh including lunges she said she really
loves lunges uh we do them with a little
bit of a Twist because all of our work
is directed toward hypertrophy work
growing actually growing specific tissue
and not just Performance Based the squat
she did today she said we're completely
different than her CrossFit squats and
these lunges because we're going to
really focus on coming up on that front
leg and making sure that the back leg's
not using too much assistance it's going
to be a little bit different than the
lunges you see like whole CrossFit boxes
will be outside with barbells on their
back doing lunges it's a lot of like
very athletic movement very uh a lot of
force off that back leg she's not going
to be doing them that way so it's going
to be a nice treat for her but we're
going to be doing just a mega giant set
of lunges for her today until basically
she cries I think so probably somewhere
in that 30 to 50 step range and uh let's
see how she holds up yes Turn Turn
Around hit it long steps
[Music]
Brook perfect Bly leg yes there you go
up Turn Turn Around let's go keep going
come on you're doing
great good let's go keep going go go go
go go go go is if you still have them
same technique slow on the way down
we're not rushing don't use that back
leg don't use that back leg I'm watching
let's go don't let some strides get
shorter long strides Brooklyn long
strides come on you got it
slow on the way down got to control that
c there it is turn quickly turn quickly
turn let's go front leg front leg that
was awesome yeah again again slow let's
go Brooklyn again again long step you
got to make it all the way let's go come
on BR good good again let's go
front leg only hit
it rest very
good very good all right now
Sprint JK JK JK it I know
right I do I'm om watch me walk away
putting myself on display 1 2 three a
day um keep going keep going let's
finish this whole
thing up last one up all the way drop
them continue let's
go come on yep right in the next Drive R
into the next strive let's go into
it the fun part is when you turn around
cuz you're making all the way back to
the other side so get used to that pain
oh my God that was so good get with that
slow no
breakes yes turn around fast turn around
now fast let's
go good come on Brooklyn stay and try
let's hit it got to go slow on the way
down last two good ones front leg only
front leg only front leg only front leg
only on this one too time slow
yes front leg come on transfer
it
rest good
job just one more of those and that's
the workout you can always do one more
say what I said you can always do always
do one
moreish is the hardest set of lunges
ever known to man says sure why not some
of us are just tougher I guess do your
legs feel interesting um it's like numb
sensation that's happening but it hurts
still not like the like numb where you
can't feel anything yeah yeah
good yep go come on you got it stay in
it stay in
it there it
is drop the
dumbbells last thing you do today
Brooklyn make it good big
chest down come on these are perfect
down slow yeah big chest
up down down come on all the fing way
Brooklyn let's go up come on up up one
more down slow you got it slow
slow up finish finish strong hell yeah
holy
crap yeah that was awesome
Mega respect thank you so much for
coming on the
channel um hopefully the court system
realizes I've done some community
service now I can have my civil rights
back but on a serious note what I
learned from this workout is you can't
fake Warrior Spirit I've never trained
that hard I don't even know what I'm
doing anymore I'm way out of my realm
Jared if I have trained that hard I
don't have this smile on my face I that
much yeah if you like training hard this
much you're going places we'll see very
near the top I'm sure in your athletic
career at some point and I'll be the
person who's irrelevant at the bottom
that I'm like Hey do you remember me and
you're like security removes me we train
we trained a lot of people color was
very very impressed that that was
awesome very impressed you've out
trained most of the Jack super strong
dudes on the channel and you sure
out train the two of us which is not a
very big accomplishment because we
barely train all anyway huge pleasure
huge honor if people want to follow you
where can they find you Instagram
brooklyn. sitner and then my YouTube is
the same boom follow like subscribe
comment YouTube stuff see you next time
[Music]