all right what's going on guys it is
Sunday July 3rd and I just finished up
with my morning cardio we Pro off for a
half an hour then my breakfast and I've
got a pretty busy day today so what I'm
thinking I might do is just keep my
meals exactly the same as they were
yesterday in that way I'll know that I'm
hitting my macronutrient targets or my
calorie and protein goal which is all
I'm really aiming for at this point on
it instead of the boobs for you prep
I'll probably just have like a chicken
wrap made from home that might change
she goes long but as of right now that's
my current plan just so I don't have to
do a whole bunch of like calculating in
my fitness about my mom you guys might
remember her from another video is on
her way over she just recently moved to
Kelowna as well on sue she's got a bunch
of her stuff it's in our apartments but
it's hogging while she gets settled in
her new place we're moving that out of
our apartment now
into her place and then later on today
I'm going to be meeting up with one of
my friends from Newfoundland he was
actually mr. Newfoundland 2006 or
something and we're going to be hitting
some chests and urns which is what I did
yesterday as well chest arms triceps and
shoulders I basically did full upper
body yesterday except for my back
obviously it's not like we're treating
that really isn't a concern as long as
you're training submaximal so if you're
going totally to failure than yeah doing
that in subsequent sessions on
subsequent days it's probably a easy way
to overreach and
over train and set yourself up for
injury case tree injury but in terms of
hypertrophy we know that rates of muscle
protein synthesis especially in advanced
guys are typically back down to baseline
levels at 24 hours so what that means is
after you train that stimulus on your
muscle results in a response of
increased muscle protein synthesis to
become more sensitive to amino acid
intake right so taking in protein say in
the 24 hours after your workout leads to
more protein synthesis than if you
hadn't trained at all but as for 24
hours
that's totally back to normal again so
hitting the same muscle again with
another hit of resistance exercise is
going to spike muscle protein synthesis
up again so that isn't a concern I think
it's a decent argument for training with
a higher frequency at least periodically
and I've done a bunch of videos on why I
choose not to do that but I've also done
a long form interview with who I would
consider to be one of the leading
experts on the topic as to why it does
certainly have an arat and it does make
sense especially you know according to
the acute muscle protein synthesis data
so a random rant but yeah so I'm gonna
help my mom out with that stuff and then
I'll probably check in with you guys in
the gym
yes to shoulders look crazy
so as this really sucks but I just
dropped this camera I had it on like a
makeshift tripod over here but I was
filming me moving my mom's stuff and it
fell off I actually had it on these
lysol weights and it just like I don't
know I had a propped up and it fell over
and I go to turn it on it just like
doesn't come on because this got like
dented in I guess I'm gonna have to go
tomorrow and try to get this repaired
but for now I'm vlogging on Robyn's
camera so well her other one she has two
guys now I'm doing a FaceTime with my
friend and client Pat he is two weeks
out no Muslim a ham and we're gonna be
hitting up California it's looking good
I the thing is is there's like not a ton
of detail because the the video is
pretty blurry let's get a back relaxed
you're looking really good though man
hopefully no one comes in
damn bro looking very shredded so I just
sent you an email of the new macros so
will will go forward with those but send
me another update this is Sunday send me
another one on Wednesday you're tripping
why you don't that you don't think
you're ready
you're never you're never you never
gonna think you're ready man it's just
it's part of the process you just gotta
gotta accept yourself an gotta love your
show yeah yeah you're on point bro
please so guys remember when I said I
would have the exact same meals today
that I had yesterday give my meals
exactly the same as they were yesterday
end up lying I actually this isn't even
that different you know it's a maple
it's like maple turkey sandwich meat
lettuce cheese and ancient grains bread
which is my favorite bread this is going
to be Neal 3/4 meal - I did actually had
the same thing except instead of an
apple I had a banana and this is going
to be my pre-workout meal all going to
be light stuff for me probably nothing
under 15 reps and nothing too close to
failure just yet even though my back is
feeling a lot better I did feel it a
little bit when I was helping my mom
move today so some of the heavier boxes
just let her handle that and I do have a
physio appointment tomorrow just going
to try to rest up as much as possible
this little gadget was sent to me by
Brian Whitaker who is the WEF natural
bodybuilding six-time world champion and
it's honestly the most useful thing ever
because yeah I'm sure there are other
similar things but I really like this
one because you don't have to mix it up
ahead of time and like worry about it
getting warmer anything like that and
also when you're ready to have it it
just has a funnel so you can just mix it
up in the same water bottle that you
would bring to the gym with you anyway
thank you Brian for this thing we're
going to Jimmy
okay what's going on guys so I'm back
with another voiceover to take you guys
through these training Clips so I kicked
off the workout with some reverse PEC
deck and this was really my first time
doing anything that hit any of the
muscles on the back of my body so what
you'll see that I'm focusing on here is
keeping my scapula protracted a little
bit
so rather than squeezing my shoulder
blades together on each rep I'm kind of
stopping short of that and just focusing
on activating the rear delt only just
because my traps
I mean squeezing those at this point
would be probably pretty painful so I
wanted to keep the weight light and
avoid that after that I wanted to test
out some hamstring stuff just to see
what my capabilities are and these were
pretty much painless no tension on my
back there whatsoever so those felt good
and I think I ended up doing 4 sets of
15 to 20 on those and that felt great so
then to actually kick off the chest
shoulder and arm workout I started again
with this incline machine press 4 again
20 to 30 reps but I am going a little
bit heavier today and once again
focusing on keeping a constant tension
on the chest just because I can't move
the same sort of load that I normally
would and then also really just feeling
the muscle working establishing a strong
mind muscle connection and if you guys
just do that slow down the movement
control the eccentric you'll be able to
feel a burn similar to what you would
using heavier weights for sure' if not
more and then this is my friend Robin
who who was my training part for that
day a really jack guy after that we did
a second chest movement and it was cable
crossovers so this is a exercise that
Robin wanted to do and I do like doing
fly's with the cables more than I do
with dumbbells just because there's more
of a constant tension curve so with the
dumbbells you have virtually no tension
when the dumbbells are up at the top and
then max tension when they're out at
your sides with the cables it's pretty
constant tension for
the range of motion so it feels a little
bit smoother and typically I'd set up an
incline bench but I didn't really have
to mess around with that today to be
honest so we just did them standing like
so after that it was on to some arm
stuff I didn't record the whole workout
or anything but we started with the
preacher curl machine machine three sets
of 15 to 20 reps nice and slow and
controlled and has squeeze at the top
then the power randomly went out which
is the first time that ever happened to
me at the gym so that's why it's so dark
but we did some Bayesian curls again
high reps something like 20 to 30 reps
for three sets I think it was and you
can see I'm really slowing down and
squeezing because I can't go too heavy
on these I do find my back just a little
bit even though it is feeling a lot
better after that it was too triceps
exercises so we started with tricep
press downs I did increase the weight a
little bit from the previous day and it
felt quite a bit better it was a nice
bit less awkward and then you want to
usually include one tricep exercise with
the shoulder in a more flex position so
we did these machine extensions and
that's it for the workout guys this is
my post-workout meal well post-workout
meal after my whey protein shake so
about one hour post-workout I've got a
salmon burger some like multicolored
potatoes so I've got some white potatoes
purple potatoes and red potato or one
red potato and then I've got spinach and
spring mix salad with some goat cheese
blueberries pumpkin seeds and this
balsamic vinaigrette also adding some I
can't believe it's not butter spray to
the potatoes just give them a little bit
of flavor and some pepper