hey guys Sean nwani here body
transformation truth.com welcome to part
three of my bodybuilding and fat loss
Q&A series I've received a lot of uh
positive feedback on these videos so far
so I'm really glad that uh uh you guys
have been finding the information
helpful and I'll provide links in the
description box below to the other q&as
that are available uh if you want to go
ahead and check those out out and let's
go ahead and dive into today's questions
so question number one is is it possible
to specifically isolate different areas
of the chest such as the inner and outer
and upper and lower regions and if so
how well to a degree yes you can uh by
using different angles and elbow
positioning it is possible for you to uh
specifically shift the emphasis between
the upper middle and lower regions of
your chest the PEC major is actually
made up of two two different sets of
fibers you have the upper clavicular
fibers or the upper chest and then you
have the lower sternocostal fibers which
make up the uh mid and lower portion so
performing your pressing and your fly
exercises at an incline angle usually
around 30 to 40° that's going to place
more stress on the upper fibers while
using a flat or decline angle again
around 30 or 40° uh that's going to
place more stress on the middle and
lower fibers with the emphasis uh
continually shifting from the middle to
lower area as the decline gets larger
now in terms of targeting the inner and
the outer portion of the pecs however
this
unfortunately uh just isn't possible and
that's because when one set of fibers
contract along your pec muscle the
entire fiber as a whole is going to
contract so it really doesn't matter uh
which specific exercises or angles that
you use if you want to stress your inner
chest or your outer chest then the
opposite side of those fibers also have
to contract as well so yes you can
specifically Target the upper middle and
lower regions from top to bottom but not
the inner or outer regions from side to
side question number two I'm training
hard in the gym and I'm getting
consistently stronger every week but I
haven't made any real gains in overall
body weight or muscle size what's going
on here well assuming that you're
following a standard bodybuilding style
program where you're hitting each
individual muscle group at least once
per week and you're hitting those
muscles with a reasonable amount of
total volume and intensity uh then this
really just comes down to an issue of
improper diet and more specifically
you're just not eating enough see your
body can actually gain strength through
uh other Pathways besides just
increasing the size of the actual
muscles themselves your body also
increases its strength through uh what
are called neural adaptations which
basically means that it becomes more
efficient at making use of the muscle
tissue that you already have so if
you're consistently gaining strength
without any noticeable gains in size
then this is what's actually going on
and the reason why this is the only
adaptation that you're experiencing is
because you're not providing your body
with the excess calories that are needed
in order to actually build new lean
muscle tissue so if you're not tracking
anything with your diet and you're just
eating at or uh around your calorie
maintenance level each day then your
body will still gain strength through
those nural Pathways uh but it won't
actually physically be able to build any
significant amount of new lean muscle
mass so the bottom line here is that you
just need to increase your overall
calorie intake and get yourself into a
consistent calorie Surplus and if you
want the just most basic way of
calculating this then just multiply your
body weight in pounds by between 14 and
16 and then add around 300 to 400
calories on top of that question number
three are lifting straps a useful
training tool or are they simply a
crutch that should be avoided so
assuming that your underlying training
goal is related to improving body
composition by building muscle or by
losing fat then lift straps definitely
can be a useful tool in two main
situations the first situation is for
heavy compound exercises where you
simply don't have the grip strength to
hold on to the weight for the entire set
without dropping it such as things like
deadlifts or shrugs in this case lifting
straps are basically going to be a must
otherwise you'll be hugely minimizing
the stimulation of the muscles that
you're actually trying to Target and
you'll just be giving yourself a really
good forearm workout essentially
so in this particular case you can just
work on your grip strength separately
until it catches up and use lifting
straps in the meantime uh to ensure that
it's your back or your legs or whatever
other muscle you're trying to Target
that is receiv receiving the bulk of the
stimulation rather than your forearms
and the second situation is optional and
that's going to be to use straps as a
way of improving the activation of your
lats as well as your midback muscles
during your compound upper body pulling
exercises straps uh basically help to
take your grip out of the equation so
that you can place a 100% of your focus
on pulling the weight through your
elbows rather than your hands which is
probably the most effective way to shift
the emphasis onto your back muscles uh
rather than your forearms and your
biceps so this one really just comes
down to your individual training goals
and how much value you place on
developing grip strength in comparison
to building overall muscle size and also
keep in mind here that if grip strength
uh really is a big concern for you then
you can still use the straps as a way of
maximizing muscle growth in your back
and your legs and then just incorporate
separate grip strength uh training into
your workouts question number four
should overall calorie intake be
decreased on non-workout days in
comparison to workout days so ultimately
constantly cycling your calories back
and forth by increasing intake on
training days and then reducing it on
non-training days is really just a great
way to over complicate your eating plan
and to make things harder on yourself in
the big picture for no real good reason
now I've said this a million times but
proper muscle building and fat burning
nutrition is really all about the long
term and it's really not going to be uh
measurably affected in any noticeable
Way by a few hundred calories more or
less over small blocks of 24 hours we
tend to categorize things in terms of
individual days just because it's uh a
convenient way to organize our time but
there's really nothing special about
that particular time frame and it would
actually be more useful for you to think
about your food intake over longer spans
of time such as one week on top of that
muscle growth and fat loss are not onoff
switches where you're building muscle
one day and then maintaining muscle the
next day or losing fat one day and
maintaining your fat stores the next day
instead your body is in a constant state
of both muscle growth and muscle
breakdown as well as both fat burning
and fat storage and for that reason
trying to time out your calories to uh
specifically fuel each process
day-to-day is really just a waste of
effort and it could actually uh increase
your chances for long-term failure
because it's going to make your diet
harder to stick to and question number
five are behind the neck presses and
pull Downs a safe and effective way for
training the shoulders and the lats now
I know that a lot of lifters really do
like these two exercises and yes it is
perfectly possible that you could
consistently perform them over the long
term uh without ever getting injured or
running into problems but I honestly
don't see any real good reason to take
the risk here vertically pressing and
vertically pulling heavy objects behind
your head just isn't a natural movement
pattern for the human body and it puts
your shoulders into an excessive uh
externally rotated position which overly
stresses your rotator cuff muscles and
increases the chances for shoulder
injury not only that but it also
promotes forward head posture and it can
also put excessive stress on the spine
in lifters who don't have great
flexibility behind the NE presses and
behind the neck pull Downs might feel
like they're giving you a really good
shoulder or lat workout but there's
really no unique muscle building
advantage to performing these uh two
exercises behind your neck as opposed to
in front so the risk reward Factor just
doesn't really make any sense at all in
my view so for the shoulders just stick
with a basic seated overhead dumbbell
press or a basic barbell military press
and for the last just go with basic lat
pull Downs performed with the bar coming
down to your upper chest so that's all
for today thanks for watching this Q&A
video Lesson I hope you found the uh
information useful here today if you
want to learn everything you need to
know when it comes to proper training
nutrition and supplementation to
maximize your muscle building and your
fat burning progress along with concrete
step-by-step plans that you can follow
make sure to head over to
bodytransformationtruth.com and grab my
complete body transformation blueprint
system by clicking the icon at the top
of the video or by using the link in the
description box below if you did enjoy
the video as always please make sure to
hit the like button leave a comment and
subscribe to stay up to date on future
videos and make sure to check out my
official blog over at Shan now.com for
all of my latest articles tips and other
updates talk to you again
soon