sup guys so it is January the 14th 2016
and I am headed into Henry's to get my
camera fixed for whatever reason the
pop-up sort of viewer isn't it's
inverting the image so when I look at
myself when I'm vlogging I'm upside down
so I'm going to get that fixed yeah
something else anyway yeah I'm sure it
can be probably fixed but so guys I'm
headed to second cup at a huge snowfall
last night or maybe was two nights ago
actually yeah it's two nights ago it's
all cleaned up now but it was a mess
here for a while there's no parking at
second cup so we are going to go to
Starbucks instead they've better coffee
anyway
let's reset not dressed for this at all
check out
these guys this is my next meal so I'll
show you what I've got sloppy joe so
Robin made this out of extra lean ground
beef yesterday so there's some left over
here I've got a fat-free mozzarella
cheese slice in there and these are
whole wheat buns and then I've got 150
ish grams of green beans almost forgot I
also have this big glass of milk that
I'm going to drink with the meal I
usually try to get around 30 grams
protein per meal especially when I'm
eating intuitively while I eat this I'm
going to read through this month's issue
of Alan arrogance for search review so
the question is whether or not cardio is
important so who needs to do cardio and
he kind of addresses this question from
a point of cardiovascular health and not
you know do I need to do cardio to get
lean because we kind of know the answer
to that question and it's obviously no
you don't need to do cardio to be lean
you just need to set up a caloric
deficit whether that's through the diet
or through cardiovascular training or
through some combination of the two of
course I personally think that some
combination of the two is usually the
best route when it comes to body
builders in contest prep but certainly
you can get very very lean without doing
any cardio at all so the question is is
our weights alone enough for
cardiovascular health kind of outlines
the main things that are important for
cardiovascular health an emphasis on the
fact that it's going to depend on what
your goal is and he also makes a big
deal out of a need so if you guys aren't
familiar with meat meat stands for
non-exercise activity thermogenesis it's
one of the contributors to our daily
energy expenditure so this is a graph
here showing our total daily energy
expenditure as you can see most of it is
just resting energy expenditure and the
non resting energy expenditure you have
that broken down into three categories
you have the meat which is you know
things like fidgeting walking to work
anything that's not strictly exercise or
sleeping or
edan it's important to note that the
NEET is so much larger typically then
they eat so in determining whether or
not cardiovascular training is required
it's important to consider someone's
level of meat to someone who has say a
very strenuous job with a lot of
activity like a farmer for example then
this person is going to be more likely
to not need any extra cardio there is a
pretty big degree of overlap between
resistance training and cardiovascular
training or aerobic training if you are
resistance training say more than six
hours per week then it may not be
necessary for you to add additional
cardiovascular aerobic training on top
of your resistance training there may be
sufficient overlap there but again
that's going to depend on a plethora of
other factors including you know your
level of meat and probably most
importantly what your specific goals are
so this was a really good article I'd
recommend you guys go and check out
Allen Aragon's research review I'm going
to put a clip up here of my most recent
leg workout so I hope that you guys
enjoy this edit and I'll be in touch
after the training session
you
alright guys so I'm about to record a
podcast with a gentleman a bell I not
sure how to pronounce your last name in
but yeah I will link you guys to this
podcast once it goes live well first of
all choose a program that is of genuine
interest to you I do think that that's
important and then also I think yeah
doing something like kinesiology or
anatomy and physiology or even nutrition
would be a good way to kind of get your
feet wet
considering someone's goals is always
most important so their goals are to
build as much muscle as they can I don't
think the best way to do that is by
giving them like starting strength or
something like that for example so a
program you know highly highly specific
to the squat bench and deadlift I like
to take specific phases where I'm
focusing predominantly on developing one
trait in terms of intuitive eating I
think that there are there are three
main principles that you kind of want to
guide your eating behaviors by so the
first one is to eat for physical rather
than emotional reasons so when you're
just you know sat at home eating out of
the peanut butter jar you're not really
eating for physical sustenance the other
rule is that you have to pay attention
to your body's hunger signals and once
you're fully satiated you simply stop
eating and then the third principle is
that you don't place restrictions on
yourself in terms of what foods to eat
or even how much to eat provided that
you're following rule two and then to
put another kind of spin on this as a
bodybuilder I found that setting
yourself up with say four to six
discrete meals that have a solid bolus
of protein in each is is another fourth
thing that I would sort of tack on there
to ensure that you are optimizing muscle
protein synthesis throughout the day and
then also kind of restricting just like
fold a pic or a full day of binging that
you can see after the
after a contest so guys I just had to go
pick up a couple things
Robyn had to get her phone fixed I
struck a phone she basically got a new
phone and now I'm meeting her for us to
eat some Thai expressway she is
as predicted
you
this is how I did I'm gonna take the
rest of it home with me until later so
we decided that we weren't full enough
from the pad pie I guess but one of us
wasn't so we're gonna come get some
cookies or something here so easy those
yeah okay so what we get
chairman of Sheridan's
yeah I like these these are good ideas
no real but I was going to conclude this
blog thank you so much for watching hope
that you enjoyed that workout footage
and if you did like this video give me a
thumbs up down below and subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already thank
you so much for watching and I will see
you in the next one
you