[Music]
today's Friday December 16th and today
Jeff is going to be training chest so
I'm going to get some breakfast he's
actually in the shower right now
[Music]
meal 1 this is actually also my
pre-workout meal ethic of egg whites and
2 whole eggs for in a baby pancake
banana in there there were no Kiwis at
the grocery store I got this prickly
pear instead some kind of exotic fruit
yeah I'm gonna try this for the first
time this is what the flesh of the fruit
looks like oh it's like red it looked
kind of like a pomegranate someone in
the comments is gonna be like bro what
are you doing this is not how you need
this is our hard cheese I was like like
pomegranate not like Kiwis I don't think
the seeds are edible in these things the
flavor is not particularly sweet I'm
gonna look up the micros on this thing
and put them right here and if they're
good then it's worth eating if not this
is not the greatest food ever that's the
end of the program so this isn't
necessarily like my typical push workout
since I tend to prioritize body parts
that are sort of weak points on me
through years of training with
powerlifting and bodybuilding have a
very well-developed chest so this
workout is more so for the sake of the
video delivering what I believe to be
the best science-based chest training
principles to you guys and I hit the
workout and I'll check in with you guys
in the gym and in the informative
voiceover this is what your chest looks
like your actual chest looks something
more like this but this is what an
illustrated version of your chest looks
like it's composed of two heads in upper
or clavicular head and a lower or
sternal head the upper head attaches
along the clavicle and the lower head
along the sternum and just notice how
the fibers run this is important because
it's this structure that determines what
the muscle does and in turn how you
should train it in particular notice how
the upper fibers run downward or
descending lis the mid fibers run
straight across or transversely and the
lower fibers run upward if you just
imagine the fibers of the sternal head
contracting or shortening it will pull
to bring the origin and insertion points
closer to one another so basically it
will bring the upper arm over and across
the body something called transverse
shoulder adduction transverse referring
to the horizontal plane of motion
shoulder referring to the joint where
the rotation happens and adduction
meaning movement towards the body's
midline you can think of it like adding
as you bring the body parts closer to
one another because the upper fibers run
descending lis they all
assistant shoulder flexion or bringing
the arms straight up like in a front
raise it's common to hear bodybuilders
criticize the flat bench as a
bodybuilding movement but the literature
is actually largely in support of its
use as a mass builder for the packs it
seems to be the case that people with a
big bench have big packs people with a
big bench are big perks about a bone
we put King Kong
[Music]
[Music]
that's my third working session have
good little that's the Jesus an idea
that's supported by the scientific
literature in 2014 a gawky ita√∫
concluded that Peck size was tightly
correlated with one rep max strength on
the bench press it's also really good at
activating the pecks as many studies
looking at EMG research have shown a
study by August our ayat al was able to
show that a program containing
benchpress as the only exercise was very
effective at making the pecs grow and
because a powerlifting arch positions
the upper back in a sort of decline
position this is probably a good way to
elicit very high levels of overall PEC
activation especially when the intensity
is relatively high and since a
well-developed
upper chest is really important for
creating that iconic
PEC shelf look it's important to include
some movements that directly target the
upper pecs we call that because of the
way the upper fibers run they contribute
more to shoulder flexion which means
that they're more active when you press
on an incline and just notice how the
incline bench closes the shoulder
adduction angle and as a result creates
a more significant shoulder flexion
moment than the flat band this is why
incline presses are better for the upper
pecs
as for what angle to use this is
something you may have to experiment
with but I'd recommend starting with
what trebs itself and to elicit the
highest level of EMG activity in their
2010 paper which was roughly 45 degrees
there are multiple other ways you can
target the upper chest as well such as
using a close grip which I discuss in
more detail in my chest hypertrophy
programme every muscle has a resting
length at which it can most forcefully
contract this is called the length
tension relationship of a muscle in
simple terms if you stretch a muscle too
much past its resting length it will
lose strength and if you shorten it or
contract it too much then it'll get weak
or too so when you externally rotate you
lengthen the PEC a little bit putting it
in a sort of less optimal position to
contract so when you internally rotate
the pecs they're in a better position to
contract more forcefully this is why it
makes sense to do cable fly's with the
thumbs facing one another with the palms
facing down which is a movement called
the Bayesian cable fly also the upright
support of the bench can restrict
cheating and allow for scapular
retraction and a correspondingly safer
shoulder position
landmark 2010 review on the topic Brad
Schoenfeld outlined three main
mechanisms of hypertrophy mechanical
tension muscle damage and metabolic
stress since tension is likely to be the
most important factor it should be given
attention early in the workout by
presenting the muscles with a heavy
overloading stimulus one that gets
bigger on average from week to week or
month to month a good way to further
optimize metabolic stress is by
lengthening the rep duration in the
stretch position preventing venous
return from the muscle to the heart are
doing flat dumbbell
isometric hold at the end of a session
not only do you allow for metabolites
build-up in the muscle which can signal
for hypertrophy you also present a novel
way of progressively overload by adding
time under tension at a fixed load
because long sets can generate
significant fatigue and impede
performance on subsequent exercises it
makes most sense to save these
techniques for the end of a session and
use them as a sort of finisher exercise
the most recent and comprehensive
meta-analysis on frequency concluded
that training two times per week is
better than one time per week or
maximizing growth and as I see it it's
still very much up for debate whether or
not frequencies of three or more are
better and I think that the answer for
the pecs will really come down to how
much weekly volume you need to cram in I
think that for 99% of folks a twice per
week frequency given sufficient weekly
volume and training intensity will be
enough to optimize growth and while
volume guidelines will be individual I
do give specific guidelines on how to
set this up in my chest hypertrophy
program which is linked in the
description and at the end of the video
so thank you so much for listening guys
I hope that you enjoyed the informative
section of the video and I hope that you
enjoy the rest of the vlog so I came
home to these and these were brought
back to me by Danny gets fit Thank You
Danny I have for the donuts I'm gonna
try these right now I'm looking on air
time oh really good it's like the
perfect amount I try it's fresh yeah you
try really good I think that you can be
stale that would they rate the coffee
stuff give it that it's like negative
seven that's that's generous I know it's
like burnt styrofoam
other going furniture shopping now so
guys we're here at urban barn quick look
here and then go over to the lake
cheaper yes place after this need to get
a kitchen table a TV stand and that's
right love this desk I think it's like
the perfect size for that room I think
this is the winner I think yeah yeah
okay I just went in rented a u-haul and
no excessive and I need to get a
entertainment center in it and then this
is actually is actually good
rustic hulk feeling best hunter oh
that's it that's a lot of t even lift
I'm gonna give you that nothing bar
about this rectangular prisms when you
had too much fun at Walmart they kick
you out forget 84 don't know goes right
[Music]
here just got all the furniture stuff
now we're going to dinner
I don't you guys can see this from over
here me now there's like nice stuff
over here there's like trees and there's
a skating rink see we're going to a
place called the cactus Club Cafe
they've really good food better like
this Asian tourists over here Blair
Witch Project angle right here butternut
squash soup literally the best food I've
ever had ever
nine point eight at it's an blackened
Crale of chicken asparagus mashed
potatoes it's hard lately while I'm
checking now stead of seeing the
difference big mistake oh no a little
bit this one the TV
[Music]
that's the hell away
[Music]
label would be ass backwards but you
film yourself tightening the last one
like I did all this work oh thank you
getting food the finished product table
you did nothing
deserves no credit she deserves
she's our sixty five percent credit what
is going on everyone cope everybody had
a wonderful holiday I just want to give
you guys a quick thank you for watching
the video and also thank you for your
continued support as the channel grows I
couldn't be more excited about how
everything is going right now also like
I did mention in the video my chest
hypertrophy program is now available I
can just click this box over here and
it'll take you to my website that's also
a link down in the description the idea
with the program is to just cover in
more detail the application side of the
theory that was covered in this video
you'll get scientific references with
everything explained you'll also get
access to technique videos from me so I
go in the gym and explain and show you
guys how to do all the exercises
included in the program and also
supporting me on projects like this is a
great way to help me make more videos in
entire quality videos that's if you like
the content that I'm producing here and
you think it's something that you're not
really seeing anywhere else I'm
supporting me on projects like this is a
great way to ensure that I have more
content coming and also guys if this
video gets 10,000 likes I will redo the
ten thousand calorie challenge and I
plan to make it informative again
Stephanie said that if it gets 20,000
likes shield you the ten thousand
calorie challenge with me and we'll both
make it super informative so make sure
you go down and hit that thumbs up
button subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already
thank you guys so much once again for
watching and I will see you in the next
video
[Music]