technically speaking you can maximize
most cases of muscle growth by pushing a
muscle really really hard making it very
tired and weaker than it normally is
sometimes even making it sore with fade
onset soreness and then when that muscle
roughly heals until you're no longer
weak and you are no longer sore you hit
it again okay you get tired you get sore
when you heal you hit it again that's
the rule however much you can stuff into
that and no more is probably going to be
close to your maximum local ability to
grow the muscle now check this out you
do a whole body program quads and hams
and glutes and chest and back and arms
and all that stuff and you're doing side
delts you might be able to do six sets
of side delts three times a week do you
get sore from that typically the answer
is no do you get weak from that yeah for
a few hours a day maybe you sure
don't need two or three days between Del
sessions to still have amazing
performance so is it true to say that
you are actually training enough to fill
up your local recovery cap no not even
close