also his body composition I'm no sport
scientist but I would say he looks to be
about 8% fat I'm in a conversation for
10 to 12% for you naysayers but like
anything north of 145 you're out of your
mind and honestly just jealous I
understand I understand look again
seeing this kind of perfection is
difficult to wrap the head around you've
been lifting a while think you get your
swoll on you're kind of your little
fucking small te your pecs are kind of
popping you're like damn dude I'm on I
fucking steroids I don't even know about
it and you hear the mere mention of
kirakos squizzle and you realize you
haven't trained at all you're child you
are a child even if you're a straight
dude which ass sure I
am you can't resist this shit and
obviously he's jacked and his beard is
on point at
100% I can do this I can do this