you must annihilate a muscle in order to
make it grow that is a myth in its
fitness myth number 13. i'm dr mike for
renaissance periodization i forgot my
last name maybe let me know what it is
in the comments bonus points for proper
spelling folks
let's get into this idea so the claim
here is said in a bunch of different
ways you got to push beyond into the
beyond to grow
you know people say like man if i can't
walk for a week i know i fucking hit
legs right if you're not sore you're not
growing been said a lot been said by me
back in the day
embarrassing
uh more damage is more growth also been
said by me back in the day embarrassing
20 sets of chest bruh you guys know the
undergrad 20 sets of chest workout we
smash all the angles incline flat
decline
crossovers
but wait
dips to finish it off but your buddy
gets under you to angle your shit so
it's chest dips not tricep dips you got
to hit all the angles and if your chest
doesn't physically fall off of you after
the workout it's not going to grow it's
tons of this kind of stuff floating
around but it seems to be mildly
mythical let's find out why so first
in order to counter people that are like
what the pros say
all the pros smash it lee haney himself
a living god eight time mr olympia
more or less coined the term
stimulate don't annihilate
so unless you feel yourself more
qualified than leahey to speak on the
subject or your favorite pro is more you
know advanced than lee haney and has
more uh
more
this is just a funny thing to say
more uh trophies in his case which only
ronnie coleman has ever tied that
on the female side however iris kyle
beat them all uh but uh you know
so it's not a lot of the bros say even
that annihilation is stupid so already
that argument is kind of like down the
river next here's where it gets really
nitty gritty
there is good research and good
theoretical basis to suspect the
following that excess damage beyond a
certain point actually competes with
muscle growth
anytime you stimulate a muscle
what happens is there are resources in
your body in the muscle somewhat
external to the muscle
which recover that damage and that
stimulus
and generally these recovery resources
can go to one of two things
one is making adaptive processes
physically building the muscle bigger
and the other is just healing the damage
if the damage gets really extensive you
spend so many resources actually healing
the damage you don't accomplish a whole
lot of growth you could potentially get
no growth at all and just heal for next
time which jesus christ is the worst
thing ever think about it like from a
kind of philosophical perspective you
worked twice as hard as you had to to
grow and you got zero results i mean
look if you're gonna get zero results
you might as well be on the couch token
it up there's no reason to go to the gym
and have all the pain for literally no
benefit so anytime you feel like pushing
yourself way too hard in the gym think
that the downside is kind of the worst
of all worlds all the effort and very
few or none of the gains it's a bad deal
another analogy i like to use is think
about like uh like a miami skyscraper
and a hurricane if it's a mild hurricane
some windows get busted some paint falls
off and let's say we have resource
capacity we have like 10 million dollars
in our slush fund for the skyscraper
relief in order to fix it well you know
we use 1 million to fix all the shit we
need to and we have 9 million left like
the money sort of refills every month
fuck it let's let's build a few more of
elevator shafts or something or you know
get some nice office chairs and upgrade
adaptation a better skyscraper but if
you get the mother of all hurricanes to
come through and it chops half the
motherfucking skyscraper off
uh
you know all your money is going to
rebuilding it there's no improving it
because you're completely out of money
because the damage was so extensive
right you don't get into car accidents
to get huge because that damage we know
is excessive and it'll just heal so why
would you try to replicate a car
accident in the gym we're here to
stimulate some damage must come along
for the ride and maybe is even
stimulative itself but there is such a
thing as too much there absolutely is
next point
no training session is ever in isolation
we don't just train once and then like
all right that's it i'm huge i'm mr
olympia it's literally often twice a
week for the same muscle and even if you
just train once a week for the same
muscle it's week after week after week
after week after week so if every time
you train you just leave it all on the
gym floor and just damage the muscle
like crazy there's a chance that you're
not fully healed or even close to fully
healed by the next time you come in to
hit it hard hold on a second i thought
it was warrior shit wait there's a next
time that means i should maybe not go so
hard
so that i can heal by next time and have
another good workout and another good
workout and another good workout uh
stupid analogy off the top of my head if
you're going on a pub crawl
and you definitely you love all these
bars you haven't been like you're going
back to austin texas or shit like that
you love austin you haven't been around
for a while it's gotten better since you
were there and you know you want to hit
this little strip of austin where
there's a bunch of pubs you love all of
them especially love the last one
you don't have 10 fucking beers at the
first pub and then just pass out on the
stream face down before pub number two
that's thoughtless you gotta hit four of
these shits in a row you wanna have fun
at all of them so what do you do you
have two or three beers at each one at
the end you fall face down but hey you
wave the white flag of defeat and you've
successfully actually checklist going to
all the pubs and having fun you don't
just want to blow your load on the first
one so a lot of people treat every
workout as if it's like their only
workout for that week or the last
workout effort well that's thawes
because what you want to do is stimulate
with keeping in mind the idea that you
still have to recover for future
workouts get a great stimulus come back
hit it again hit it again hit it again
the people that come in twice a week
even once a week for the same muscle
consistently day after day week after
week they grow they grow they grow
eventually they get jacked nobody ever
got jacked from one workout so if we're
just going all in and you know everyone
posts stupid motivational shit sometimes
i get it you get bodybuilders being like
i treat every book workout like it's my
last
really
bullshit if it was your last workout you
would do all the volume in the world and
get rhabdo but you're not doing that
shit you have some semblance of civility
in the gym you know you have to plan for
the future so do it right and make sure
you're playing the trade-off well yes we
want a great workout but we also want to
set up good workouts for later which
means we can't go all out in most cases
lastly
huge single session volumes
instead of let's say doing 10 sets of
quads on monday 10 sets on thursday you
do 20 sets of quads on monday
during that session but especially in
the next session after a huge
presentation of damage the next time you
come in and train that same muscle your
chance of injury marginally goes up
significantly measurably
huge exposures in a single dose are
first of all not the way you get better
at any sport
can you imagine someone's like yeah i
used to suck at tennis then this one
tennis practice i played for five
fucking hours straight and i was fucking
andre agassi after that shit
that tennis player reference dates me
like crazy i know he's like from the 90s
or some shit but in any case like what
the what like if you train an hour
you know five times a week for weeks and
weeks then you'll get good at tennis so
it's crazy that people think okay i
gotta get in this workout i gotta smash
it not only is that gonna increase your
chance of injury later there's nothing
to benefit from going that hard after a
certain you know if you train real easy
you get some level of gains you train
harder in a single session you get
better better at a certain point it goes
like this
that's where you stop because after that
the whole thing earlier with the damage
competes with adaptation the growth
curve of one session as you increase the
volume starts to go like that what the
fuck are you doing here nonsense is what
you're doing and it's a bad idea
now
grains of truth they're grains of truth
to pretty much everything so we have to
cut some slack here on the other side
here we go you have to present an
overload to grow your best you're not
getting bonus points to go through the
motions and there's for every stupid
moron bro who just does 80 sets of a
session and just all the steroids in the
world and can't see straight
there's like his reflection in an
alternate universe which is like pencil
neck evidence based like oh biomechanics
and and he's like oh my my left hip
labrum seems to be irritated and just
like one working set of sort of squats
but then switches to hack because his
hip hurts and he never actually puts an
overload and the doctors look at him and
there's nothing wrong with him
it's just not interested in doing the
hard stuff and that's totally fine
fucking fuck hard stuff fuck the gym you
know like computer programmers make way
more than personal trainers or
bodybuilders and just go program
computers it's fine but when you're in
the gym you got to go hard that doesn't
mean your hardest ever that doesn't mean
until you're vomiting blood it just
means you go
some level of hard and everything below
that is like you're not really trying
that hard i used to think that this
evidence-based like weasel geek a person
afraid of work wasn't really a real
thing i thought it was a caricature bros
made up to make themselves feel better
but my friend meadow hencelmans assures
me that a lot of these folks are real
he's met them in real life and they
really do make tons of excuses and the
only thing really going on is they don't
want to grind you have to accept the
grind
once you accept a psychologically say
i'm here with a fucking pain you still
have to choose an amount of training and
that amount must be logical if you want
to do more doesn't matter you're here to
do what it takes if you want to do less
doesn't matter you have to do what it
takes the science decides what we have
to do and of course our own auto
regulation and our motivation or desire
to either overload or not overload has
to adjust to that because we're in the
gym for gains not to make ourselves feel
good about how hard we went that day and
if you're in the gym for that sweet no
worries don't worry about gains because
you're clearly not optimizing for them
next point
if so short a sub point off the first
one if you're never getting a big pump
or you're never getting super weak in a
muscle after a session like if you did a
crazy bicep workout and then you can
still your 10rm for curls is like the
same at the end of the workout as the
beginning you didn't do a workout your
muscles have to get weak if you're
peeling yourself off the hack squat and
you have trouble walking oh yeah you did
some shit you're clearly quads are so
weak that you can barely walk anymore
maybe it's too much but it's definitely
not not enough right and if you you know
don't get any kind of soreness or
anything like that uh you know it
strains the imagination to think that
you're actually trying very hard you're
unlikely to be presenting the biggest
stimulus so here's the thing no you
don't have to annihilate but training
has to be hard
and for advanced lifters especially and
for most people at the end of their
mesocycles towards the last weeks before
the deload especially last week
proper stimulus
and annihilation start to look real
similar
and you can see this by tuning in to rp
with our monday workout vids and we have
a disclaimer and every single caption
there that says hey
not all sessions are going to be like
this these are just the peak ones and
here's how to do proper sessions usually
videos and all signs but the last week
before d-load really is pretty close to
annihilation because that's what it
takes that point also you have a whole
deal to recover from it so it is a
little bit more a little bit more like
treating every workout like it's your
last because for a little while it is
your last that's cool but not every week
is peak week on the other hand if your
peak weeks are like yeah it's just a big
peak week workout no big deal like
that's not a peak week workout you were
lying to yourself you could have pushed
further and you probably would have
gotten more jacked had you done that so
taking all this together best practices
first start your motorcycle with a
decent stimulus oh three reps in reserve
get a good pump maybe get a bit sore and
then recover on time for next time so if
you hit it monday by thursday you hit
chest again you should be nice and
recovered ready to hit it hard again
every week you want to add a little bit
of something add some load or add a rep
or two to keep the reps in reserve
either stable so three and then next
week three and then three or my personal
preference keep it falling slightly so
three and then three and then two and
then two and then one on the one and
zero and the zero and then you delude
right
you can also add sets to keep the pumps
really good and making sure you're
really tiring out and disrupting the
muscle so if three weeks into your plan
you're like man this isn't really that
much volume i'm not really getting a big
pump i feel like if i did two or three
more sets i'd get a huge pump and also
like i bare i recover like instantly i'm
not even tired i never get sore you can
probably do more work and get more
hypertrophy so you should almost
certainly adjust your volume as needed
and generally not all
all adjustments will be up but on
average from the beginning of the
measure to the end you'll go up for a
while and you'll probably plateau for a
bit and and then add only uh reps and
load at the end but in any case things
have to get harder over time
not so much harder that you can't heal
on time for the session that's the real
crux of the sport of bodybuilding and
training in it is almost every session
except for the last one before deload
you have to think two things
one how do i get a great stimulus two
how do i make sure i still heal on time
for next time which means the greatness
of my stimulus has to be capped at least
somewhat and you make these kinds of
trade-offs in every single area of your
life it's not that complicated you go to
dinner with friends you have a
maximization problem of two things
optimization problem one how do i have a
great meal two how do i not spend all of
my money right you may want to take an
uber home and it turns out you went to
this crazy steakhouse and they're like
oh the bill's two thousand dollars like
yeah that's my savings and i can't
afford an uber that'd be really stupid
so why would you do that during training
you wouldn't right now here's the thing
in the final week of the mesocycle
you'll be annihilating pretty damn close
to it but then you get a delayed week to
heal everything comes down you get to
start a new meso again go nice and i
don't want to say easy
tough
and then tougher tougher tougher tougher
annihilation delayed repeat that's it
training solved and only which was maybe
15 minutes
see you guys next time