hold on Dr Mike hold the fuck up are you
telling me that if I want maximum side
delt size that I have to train my delt
so hard they get very much weaker and
then I have to hit it hard again as soon
as they recover mhm you think about it
for like I could easily do eight sets of
delts four times a week fuck that did
you how many fucking delt that's so much
time and by the time I'm done with most
of my workout or if I start with delts
but I have a crapload of workout left
after after a few sets of laterals
systemically in my fuck Soul I'm like
dude fuck this man yes I could keep
going but I'm so tired not in my delts
my delts feel fine but this shit is old
news if I'm stacking the program with
other hardcore compound lifts and glutes
and quads and chest and back additional
delts is a non-starter I'm out I'm
cashed out mentally I can't do this shit
anymore