this much work in one day for a single
muscle group is excessive it will
probably not result in gains now it'll
look like gains because you'll blow the
hell up from acute inflammation that
results from the immune system being
like the happened to your triceps you're
like that did an eight hour arm workout
it's
like is wrong with you kid get in here
fellas fix all this break it down again
build it back up and you're like do do
it miss your immune system yes do do I
get any more muscle from this no mother
you out of your mind you're lucky you're
still alive you idiot who the who hell
is this Rich B person then you're like
up up up up immune system I've had
enough God is who you speak to and you
will kneel when you speak of God so the
immune system gets put back in its place
but that doesn't mean you're growing any
muscle