bench press checklist if you take all
five you have a perfect bench first set
up your arch for bodybuilding create a
slight curve in your upper back by
tucking your shoulder blades in while
puffing your chest up for powerlifting a
bigger Arch can help you move more
weight just make sure that your feet
glutes upper back and head are all
planted second grip grab the bar at 1.5
times shoulder width a wider grip will
Target more chest a closer grip will
Target more triceps squeeze the bar hard
third unrack press the bar up and then
Arc it forward with locked elbows until
your arms are pointed straight up fourth
tuck your elbows Point your elbows
slightly in so they move at a roughly
45Â° angle on the negative fifth bar path
move the bar down and slightly forward
don't bounce the bar instead make soft
contact with your lower chest from there
press up and slightly back while pushing
your feet into the floor now you have my