today I am reacting to an absolute
Mammoth horsecock Leviathan of a man he
be lurking in the lagoon
[Music]
sometimes humongous and that's Rick Del
stick Eric the Boo's bugenhagen Eric has
been reacting to some exercise science
takes recently like Jeff nippard's
series of videos and Dr Mike Isel as
well and so I thought as a
longtime fan of Eric bugenhagen why
don't I do a bit of a tongue and cheek
situation and react to his own content
from a sport Science Pencil Neck
perspective in this video this exercise
scientist Dr Milo wolf PhD in sport
Science will dismantle the Bro Science
Taste of one Rick Dell stick let's get
into it now Josh I will be playing these
videos on 1.5 time speed or something my
ADHD brain cannot watch videos on one
time speed in fact I may watch them on
two times speed so I'm going to need you
to uh do the magic two times speed Josh
that is what we're running with for all
of
these I'm here to report two exercises
that literally nobody in this world does
but first let me talk about this giant
Atlas Stone I'm holding look at the size
and girth of this
specimen this physical specimen's name
is Mr beefy okay very suitable name for
this hunk of pure muscularity and
explosiveness and he has a brother named
Tater Tod who's currently getting
neutered at the moment and we're just
fostering them until they find their
forever home so if you guys are like the
central Florida area and you want these
two Stout specimens just leave a comment
below but uh let's give back to the
exercises here fellas two exercises that
literally nobody will ever do and it's
because first off that is wholesome as
[ __ ] and just as a fun trivia fact I've
actually been following to an extent
Eric bugenhagen since he was a much
smaller both literally and also on the
web's presence and I mean I remember
following him with some friends who were
into lifting at the time when he had
2,000 subscribers he posted his first
videos and I just love the attitude the
silly lifting and it was fun but but
overall I got to say bit biased cuz I
like Eric's personality as a whole and
by the way he's a big dude I saw him at
the Arnold big guy without further Ado
let's get into these two forgotten about
exercises that are supposed to be crazy
effective it's humbling okay but it will
make a freaking Beast out of you okay
first exercise boys is the ultra deficit
stiff-legged deadlift with zero knee
Bend in an age where everyone pulls
Ultra wide Sumo
stance with a freaking noodle deadlift
bar be the chook that pulls the stiffest
of stiff bars in the gym while standing
on bumper plates with absolutely zero
leg Drive fellas this is going to light
up your posterior chain like no other
just look at my trapezius it's about to
explode as I'm pulling that sucker off
that is no joke and that will light you
up like no other I promise you that
that'll get you jacked stacked well [ __ ]
I was getting ready to hate a little bit
but this isn't bad um stiff-legged
deficit that lifts I actually do them my
own training it's a great way to get a
good stretch on the hamstrings glutes
adors lengthen partials and all
that good for hypertrophy so I thought I
was going to react to some bro signs
here so far all I'm seeing is a hard
fact approved science so I mean if I'm
going to nitpick I'd say like control d
Centric and you'd probably get more
hypertrophy out of the movement but on
principle the exercise is pretty solid
so thumbs up stack succulent and dense
little pack size on the hammies
voluptuously rotund glutes trapezius of
the Wazoo okay you combine that with
this next sucker I'm talking heavy
dumbbell walking lunges extra brownie
points for doing this with zero straps
fellas I'm talking about getting your
freaking leg work in on top of your trap
peus work your grip work it's like
you're doing a heavy ass farmers walk
while getting thick rotund horse quads
you know what I'm saying boys this
exercise will make your ass more sore
than anything you've ever felt in your
life I mean fellas maybe it's just my
experience but I can't remember the last
time I've seen anybody in any gym I go
to I'm not sure I'm inclined to speak
about how sore my ass gets on camera but
I don't think the lunge is the best
exercise ever uh I think the split Squad
is better in almost every way except for
the fact that you're using less space
and being less impressive to people but
the split squat typically allows you to
get far deeper as far as your quad range
of motion as far as your glute range of
motion and all that stuff goes and I
also think lunges probably aren't the
best place for you to try and train for
arms like lunges are already somewhat
unstable plenty of people fail Lun set
because they got unstable and off
balance why add to the issue of the
quads and gluten adductors not
potentially being the limiting factor by
also not using straps is there a place
and a time for not trying to find youe
movements to be really effective for a
certain muscle groups and just trying to
get a general stimulus for a lot of
muscle at once in yes do I think it's on
dumbbell lunges no and I think those
circumstances of trying to get a good
stimulus in for a variety of muscle
coups at once is relatively specific I
wouldn't recommend this variation
generally but certainly he could be
recommending for worse things like
dumbbell Kickbacks or something I don't
know and I've gone to gyms around the
world I got three gym memberships I
can't remember the last time I've seen
anyone other than one guy I saw doing
walking lunges with 30 lb dumbbells
grunting and groaning
oh oh with each rep as if he was moving
several hundred pounds and not to knock
him but I'm just saying nobody does
freaking heavy walking lunges last guy I
can remember doing them was Ronnie
Coleman and he was doing them in the
banana yellow skin tight spandex
freaking you know work boots on horse
cocking a huge barbell in the parking
lot but that was a barbell fellas I'm
telling you you get you'll get strong as
a freaking horse it's just the the grip
the forearms the traps the freaking
deltoids just getting freaking pulled
out those sockets as you hoist those you
know what I'm saying it's a freaking
great exercise it is one of the best
exercises and Nobody Does it now I'm
going to show you guys a secret golden
tidbit that I kind of just discovered
today I had a theory and I wanted to put
it to the test I I don't think the lung
just train your shoulders what respect
about Eric buhan usually is that he
makes it very clear that he's not really
coming at this from like a super
rational wellth thought out
generalizable principle sort of approach
like oh I felt this [ __ ] in this area so
uh give it a shot I think it's humongous
and horse coocking and all that he
doesn't take himself too seriously which
I appreciate in the age of [ __ ] Dr
Milo wolf talking about length and
partials on everything it's nice to have
some Le now and then all right here's
the box squat I did this with the
intention of priming up the CNS um going
into the semi Sumo stance deadlift um
I'm trying to do the West Side style
where you sit backs and really activate
the glutes open the hips up the only
problem is I don't know the weight
capacity of this Pio box it's probably
like 300 lb and here I am putting you
know damn near 1,000 lbs on in it so I'm
trying to sit back but not put all my
weight back on it just in case the bar
the Box explodes but anyways after I hit
the set I immediately dropped down
warmed up super fast for the semi Sumo
stance deadlift and worked up to three
or to
635 I think I had more in the tank but I
didn't want to I didn't know this is my
first time attempting this in 3 years so
I just wanted to see how it felt I
wanted to basically see if doing um a
Westside style box squat then going
immediately into a semi Sumo stance Dela
felt pretty good and I think it did
because I have done this variation of
delting in 3 years and that's 635 for
five right so I think there's something
to it so what I think he's referring to
here is an all-time favorite amongst
strength and conditioning professionals
and that's post activation potentiation
or nowadays more so referred to as post
activation performance enhancement I
recently reviewed a colleague's work
systematic review on the topic do I
think it's applicable to General lifting
tasks yes do I think it's super
important to consider within your
training no do I also think that it's
something you get by just doing a
relatively heavy single close to your
walking weight or above your walking
weight before you go into your main set
yes and I certainly wouldn't recommend
going straight from a set of squats to a
set of deadlifts cuz I think that's a
huge pain in the ass but when it comes
to horse clocking weights around I guess
you are horse cling weights around I did
this with the intention of just you know
trying something fun little husband wife
bonding time but holy buckets this
actually ended up being pretty amazing
the freaking behind the neck pin press
plus the added wife tension fellas look
at her feet kind of sway side to side
it's ever so slight but that instability
makes it just extra hard and then here I
used that same width that I used
pressing the woman and I tried it with
this about the same weight on the
barbell this is 290 P lbs with a a wide
grip which I don't normally press with I
just wanted to see how it felt so then I
figured I usually bench press with a
wide grip and I'm strongest with a wide
grip on FL bench so I'm like what sports
scientist shocked by super sickening
shoulder exercise is what I call this I
never inclined press after I have done
that overhead press I said why don't I
go to an incline and see this wide grip
and how this feels and fellas keep in
mind I never incline press and I think I
might start doing it because this I feel
like this is pretty freaking solid boys
um I did this workout about a week ago
and my freaking interior deltoids were
killing me afterwards I don't know if it
was the behind the neck pin press with
added wife tension if it was the
freaking Ultra wide overhead press or if
it was this set of incline presses since
I never do it but freck speaking of
which here's more of a narrow grip what
it's worth I think all else being equal
the incline press is probably a slightly
better overall chest exercise compared
to a flat bench press variation the one
study we have that's right the one study
we have not a lot of data on this
comparing the flat press to the incline
press
generally found more favorable
hypertrophy in the incline press at a
45° angle compared to a flat press
specifically greater upper chest growth
and similar lower chest growth compared
to Flat pressing so incline chest
pressing gets a thumbs up but again not
sure I [ __ ] with the whole post
activation performance enhancement deal
going on here had that dip and drive in
there it kind of ticked me off I usually
do everything as strict as possible
mainly because I can't really have much
knee Bend cuz of my surgery and my
tendon but uh tried out a drop set here
and boy I mean she felt like freaking
non-existent like I was pressing just a
grocery bag you know what I'm saying so
if you don't have a woman I mean I don't
know but there was something this was
pretty solid boys of just going heavy
barbell straight into the woman press I
mean I guess at the end of the day would
dropping about half the load you know
and then this is another one too a lot
of pencil neck scient scientists dorks
Geeks things of that sort seem to like
these chest supported variations so as
you can see my range of motion is
starting to suffer at the end but I had
a few very good elbows all the way back
reps in there I think that that brings
up a good topic of discussion because
base incline dumbar R enjoyer right here
I think incline dumbar R are time
efficient get to a good stretch
inherently don't really allow for a full
range of motion anyways cuz if you roll
the dumbbell too far you're hitting the
bench and you're essentially having to
miss out on that shorten position
turning the exercise into a length and
partial they require less setup than
something like a seal row so I think as
far as rowing variations go pretty so
thumbs up like in people's minds in this
world we live in today of everything
being on the internet and idealism and
things it's like a set either has to be
like perfect form the whole way through
or it's just an eagle lifting set
apparently but what about the sets where
you have three four five perfect reps
you know what I'm saying explosive pull
them all the way back and as you fatigue
you just kind of pulse it you know what
I'm saying and even that last one just
try to hold it you know what like what I
don't understand why things have become
so black and white like it's the mixture
of everything use perfect form even if
it's just for a couple reps and then you
know just keep going till you hit the
freaking wall I'm going to tell you a
little bit of a behindth scenes secret
okay on this topic the idea of doing
lengthen partials after a full range of
motion set or essentially changing the
end point of the set to when you can get
another lengthen partial as opposed to
just the full rep like think about a
pull-up right if you end a set of
pull-ups when you can't get your chin
above the bar anymore we could have
gotten probably like 10 more not full
reps in that length position so
essentially we conducted a study
recently results haven't even been
pre-printed yet nor published comparing
ending sets of calf raises when you
can't get a full rep anymore to ending
the set when you essentially can't even
like get a half rep or something along
those lines anymore and we saw more
hypertrophy when people ended the set
when they couldn't even get that length
and partial anymore so essentially this
idea of going past failure at least when
it's adding more reps in the lengthen
position now has some support for muscle
growth now it probably causes more
fatigue as well so I can't say for sure
yet now how it's going to play out in a
full program but the general idea may
have something to it but back to the Bro
lines as we'll get your hamstrings just
sore as hell great movement that you
never see anyone do it anymore it was a
huge fad like in 2010 with Crossfit and
then people just decided it's just not
trendy and cool anymore I don't know
what happened but basically you see the
form of how you like rate your torso all
the way up you drive your hips in I mean
whatever watch my whole point is check
out the 45° back extension how I like to
do this I like to do the 45° back
extension almost the same form it's
easier but then when you do it with the
plate now check out this
modification so I'm hyperextending my
back I'm kind of driving my hips through
and then when I'm at the top of the
movement I'm like elongating the lever
arm basically so I'm adding like Peak
tension at the top there is one problem
and problem is a big word here but
there's one one grievance I have with Mr
Rick's content sometimes and that's the
lack of internal consistency like
ultimately if it's all about keeping
training fun do you if you train for fun
and I do [ __ ] so I I do things that
aren't optimal too but I think that when
you try and justify things that aren't
internally consistent like oh I'm going
to do it this way to increase the
stretch like the stiff-legged deficit
orl but on the other hand I'm going to
go ahead and do this here because it's
going to be beneficial even though it's
the opposite of what you just said for
the other exercise that is an issue just
on a logical level personally if I'm
doing something for fun I'll straight up
say it like I'm overhead pressing twice
a week at the moment for fun I just
enjoy it is it ideal for hypertrophy do
I think getting something magical out of
it hell no it's just fun and sometimes
you live for fun and that's fine just do
it you know and I'm pretty sure the
stick actually agrees with me on this
one variety fellas that's the spice of
life that's what makes life interesting
that's what makes train interesting
finding ways to just take good classic
movements and then just adding a little
zest a little twist on it just like a
bicep curl now I made this a YouTube
short about a week or so ago but I know
not everyone watches the shorts fellas
check this freaking doozy out I swear if
you have access to this it's well worth
it fellas what you're looking at here is
the greatest curl variation there is the
seated lever bar curl okay we're talking
about the perfect strength curve perfect
range of motion full extension look at
the freaking Peak top strength curve
here boys Peak tension up at the top due
to the bar resting on the freaking
forearms there and then you can do a
biomechanical drop set where you lean
back and it changes up the strength
curve boy you can hit this to total
exhaustion now check this out you can do
cheat curls with this sucker too
and they say with this bar it's double
the weight so two plates on here
actually equals four plates cuz of the
leverages I don't think this exercis is
all that good you're getting a lot of
tension at the top and not that much at
the bottom which is the opposite what
you want the mechanical drop set might
make it better by allowing you to at
least get some more reps in the bottom
position but yeah it might get the Bro
signs thumbs up but it gets the xise SS
thumbs down on to the next video two
more unknown exercises for a huge back
let's break it down all right fellas
reporting in from The Rat's Nest to do a
little bit different of a video today
okay the bulking golden tidbits are a
hit okay we're going to find more ways
to scarf down thousands of calories in
one go I got a couple off the tip of my
brain but we're going to save those okay
then of course the roller skating roller
blading great times there's a lot of
good times to be had but we can't forget
what we all love and that is getting
down to the nitty-gritty of training
high intensity up the wazo finding
exciting new techniques not so new for
all of us but some of us and I only say
this because while I was hitting these
exercises at the gym I specifically had
people come up to me and they said holy
buckets I've never thought about doing
that before so I said to myself why the
hell don't I just make a video let's
make this stuff public common knowledge
just because I know of this stuff
doesn't mean the whole freaking world
knows the deep dark dirty secrets so
let's start with exercise tidbit number
one alrighty what we have here is a
freaking trap bar AKA hex bar loaded
with the plates now you're saying Sticky
Ricky a deadlift false inaccurate you're
wrong we're not going to deadlift this
sucker
in fact what we're going to do is a bent
over row now I had people come up to me
and they said oh I never thought about
rowing with that bar before and I said
brother well think about it he use a
neutral grip for the most part when you
do dumbbell rows I'm not saying
everybody does but you can roll a
dumbbell you know any way you want
freaking pronated supinated neutral grip
well with a barbell you can either do
pronated or supinated with the freaking
trap bar we can go neutal grip here
okay and the beauty of this sucker is
due to the the way that it's loaded
right you can see you can have a little
bit of knee Bend there and the bar
wouldn't get in the way of the knees and
just the angle at which you're pulling
the weight is going to be slightly
different than with a bent over barbell
row so it's just a cool variation to add
into the mix for you if you want to
spice it up a tad bit okay yeah it's
good adding a neutral grip to a barbell
row essentially it's it's good I think
that barbell rows are good and I think
that this is just as good essentially it
is just a variation bro a lot of people
don't have a trap bar but if you do
consider doing it what we're going to do
here is be a freaking Johnny pencil neck
and use the cable station okay now
listen cables aren't all bad I want you
to check this sucker out here there was
a rope and um I didn't want to be a
cookie cutter do lat pull downs and
stuff but I wanted to train my lats so I
said you know what what if I did a hip
hinged pullover movement so I'm pulling
without using my biceps at all similar
to how you engage the barbell with
engage your lats with the barbell while
doing a deadlift okay A lot of times
you'll see people with the barbell have
bands around it let me see if I can find
an example to show you guys so these
were just the First videos that popped
up on the search um this guy doing a
freaking Sumo but look at the band he
has on look at how light that sucker
there's hardly any tension okay here we
got another guy look like he's using the
same Light mini band hardly any freaking
weight on that sucker okay I'm not
trying to be a Johnny Pencil Neck I'm
trying to be Johnny horsecock so as you
can see I'm using the full stack on this
freaking cable machine all right look at
the difference you think I'm using a
light mini boy no who do you think's
getting more lat engagement so that way
when I do go to the barbell and try to
horsecock some massive deadlifts my
freaking lets are primed up the woo I
think I just called Johnny penilik which
I'll take but I will say to my defense
uh back when I suspect Mr Rick was um
just living naturally living off the
land let's put it that way we his height
and weight are actually quite comparable
to my own I think back then he was like
62 63 2
and I'm about 62 between 220 and 245
typically so hey ho you know Johnny
penil Meck but one day I maybe uh Johnny
hcock next up we are on to the greatest
role variation for enormous deadlift
power as the last video we're reviewing
fellas we're back here in the rats nest
and I have the same freaking Ukrainian
setup I talked about this yesterday the
Ukrainian stiffies and the Ukrainian
deep ass to Grass squats good and I
mentioned in the video yesterday of how
this might be the ultimate setup for all
things freaking everything basically
other than I'll still have to figure out
the press in here but I told you this
yesterday and I'm doing it today and let
me tell you something it's just as good
if not better than I thought it would
be okay you want to see something here
mama mhm I got 300 pizzles on the
loading pen people say oh Sticky Ricky
nobody has this setup it's like every
gym you go to has this handle okay good
um all you need is a freaking $20
loading pin can you show that loading
pin right there Mama see that covered in
Rust and grime and cat
piss yeah see that yeah M was like give
me a scuffle don't scuffle don't scuffle
with me m I can say what I want I'm a
big boy I have my own
you definitely do say what you want yeah
so anyways you can get a freaking
loading pit on Amazon for 20 bucks or if
you want to go the creme a crop you get
one on Rogue or something for 30 bucks
okay they're cheap every gym has this
and you can stand on anything you want
you see I'm standing on a bench here
okay you can use a bench at a gym two
benches you can take the freaking P
boxes Kitty that is enough stop I'm just
losing at the cat shout out to all cats
out there got to be some of my favorite
animals for real for real throwback to
when I used to allow my cat in here not
anymore listen the bills got kind of
tight the ad Revenue wasn't coming in so
what's a man to do but eat his own cat
make sure you like this video comment
and subscribe if you aren't already so
that I can buy a new cat that I
hopefully won't have to
eat and just so everyone knows she
mostly lives inside but she likes being
out here when he works out yeah she
loves it she hangs out here the garage
doors open the cat refuses to run away
she wants to be nestled with the
steel yeah and the sweat and the
grizzle all right anyways I don't have
the tunes cranking but uh I'm going to
horse C this for you boys all right we
got 300 lb on
here uh watch this freaking range of
motion don't look at the cat I need you
to pay attention to me I say it every
freaking day please trying it's so cute
it's your duty to not miss the shots is
it even first of all yes thank God okay
all right so check this freaking range
of motion out you guys see this look at
that I hooked that sucker on right there
look at this mama look at this see that
deep deep yep so deep
mhm about to seep cuz I'm so go what do
you mean I'm just making a slam
poetry okay see this now think about if
I'm doing a barbell row with the plates
and stuff you're roll here right and
then your knees are kind of getting with
so you have to be here you have to roll
like this or you have to be here and
roll like this to get your knees out of
the way or you're freaking R you get
what I'm saying here mhm but now with
the Ukrainian deadlift setup okay I mean
fellas I'm 100% sold on this this might
be the only equipment I use in this
garage we got the 175lb power blocks we
got the freaking you know thousands of
dollars rack we got the freaking
deadlift machine 10,000 specialty
barbells but I think this is it this is
all I'll be touching and same goes for
you
Mo don't think you're getting off scott
free okay the second we have a free time
you're jumping on
this all
right
okay I don't like that they're uneven
they're not uneven no but like one side
is soft and the other one is hard I got
it it's called
adversity you're teaching your
body yeah the cat keeps absolutely
losing it and it's it's distracting me
heavily but let's continue check this
out 300 lb
deep deep Mama yeah I get it
honey all right adjust the dingdong go
what do you mean you're not a guy you
don't get it you can't have a crooked
okay my gosh just go okay you ready for
this 300
pizzles
deep God I feel like I'm so mobile too
look at this see this flexibility
yeah okay here we
go this is for the
boys
and for anyone saying oh sney Ricky but
you're not pulling it from here you're
coming up and pulling it yeah now do you
understand why that's beneficial
guzzle so it doesn't hit the ground I
don't know well yeah but at the same
time I'm getting a huge freaking stretch
in my
hammies okay MH this is a full freaking
body workout I'm sorry to say it right
like my ass is so sore today from the
freaking squats and the Deads the stiff
boys here yesterday right and doing
these
suckers so
sore but because it's so freaking deep
here you know what I'm saying like I'm
getting Loose as a Goose I'm going to be
so freaking
flexible and every time between the sets
I'm doing this I'm pulling myself
lower you see that Mama yep now we just
need to work on your
shoulders well until you this is all
forward you need it like back for your
Mobility yeah that's as far as you go
yeah why I need loose I want these
things to be tight all right besides
assisting to an instance of demestic
abuse with a cat which i' never want to
experience again um the exercise being
demonstrated is essentially just a
deficit cheat row deficit rows thumbs up
cheat rows thumbs down cheat rows not so
great on account of not really using
enough weight to properly stimulate your
gluten hamstrings typically like
ultimately you can already or deadlift a
whole lot more than you can cheat row
and so why would you incorporate a
pretty subpar stimulus for your gluten
hamstrings into a row when the primary
purpose of the row is to train your
upper back and so personally rather than
cheating if you want to use more weight
which I don't think you should
inherently be chasing you could use
length and partials and length and
partials is something I think you should
probably be incorporating for maximizing
hypertrophy and you can roll a lot more
weight with length and partials than a
four range of motion just because the
hardest part of a four rep is that
shorten position which is why the
chicken row exists where people sort of
cheat the way up and then bring their
stomach to the bar but regardless that
wraps up this Johnny Pencil Neck Pencil
Neck researcher exercise scientist
sickening review of the Bro scientist
himself did I dismantle the Bro Science
on this play I think so on the one hand
I like Eric on the other hand I'm not TR
I really love the recent shift to trying
to put out informative content but as
far as entertainment value goes big
thumbs up and none of what I said in
this video was meant in ill intent at
all I will give Rick Del stick 10 horse
clocks out of 10 and a 5 out of 10 from
a sports sence perspective and with that
being said if you enjoyed this pencil
next video please leave a comment down
below letting me know who else you want
to see me react to What topics you want
to see me cover leave a like on the
video subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already I know like 50% of the
people watching these videos aren't
subscribed I will straight up come to
your house and devour your cat as well
not an actual threat it's a promise and
with that being said hide your cats hide
your wife I will see you in that next
one peace