hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization let's talk about
controversy virtue signaling Fitness
coaches no way that's a myth JK they're
real so
it has become fashionable
in a certain
area of the fitness industry
for many coaches to say that being fit
and in shape
isn't all that
and so far I agree dope true Being Fit
makes a fit and not much else super
but some of these folks
take it a step further
they claim that being in shape
and posting pictures of yourself with
skimpy clothing or shirtless picks
online as a coach and person who
delivers Fitness information has a
couple of distinct downsides more than I
would be comfortable saying
first they say that it can intimidate
regular folks first entering Fitness and
can make still other folks feel bad
about themselves because everyone
including you is in such great shape and
why aren't they
that putting your mostly naked selfies
on social media is kind of an illusory
advertising practice it's like wow sort
of like look like me if you do these
things in reality people just look like
better versions of themselves so maybe
there's not a lot of Truth in that
and
the big kicker at the end is a lot of
times they a lot of times almost all the
time they used to do this practice
themselves
where they would post tons of shirtless
selfies or you know skimpy selfies and
they no longer do it and they think it's
cringe that they used to do it and if
you're looking for the quintessential
example all due respect we allowed to
disagree Mr Ben Carpenter who's an
excellent social media influencer but
disagree with him on this thing and thus
the Genesis of this video he's got a
post on his social media go give him a
follow on Instagram and uh he basically
talks about exactly this that he used to
post all this content and it kind of
feels like it's cringy now and now he
doesn't have a lot of shirtless pictures
of himself up because he's kind of going
in a different direction
and some of that might totally be true
but and it's not the whole truth nothing
about the truth so help me God so
there's more to say on this in my
opinion here's my addition to all of
this
what is the other side of this whole
equation this whole Spectrum
first
people that are inspired by your
physique
exist
and
this potentially gives you a huge net
positive impact
by showing your physique
so if we can split people up into
roughly three groups
that actually look at your profile and
look at the post you're going to get a
group of people that is getting a net
negative out of seeing your shirtless
selfie those people are real and all of
us are maybe at some point in our lives
that person there's going to be another
group of people that it's them it's just
neutral they're like oh yeah we're not
it's a guy with abs nobody lost nobody
found and there are still another group
of people that get a lot out of seeing
that they're inspired by it they're
motivated by it it drives them to do
better it drives them to educate
themselves it drives them to go into the
diet with a bit more seriousness going
to workouts a bit more seriousness and
then there's a huge net benefit for them
or even a small net benefit
the idea that there is some research
supporting that some folks have a bad
time looking at shirtless selfies which
is true some folks really do doesn't
seem to address the relative balance of
what those three groups are now I can
assure you that the vast majority of
people just frankly don't give a fuck
and the balance of how many people get
inspired or don't get inspired is by no
means clear to me and it is quite a
presupposition to think that well you're
clearly there's lots of these people
that are just overwhelmed or intimidated
by the physique picture and not enough
folks that are inspired by it first of
all you don't know that and second of
all there is a mechanism in play in
social media which countervails that
tendency and here it is the people that
have a bad time looking at your pictures
are unlikely to follow you for a long
time we all follow some accounts that
make us hate and hate and hate and we
still follow them
but most of us over the long term end up
following them less we end up curating
our accounts to follow the accounts that
we're most interested in and often the
ones that give us a good time right
which is why most of my Instagram is
like dogs doing tricks and seals doing
tricks
the happiness so over time if you're
presenting a version of you to the world
let's say it's often shirtless the
fraction of people that have a bad time
that hang around is going to start to
fall off and the fraction of people that
are having a good time is going to start
to go up so enter first presentation on
social media you might rub some folks
the wrong way and folks will come into
your profile and look at it and maybe
get rubbed the wrong way but most of
those folks kindly see themselves out
it is uh really a thing that the vast
majority of the people that follow you
long term they like what you have to say
yes hater followers are a thing to be
honest that's mostly on them you
shouldn't be following people just to
hate the fuck out of them you can if you
like but and you're just injecting
hatred into your life I've got a few
accounts I follow just they hate them
like one of my coaches broader Chavez
says out of one of my practices that I
do every day is I pull up a list of
people I really hate just so Focus my
hate on really hating them there's time
for that not the best practice in the
world for long term psychological Health
but hey it can work most people follow
you because they like what you have to
put out so you don't have to worry a ton
about if that Mojo you're putting out
into the world doesn't jive with
everyone because over the long term
social media shifts in such a way that
you mostly just speak to the people that
are ready to hear your message in the
way that you're ready to present so long
as you're not being actively toxic which
posting a shirtless selfie is anything
but
next
some people come to social media looking
for answers to questions how do I get in
shape how do I make it easy how do I
make it something that works for me
really well and a lot of folks have
unbelievable amount of information to
give Mr Ben Carpenter is an excellent
just plethora of super valuable
information to put out among many other
Fitness influencers of course so he
really is top tier
but if I come to his content and I don't
see a shirtless selfie of his as a
regular person I may just not even know
what his relationship to Fitness really
even is is this a person I should trust
the number one way whether we like it or
not that you establish trust and fitness
is to show the proof of the pudding and
like the you being jacked or lean or
some combination of Jack Darlene or
posting maybe you just look regular but
you used to look really really out of
shape and you post a couple
transformation picks every now and again
to really remind people who the hell you
are that is such a huge uh attractor to
people that you may be able to help way
more people on that balance by putting
out your best version of yourself even
if it's a little cringy and icky that
you're always sure listen Maybe not
always but often shirtless that's what
brings the people in and the more people
you bring in given that you have a
really good message and almost all these
folks have an excellent message to how
to help you get in shape then that
increased volume of people bringing
people in make sure that they help as
many people as possible some of those
people are brought in and it's toxic for
them they don't like the shirtless
selfies they might fuck right off but if
you bring in 10 times or five times or
two times the number of people and one
and a half times the number of people
with more inclusion of shirtless selfies
and little Skippy sports bras then maybe
you can just help so many more people
that it's worth
and lastly
there is something to be said
for just doing your best as the person
that you are right now but there's also
something to be said for owning what got
you to where you got to be and most of
these folks that I'm not singling out
Ben Carpenter by any means uh and this
particular example
you guys got your following
by putting skimpy
shirtless or sports bra pictures of
yourself that's how you built 90 of your
following just because you had a read
some critical theory or social justice
work one afternoon and you've
re-architected your world view it
doesn't mean that you're now world view
of well I'm not going to show anything
skimpy is uh the thing that makes you
popular and even if it is making you
popular you found a new Niche which now
you're speaking to those people and you
still get lots of clicks
um you got most of your following by
looking the part and by posting those
skimpy pictures to some extent and this
is just a personal opinion of mine this
last part there's some value in owning
that shit to saying to yourself yes yes
I I did post lots of shirtless selfies
and yes it did do a combination of not
great things for some people and great
things for others
because here's a real big deal real big
statement there is nothing you will ever
do on the internet that is public facing
that will please everyone there are no
total benefit equations out there
there's nothing you could put out that
is 100 positive because you miss out on
opportunity cost of doing even more
positive if you were to go shirtless
some people are pissed no matter what
when I'm really in a fucking mood and
I'm scrolling which is a bad idea when I
get to happy-go-lucky people that are
like take Life by the horns every day
I'm like fuck you I'll take you by the
fucking horny little bitch ah shit
is there a dislike button some people
you just can't please and a lot of the
same people not all of them
that get real triggered by shirtless
selfies they just in a really bad place
up here in the short term often and yeah
you don't really have to worry about
them too much because they're going to
have a better day and then like you
later so if you are worried about a
potentially very small fraction of
people getting triggered from your posts
and you try to re-architect your social
media personality to not trigger those
people even though that's what got you
to where you are anyway and potentially
you're advertising your physique is what
helps even more people and most people
don't get triggered
it's a questionable practice and that's
all this video has meant is a sort of
starting point for conversation and a
starting point for questions
my view on it is this
I think it's okay to offer Fitness
content with clothing on
with minimal clothing and if Instagram
let me no clothing at all that's my
preferred way you guys know me on only
fans a lot of you follow my only feed
account Jared's only feed account his
best second best only for the account in
the world
just try to help in your own way that
you feel comfortable with
if shirtless isn't for you that doesn't
make it a net negative it might just be
a net positive it's probably a big or
not positive than with your shirt on but
there's no need to shit talking
because it's just another way of doing a
great thing Outreach and help and
there's by no means clear that it's a
net negative and harming a bunch of
people
even
if claiming that a shirtless selfie is
Icky
for the sjw signaling virtue signaling
points gives you a lot of clicks on that
post that still might not be a
compelling reason to start to kind of
smack talk that side of the aisle and
say well you know what you know posting
shirtless selfies is really a bad idea
and it's just unwise because it leads
people to feel bad about themselves what
about all those other positives right I
think posting shirtless is cool I think
posting with a shirt is cool I think
it's all good as long as you're bringing
value
to the person and through time and
social media when you bring that value
and that positivity and that attempt to
help people in whatever way you do it
your Niche people are going to find your
Niche they're going to flock to you the
message that you're giving is going to
be found by the people who are most apt
to receive it and then over time
everyone on social media has having a
good time except for liver King and
everyone that follows him just kidding
just liver King
I made my point
now I have to show you a magic trick my
point isn't quite quite good enough
because it doesn't have a personal story
and that vitriolic anger and hate I'm
not very capable of getting angry but my
wife is and through the magic of science
wife Dr Crystal herself
my lovely wife
my better half
people say that about us
so
two questions for you sure one is what
terrible lawnmower accident happened to
your clothing that resulted in part of
it getting just cut right off
and two tell me about so you were the
person that alerted me to the existence
of these types of posts and we went on a
bit of a social media Deep dive what I
would call an s m deep dive social and
media that is
um so first of all like all you know all
due respect uh Mr Ben Carpenter who is
kind of like our sort of focus of the
exemplary behavior here uh from all
everything I can ever find great guy uh
the best of intentions and a great
follow in addition to that
but this so this particular thing is
just to this argument for the sake of
the idea not not the individual
and what is it
something's
something struck
you something stuck out for you that got
you triggered a shit explain
just thinking about my entire weight
loss Journey for the last what 41 years
or so why don't you tell us just a
little bit a couple minutes about what
your relationship to your body weight
has been why don't you start when you
were a kid
uh what was your exact birth weight I'm
kidding actually nine pounds eight
ounces that's a that's a big girl
my mom is 410 so she was about 180
pounds when she delivered me
yeah so I always knew that I was a
little bit bigger than every other kid I
was about 20 pounds on average heavier
than most of my peers
um I always noticed that my Hunger was a
lot higher than my peers I remember
being invited to eat at my friend's
house and my friend's parents would just
comment on what a great appetite I have
and why can't my next door neighbor be
less of a picky eater because Crystal
you know finishes her plate and loves
food and is very thankful for the food
that's on the table so meanwhile you
were 900 pounds
and I love sports I you know just for
whatever reason I loved to eat and it
went up and down and up and down and the
last I think 10 years ago right before I
hit med school I lost a bunch of weight
I discovered lifting so I thought I was
sort of on the right track to getting
the physique that I wanted and I just
dieted myself right into the ground had
and my Hunger was so out of control I
remember
laying awake in the middle of the night
with hunger pangs that were just so
intense that I ended up failing Medical
School anatomy and I had to repeat that
class over again and it was at that time
that I in 2012 that I decided I probably
was gonna never diet for a very long
time and just continue to lift weights
and I lifted weights for the next 10
years and kind of put dieting on the
back burner until
two years ago and started to slowly work
my way down from 190 pounds and
currently I sit at about 143. so you
finished your medical education at 190
pounds yes and now about two years later
you're 143 correct and you're on your
way down to get even a bit lower still
fair enough yes yes
and so when Fitness influencers that
have at least for a long time soaked in
the sun of being people that everyone
wants to have sex with and rub their
face on their abs when they've lived
that life and they tell you that being
fit and lean shouldn't be a priority it
isn't important it is not all that how
does that strike you uh very
uncomfortable I I've spent the last
couple of years trying to wrestle with
that and trying to be okay with that
idea of it's not about how you look
because that you know that
idea isn't new people have been
preaching that for the last you know 10
years on and off that I've been on
social media that it's not worth it to
have abs they're always people have abs
though right and so it's almost a
the analogy is being rich and telling
somebody in a third world country that
you know having money isn't really worth
it where you know they're they don't
have any running water I think the the
hardest part is I I've never had that
I've never had that time in the sun of
being a little bebopper yeah having ABS
having defined muscles having this sort
of physique that these people have had
and it gets the clicks on social media
yes admittedly so and
there is some you know I can see where
they are going with this
um but I think the biggest thing is yes
they've had their time in the sun
they've been very privileged with their
size and
a privilege maybe they earn yeah earned
genetics whatever like you know
um and good for them I I'm have no I'm
interested yeah I'm in a place
emotionally mentally where I can look at
somebody who is straight sized or has
abs I knew you were going to use that
term and it's like whatever like you do
you uh hats off to you but the fact that
you have to take that and call it cringe
um for somebody who's wanted it for so
long
um it's like a knife in my heart
emotionally and to not to not just have
that and crap on it but it's also just
sort of uh
gosh uh hard for me to sort of describe
what that feeling is
um it almost makes me feel like makes me
feel even worse for wanting that well I
think that's the idea and for a while
and it
the the fact that you know why can't I
have this why does this I'm not hurting
anybody by chasing this uh I know what
the trade-offs are I and I think for a
long time I really had to struggle with
that like these people are telling me
I'm I'm bad for wanting this yeah uh
what you know is it am I really truly
doing something terrible to my body my
health somebody else's body somebody
else's health and the truth of the
matter is is
somebody is going to be upset with you
and hate you for no matter you know for
just even existing so if you can have
you been in our comments section oh gosh
kidding love you guys I've been called a
man before uh on YouTube and on other
places
right so
um word up uh
-huh so it's raining men
girl
um
yeah it's hard to comprehend when
somebody says that it's not worth it
when you've been chasing after that for
so long and you've just wanted a taste
of what it's like to step into the sun
well so you've been let's just call it
what it is you've been pretty fat
yeah no I've been fat I've been a smoker
stop laughing
so
um you didn't think that looked or felt
very good to you
not only did it not look uh good it
actually felt physically
emotionally mentally draining yeah just
having the extra weight uh my joints
hurt my walking a block
at a regular Pace would give me back uh
pumps yeah
unable to carry things unable to do
house chores sure
and that wasn't fun no and then now and
you've been a bit leaner before in other
times past but now that you're getting
well unequivocally to your leanest and
Beyond has it been a worse and worse
experience as you understand that the
patriarchy has entered you and
irrevocably changed you or has it been
feeling better and better the leaner you
get
it's been feeling much better the leaner
I get I have more energy to do stuff
around the house I feel like I'm a much
more productive team player I smile a
lot more often I
just
the way I project myself to the world is
much happier and I wish I could have
said the same for me at 190 but I'll be
honest two years ago when I when we left
Las Vegas
I remember athletes have Las Vegas and
taking the shit with her am I right
fellas
oh yeah oh good times yeah those were
good times we ate a lot I ate a lot of
sushi I also drank a lot of alcohol you
know um a lot of the athletes I didn't
even want to say goodbye they were like
hey thanks thanks so much for being you
know such a great doc Dr G and I just
looked at them like
yeah I really want to crawl out of my
fucking skit right now I'm gonna go be
fat somewhere else I I'm leaving bye I
just had this like
I don't want you to look at me right now
I'm miserable inside and there was
nothing there is nothing that no amount
of therapy or self-help books or
Instagram little Psychotherapy posts
could help me feel otherwise I had to do
that work within
and a part of that work was actually
getting in shape yes
so do you think that maybe what do you
think about when people say sometimes
they mean this
with all their best intentions that
maybe you're a victim of kind of like uh
you know hegemonic patriarchal top-down
programming convincing you that skinny
is beautiful and you're just kind of uh
flailing half-mast flag in the wind uh
tattered by the ravages of essentially
just like social programming that at
every step every magazine every book
every TV program told you thin is
beautiful thin is beautiful thin is
beautiful do you find that
intellectually compelling do you find it
emotionally compelling
I remember very early on growing up I
thought that that was the case and I one
by one started cutting people out of my
life I started to cut out magazines
because I thought that they were doing
some sort of having a negative impact on
my life I've cut people out of my life
because I thought they were having some
sort of negative impact on my life I've
definitely clapped back at family
members and
as I sat alone with my own thoughts and
really worked on myself
the biggest thing I came at that came
out of it was
this is me this is what I want and I'm
just gonna stop feeling tired and guilty
for wanting these things
um and these things being having a
physique fitter version of yourself
right and it it wasn't until
um I just owned that and became okay
with that decision that I can now look
at you know Vogue magazine and really
appreciate uh you got some skinny model
here doing her fashion thing and like
hey that's cool I can appreciate it for
what it is instead of making it feel you
know make feeling terrible inside
because I don't look like that I'm never
gonna look like that and that's okay
that took a long time for me to be okay
and comfortable with and was that
Comfort
enhanced detracted by or irrelevant to
the fact that you've been getting leaner
and taking control of your physique
is it easier to be comfortable with
skinny models
if you're yourself want to be thin but
are nowhere near it or is it easier to
be comfortable if you are incrementally
getting more fit and feeling your own
swag I think it really doesn't matter as
far as models go because they don't
really say anything in magazines right
it's just uh here's this art form they
don't push that Narrative of I've had my
time in the Sun as a you know fashion
model I'm gonna do something else now if
it had that messaging we'd have a much
different conversation but I've been
okay with looking at Vogue magazine and
looking at fashion models for a while no
matter what kind of size I am because
they're fucking weird anyway right it's
like if cocaine was a person
um but with Fitness influencers you have
a particular Barb
and that specifically because we've
talked about this before if I may try to
articulate it totally it's people who
are lean
often almost always have been even
leaner before got most of their clout
from being lean and then they flipped
the script and start talking about how
being lean is overrated but there is a
way to do that which is balanced which
is I think to say look like yeah being
lean makes lean and if it makes you
happy makes you happy but sometimes it
doesn't make you happy and it's not
going to solve all your fucking problems
right rent to still do if you're lean
one way or another but some of these
people take it to an extreme and they
start to say look like being lean is a
huge mistake it's a goal you shouldn't
strive for it's a bottomless pit there's
no end to it it doesn't make you happier
to be leaner and I guess you're beef
with that is what is it the hypocrisy
what do you think it is very definitely
the hypocrisy
um for some of those people who make
those types of posts in order to get the
click bait they will actually Post in
addition to the text message they'll put
their their stage lean photos or yeah
here's a picture of me with abs and let
me tell you why abs are bad like but I
clicked on this picture because abs are
good I guarantee you ninety percent of
the likes on that picture is people not
reading the fucking text they just liked
the ABS it's the ultimate con so the the
hypocrisy with that is insane and then
also you don't know what people like how
are you you're kind of crapping on
everybody else's goals you don't know
what everybody else's goals are why are
you know all you're doing now is you're
making people who want abs feel bad
so I think definitely to your point
giving it more of a nuanced approach
like yeah you know uh having ABS has its
trade-offs it is what it is it's not
like this glorious thing but it's not
like the worst thing ever either
I know that also doesn't get the clicks
so
put out everything that gets clicks is a
good thing so maybe the message here
between the two of us is
if you think that there are other ways
to go about pushing your brand that
isn't shirtless selfies slow clap
amazing great if you think there are
other looks and mindsets that don't
involve Extreme Fitness that are
valuable amazing talk about those
but maybe we can all move a little
further along if we spent a little less
effort talking crap about a certain
thing and instead focused on the
positives of the other thing it's not
that having abs and being lean is bad
trust me guys I've currently I don't
want to fuck pull up my shirt but I'm
pretty fucked me you know what I'm
saying I've been real lean I've had
veins in my abs and it's dope it's
fucking sweet and it's not bad not no
part of it was like triggering to me it
was like yeah it's cool
um it's a great thing but also so many
other things are great it's great to be
in just normal shape or it's even like
I've said this on a previous
um video I love lizzo and when people
are like butt she's fat I'm like I don't
give a fuck lizzo has so much attitude
that I don't kid does not matter if that
people are fucking dope I love them it's
just kind of love for everyone in their
own special way as opposed to being like
well Fitness stinks and it's cringy like
no it doesn't and if you are triggered
by people who are Lee that's time for
you to do some work
you know between the the the ears there
right oh yeah 100 percent
I guess we are talking shit aren't we
yeah yeah
but I will yeah I guess we are but we're
trying to do it nice this is Crystal
being nice you should see her on camera
that's what I say to her oh my God stop
don't all the mean people always say I'm
a nice person yeah that's true say
something nice
I really like your shirt today
you told me before the shirt sucks
he told me right off camera what stupid
you're dumb and I was like why are you
telling me this I'm gonna punch me in
the face
punchings for later oh my that's the s m
any closing thoughts what about people
that are coming into the fitness world
and they're looking at all these
shirtless naked people and they're also
looking at people who are covered up and
telling them don't look at the shirtless
naked people what advice do you have for
them they want to look a certain way and
they want to find their place in the
fitness world what's your best advice
I would say
really think about the trade-offs of you
know what are the pros what are the cons
of getting to this point what do I need
to do to get to this goal
um and uh decide for yourself if it's
worth it the the last thing you'd ever
want is to have somebody else
influencing your decisions and you
deciding that you know to live your life
according to some random Shmo on
Instagram or Tick Tock because you know
what you really want in life is just you
know bad
yeah
decide for yourself
but as a fitness Schmo let me help you
decide download the RP hypertrophy app
so we can make money and by way I mean
me how much money do I make
I think see
the Butlers have it all Dr Crystal huge
pleasure having you on thank you so much
you look great by the way ah thanks
looking like a little snack Jesus
you don't think I might have my wife in
public girl you must be crazy a little
cut off bullshit you wearing anyway time
to go do adult things with my wife Scott
the video guy switch the roll let's hit
that side only fans time folks see you
later