you're going to get six sets no that's
what you've done so far you guys F you
guys I'm
quitting I'm done with watching these
training videos if there's anything you
all take away at home it's what Ashley
said before she started that set she
means that and she's literally a
professional figure athlete when you
train properly 4ange of motion you're
emphasizing the slow control Ecentric
you're not doing those workouts you see
saw back in the day on Flex magazine
like 30 set workouts 20 set workouts I
mean even like a 15 set workout it's
fucking hard if you ever get a coach
that send you sessions that have like 30
sets in one session fire them yes I say
that very confidently please and hire
me I've been a coach for a few years and
well I have a few attributes you might
be interested and like uh F
friendliness uh that's it that's all
he's got that's all he's got those are
his
credentials