14 billion years ago the universe began
a few minor events have happened along
the way but the most important thing is
you are here lifting weights you're
consciously just aware of lifting the
weights but your body is doing something
remarkable countless electrical signals
are rapidly sent to your muscle tissue
enabling the recruitment of hundreds of
thousands of muscle fibers in which a
Cascade of events including calcium
release ATP breakdown the power stroke
and thus Force generation occur energy
systems are getting depleted metabolites
and fluid have accumulated but then you
stop and rest before performing another
set time may be an illusion but we're
stuck with it so how long should you
rest until your next set I'm glad to say
we finally have our first ever meta
analysis on the impact of different rest
time between sets on muscle hypertrophy
for those who don't know metaanalyses
combine the results of numerous studies
on the same topic and are generally
considered some of the best evidence
this doesn't mean they are always
Flawless but they can be highly
insightful for us to fully comprehend
the scope of the first rest interval
metaanalysis in human history such that
by the end you'll have a clearer
understanding of how long you may choose
to rest between sets we need to go back
to the
1990s on the 1st of October 1990 a month
before Home Alone was released and a
time period in which supermarkets look
like this this research paper was
published lifting weights can
temporarily increase anabolic hormone
levels and the paper found in a group of
men training with shorter rest between
sets resulted in greater temporary
increases in growth hormone other
studies similarly find this and since
these hormones are related to muscle
growth surely this is proof short rest
between sets maximize muscle hypertrophy
well multiple researchers thought it
could be the training practices of
actual bodybuilders probably intensified
this since as detailed in this classic
1987 paper the majority of bodybuilders
recruited rested 10 to 90 seconds
between sets imagine that just 10
seconds between sets the legendary
Arnold in his book recommended a minute
or less of rest between sets but moving
forwards to 2009 to
2011 some studies Mark the beginning of
a paradigm shift shift instead of merely
observing the hormonal responses two
different rest time between sets
researchers actually decided to measure
muscle growth a 2009 paper found in a
group of previously untrained men
training this program resting 2.5
minutes between sets tended to produce
greater arm and thigh growth than one
minute of rest between sets this was
despite the fact that temporary
increases in testosterone and growth
hormone at least in the initial weeks
were larger with a 1 minute condition
ition a 2010 paper had a slightly
unconventional approach they had trained
subjects perform this program one group
rested 2 minutes between sets but
another group over the weeks gradually
decreased their rest time between sets
down to 30 seconds if short rest were
definitely better for growth we'd guess
this group would grow more but arm and
thigh growth was similar between both
the 2011 paper had virtually an
identical design and found the same
thing so one of the papers found longer
rest were better while two find similar
gains between decreasing rest time and
resting for 2 minutes we'll mention
these two papers again a little later
but as remarked in this 2014 review no
study had demonstrated greater hypy with
shorter rests except a study published
in the very same year it found in older
men resting for 1 minute between sets
led to Greater hypo Fe than resting for
4 minutes between sets now before you go
and crash your head against the wall in
confusion and curse science the devil is
in the details both groups perform the
same number of reps with the same load
this is a problem because doing this
with shorter rest between sets means you
get closer to failure than if you use
longer rests which is potentially a
sound explanation as to why they saw
better gains the fact is regardless of
the rest time between sets we use we
want to train two or close to failure
and this is what the other papers did
you know what what else did this
probably the most popular research paper
ever on rest time between sets published
in
2016 trained subjects performed these
exercises with these variables after
training three times per week for 8
weeks muscle growth was overall better
when resting for 3 minutes between sets
compared to 1 minute fast forwarding yet
another year forward a 2017 systematic
review summarized the landscape well
novel findings in trained subjects
suggest a possible Advantage for longer
rests they even mentioned a study that
found after trained individuals
performed a leg extension and leg press
with reps to failure muscle protein
synthesis was overall better when
resting for 5 minutes between sets
compared to 1 minute this was despite
the fact temporary increases in
testosterone were larger with a 1 minute
condition at this present moment we now
have evidence to believe temporary
increases in anabolic hormones likely
play virtually no role in muscle
hypertrophy
the scientific literature essentially
remains here no longer did it seem
justified to say short rests are
undeniably superior for muscle growth
rather if anything we're seeing better
gains with longer rests I guess you
could say the supremacy of short rest
was shortlived and it didn't take long
for long rest to be speculated as better
anyhow you would have noticed in all the
studies mentioned so far we just compare
two different rest times but one what
about comparing multiple different rest
times of course a single study could do
this but we don't have that at least not
yet regardless this is where the new
meta analysis comes into play the
researchers used an approach that
enabled the comparison between multiple
different rest
[Music]
times the researchers combin the results
of multiple studies including much of
the papers we mentioned Plus some others
we've not yet fully touched on firstly
when simply comparing shorter rest
defined a 60 seconds or less between
sets to longer rest defined as more than
60 seconds between sets muscle
hypertrophy tended to be better with a
longer rest for both the arms and thighs
when the researchers divided rest time
into four categories we can actually see
the intermediate rest time tended to see
the greatest effect so does that mean
intermediate rest times are
unquestionably long enough it does not
the 95 % credible interval what's widest
for this rest time 95% credible
intervals tell us there's a 95%
probability that the true effect lies
within the interval given the observed
data also the credible intervals of all
rest time show substantial overlap and
importantly the results of a network
meta analysis conducted by the
researcher simply revealed uncertainty
about the benefits of resting more than
intermediate durations so what can we
even infer from this data viewing these
results from a different angle we can
visually see all rest times led to
pretty great hypertrophy this
underscores how rest time is definitely
not the most important factor for
building muscle something we shouldn't
forget yet we still see better gains
with longer versus shorter rests but as
for how long is long enough the analysis
emphasizes the possibility somewhere
around 90 seconds could be enough but
don't make the error thinking this is a
strong conclusion further pointing to
this the studies behind this meta
analysis were quite different they
included the 2009 paper and the 2016 one
but they also included the 2010 and 2011
papers that compare 2 minutes of rest to
another group that reduced their rest
time down to 30 seconds in the analysis
this latter group was considered to rest
80 Seconds between sets the average time
they rested but you could say resting 80
Seconds between sets every session is
very different to decreasing rest times
across the weeks the 2014 one conducted
an older men that was confounded by the
group's likely training at different
proximities from failure was involved
and finally this 2007 study conducted on
untrained women comparing 20 to 80
Seconds of rest was also included
considering all this although the nature
of the analysis enabled us to make
comparisons between different rest times
it's still true we want more quality
studies that compare all the combination
you may still want to consider that the
most relevant and well-designed paper
found in trained people resting 3
minutes produced larger gains than 1
minute so what should you do when we
consider more pieces of the puzzle I
feel there are some solid suggestions we
can
[Music]
make based on all the evidence currently
available on Earth we can generally say
that longer rests tend to be better than
shorter rests but it's difficult to
truly say how long is enough but knowing
full well that rest time isn't the most
critical Factor you could just rest
however long you feel you need and many
people do this with great success this
may lead you to resting longer with
compound exercises but shorter with
isolation exercises the research isn't
developed enough for us to know if the
ideal rest time truly differs between
compound and isolation exercises we know
the 2009 paper finding 2.5 minutes was
better than 1 minute used a solid
combination of both compound and
isolation exercises whereas the 2016 one
finding 3 minutes was better than a
minute predominantly used compound
exercises but a 2017 paper we've not
mentioned yet and also wasn't involved
in the newest meta analysis had subjects
predominantly trained with arm isolation
exercises and fascinatingly found 30
seconds of rest between sets tended to
produce greater arm growth than 3
minutes of rest between sets although
though the group resting 30 seconds did
use a lighter load while the group
resting 3 minutes used a heavier load
this is actually why this study wasn't
included in the new meta analysis but
we've seen many times at the house of
hypertrophy that provided your training
too or close to failure reps between 6
and 35 can produce similar hypertrophy
so perhaps it's not truly a confounder
either way I would still like to see
this study replicated before we
confidently assert anything r regardless
this is the recommendation that may be
most practical for most if longer rest
between sets are a problem as you can't
work out for that long using something
called antagonistic super sets can help
you save time while still technically
resting longer between sets we've
dissected this in an older video at the
house of
hypertrophy considering the conflicting
information across the web things can
get pretty confusing about how you may
want to train I hope the videos at the
house of H pery go some way to clearing
up this confusion but our highquality
partner the alpha progression app may
also assist you an extremely
well-designed plan generator can help
you generate an evidence-based muscle
building program 100% tailored to your
needs this can take you less than a time
you take to brush your teeth there are
over a quadrillion input combinations on
which your plan is based and you can
still personalize things during workouts
the app analyzes your performance and
suggests how you may progress to sustain
muscle gains graphs display your
long-term progress and there's a huge
exercise database of some of the best
muscle building movements with simple
video and text instructions try out all
the premium features free for 2 weeks
with a link in the description and
comments and if you like it and choose
to go beyond the link gives you 20% off
a
[Music]
subscription let's say you wanted to
train with shorter rests but still want
to get as much growth as humanly
possible I think there are two things
you may find interesting firstly
performing more sets with shorter rest
could be highly effective this 2020
paper demonstrates this they found in
untrained subjects performing the leg
press for three sets per session resting
for 3 minutes between sets produced
greater quad gains than resting for 1
minute but performing four to five sets
per session with one minute of rest
managed to produce similar gains to the
three sets with 3 minutes of rest
secondly remember that pretty much every
study we've seen lasted 8 to 12 weeks
but maybe you just adapt to short rest
over the long term so perhaps extra sets
aren't necessarily even needed let me
briefly detail three areas that
potentially indirectly allude to this in
the AFF mentioned 1987 paper
bodybuilders commonly rested 10 to 90
seconds between sets while powerlifters
rested longer when the researchers got
all the subjects to train with a workout
just involving 10 seconds of rest
between sets the bodybuilders were
better able to maintain intensity across
the sets than the powerlifters
potentially due to various endurance
adaptations that made them more fatigue
resistant recall the 2010 and 2011
papers found that gradually decreasing
rest time across weeks was able to
produce similar hypertrophy to resting 2
minutes between sets so perhaps this
also points to how gradually decreasing
rest time enables your body to accustom
itself to short arrests finally this
2021 study caught my eye trained
subjects trained their lower body three
times per week a normal group trains
with sets of eight reps with 2 minutes
of rest between sets but a Blood Flow
Restriction group used Blood Flow
Restriction bands and trained with
lighter loads higher reps and just
rested 45 seconds between sets after 9
weeks of training quad growth as well as
slow and fast switch fiber growth was
simp simar between both groups in other
words this study technically found that
a program involving 45 seconds of rest
between sets was able to produce similar
gains to another involving 2 minutes of
rest between sets in trained subjects
although very much speculative and
possibly wrong perhaps The Blood Flow
Restriction further promoted various
endurance likee adaptations that
contributed to the body becoming
accustomed to Shorter rests if you're
someone who's currently using longer
rest but wants the experiment with
transitioning to shter rest and you're
not a fan of Performing extra sets the
pins comment details how I recommend you
do this if none of this interests you
rest assured that taking longer rest
between sets is perfectly fine after all
we've seen multiple studies
demonstrating this and this notion of
you adapting to Shorter rest is
currently very much
hypothetical thank you for making it to
the end end of the video here's the
summary points feel free to check out
the alpha progression app or our recent
deep dive into building the triceps