if you have short time to train but you
want big results what do you do I have
at least six
recommendation hey folks Dr Mike here
for Renaissance periodization training
the least to get the most the hostess
with the
mostest how do you do minimalist
training for muscle growth which is to
say how do you train the least amount of
time if you still want some oh some
gains come on big busy dad come on grad
student get in the gym gains for
everyone today we will talk about
minimalist programming but to set a few
expectations and get in a few caveats
yes this is a science channel so it has
to get lame for a few seconds stay with
me I'll definitely give some program
samples but this video is more about
giving you guys a theoretical
understanding don't worry it's not over
complicated of how to make your own
programs that are minimalist and take
the least amount of time possible for
the best results that you can get in a
short time once you know these
principles definitely give you a sample
program or two to follow along with but
you're going to be able to make your own
programs and program for your clients if
you have some and really really do a
good job you know was it give a man a
fish teach a man a fish that was never
into fish but uh whatever that analogy
is all about you can use the RP
hypertrophy app link in description to
make all this super seamless and
effortless and all auto organized you
don't have to use it but it's a good
idea so you give that some thought after
all
um this is really tough to say out
loud my Butlers are trying to start a
union because they actually want more
money to buy even more Lamborghinis
which is what they do for me and on the
one hand I the collective action I love
it you know um it's great civil rights
or whatever Union shit but but also I
don't like them having a lot of power I
don't like them being friends with each
other or agreeing with each other Mutiny
is always just a short bit away and I am
a Russian so Stalin kind of killed all
those people off all the same time what
do you am I even saying I don't know I'm
just saying just get that app you feel
me your boy needs money caveats about
minimalist
training minimalist training and I hate
it when people don't mention this or
they actively try to steer you into the
wrong direction minimalist training will
get you minimalist results it can get
you good results but never great results
because great results a relative and
your best results are achieved by full
send training there is not a plan I can
give you that'll give you the same
results as if you trained like Jared
feather ifb Pro and did 10 sessions a
week mostly uh one a days and two a days
grouped together it's just not going to
happen you're not going to get 10 hours
worth of hypertrophy from three hours of
training it's just not possible I wish
it was I would fucking train three hours
fuck 10 hours it's just not going to be
a
thing next so contextualize that this
stuff will work great but it won't work
as good as it possibly can nothing
replaces hard work period next we're
only going to talk about hypertrophy in
this video if you want the quickest way
to get strong get it powerful and get
fast that's maybe another video we'll do
down the line let me know in the
comments below if you even interested in
a video like that turns out I know other
things I went to school for sports for a
long time so I can talk about it just
talk about muscles lately and just Flex
my own mirror look at my genitals like
anyone else would um and this is not a
video about training to maintain you can
train to maintain your results even less
work and even less time than what I'm
going to describe to you but training
for maintenance means you're not
improving and you guys probably want to
improve so what are the principles that
allow you to get the most from the
least if you have short time to train
but you want big results what do you do
I have at least six
recommendations first ditch any lift
that requires long warm-ups if you
deadlift and you're strong and you can
pull five plates for reps and you have
to take your time and warm-ups which is
a good idea for something like deadlift
you're going to be deadlifting for 30
fucking minutes until you actually do
your first work set you want a short
workout that really crushes your muscles
gets you muscle growth nothing that
requires long warm-ups is is is possible
anymore let me give you an example
squats I don't know man long warm-ups
it's possible to do them but in many
contexts it won't be a good idea lunges
usually people don't warm up a lot for
lunges then you're totally good to go
next ditch any lift or more technically
bias yourself marginally away from lifts
that require a lot of setup Andor tear
down deadlifts are another terrible
example put a fuck and weights on the
bar here's another one the hip thrust
traditional with the barbell I've seen
like 120 pound girls do five fucking
plates on a side how fucking long does
it take to put the plates on there also
it's on the ground if you don't have a
deadlift Jack you got to roll it on the
two and a half roll it back you're not
getting in and out of the gym quick if
you're doing lifts that have a lot of
set up and tear down so it should be
kind of go go go kind of stuff body
weight moves are great D Bell moves are
great preloaded barbell moves are great
but shit where you have to slide weights
on and off machines can be great if you
at a gym where you can get access to
them relatively quickly it's not a super
busy period selectorized boom you go if
it's stacking plates and stuff like that
that takes a long time number three use
as many compound lifts as possible and
as few isolations and also use compounds
that taxs multiple muscles relatively
evenly versus biasing to one so if you
say compound movements and you choose
the wide grip bench yes the wide grip
bench taxes your front delts your chest
and your triceps however it barely taxes
your triceps it taxes your chest a lot
it is a compound in name and in
actuality but as an effect it really
just trains one muscle at a time so if
you just did wide grip bench and you say
yep chest and triceps both taken care of
saved a ton of time two exercises in one
that's not not really true you really do
need to do more work for your tricep you
just didn't save yourself any time at
all however a close crit bench press
especially one in which you place the
bar not at your nipple line but the
bottom position is a little bit above
your nipples can be oh I said nipples
twice and I'm touching myself now Scott
video guy what kind of channel are we
running here
anyway Scott's only response was focuses
the camera a little closer if you do a
more of a JM press combo close grip
bench you can get a fucking ball or
peack stimulus and an amazing tricep
stimulus at the same time another
example wide RP pull-ups cool they train
the shit out of your back your arms a
little bit underhand close grip pull-ups
oh now we're talking about a lot of
bicep a lot of rear delt and a shitload
of back now we're winning so choose more
compound lifts and lifts that tend to
hit more muscle groups than just one at
a time next Point number four low rir is
the way insert as many Mandalorian memes
as you like into the SC conversation low
R means what very few reps in reserve
we're talking about one rep in reserve
zero reps in reserve or all the way to
psychotic failure you're not you don't
have a lot of time in the gym and you're
not worried about fatigue because you
don't train that often you're GNA want
every set to be as effective as possible
because you don't have to worry about
fatigue accumulating over the weeks and
weeks you just don't train enough to
actually have that happen much yeah
you're going to want to go really close
to failure and everything and that's
really good next when you're choosing
the structure of your program can you
do set rest set rest set yes but you're
resting a lot and that's pissing away a
lot of time what you can do is reduce
the hypertrophy stimulus in any one set
a little bit by instead of resting you
do an antagonist or unrelated superet
during that time here's an example close
git bench rack walk over to pull-ups
underhead pull-ups wait 30 seconds till
you're back to breathing normally
is because it's a rapid you don't want
it too normal and roll right back to
benches so it's muscles that you aren't
using in one lift you use them in the
other lift and you stack them one after
another one after another one after
another what ends up happening is while
one muscle is recovering the other
muscle is being trained and so on and so
forth you can take 30 second breaks or
minute breaks between the super sets or
even 10-second breaks or even no breaks
at all if you're really in G cardio
shape that gives you a double whammy of
can kind of AOL a cardio stimulus
because if you're minimalist training
you probably don't have time to do your
own cardio and it gives you a really
good hypertrophy stimulus now would you
grow more if you rested properly yes but
that would require way more time than
you have since you're short on time you
still grow amazing if you go back toback
super
sets next lastly things like my reps you
do a bunch of curls rest for 5 10
seconds do bunch more rest for 5 10
seconds do as many as you can rack and
then switch to tricep extensions those
my rep sets and drop sets so if you're
doing cable curls you do 100 go to
failure Clank down 80 failure 60 failure
and then go to tricep pushdowns those
kinds of my reps and drop sets anything
that can condense the amount of work you
do minimizing the rest time and keeping
you closer to failure and thus in that
hypertrophy Zone that's really good
stuff so these six points screenshot
that shit remember it and when you're
designing program for your clients or
for yourself that is rapid fire a decent
amount of hypertrophy stimulus in a very
short time if you stick to these
principles man you can't go wrong it's
going to work really really well right
there sample program for you guys I'm
not going to belabor the point all the
sets are 20 R rep max loads your 20 RM
on every single one of these lifts
that's not a hard rule but a 20 RM can
get you in ball or cardio stimulus and
it's not so heavy that your reps are
going to go down to one and two by the
end of the shit and you don't have to
warm up a lot for sets of 20 so if
you're doing sets of 5 to 10 to be safe
you got to do a lot of warm-up sets to
be able to lift that much weight but if
you start with sets of 20 you might have
to do like one or two warm-up sets and
then you just fucking
go each one of these has a 1x myette
pause which means when it says two sets
of close G bench that means after you do
close grip bench close to failure you
rack it rest for five to 10 seconds take
it out again and there as many reps as
you can that is one my rep pause then
your set is over then you go and do your
underhand pull Downs when you do
underhand pull Downs you do a set to
failure rack it rest for 5 to 10 seconds
hit it again and then you go and
transition back this is some fucking
high-intensity shit 30 second breaks
between all sets so you can interpret
that in one of two ways both are fine if
you're not the greatest cardio shape you
do close grip bench for example you rest
30 seconds you do underhand pull on pull
Downs you rest 30 seconds you repeat or
if you're in pretty fucking good shape
or really want to condense the time
frame close grip bench No Rest under
underand pull-ups sorry underhand pull
Downs as labeled then rest 30 seconds
then two sets then rest 30 whichever way
you do it you can 30 seconds is just an
average recommendation it could be 45 if
you need it it could be 15 if you need
it it could be zero if you're a real
fucking baller take a look at all those
lifts that's a Monday Thursday
program I'm not going to belabor talking
you through this whole program it's kind
of obvious stuff SS even though
sometimes I made it capitalized and
sometimes didn't you know what I'm just
going to fix that now so you guys don't
have to obsess about why some of the SS
capitalized and some
not and and and we're good okay um SS
stands for
superet SS also stands for a very bad
thing that happened in the 1940s but uh
I have so many jokes to make about that
I don't think I'm Jewish enough to make
those jokes so I canting cancelled so
I'll just shut the fuck
up there's the program give it some
thought one thing I do want you to
notice is the following and it's a
little bit of a principle here you'll
notice that the lifts the muscles we
start the lift on in Monday sessions are
the opposite ones we start in Thursday
so lift number one on Monday is close
grip bench underhand pull Downs are
second on Thursday lift number one is
dumbbell two arm bent row which is back
and biceps just like underhand pull-ups
or underhand pull Downs were and that's
super seted to incline dumbbell press
which is uh a pushing lift so basically
you have a situation where if you're
doing multiple days in a week like this
which you probably should be at least
two days a week and get you in some good
shape you don't want to bias you could
to always start with chest and triceps
then your back and biceps are always
going to be a little bit more tired and
you're not going to see as good of
development but if one day you start
with one a muscle group or a series of
muscle groups and then the next day you
start with the opposite one you get a
very even development it's better for
your joints and conductive tissues all
winners all around
so to make your own program you can use
the sample program verbatim no problem
you can even type it into the RP
hypertrophy app and it'll display it for
you and auto regulate all the stuff
it'll be
great mix and match any of the listed
combo lifts you can use any exercises of
choice that you like or have available
to you again REM remember the principles
use the compound movements that tax a
bunch of muscles at the same time etc
etc it's not a hard rule but you can
still do some curls and push downs but
you know that's if have more time to
give if you're not getting a great
stimulus increase the number of sets if
and when you have more time but often
time will be a constraint and you can
add in as many days as you like a
program just like this which is sort of
whole body every day you can do twice a
week three times a week and even four
times a week no problem each of these
workouts if you're pushing it should
take you something like 30 minutes to
perform guys this is not a 30 minutes to
handwave at that this is a brutal
fucking 30 minutes so make sure you have
another 30 minutes in your lunch hour to
shower and to shutter in a cold sweat
sitting in the locker room afterwards
because these workouts will fuck you up
in the best way possible you will be
working that ass so get ready to get in
shape give this a shot and my last
reminder to you is this you go hard as
fuck in every single
set because you really probably won't
overreach
cuz you don't have enough time to put in
that much high volume of work per week
cumulative fatigue is not really a big
concern go hard you can take a dead with
necessary bonus round your cardio's
getting good as fuck so if you want
hypertrophy you don't have a ton of time
maybe you have a total of one hour in
the whole week to train split that up
into two half hour periods get that ass
in the gym do some of these fucking
super sets it's going to be tough it's
going to be brutal you're going to get
great results and you're not going to
have to spend a lot of time so you can
go back to do any things you love
like uh managing your Lego City
collection even though you're not 8
years old anymore um some people have
passions that are childlike and they
continue into their uh later
years or you can have friends fuck that
see you guys next
time