hey folks dr mike here with renaissance
periodization new series
breaking through strength plateaus a
whole series about how to get stronger
if you are stuck in a rut and this video
is going to be a nice
nerd out video about actually defining a
plateau and making sure you are at one
so you can maximum benefit from all of
the other videos to come every other
well every week of the series good god i
said that terribly
alright
maybe you came to this video because you
are
stuck not making strength gains
but in order for this to be technically
true
you have to have not gotten stronger at
all in whatever lift that's bothering
you in some time
let's unpack that to see how deep we can
get through that rabbit hole until we're
eating rabbit and i mean like the rabbit
jumped in the hole and you burrowed down
mouth first and you ate parts of the
rabbit and he's still alive and blood's
splurting out
ray what the hell is wrong with me
all right
few requirements here to actually put
the stamp of i am plateaued onto your
whatever lift you have let's say bench
press
first is the duration requirement
so here's what this means if you trained
yesterday and then you tested your max
today you benched a shield yesterday you
tested your max today it didn't go up it
maybe even went down are you plateaued
no because you're just testing way too
soon you have to allow for recovery to
occur so you can be
close to your best again to really be
able to see if your strength is going up
why do i say this does this sound
ridiculous to you in high school myself
and pretty much every other person i
knew who was training in the gym maxed
out on bench pretty much every time they
were at the gym which could have been
like four times or two times or one time
a week it was just all the time and as
soon as the max stopped going up they're
like i'm plateauing and it's like what
you might just be tired from yesterday
right
now
okay so at least has to be maybe two or
three days later when you're healed and
ready to go again but hold on it has to
be longer than that
some weeks are just gonna be better than
others by chance okay
um
you don't want to say i'm plateaued when
it's just normal variation of
preparedness right like some days you
just don't have it and some days you're
really happy so you don't want to like
have a bad day or a bad week and be like
oh man that's it i got to restructure my
whole training program in order to
attack this plateau it might not have a
plateau
so
you say okay maybe like multiple weeks
maybe but here's the thing in a multiple
week properly designed mesocycle when
you're training really hard
your fitness your actual underlying
ability to be strong goes up
and your fatigue also goes up and
towards the end it goes up at least as
fast as fitness does eventually make you
a little weaker towards the end or close
to getting weak before you shut it down
deload wash away that fatigue
and then once the fatigue is gone
you can see
how strong you are at the beginning of
the last mesocycle to after the deload
the beginning of this one
that's how you properly test your
strength you have to be in the same
fatigue environment because you could be
underlying making a shitload of strength
gains but because your fatigue is also
going up you're like fuck fuck fuck i
met a plateau i'm doing something wrong
you do one d load all of a sudden you
gain like
10 pounds on your bench you're like what
the fuck dude am i just training too
hard no you're training fine you just do
a deload
why is this a thing because people talk
about this all the time and they get it
completely twisted guys are like yeah
man high volume program sucked shut me
down i switched back to my old fucking
low volume program and it got strong
again like uh-huh or you gained strength
in the high volume program and then your
low volume program allowed the fatigue
to dissipate so it was actually the fact
that you you didn't gain in the low uh
volume strength program you usually do
you sucked and then you tried a high
volume program made you stronger but it
masked it by fatigue and you say oh shit
i'm not strong i maybe maybe even got a
little weaker at the end and then you
did essentially a deload with a low
volume program and then you get these
delayed gains it happens all the time so
the conclusion here
is that we really want
to have a whole mesocycle all the way
from accumulation to deload of no prs
to conclude at least tentatively that
okay maybe we're in a plateau any
conclusions within the mesocycle are
kind of null and void there's just not
enough signal to noise ratio for us to
be confident saying like that's it dude
that's it's fucking there it's kind of
like if you have a similar idea if you
have like
uh you know video camera footage a
fucking alien spaceship and someone
looks at the camera like check out this
recording and it's you doing this and
then there's some kind of fucking blob
in the sky and then you're like oh and
you on the camera freaking out and then
the camera cuts out and like what
happened like i don't know man i hit the
power button by accident like okay so
what's what was that a fucking aliens
bro i just showed you like
was it though i need a little bit more
stability a little bit more like let me
look at this thing and really make sure
it's there to be like okay it's fucking
aliens right same idea here we just want
to be sure i've seen tons of people
including myself fuck this all up
completely and just be like oh shit i'm
plateaued no you're not finish the meso
deload try again and if in the next mess
though you still suck maybe you're
plateaued but a lot of times in the next
message after a fresh deload oh my god
you feel amazing you hit a 5 10 20 or 5
5 10 15 20 pound pr you're fucking
golden there's nothing to worry about
and here's the big ticket item no need
to change your program radically because
here's the thing the rest of the series
implies that if you do detect a plateau
it's time to change some shit up but if
you're actually not plateaued you're
changing shut up would be pointless and
may even make you worse because you
could have a great formula that just
completely fucking up
next requirement
the existence of stability requirement
all right so it's been a mesocycle since
you pr not good news maybe you are
actually uh in a position of being
plateaued maybe that's bad right
but
but
you had final exams
in this this past message cycle whereas
the meso before you're comparing to it
was just normal school work final exams
fucking super stressful weird times you
missed a couple training sessions missed
a few meals missed a few nights sleep
and then you're like fuck fuck i'm
plateaued
yeah and you are but you know why and
it's probably not nothing to do with
training it's the fact that your life
has kind of been a mess right another
example your girlfriend tried to stab
you in your sleep succeeding twice right
so you have like stab wounds in your
chest you're like oh no my bench is down
bro like okay maybe that was a thing or
your dog you were sitting there just
reading a newspaper back in the 1950s
and you watched your dog calmly walk up
to your girlfriend grab a knife and stab
her while both are awake insane insane
stuff not something that you can say oh
i just went to the gym the next day and
had a great workout right
so an
uh more likely one is less you were
traveling a lot or you had a nagging
injury and then you can say you're
plateaued in the technical sense you are
but the recourse isn't to say okay i
need a new plan the recourse is to say i
need whatever's bothering me to go the
fuck away maggie injury would heal
i stop traveling i go to my girlfriend's
funeral jesus christ
visit the dog in a cyber super max
security prison your dog's in there and
he's got those magnetic boots and he's
like
he's locked down and arnold trying to
get him out he's in a submarine oil rig
you've seen all those movies i hope so
in any case once you get all that sorted
then you can sort of run the same
program and see if your strength gains
don't return and with gusto
but if you blame the program for
external circumstances that are fucking
obvious and you had nothing to do with
why would you do that right like you you
know if you have a really awesome car or
you want to go really fast in and it's
missing a tire and you take it out for a
spin like this car doesn't go fast it's
all fucking unstable this car sucks
you're like the tire sucks you could fix
that easy the car itself is probably
fine right so at the very least you need
a mesocycle of relatively normal good
decent training that hasn't resulted
in an again
stable or even got weaker and then we're
probably much more likely at a plateau
next up huge one that people get wrong
all the fucking time i used to do this
all the time back in the day
specificity of testing requirements so
you hit a big one rep max in the month
of may
after a whole month of training for sets
of one to three real specific to one rep
max kind of stuff
in june month after you did a message
cycle mostly of sets of five to ten reps
getting really good at that getting tons
of hypertrophy
then in july you test your 1rm and it
hasn't gone up
so are you plateaued no you just haven't
been training specifically for strength
you probably smashed every single pr in
the 5 to 10 rep range ever but the
nervous system and muscle architecture
changes based on your rep range and how
much force is put through
so you want to make sure that you're
testing specifically to that rep range
now i'm hopefully this is all in the
same lift and the same setup but like if
you test your bench press one month like
this and the other like this you're for
sure just gee you need to watch some
other videos or something but even the
rep range differences can make make it a
thing right so if in july remember in
may you did sets of one to three had a
big pr
in july or sorry in june you hit sets of
five to ten if in july you failed to hit
pr's in sets of five to ten and it was a
good training month yeah maybe you're
plateaued but sets of one to three
that's a whole different thing that's a
whole different thing and
what we need then
in order to be much more sure that we've
hit a plateau
is a mesocycle of relatively normal good
training in a similar rep range and
training style to what we're actually
testing and the same training style and
rep range that we did in our last mazda
cycle
still with no pr's and then we can be
like okay fuck i'm plateaued right why
is this a thing
i've literally written a bunch of
programs for people in powerlifting and
various other sports in which i say hey
here's sets of five to ten or five to
fifteen we're going to put on a lot of
size you won't get stronger until later
when we go back to lower reps and you
can really express that new size and
strength by teaching it to be strong
again and they're like yeah blah blah
sweet sounds great send me the program i
send them the program i've literally had
this happen verbatim numerous times they
do the program because they max out
before the program having done lots of
heavy lifting they do the program no
heavy lifting sets of five to ten and
right after the program actually they
combine a few of these they they max out
in the last week of accumulation maximum
fatigue and having been optimized to
train sets of 5 to 10 they max out 1rm
and they're like hey man uh i don't know
how to tell you this but i got weaker on
your program so no thanks for further
services and it takes me everything not
to email them back and be like do you
understand that you are fucking idiot
but i'm a nice guy so i emailed that to
myself
from a routed address and then i forget
that i did that and then i received the
email like what the fuck is saying to me
i'm an idiot what the fuck kind of gall
and i have my hacker friends do a back
trace and it turns out i'm the villain
but in any case shit like that happens
all the time don't let it happen to you
okay it's got to be specific it has to
be an honest-to-goodness attempt
at a pr in good conditions training for
that shit and then if you do that twice
in a row and you still haven't made any
gains
now you're at a plateau
right
you would think i was done but alas
there is at least one more point to make
a more painful point so here's the deal
there's a rate of gains requirement
you deadlifted let's say 200 kilos for a
set of five pr at the time last
mesocycle this meso you did 202.5 kilos
up for a set of five another pr
but
the month before the month before the
meet of the month before you made
roughly 10 kilo jumps every time and
this time it was only a two and a half
kilo jump are you at a plateau
of course the answer is you're fucking
not
we'll talk about why in the next slide
but
a lot of people have actually asked me
this or similar questions
on social media and i'm always baffled
by it respectfully baffled and anytime i
say like oh that guy's dumb or anything
baffled that's a stupid question please
understand that i've been the fucking
stupidest person in every room my entire
life on various situations i've made all
these fucking mistakes when i was like a
freshman in high school oh my god
there's not a mistake i didn't make my
actually
uh when i was a sophomore i was uh
a superstar student super nerd and every
single so a parent teacher conferences
every single teacher was like your kid's
going places some kind of weird fucking
baby genius or something something wrong
with him he doesn't have any friends but
jesus never gets any answers wrong
except for my weight training teacher in
gym class said you know he he he maxes
out and bench presses every day and he
should probably do that every other day
to allow for recovery that was like the
only bad review i got in pta is
awful for me it really cost me
consternation because my parents came
back and my mom came back and she was
like well this is what your pe teacher
said i was like that motherfucker and i
was like god damn he's probably right i
just had no idea i said you kept going
so in any case
is this a moronic thing to think oh i pr
by 2 or 2.5 kilos but i'm at a plateau
it's totally moronic and there's a good
reason why and i've made that mistake
before
disappointing gains versus no gains okay
just to to do a quick side tangent same
idea different variables i've had people
message me and say hey like i really am
eating a ton and i can't gain weight i
used to just answer that straight up
i'll hear some strategies now i don't do
that anymore painful lesson
now i go i gotcha what was your weight a
few months ago i think oh 79 kilos sweet
what was your weight last month and i
got like like 81 i was like ah
so you gain two kilos and they're like
well yeah
i'm like ah so you're not plateaued and
they're like well i mean uh no but it's
just hard to gain you know stupid
motherfucker no shit it's supposed to be
hard to gain you're not supposed to just
be able to eat one spoon of peanut
butter and be fucking random cola the
next day god damn it so what you're
really saying is you have disappointing
gains
relative to some arbitrary measure
probably what you used to do before when
you were a child and growing up and
gaining a kilo a month
so there's a difference between
disappointing gains and no gains and
here is the slide for that
a lot of people who say they plateaued
and if you're a coach or personal
trainer which you may be they'll tell
you that shit too they have not
many are gaining just slower than a
couple of things slower than they're
used to gaining slower than others they
know are gaining even rumor mills on the
fucking
interwebs they'll be like well i heard
what's his name put on five pounds a
month wow really is that even true you
talked to that guy and there's like i
don't know who the fuck said that right
or here's the fucking worst one
slower gains than they'd like
right people pick random numbers out of
a hat and be like i want to gain you
know five pounds a month on my bench all
right for how long for forever oh sweet
you should be world's strongest man like
i don't know two years from now it'll be
amazing
and they'll have these weird reference
standards like why didn't give five
pounds on bench this month what did you
gain like well i don't know but last
month i gained five and all the other
months and i'll probably gain five but
it'll just take me two months this time
like well you're not at a plateau your
gains have slowed like everybody else
has ever lifted weights
the fact that you are gaining
means you're doing something right
even if it's slower gains than you used
to
you can still watch the rest of the
series and make some changes based on
the videos we have to present how to
break plateaus because a lot of its
commonalities with how to enhance
training and also how to break plateaus
if your training really sucks balls
but because you are still making gains
in this case you're not actually
plateaued you know that you have one
really important thing you have
something that works not ideally not
mystically not like you'd like maybe not
like it used to work before but it
fucking actually does something
and then you have to be a little ginger
with the changes
it's like operating on a patient who's
still alive because the guy's dead
fucking cut whatever you want doesn't
matter like what a fucking fucking
frankenstein your dumb ass put you
together turn the lights on or whatever
the fuck how frankstein worked lightning
windmill i don't know i was high as fuck
when i saw van helsing last time
probably the best way to see that movie
uh but in any case like if the guy's
still alive you've got to be like uh
should we cut this artery like i don't
know maybe it's useful so maybe there's
parts of your training program that you
really don't want to fuck with because
you're like well it does work to make me
gains maybe i'll just fiddle with a
little bit a little bit more volume a
little bit less a little higher
frequency a little lower you don't want
to cart blind fuck the thing up and be
like i hear a new program which a lot of
people do if they get disappointing
gains they shouldn't they should just
modify the regular program in most cases
now if you really are making no actual
gains you truly plateaued by all these
metrics you can be much more liberal
with the changes including a whole cloth
deletion of your program and typing up
something new because it's all bath
water and no baby right you don't want
to throw the baby out with a bath water
but if you're not making any gains
you're
looking at the tub where's the baby
doesn't exist right so
make sure you're not doing any of this
shit and if you are in a coach or a
personal trainer you don't have to be a
dick like i've been in this video but
ask clients some follow-up questions to
make sure that when they tell you i'm
plateaued they're really plateaued
because what you want is that kernel of
oh they're actually not plateaued
they're just making gains a little
slower than maybe they're used to or
maybe they want to and then there's
something to work with but if they
really are just making no gains at all
fuck i mean you could be pretty pretty
solid be like hey man i'll just write
you a new program all together because
i'll tell you this even if they're
making no gains as a programmer myself i
still want their history of what they
used to do that they at least think
works or should work for them so that
it's not
radically different but truth be told if
they're making no gains i don't know
it's kind of a blank check to write a
completely different program because
what could they say like hey why are we
doing fives i usually do threes in you
go huh
how strong are three's got neither uh
not at all i've played totally exactly
shut the fuck up through these five
right but if they have made some gains
to you as a programmer it's really
important to be like
this is working maybe let's fiddle with
it and not fucking completely messed up
altogether
so
conclusion
in order to conclude that you are truly
at a plateau you need to hit pretty much
three things at least one relatively
normal good meso of training
training in a similar rep range and
training style to the last measure that
you're comparing to
and then that training for that whole
next mesocycle results in zero pr's no
personal bests maybe weaker or maybe
tying them
and
if you're not at a plateau buy this
three item checklist actually you did
make a pr or whatever or your training
was a little lacking you when you take
another run at it
of course you can feel free to modify
your training and even use the videos in
the series but fundamentally you're onto
something decent and don't completely
fuck it up
but if you are plateauing
actually plateauing through this sort of
three triple checklist here
then gee whiz you probably need some
help and we'll see you next week for the
next video on how to actually solve your
problem see that in the meantime don't
get stabbed by your girlfriend or your
dog