because a lot of times you want a meal
replacement but you're like your shit is
sitting in your car and it's like Kansas
in fucking July and it's like 110Â° for
no goddamn reason you come back and
someone's like you're going to eat that
turkey sandwich and you're like I think
the turkey sandwich now has a
civilization of bacteria growing on it
I'm going to pass on that shit but if
it's just egg protein powder and waxy
maze carbs I don't think that actually
ever goes bad as long as it's dry you
can eat it you can Discover It years
later in your car what the fuck is this
is this cocaine or is this waxy maze oh
only one way to find out Noe hey Scott
I've never taken drugs cuz I'm a good
person and not a degenerate like you but
if you drink like a/4 kilo of cocaine
are you going to die yeah you're going
to die probably just explode to be
honest from Joy you're like you go
through a real fast high you're like I
don't feel anything 30 seconds later
you're like I want to meet everyone and
say hi to the whole world and then 30
seconds later you're like I'm just dead
fast ride