people always want to know how strong
should I be after my first year of
training that vary so much with body
weight and genetics she's asking where
you should be yeah where you should be
okay because you know some people are
like XYZ you should be this strong but
it's just not like based in any reality
so honestly just do your best to see how
strong you get because if we told you a
number you could easily beat it and be
like wow I'm really a step ahead but you
actually have really good genetics and
you're not trying hardly at all and you
think you're overachieving but you're
not or if we give you another number and
you under cut it by a ton and you feel
bad about yourself but it's actually
your genetics that's limiting you so
there's really no purpose I think in
having such numbers