[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday where every week
we're going to be breaking down the lost
art and science of training technique
for one specific movement this week
we're going to be looking at the bicep
curl and in particular how to get the
most biceps bang for your buck out of
the barbell curl and while the curl
appears to be a pretty straightforward
exercise on the surface as we'll see
there's actually quite a bit more
complexity and muscular involvement than
many people realize okay so with this
movement we're going to be performing
mainly elbow flexion so basically just
bending your elbow which contrary to
popular belief is in fact handled mainly
by the brachialis muscle that very
powerful muscle that sits underneath the
biceps and even though you can't see it
superficially when you flex your arms
building this muscle will push the
biceps brachii up and out more which
will increase their appearance of size
as well now of course since the biceps
brachii do cross the elbow joint they
will be doing a lot of work here as well
and these two prime movers will get
assistance from the brachioradialis
muscle on the back of the forearm now
we're also performing wrist supination
here so twisting your palm up which will
be handled mainly by the biceps and also
the supinator muscle of the forearm and
supination is actually really important
for targeting the biceps because that
more powerful underlying brachialis
muscle can't contribute to supination
meaning the biceps will have to handle
the brunt of the load here also when
viewing the curl from the side you can
see that some degree of shoulder flexion
is happening which is fine the biceps in
particular the long head that forms the
biceps peak assists the front delt with
shoulder flexion since the biceps also
crosses the shoulder joint and can help
bring the arm up like in a front raise
finally throughout the curl there will
be an isometric wrist flexion
contraction where the muscles of the
anterior forearm prevent the wrist from
bending backwards maintaining that
neutral wrist position throughout the
curl now i put the barbell curl easy bar
curl and dumbbell curl on pretty much
even footing here the main advantage of
the barbell curl is that you can more
easily apply progressive overload with
minimal loading creases week to week
adding just 2.5 pounds to each side as
needed whereas with dumbbells you may
have to make bigger jumps of 5 pounds
per side which could compromise form or
delay load progression and while the
barbell does allow for a slightly more
supinated wrist position than the easy
bar i don't think this difference is
practically relevant especially if you
queue for supination as we'll discuss in
a minute and if the easy bar feels
better for you or more comfortable on
your wrists then i think you should just
go with that and we'll return to the
dumbbell curl in a little bit okay so
generally speaking you want to load the
bar with light to moderate load in a
relatively higher rep zone around 8 to
20 reps because loading the biceps too
heavily will just result in form
breakdown as other muscles come in and
help heave the weight up and throughout
the curl rather than having the amount
of weight at the forefront i think you
really want to focus on improving your
mind muscle connection with the biceps
and squeezing the biceps as you curl one
eight-week training study from
schoenfelding colleagues found that
focusing on squeezing the biceps
resulted in significantly more
hypertrophy than just focusing on moving
the weight so you want to grab the bar
with a comfortable grip with which for
most people will be at just about
shoulder width now because the long head
of the biceps is a stronger shoulder
abductor than the short head taking a
wider grip may target the biceps peak
slightly more however at this point
that's just kind of my own speculation
and it might not actually be worth the
reduced range of motion you get from
going wider and i'm personally not a fan
of the very close grip as it also
reduces range of motion and according to
one source reduces biceps emg amplitude
by 13
relative to a shoulder width grip as a
quick aside when it comes to targeting
the long head or that outer peak dr brad
schoenfeld has recommended performing
exercises where the upper arm is held
behind the body where the long head will
be placed under greater stretch so if
your goal is to maximize the peak in
addition to the basic variable curl you
may want to also include an incline
dumbbell curl or a basin cable curl
where the arm is held back behind the
torso okay back to the barbell curl so
with a comfortable roughly shoulder
width supinated or underhand grip stand
upright with the barbell keeping a
strong shoulder width stance with a
braced core and slightly bent knees now
unlike with the bench press here you
want to purposefully take a more loose
grip with your hands and fingers which
will increase biceps involvement by
minimizing activation of the elbow
flexors of the forearm you want to make
sure that before initiating the curl
your elbows are tucked in comfortably
close to your sides and just before
initiating the curl you want to slightly
flex the shoulder or in other words
bring your arms forward by about 10
degrees and at the same time try tilting
your scapulae posteriorly since the
short head of the biceps attaches on the
front end of the scapula tilting them
posteriorly will pull tension into the
biceps as you begin the curl think about
putting the majority of the pressure on
your pinky and ring fingers rather than
your pointer and middle fingers which
will force the wrist into a more
supinated position further shifting
tension onto the biceps you want to
think about curling the bar out in front
of you in an arc rather than straight up
and let's just look at the difference
here so on the left we're just pulling
the bar straight up and on the right
we're swinging the bar out in an arc
just notice the difference in distance
between the axis of rotation at the
elbow and the center of mass at the
barbell between these two variations
even though the weight is exactly the
same you're going to generate much more
torque and as a result much more tension
on the biceps by curling the bar out
rather than just pulling it straight up
generally as you reach the top end of
the curl you want to maintain a neutral
wrist position not allowing the wrists
to curl in at any point throughout the
range of motion in fact as an advanced
technique you can slightly extend the
wrists at the top which will help take
the forearm muscles out of the movement
even more just be careful when doing
this and if you feel any wrist pain and
then don't do it now as you curl when
viewed from the side there shouldn't be
much movement at the knees hips or lower
back and other than the arms everything
should be pretty much motionless and
locked into position and even though i
don't like to pause at the top of the
curl myself since there will be minimal
tension there you do want to think about
squeezing your biceps to move the weight
including at the top of each rep on the
eccentric again you want to lower the
bar out in an arc while maintaining a
loose grip and forcefully contracting
your biceps the eccentric is just as or
more important than the concentric when
it comes to muscle growth so don't treat
the negative it's just a time to relax
and just let the weight fall i
personally like to think of the negative
as a sort of failed positive where
you're actively resisting the weight on
the way down i personally prefer to
reset every rep at the bottom because it
allows me to regain position and get a
deep breath in which helps maintain
upper body tightness and stability on
the next rep which allows me to better
control the weight and move more load
overall so i would say the most common
error that i see here is the same as
with the row just going too heavy now
i'm not against cheap curls on principle
i think they can have a place in a
program especially if you're really
controlling the eccentric however they
can set you up on a bit of a slippery
slope or you may not be actually
applying progressive overload you may be
in fact applying progressive cheating
where you just progressively get more
and more assistance from the other
muscles down the chain while tension on
the biceps actually goes down or at best
stays the same so i think that a bit of
shoulder flexion up to 10 to 15 degrees
is actually a good thing to get the curl
started but as the hips knees and ankles
start to get involved it starts to
become a totally different exercise now
an arm blaster can actually be really
helpful here as it helps to keep the
shoulders back and enforces a better
lifting posture however you don't want
to use it as a crutch and as with most
exercises you should learn proper form
without the aid of supplemental lifting
gear first another common error that i
see all the time is lack of active
supination
many people will correctly curl with an
underhand grip but then forget to
actively supinate by driving their pinky
and ring fingers into the bar which can
result in a curl where the forearms
perform much more of the work than the
biceps now i want to quickly mention the
standing dumbbell curl here is an
excellent adjunct exercise since it has
the advantage of hitting each arm
individually which can correct for
asymmetries and unlike the barbell you
can start with a neutral wrist position
and then supinate throughout the
concentric now to maximize on this you
want to curl with your pinky finger in
the center of the dumbbell which is
going to force your biceps to fire
harder when performing supination of
course combining exercises is usually
the best way to work around slight
pitfalls in each individual movement so
don't be scared to periodically vary
your routine while using the basic
barbell or easy bar curl as the bread
and butter movement of your arm building
program okay so that's it for this one
guys i've decided that i'm going to
leave the entire technique tuesday
series totally unsponsored so that way i
can just focus on delivering the
information to you guys in its purest
form now these videos will usually take
rashawn and i 30 upwards of 30 hours to
edit
research write film etc so if you've
been benefiting from the series so far
purchasing a program on my website is
the best way that you can support the
work that i'm doing over here on this
channel while at the same time
getting a complete and very applicable
version of some of the stuff i talk
about in my videos so for the release of
this video i've decided i'm going to
knock my arm hypertrophy program down by
30 for the next week which is going to
put it at just 13.99 and there's more
info on that arm hypertrophy program on
my website if you'd like to check it out
um thanks again guys so much for tuning
in and thank you so much for the amazing
feedback on the series so far i really
do appreciate that and it's been really
motivating for me in terms of wanting to
just crank these episodes out every week
and make each one better and better um
so please don't forget to leave me a
like if you enjoyed the video subscribe
so you don't miss future technique
tuesday episodes and i'll see you guys
all here next tuesday