welcome to the gymm you've decided to
embark on a journey of games and we're
here to welcome you and help you through
it the gym a place that often seems
complicated a lot of conflicting
information out there but trust me by
the end of this video you will know
everything that you need to know in
order to make solid muscle gains making
gains is not easy cuz it requires you to
put in work consistently but it can be
relatively simple how do I know I am a a
real doctor at the end of the day also I
have personally went through my own
transformation this is what I looked
like before joining the
gym and look at me
now Look at me
now let's uh start shooting this way uh
the light is bad there and look at me
[Music]
now
making gains for dummies literally the
only video you need to watch at least as
a starting point to learn everything and
a bit more that you need to make muscle
gains to get jacked to get yolked and to
look like you lift so you can finally
unlock the next level of life AKA body
dysmorphia joking aside let's get into
it in this video we're going to cover
training and nutrition and everything
that is important for you to make Gams
let's start with training first and
foremost you need to be doing enough
training volume you need to be doing
enough weekly sets per muscle group so
that you can see meaningful gains now we
know that even as little as one to three
sets per muscle group per week so let's
say one to three sets of bicep curls per
week for our biceps is enough to see
really solid gains but why not spend the
extra few minutes to add a few more sets
and get a bit more out of our training
if we have the time and the recovery
resources to do so as a starting point
being somewhere in the ballpark of 6 to
12 sets per muscle group per week
without counting indirect sets so so for
example looking at biceps again we're
not going to count any of our back work
for our biceps and we're just going to
count direct bicep isolation work that
set range that Weekly set range will be
more than enough for you to make amazing
gains progressing from week to week or
from month to month and progression in
general is something that people make a
huge sort of deal and complicate things
quite a bit when in reality things are
pretty simple as long as you are in the
volume range that we just talked about
as a starting point you can obviously
add more volume as you get more advanced
and be closer to 20 sets per muscle
group per week but as long as you're
doing 6 to 12 sets per muscle group per
week make sure that you're doing your
best to beat your previous gym
performance here and there add a bit
more weight on an exercise do an extra
rep do um an extra couple of reps and
eventually do that extra set just go in
the gym with your mindset being okay I
have to do something more than last time
keep in mind some weeks you won't
necessarily achieve that and those weeks
are not wasted weeks but the idea of
progression is important and you need to
be somewhat challenging yourself
continuously to make meaningful games
pick a couple of exercises that you
really like and keep those in your
rotation for some time those exercises
can be machines free weights or a
combination of both with the ladder
probably being your best bet but if for
any reason you absolutely love doing
just machines or just free weights it's
likely that you're going to be just fine
as as far as growth is concerned we just
mentioned 6 to 12 sets per muscle group
per week which you can spread as you
like now ideally you want to make sure
that those sets are sets where you can
actually Zone in feel the muscle working
and feel like they're productive versus
trying to stack pack them all in one
single session here are some ways that
you can structure your split so that it
makes a bit more sense you could do
upper lower upper lower and have either
a 3-day break or have a day break in
between or start your week earlier by
upper I mean upper body exercises then
lower body exercises and then taking a
day off doing upper and lower again you
could do push pull legs Push Pull legs
where you do all your pushing exercis on
one day then you have another day for
all your pulling exercise and then your
legs and then you start that over again
um you could literally have one leg day
or one push dat depending on your
priorities or you know you may actually
like to do all your weekly volume in
just one session that may be manageable
for you and people have done so many
times in the past which leads me to you
could also do a body part split the
classic bro split where you do day one
chest day two back day three shoulders
and triceps and so on and so forth now
you could also have full body days where
you do different exercises for different
muscle groups and you sort of hit almost
everything in your body with a different
Focus every time and you do two or three
or four full body sessions per week
Depending on time availability and your
own preference don't overthink this hit
6 to 12 sets per muscle group per week
two exercises per muscle group spread
them out throughout the week however you
see fit and the rest will follow overall
frequency whether you hit your biceps
twice or once once or three times per
week does not seem to play a very
crucial role as far as muscle growth is
concerned so again see what works best
for your schedule and just make sure you
get your weekly sets in that's the
number one priority here as far as rep
ranges go you could literally be
anywhere in the 5 to 30 rep range but
for practicality sake try to be
somewhere in the 5 to 15 uh rep range
cuz it may make things a bit more easy
for you to handle versus selecting super
light loads and doing reps on reps on
reps and not really uh knowing whether
you're actually close to failure or
you're just feeling the discomfort of
your muscles and although potentially
not absolutely necessary to take
everything to failure having a few sets
here and there that you actually take to
that point will want ensure that you're
getting the most uh bank for your buck
as far as muscle growth stimulus goes
but also it will allow you to calibrate
your ability to detect how close to
failure you really are so the next time
you can actually know almost for sure
that you are indeed leaving one or two
reps in the tank versus 3 to four cuz
that may play a role as far as hyperf
adaptations go consistency is King
whether you miss that one workout or
whether you have the one week here and
there where you only manage to do one or
two sessions is not a huge deal just
make sure that you're consistently
getting some training in even if that is
literally one session where you do one
set for each muscle group um and then
you call it a day obviously if if you
want really solid gains it is important
that you do your best to get your weekly
volume in every week but keep in mind
you'd rather do one or two sets for a
whole week versus zero sets and then
feel like you're falling off the wagon
and then end up having a few months off
the gym because you missed that one
session and felt bad as far as D loads
go and D loads are essentially easy
weeks of training or periods where you
take it easy so you let fatigue
dissipate no need to overthink those at
all when you've been training
consistently for some time and you feel
extremely fatigued extremely tired and
you see that performance is regressing
maybe your sleep is affected take a week
off or take a week of very easy training
no need to overthink it no need to um
have a specific amount of sets in mind
just do less than you usually do make
sure your sets are easy and make sure
that you're leaving the gym feeling
refreshed do that for a week or a few
days until you feel better get back on
the grind push push push push and the
next time you feel like that again take
your foot off the G gas but make sure
that overall you're not getting to that
point too quick cuz you may be overdoing
it so make sure that you are training
consistently for at least 6 weeks before
you have to even consider having that uh
week of lighter training or a week off
making gains and making easy peasy gains
is not just training you obviously have
to focus on nutrition nutrition is even
simpler than training and it comes down
to the following eat mostly Whole Foods
so do your best to not eat a ton of
highly processed foods eat around 1.5 to
2 gram of protein per kilogram of body
weight even if you miss protein feedings
here and there it's not a big deal just
do your best to eat plenty of protein
1.5 to 2 gam per kilo of body weight
will cover you but keep in mind training
is the main main driver here for muscle
growth make sure you're eating plenty of
fiber 30 to 40 gram are solid fiber is
important for health and by aiming for
30 to 40 gram of fiber you will
naturally have to include more whole
Foods in your diet which is solid as far
as your body composition goes make sure
in my opinion and based on the current
scientific evidence to keep your waist
half of your height in centimeters um so
that you can ensure that visceral fat is
relatively low and that you are fine
from a health standpoint and from that
point onwards depending on how you feel
about your body composition you can
decide whether you want to maintain your
weight bulk or cut by maintaining your
weight you can still make meaningful
muscle gains although they will be
slower than if you decided to bulk if
you decide to bulk eating 5 to 10% above
your maintenance calories is more than
enough of a surplus to allow you to make
solid muscle gains you don't need to go
on a YOLO bulk and get fat just eat 5 to
10% more than your traditional
maintenance calories and you'll be fine
if you want to cut eat less and
depending on how much body fat you want
to lose and how fast you want to lose
body fat you can adjust your uh calorie
deficit accordingly going too crazy and
losing weight too fast will increase
your risk of losing muscle mass so keep
things relatively moderate while still
lifting weights obviously and eating
plenty of protein to calculate your
maintenance calories simply Google uh
total daily energy expenditure
calculator we'll includeed a link in the
description for a really cool calculator
that will give you a rough estimate but
and I know it's a pain in the and we all
had to do it but once you do it for a
few months you are equipped with solid
skills for Life weigh yourself daily and
track your food for a couple of months
at least so you can understand where
your maintenance calories lie and to
also get a better idea of how many
calories certain foods have that will
then equip you with the ability to
guesstimate calories moving forward and
you won't necessarily need to actually
track calories on your phone or on a
device or whatever when you zoom out and
look at the bigger picture as long as
you're still training even if you
overeat or undereat it's likely that
nothing too crazy will happen and a
couple of days here and there are not
enough to really affect your long-term
progress last but not least make sure
you're doing some form of aerobic
training for your General Health that
could be you walking for 300 to 600
minutes um per week which will allow you
to actually maximize the risk reduction
uh for all C mortality or doing 150 to
300 minutes of vigorous physical
activity running
whatever you enjoy or a combination of
both make sure you are physically active
and you're hitting either 8 to 12,000
steps per day or doing some form of
higher intensity uh higher intensity
cardio a few times per week just because
making gains is heavily reliant on you
being alive and actually being there to
make gains if we could make gains dead I
guess we would die and make gains I
don't know how that would work we would
have to also be zombies but hey ho
random tangent I'm losing it please
subscribe like hit the notification icon
oh all of a sudden we're at the outro
and I'm saying goodbye Yep this is how I
do it see you next time I appreciate you
peace