Boulder shoulders shoulders so big
they'll make sopus weep here are the
best shoulder exercises according to
science welcome back Milo wolf here with
you today PhD in sport Science with wolf
coaching before we get into what the
best exercises for shoulder growth are
let me give you a quick primer on
anatomy of the shoulders generally your
shoulder muscul or deltoid muscles can
be separated into three compartments you
can certainly separate them into more
compartments but really who got time for
that for our purposes the front delts
the side delts and the rear delts will
be perfectly adequate each of these
components has different functions let's
break them down the front belt is
responsible for shoulder abduction
flexion transverse flexion and internal
rotation for our purposes for muscle
growth we'll be mostly concerned with
shoulder abduction and flexion for the
front belts the side or lateral belts
are mostly involved in shoulder flexion
like a front raise shoulder abduction or
shoulder transverse abduction for this
video we'll be mostly concerned with
shoulder abduction and shoulder flexion
finally the rear dots or posterior dots
are mostly responsible for shoulder
extension shoulder transverse extension
shoulder abduction and shoulder external
rotation since most of your back
training already targets shoulder
extension quite effectively like a
pullover and external rotation work can
often be limited by the strength of your
Rota C muscles in this video we'll be
mostly focusing on transverse abduction
and transverse extension before we get
into the specific exercises let me give
you a primer on good principles for
exercise selection what makes an
exercise good for muscle growth first we
want an exercise that's reasonably
stable or at least stable enough to
enable the body to produce maximum
levels of force for example squatting on
a Bose ball is not going to allow your
glutes quads adductors Etc to produce as
much force as they could a lot of the
work and the movement with would simply
be down to stabilization as opposed to
extending the knees or extending the
hips and in fact there is research
showing that in very unstable conditions
like squatting on a boser ball Force
production is diminished and so while we
don't necessarily need the most stable
exercise ever a reasonable degree of
stability is beneficial next the
exercise we do for hypertrophy should
Target a specific function of the muscle
we're trying to use for example in a
lateral rise we're targeting shoulder
abduction which is one of the functions
of the side dots therefore the lateral
raise effectively targets the side dots
next we want the exercise we're
performing to be limited by the muscle
group we're trying to Target in this
case in the latter Race For example we
want to make sure that the side dots are
going to be what limits our performance
we want to be ending the set not when
you're out of breath not when you fail a
rep due to instability or anything else
we want to end the set when you're
lateral delts simply cannot produce
enough Force anymore to overcome gravity
next up the exercise we use for
hypertrophy should be lengthened
friendly or stretched friendly this is
what I mean there's three components one
the movement should be challenging in
that lengthened position compare a
dumbbell lateral raise to a cable
lateral race at the bottom of a dumbbell
lateral raise when your side belts are
more lengthened it's essentially too
easy whereas with the cable lat is even
at the bottom of the rep when your side
belts are being stretched you still have
to produce a meaningful amount of force
to get the lift to move that's the first
component the second component is the
actual position that you put your muscle
into for hypertrophy we want to put the
muscle groups we're trying to grow in a
stretched position let me use the
example of the side belt raise with
dumbbells versus cables again in a
dumbbell side raise you will not be
stretching out the side belts very much
whereas a cable you're able to get a
deeper stretch by having your arm go in
front of you or behind you versus a
Dumba ladder R the final component of
being lengthened friendly is that it
also allows you to do length and
partials let's think about something
like a barbell squat doing length and
partials or just partial repetitions in
that lengthen position is not going to
be very feasible on a barbell squat
versus something like a hack squat on a
machine where you have safeties or using
a Smith machine or anything else using
movements that are length and partial
friendly will generally be beneficial
for hypertrophy as a final big component
we generally want to pick exercises that
limit fatigue as much as possible so for
example when we get the choice between
being seated and having back support
versus being standing where your glutes
your quads your lower back Etc have to
stabilize the load more we want to pick
access size that are seated for example
a seated overhead press is going to be
better for hypertrophy than a standing
overhead press by some margin on account
of being sat down and having more
support and less lower fatigue it's not
going to be a huge difference but it is
worth paying attention to there are two
bonus points for excess selection one is
is it time efficient certain modalities
are going to be more time efficient than
others think about this if you're going
to do a standing barbell overhead press
you would need to warm up by adding
plates to the bar calculating the
increments etc etc that does take time
time equally you have to get a rack
depending on your gym and how busy it is
getting a rack to do a standing barbell
overhead pressing might be relatively
challenging on the other hand you have
movements like the dumbbell overhead
press or a machine overhead press where
loading the bar does not cost you any
time because there is no bar you just
grab the dumbbells and get going and so
certain movements are going to be more
time efficient than others if you're
someone with limited time to train this
can be a really important factor by
which to pick your exercises besides
just maximizing stimulus and minimizing
fatigue involved the final component and
interestingly enough one on which B
dolls typically win is micro loadability
how loadable and in how small of an
increment is the movement let's go back
to dumbbells and barbells dumbbells
generally go up in increments of 5 lb or
2 and 1 12 kg which is relatively large
if you're trying to jump that on a
overhead press that can be quite
challenging cuz at any given time You'
be adding 5 kg to both dumbbells
combined or 10 lb to both d Almost
combined meanwhile on the bbell overhead
press you're able to microload it more
you can get super small plates as little
as 1 lb or 2 lb or equally you can
increase weight by as little as 5 lb or
2 and 1/2 kg in most gyms on most
barbells so with all those criteria in
mind let me give you my three picks for
the best exercises for the front delts
for the side delts and for the rear ad
delts first up for the front delts we
have the seated dumbbell overhead press
or you can use a barbell or you can use
a machine or you can use a Smith machine
the key here is that all the these
exercises are stable enough for Force
production they're very likely to be
limited by front delts or tricep
strengths and thus they're good choices
for hypertrophy importantly they're also
relatively challenging in that
lengthened or stretched position if you
perform an overhead press properly
making sure to get a full stretch and
touching your clavicle on each rep
you'll find the movement is actually
relatively challenging in that stretched
position which as we discussed is good
for hypertrophy this is as compared to
something like a dumb off front race
where at the bottom in a stretch
position you have essentially no tension
so again these movements will not that
account Additionally the machine
overhead press or the dumbbell overhead
press or the Smith machine overhead
press are all lengthen partial friendly
which means you can do length and
partials and safely end the set after
doing exclusively lengthen partials if
you're looking for a time efficient
option the dumbbell overhead press
ideally seated or the machine overhead
press are going to be great options you
don't need to load a bar dumb balls are
widely available typically and with a
machine especially a stack loaded one
you essentially just put pin in and
you're ready to go here's a tip for the
overhead press try and emphasize that
lengthen position even more by
controlling the Ecentric most at the
bottom getting a pause and being
explosive at the bottom or by using
lengthen partials as an honorable
mention for the front belts and muscle
growth I think the Bradford press
doesn't get enough love by Design the
exercise is already lengthen partial and
thus is going to be quite effective for
muscle growth ideally do the Bradford
press with a barbell while being seated
that's going to be a really solid option
if you don't want to be doing an no
press next up the side belts the best
exercise for the side belts according to
the signs is going to be the cable
ladder Rays again the movement is quite
stable and the most likely limiting
factor is going to be the side belts
there are not a ton of other muscle
groups that could be failing first the
front delts could be perhaps the rear
delts but it's mainly going to be the
side belts involved and to a lowerer
extent the upper traps additionally the
big way in which it wins over a dumbbell
side Rays is that you can actually
modify the range of motion and make the
lift most challenging in that lengthen
position in fact is's what I want you to
do I want you to set up the cable at
hand height when you start the rep the
cable should be horizontal this way the
rep will be most challenging at the very
bottom in that stretched lengthen
position and get easier and easier as
you raise your arm and not only will the
lift be more challenging in the
lengthened position than a dumbbell
would be but you also get to have a
deeper stretch by going either in front
of your body or behind your body and
getting your arm across your body a
little bit as a time efficient honorable
mention try the machine lateral Ray
depending on what your machine is like
it may or may not be an equally
effective option as a cable ladder Ries
some machines really do load that length
and position more effectively than
others but either way the machine is
typically a more time efficient option
on account of being bilateral you have
to do half as many sets as you would do
for a cable ladder raise cuz for a cable
ladder raise you're typically going to
be doing it single arm which does extend
the duration of that exercise a little
bit the one factor on which both cable
ladder Rises and machine ladder Rises
kind of fail is micro loadability what I
would recommend to circumvent the issue
of having to jump 2 and 1 12 kg or 5 lb
on lateral raises is to Simply use a
double progression give yourself a rep
range of for example 8 to 12 reps and
use the same weight consistently once
you reach 12 reps increase the weight
and then repeat the process increase
reps up to the top end of that rep range
increase the weight repeat that process
and I'll take care of a lot of the micro
load ability issues and finally
according to the science the best
exercise for the rear dots is going to
be the rear ad cable crossover when you
think about the rear do cable crossover
it's essentially the exact opposite of
what you would do during a chest
crossover once again on account of being
bilateral the exercise is stable enough
for Force production purposes the
movement is very likely going to be
limited by the rear Dot's ability to
produce Force especially if you mostly
stick to the motion of shoulder
transverse abduction there will be other
muscles involved muscles of the upper
back but that is going to be the nature
of the rear dots and their function
additionally just like the cable lat
Ares the cable will allow you to get a
deeper stretch and put more tension in
that lengthen position versus say a bent
over rear dot dumb off F by taking a
couple steps forward after unracking the
weight you will make that lengthen
position more challenging make sure you
set up the cables at around shoulder
height for this this movement is also
pretty lengthened partial friendly in
order to make it length and partial just
start the rep as you usually would but
then stop the rep when you you get to
just this point when your arms are
directly in front of you as two quick
Alternatives try the high to low rear
Del cable crossover where you set up the
cables a little bit above your shoulder
height and go down a little bit in your
motion or the low to high cable re all
crossover even just like for the cable
ladder arrays this exercise isn't micr
loadable so try using a double
progression as well as two honorable
mentions the best alternative is
probably going to be the single arm
cable face pull wherein you rotate away
from the the cable in order to get a
deep stretch by having your arm come
across your body again set up the cable
at shoulder height the second honorable
mention in this case would be the
Machine rear do fly although it doesn't
have the same amount of stretch as a
rear light cable crossover and the
bottom position is typically quite easy
in these machines it does provide for a
better resistance curve as opposed to
something like a bent over reared out
thumbell fly and it doesn't give you the
fatigue of being bent over like you
would be during a bent over rear Del
dumble fly here are some takeaways for
the front delts try seated overhead
press variations for the side DTS try
the cable lat Ries for the rear DTS try
the rear delt cable crossover generally
with any exercise look for exercises
that are specific that are loadable that
are stable that are limited by the
muscles you're trying to Target that are
lengthened friendly or lengthened bias
friendly and that minimize fatigue
that's the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if you
want to see more videos in this style
where I take a body part and kind of
break down what the best exercises might
be leave a comment down below and I'll
make some more videos and I'll see you
guys my subscribers in that next one
[Music]
peace