[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization today we're gonna make
salsa meatloaf this is from the first
cookbook the Renaissance kitchen and
this is probably one of the most popular
recipes from the book we're gonna go
ahead and get started so you start with
whole-grain crackers and I know that
some of you guys have said like I can't
find them where are they so I mean it
depends on where you go of course if you
go to like more of a higher-end grocery
store if you go to like a health food
market you'll be able to find more of
those if you don't have that near you
and you just have a regular grocery
store it's okay for users to get like
the whole wheat ritz version i mean if
that's the best you can do like don't
not make the recipe because you can't
find like 100% whole grain crackers so
we're gonna mix the crackers with some
cumin some garlic powder salt and pepper
before I forget a little bit of cinnamon
I know that's a little bit unexpected
but you'll like it in there I promise
and then some salsa you can make your
own luckily you can buy a lot of salsa
that doesn't have anything extra in it
it's really just veggies and that's what
you're looking for
so take the salsa and mix in this
cracker mix so just kind of toss that
together
moisten those crackers and then let that
sit while you're mixing up the actual
meatloaf so we're going to use egg
whites with lean ground beef it's always
the 90 percent or better or lean ground
beef on the RP templates that's what we
always have on there as your lean ground
beef option 90 percent or better and
then some two percent shredded
mozzarella cheese so you just want to
mix this in get those egg whites
distributed get the cheese throughout so
we've got that incorporated and now
you're just gonna add this in now that
it's sat there a little bit off to the
side it's a little bit thicker it's
absorbed those crackers have absorbed
the moisture so it's kind of a thicker
mixture
add that in and just kind of lightly
toss it again you just want to
incorporate it into the meat get it
mixed up throughout its gonna add just
great flavor and great moisture and it
acts as a binder okay that looks pretty
good
then take a baking sheet with line with
oil you could also use parchment so I'm
gonna spray this really well with the
coconut oil spray you can use olive oil
spray canola oil spray whatever you like
turn this out onto your pan and then
we're gonna shape this so this is
something a little bit different than
probably what you've seen with Meat
Loaf's before we actually should call
this like meat Square instead of meat
loaf because I don't shape it like a
loaf one it's harder to portion when
it's shaped like this because you know
you can't just slice it and get even
portions and two I just always worry
about getting it cooked throughout okay
so I just shape this into like a
rectangle and try to even it out as much
as I could in terms of thickness and
then it's gonna cook nice and evenly it
has plenty of room on the sides for the
grease to run off we'll get rid of that
when it comes out before we top this
with sauce so we're gonna cook this for
a little bit let it get primarily cooked
so we're not dealing with raw meat and
then we're gonna take it out we're gonna
whip up a super quick like ketchup sauce
we're gonna brush that on the top and
then we'll put it back in to finish it
off all right guys time to make our
topping for the meatloaf and we're gonna
spread it all over the top and then
we'll finish baking the meatloaf so it's
just a really for really quick four
ingredient topping and you don't have to
cook it first or anything like that it's
just gonna go on cold all right so we've
got some 8'o paste in here some tomato
sauce Wurster Shire
lime juice and a pinch of salt stir that
up just spread it over the top obviously
there's nothing bad for you in that
sauce so if you are like love the sauce
person I mean double it make
one-and-a-half times whatever you want
but this is a pretty good amount so that
every bites gonna have a little bit of
that flavor that's it will pop it back
into the oven to finish cooking it
alright guys so I pulled out the
meatloaf and I just let it sit for about
10 minutes it's like most baked dishes
like that you can't take it out piping
hot and just cut right into it it needs
to relax a little bit set up get a
little bit more cut friendly so I let it
sit for about 10 minutes and then I went
ahead and cut it into chunks and moved
it onto here cuz I really wanted you to
see inside of the meatloaf you can see
that salsa the veggies in there that
just adds tons of moisture but
definitely give it a shot this is
definitely one that your whole family
will enjoy