hey folks Dr Mike here from critization
and I have three squat tips for you to
potentially instantly improve your squat
by a mile how did I learn about these
three tips well
Jared feather ifbb Pro and myself were
at the Arnold uh this past year and the
Arnold Schwarzenegger classic Expo and
bodybuilding show and we had a booth set
up for Renaissance periodization where
we would have a barbell in Iraq and we
would critique your Technique and a ton
of people took us up on this and they
were all super awesome while coaching
folks we were prepared to use like 80
trillion cues and Corrections that we
know from being in this for years and
have a lot of these degrees and stuff
but we ended up only using like 10 and
then maybe 80 or 90 of the time we
actually only used three
these cues are so effective and the
mistakes that lead to them needing to be
used are so common and so easily
rectified by these cues I had to make a
video to share this with you guys so
that you can try this both in your own
training if you have problems with squat
technique and also in training your own
clients because I know a ton of you guys
train clients and help other people
maybe even just your parents or your
siblings and try to get them to lift
weights and a lot of times
your squat may look great but then you
work with someone else and you look at
their technique and you're like I don't
even know where to begin with you you're
doing everything wrong do I have to
really manually from scratch mind meld
with you and show you how to squat not
quite because these three tips could
hack it so here we go shut up Mike let's
get three tips going first
almost everyone who starts squatting has
not positioned their toes out enough
that means any stance they take
generally widening The Stance by a
little seems to work but that's not even
the important thing you take their toes
and you rotate them out much closer to
the 45 degree line than you would the 90
degree line or zero degree lines 45
degrees is where you want on average and
for a lot of people that will feel a
little strange because that's not
typically how you run or how you jump
but it sure as shit is how you squat in
addition to point two because we have a
rule in squatting your knees generally
track with your toes
if you have someone Point their toes out
that's rule one rule one sub two still
rule one is make sure that their knees
come out and generally speaking that
means as they descend lower and lower
their knees come out further and further
they're pushing their knees to outside
of their body that aligns the ankles to
the knees to the hips and all of a
sudden it can allow you to get way
greater depth without having to come up
on your toes or sink back around your
back and all of a sudden you're like
whoa it's much easier to squat and I can
get through the squatting motion way
better so that's tip number one and it's
a huge deal
squatting without it is kind of a
non-starter tip number two
especially when coaching someone not
just doing the lift once you've learned
it but in teaching the lift to do it
properly having someone descend slowly
and consider a pause at the bottom of
the movement is a huge teaching tool the
reason is this
keeping your knees pushed out is
something you have to focus on when
you're squatting and trying to change
your technique for the better
if you drop down fast a lot of times you
just rebound right off your tendons and
come back up and fucking who knows what
your knees did but if you go down slow
as you descend you both get a better
feel for where your body is in space and
can correct it on the Fly and it gives
you time to implement the knees out cue
so as you're descending and thinking
these out and he's out and he's out and
he's out and he's out and because you're
descending slowly you can actually
implement the queue instead of being
like you go down and come up oh fuck I
forgot to put my push my knees out and
like I said just a second ago as you
descend you can focus on having your
weight spread openly overly spread
evenly on your toes and heels if you go
down really quick we saw a lot of this
happen at the Arnold people drop in and
drop out and we're like I can't even
give you any technique cues because
you're in and out too fast and they
would usually cut the range of motion by
a ton because as soon as they feel that
springiness they come back up if you go
down slow and you pause it wherever you
think the bottom is
you're in a really good position then
whoever's coaching you can say okay that
looks good come back up you come back on
them they say okay down slow knees out
knees out knees out and he's out and as
you get lower and you think you're gonna
stop they go hey go go deeper deeper
deeper deeper you're at the very what
you think is bottom they're like okay
pause hold it as you hold that pause
your body's awareness mechanisms
proprioception where your body is in
space recalibrate recalibrate
recalibrate your body is a rapidly
learning neural network system your
brain is anyway in your spinal cord and
peripheral nerves so as you are in that
position because you didn't get into and
out of it really quick you can replicate
it better every second every microsecond
you spend in The Descent and every
second you spend at the bottom position
which is the most challenging is neural
learning happening your brain is
learning oh this is where my butt needs
to be this is where my knees need to be
this is where my hips are Etc et cetera
et cetera so if you practice slow which
by the way in every single technique
they teach you in every other sport you
practice it slow you're learning a
tennis forehand first you go slow
backhand slow eventually faster faster
and faster but if you're practicing good
squatting technique and you're just
dropping in slow the fuck down sit at
the bottom and every time you get lower
and lower in the bottom you sit there
for a second two it begins as a very
uncomfortable alien feeling after five
or six reps you're like hey I'm finding
a Groove down here I don't love it down
here nobody does but gee whiz it feels
really like it's a place I know
lastly tip number three comes in
especially at this juncture your knees
and toes are already in alignment you're
already squatting back and down nice and
slowly at this point there is a tendency
to either come forward on your toes or
if you sit back on your heels to round
your back and Cave over in your chest
you're not trying to sit down in the
squat I can't tell you fuck it
Politically Incorrect time it's not so
Politically Incorrect fucking I'm gonna
say it anyway anytime people send me
memes or gifs of babies that are
squatting and they're like hey look at
how natural of a squatter this baby is
they're fucking wrong because the baby
never has a fucking elevated chest and
their lower back isn't tight your baby's
rounding its fucking back that's a shit
squat oh great he's got his heels and
his toes on the ground you could do that
too if you fucking rounded your back
enough now look I don't think baby
should be brought up to a standard of
high level squatting they're just babies
it's adorable when you do anything you
are not a fucking baby I assume if
you're a baby watching this channel
hello I mean you're a pretty natural
intelligence is welcomed here don't kill
us all when you ascend to the next level
in any case if you're not a baby you can
do one better as you are opening up your
knees toes pointed out descending slowly
you're going to get to a point in your
squat where it's harder to descend
everything starts to bind up and your
chest is naturally going to cave in this
is where you use the cue of chest up if
you are intending to do a low bar squat
if you have uh if you're prone to
extreme lordosis very arched sway back
at the bottom and if you want to produce
as much force as possible for one
repetition maximum do not put your chest
up do the ribs down shit like Chris
Duffin says
if you want to do the proper hypertrophy
bodybuilding squat or even a weight
lifting squat it's the same squat almost
your chest stays up so as you Point your
toes out knees come out you go down slow
keep your chest up the entire time
especially at the bottom look forward
and or up and then at some point when
you stop you're going to be real close
to hitting full depth a couple practice
worms like that slow slow put a little
weight on the bar slow slow slow
maximum depth knees out big chest you're
going to be hitting what is almost the
perfect squat it took Jared and I an
average of two minutes per person to
take their squat from
well a lot of people had great squats
and we'll just get the fuck out of here
you don't need us for anything shake
your hand picture get out but a lot of
folks just a few people I guess had
squash that started out like
um dumpster fire giant disaster or no
offense when I started squatting it's
the worst in the world and just with
these three cues over like two minutes
we were able to take most people
and have them just really squat very
competently so if you're coaching other
people or even if you're coaching
yourself
get their toes out get the knees out
descend slowly take a pause at the
bottom of each position that you think
is the lowest and when the bottom is
close keep your chest up and I think
your squats are going to improve and if
I'm wrong gee shit it wouldn't be the
first thousandth time
battle is going to go on a date with
that one girl back in eighth grade was I
correct
no
Cheryl if you ever want to call me back
I'm married bitch
you missed out on this your boy's out
here married up you can't handle this
shit but I still think about you now and
again
it's weird it's getting weird this is
getting weird I'll see you guys next
time