so the cold clunge is my drug of choice
I don't think anything makes you feel
better for longer hey Gary you ever had
a before
Mother um I'm Russian I've done a lot of
coal plunging that can Miss Me by a
mile if you're into it it can have some
pretty cool psychological benefits it
can help wake you up a little bit if you
don't get a lot of daily exercise the
little fight ORF flight response and
initiates can do some good for your
health but if you're training really
hard not only does the cold Plunge in
some context especially if you do it
close to training reduce your muscle
growth adaptations from training but
it's also another needless sympathetic
figh ORF flight stimulus if you're
training really hard like almost all of
you guys watching this probably are the
coal plunge is if you like to do it just
don't do it close to your training a few
hours before or after don't do it then
it'll interfere with hypertrophy
especially after training for a few
hours if you like to do it in the
mornings whatever dope it's just not one
of these things that reliably produces
really awesome effects in even the
average person that doesn't