what does the science say we should pay
attention to When selecting exercises
for the biceps well exactly the same
criteria as we use for other muscle
groups let me break down for you what
these criteria
are first we want a stable exercise this
isn't a huge consideration for something
like the biceps but if we can make an
exercise more stable that'll generally
make it better for muscle growth however
you don't need to take this to the
extreme I'm just saying don't do your
curls on the bo ball next whatever
exercise we do pick for the biceps we
should make sure it actually targets one
of the functions of the biceps to make
sure it actually trains them and ideally
we would Target a variety of the muscle
functions throughout our exercise
selection to provide that muscle with a
well-rounded growth stimulus next the
target muscle in this case the biceps
should be limiting factor and so certain
exercises that might be more limited by
technique or by cardiovascular ability
like for example a Kipping pull-up where
a lot of it is just Tech technique and
potentially other muscle groups are kind
of out of the question as far as
maximizing bicep hypertrophy likewise
something like a chest fly while it does
train your biceps isometrically it's
rarely limited by bicep strength and
therefore you might be better off with
another exercise if you want to maximize
muscle growth next the exercise we pick
for bicep growth should be stretch
friendly and let me break down what that
means this was actually the exact topic
of my PhD and so I know a thing or two
but basically we want three things
the first is we want the target exercise
to put the biceps in a lengthened
position secondly we want that
lengthened position that stretch
position in the exercise to be
challenging we want the biceps to
produce force in that position to
overcome gravity and the final factor is
being length and partial friendly one of
the ways we've investigated the effect
of the stretch position during training
on hypertrophy is by comparing length
and partials to for example 4ange of
motion training so length and partials
would be doing half reps in that stretch
position when We compare these length
and partials to a 4 in of motion across
five studies now we found better
hypertrophy doing length and partials in
four of these and no difference in
hypertrophy in the fifth study and so
When selecting the best exercises for
bicep growth ideally they would also be
length and partial friendly so that we
can see a little bit of additional
growth compared to just doing 4 in
motion next this is a minor point
because with bive training you simply
don't use very high loads compared to
something like overhead pressing but
ideally we would want to be seated the
more stabilization and work we can Nate
from other muscle groups that are not
the biceps the better by and large here
are a couple bonus points the first is
time efficiency certain exercises will
be a lot more time efficient than others
generally these will be exercises that
are stack loaded machines for example
cable exercises or dumbbell exercises
where something like a barbell or Easy
Bar exercise where you have to load the
bar find the spot to do it Etc that'll
typically take a bit more time and is
less time efficient and so if you're
someone who's very pressed for time this
can be a big consideration in your
excise selection however if you don't
have any concerns about time then feel
free to ignore this one the final one is
micr loadability while I just mentioned
that barbell exercises aren't ideal for
hypertrophy potentially based on how
non-time efficient they are one thing
they do have above say a cable exercise
is that you can typically load them a
little bit more precisely typically the
smallest increment on a barbell will be
about 5 lb those are the smallest plates
you have at your disposal whereas for
cables can of be 10 lb or more and so
when you're trying to progress week to
week by adding reps add or weight being
more microl loadable just allows you to
Target the increment that you want to
progress by more accurately however the
reason I say this is a bonus point and
not really an important consideration is
because you could simply add reps week
to week and then add weight when you
feel ready to do so which is what we
call a double progression all right cool
Dr Milo now you've spoken all this stuff
about the science and the criteria but
what about the actual exercises we want
to do well if we want to understand what
exercises we should be doing we first
need to understand the anatomy of the
biceps what do the biceps actually do
what's their role well there are three
elbow flexors you can refer to them as
the Three B's number one the brachialis
muscle number two the bracho radialis
muscle and finally the most commonly
known one number three the biceps brachy
brachy break eye doesn't really matter
they all have slightly different
functions but fortunately it's not too
complicated some of them might lie a
little bit deeper some of them a bit
more superficial closer to the skin but
here's the breakdown the main role of
all three elbow flexors is going to be
albow flexion exactly what you do during
a curl the second role is going to be
wrist superation so essentially going
from a pronated grip to a supered grip
from having your wrist like this to
having your wrist like this a final rule
of the biceps but specifically only the
long head of the biceps break eye and so
much more of a minor roll is going to be
shoulder flexion and shoulder flexion is
something like a front raise so what's
the implication of all this Anatomy well
one of them is that to lengthen the
biceps or the elbow flexors in general
the most will want to keep the elbows
extended keep the wrist pronated and for
the long head of the biceps specifically
keep the shoulder as extended as
possible whenever you're thinking about
how to lengthen a muscle think doing the
opposite of its function so if you're
talking about elbow flexion extending
the elbow will lengthen that muscle
another implication of the anatomy of
these muscles is that one of them is a
biarticular muscle the long head of the
biceps Breaky does both shoulder flexion
it crosses at the shoulder and it does
elbow flexion one big finding in sport
Science is that having a biarticular
muscle shorten at one joint while it
lengthens at the other makes it grow
less and so something like a drag curl
with a long head of the biceps is
simultaneously shortening at one joint
while lengthening at the other is going
to be slight worse for hypertrophy and
we have evidence of this in the rectus
femoris in the squat for example where
the same thing happens or in the
hamstrings in the squat this seems to be
a pretty consistent phenomenon so we
want to avoid exercises like the drag C
without further Ado with all that
anatomy and science about the criteria
of excise selection out the way let me
give you my best picks for bicep growth
I think the singlehandedly riging
of bicep exercises is the seated behind
the back cable Cur let me break it down
by being seated and by using cables
we're achieving pretty high stability
that's one box checked off moreover the
biceps or the elbow flexors more broadly
should be the limiting factor after all
the only real function or movement going
on here is elbow flexion and besides the
three elbow flexors nothing can really
do it and therefore there's not a whole
lot else that can fail before your
biceps do from this point on I'll be
using the terms biceps and elbow flexors
pretty much interchangeably if you care
sue me I guess Additionally the behind
the back cable curl is very stretch
friendly there's a few things you can do
here first make sure the bench is far
away from the cable enough so that you
can hyperextend your shoulders and get a
deeper stretch in the long head of your
biceps secondly set up the cable so at
the start of the rep the cable is
horizontal this will make sure that the
lift is hardest in that fully stretched
lengthen position and finally this
exercise is also lengthen partial
friendly you could simp stop the rep
when your elbow angle reaches about 90Â°
of elbow flexion or when you reach your
torso or the bench to sort of touch that
as a means to say okay this is the end
of the rep standardizing each repetition
and the range of motion additionally
this movement targets one of the primary
if not the primary function of the
biceps which is elbow flexion as a side
note if you want to further lengthen
some of the elbow flexors you could
perform any of these exercises as a
reverse curl with an overhand or Pro
grated grip and that would probably
cause more growth finally the behind the
back cable core also is seated which for
what it's worth removes some of the
additional fatigue from stabilizing the
load by sitting down you're removing the
work that some other muscle groups have
to perform during something like a
standing barell curl let me give you
some other options that are honorable
mentions or that are more practical cuz
sometimes in a busy gym you can get a
bench and some cables here's what I
think I think the pre-ra is a exercise
as well specifically if you're tall and
you struggle getting a full range of
motion on this exercise like a full
stretch try a single arm dumbbell
alternative now you might be saying wait
a minute the preacher curl doesn't fully
lengthen the biceps or at least not the
long head after all during the preacher
curl your shoulder is in front of you or
flexed if we want to lengthen the Long
Head we want it to be behind you no
you're right dear viewer very astute
however the preacher does something else
very well while it doesn't fully
lengthen one part of the double flexors
that is Long Head it does fully lengthen
the other ones by the way it does one
thing very well and that's that the
resistance curve is very length and
biased the movement is quite challenging
in that bottom position which for a free
weight exercise is actually quite rare
and so while yes it doesn't fully
lengthen the long head it does such a
great job with the resistance curve that
I think it's worth overlooking and still
makes for great hypertrophy exercise in
the same vein and even more
unconventional are you ready a single
arm dumbbell curl on a bench that's
right it's basically taking this exact
idea but putting it up to 11 right yes
your shoulder is even more flexed than
during a preacher curl however the
resistance curve is such that it is
essentially already a lengthen partial
exercise and as it turns out we have
evidence confirming the importance of
the length and position for the biceps
for example a study by Pedro and
colleagues compared bottom half partials
on the preacher curl to top half
partials and saw more hyper when people
were doing the bottom half partials and
so something like a preacher curl way to
do Lincoln partials or something like
this dumbbell curl on bench I guess is
what I'm naming it does a great job of
this as well let me give you another
honorable mention we actually have
evidence that lat pull Downs are decent
for bicep growth so not only are they a
solid option for lat hypertrophy they
also seem to be giving you better
hypertrophy of the biceps than something
like a rope so if you're super busy and
you don't really have time for bicep
isolation exercises and you have to pick
between say doing a row and a pull down
but you still want bigger biceps try a
pull down or pull up over a row another
great and underlooked option because
incline curls have been getting a lot of
bad press lately in the influencer space
is an inkline curl yes an inkline curl
has a pull resistance curve however you
can somewhat make up for this by simply
doing length and partials so not only
are you now getting a deep stretch in
the Long Head by having your shoulder
hang behind you and extension you're
also able to make up for its suboptimal
resistance curve wherein the movement
gets harder as you get to the top of the
rep by simply doing length and partials
does it make up for the limitation alt
together no but I do think it's an
overlooked exercise those are my picks
for the best exercises for bicep growth
according to the science guys that's the
video If you enjoyed the video please
comment like subscribe it helps out the
channel I'm trying to pay the bills here
it's raining outside I'm grinding if you
want to see any any other videos about
other muscle groups best exercises
according to the science leave a comment
down below and I'll get to it and I'll
see you guys my subscribers in that next
one peace