foreign
folks it's me Dr Mike welcome back to
the targeting the muscle Series today
we're going to be targeting the triceps
in the overhead Easy Bar extension now
you notice my immediate attempt to
demonstrate this movement has already
failed I can't bring my fucking arms my
shit is too big I'm essentially some
combination of two jacked too fat and
two mobile to demonstrate this which is
why I have purchased activated and
brought the wife unit
and she is ready to demonstrate let's
get to him
okay folks tip number one in overhead
Easy Bar tricep extensions
to make sure that you point your elbows
in so Crystal is going to do this wrong
initially I just want you to do a behind
the neck press essentially and let your
elbows flare out like that's all good
and well and what I will say is uh the
triceps will still get hit but you get a
lot of front delt stuff it could be
front delt limiting you could have front
delts in another part of your program
and that's no good to us so what we want
to do is before we start moving yep you
see how she angles her shit in the
elbows you want to have like lines
pointing out you want to point those
lines laser-like forward at your gym
Crush ideally do this in front of your
gym Crush we're filming stop laughing
I'm sorry folks this doesn't listen
sometimes you know so elbows in point it
Forward nice and slow on the way down
and elbows stay in as you go down it's
gonna be tough because you're going to
want to flare now as she goes up
she's going to keep her elbows in and
you can rack honey no problem there is a
temptation as you go up to have your
elbows flare and what I'll say is this
make sure on the way down your elbows
Point as far forward as possible on the
way back up it's okay if they flare a
little bit
it's not a super huge concern as long as
I'm the next rep you get them in and
they Point as far forward as possible
now if you are bigger and more jacked
and have pecks and stupid shit in the
way like I do your idea of inmate and
here that's okay as long as it's as far
in as you can reasonably put them sound
good let's get to the next tip
foreign
traditionally the way people do most
exercises like this including Skull
Crushers and overnight extensions as
they'll do what crystal is about to
demonstrate which is the first movement
they make comes backwards they break at
the elbows and go straight back this is
totally fine for a ton of people you can
press it back up honey totally fine for
most people the problem is is for a lot
of people it's going to result in elbow
pain it's similar to if you start your
squats
and the first movement you do is
breaking at the knee typically for some
people that can cause a lot of knee pain
same idea it's a shearing mechanism so
what I found works really well to feel
your triceps a ton and keep your elbow
safe is the first movement is your
elbows break that way and then instantly
right away right after you come back so
it's a break forward movement first by a
little bit and then you come back down
just like that
[Music]
next tip is not just to go down but to
go down and reach back as far as
possible this offers us a huge loaded
stretch component to the triceps I know
it trains the long head I swear to
fucking God one more person on this
video comments about the long head I'm
ending it all that's it folks no more
YouTube videos gunshot to the Head
whatever to pull with your toe before we
get too morbid yes the long head is
ahead of the triceps that works there's
other heads it's equally as important
long head training you get a lot of in
pulling movements anyway so no big deal
but overall for the tricep and of course
the long head it's super good idea to
stretch the living shit out of it
especially at the bottom the way you
accomplish this is instead of collapsing
with your head and sort of doing this
you have to reach as far back as you can
it's slow it's meticulous it's painful
for the triceps which is good and it
will humble the living shit out of you
with how much less weight you have to
put on the bar but if you guys have been
following NRP for a bit or if it's your
first time you're onto the shit that
like we're not about lifting heavy
weights for no reason we're about
getting stronger in the most challenging
positions that best train the muscles of
Crystal do it wrong real quick you're a
bro tilt that head down real far touch
that hairline yeah brother it's kind of
like a press or something yeah hell yeah
you can lift a lot of weight like this
won't feel a lot of triceps though now
reach back
really far you'll notice where she
contacts is like right on the traps and
then all the way up and one more good
rep you're reaching back as you're going
down and that stretches the living dog
shit out of your triceps if you want to
take a pause at the bottom feel it out
for a second that's even better give
that some
[Music]
all right so the next cue the next tip
we have to feel your triceps more
is to maximize the range of motion
and to make sure that you are
controlling The Eccentric on this
exercise a nice slow three second
eccentric is everything in this world
and if you go super deep and control the
center and take in all the corrections
and tips for before you're going to zap
the living shit out of your triceps like
when a fly gets into one of them
electric zappers and you're like oh it's
a fly he's kind of cute and fuzzy and
it's like oh my fucking god is he dead
but then you look at the fly and he's
like like electric arcs are going around
his six fucking Limbs and he's like I
can never die what Dr Mike are you
having a stroke close let's take a look
at this tricep stuff so boom first we're
going to do it wrong we're going to do
it fast with limited range of motion but
you can't even do limited ROM she's been
around full ROM so long there we go yeah
yeah crank it out and use 100 trillion
pounds no good so let's fix it let's
keep those elbows in let's take our time
slow and super deep and up
elbows in slow and super deep just like
that perfect thank you so much Crystal
you know this is my first time
on camera with a pretty girl saying slow
and super deep
if you get a fancy easy bar like this
this is nice a regular easy bar or a
straight bar you can ask the question of
where the living fucking god do I put my
hands is it here is it there is it
everywhere the answer is dealer's choice
you're going to want to experiment with
a bunch of different grips my
recommendation is to always use the
monkey paw the open Palm like this it
seems to work better for not hurting the
elbows if you want a wrap that's totally
cool where you put your hands is a
matter of where for your structure
you feel that a fly just land on my face
fuck it's really on your shoulder right
now in any case
where
you feel it best is the correct answer I
could tell you bullshit make believe
biomechanics I can't be the angle of
supination is better here fuck out of
here with that shit everyone's built a
little bit different yo he built
different is that a meme that's a meme
right Scott the video guy so it's always
fun until a guy gets hits by a car and
dies and you're like yes he was pretty
much built the same in any case two
things one experiment different grips
find which one seems to hit the triceps
a ton while keeping your shoulders and
elbows feeling good point two that could
change not just over the course of your
life as you get more jacked and as you
get leaner things change but it can also
change sort of several months to several
months so you could use several months
of overhead extensions variations with
this grip and then you're like yeah it's
getting a little stale you try this grip
and it's also the correct answer just
different this is one of those pasta
versus rice questions there's no correct
answer the correct answer is whatever
you feel like slash a bit of both but
never mix together
it's there is there a dish where there's
pasta and rice mixed together in any
case folks thanks for tuning in we'll
catch you guys next time for another one
of these you may ask where did my life
uh where did my life go where did my
wife go
I think she left
[Music]
don't fuck this up don't fuck it up do
you understand we're on fucking video
don't fuck it up
you have a small fucking dick