let me tell you a little story when I
first got to University as a fresh-faced
sports science Junior student I was
dealing with a lot of mental health
stuff I had some depression going on
some insomnia some anxiety and some more
I had been training consistently for a
few years at that point since I was
about 14 years old however alongside all
the mental health stuff somewhere along
the way training had become a little bit
less enjoyable due to the mental health
and stuff I eventually found it quite
challenging to be able to plan out my
own training and continue sticking to it
you know there would be some days where
I wouldn't want to train there would be
some things would be difficult to get
the session done as it was prescribed
and So eventually it became more and
more difficult to both write out
training programs and to follow them
closely since I could no longer closely
follow a regimented routine reluctantly
because I still wanted to make gains I
started freestyling my own training a
little bit more you know going into the
gym and being a bit more flexible with
oh what exercise am I going to do oh
what rep range I'm gonna hit that sort
of stuff around this time I've been
reading some some of manual enhancements
and boarding pythagories stuff around
full body training specifically Borg
advocated for a super simple approach to
training where you picked one pushing
exercise one pulling exercise one knee
dominant exercise one hip hinge dominant
exercise and then afterwards you could
do some sort of isolation work or you
could pick a carry or you could just
call it there so a very simple bare
boned approach for about six months I
followed this very sort of freestyle
simple bare boned approach and made some
pretty good gains I gained a good amount
of muscle and strength as another good
example my good friend Dr pack has been
doing this for about one or two years
now and has made some really solid gains
on the overhead press in terms of
overall muscle mass hit some deadlift
PRS and more now does this make for the
absolute best muscle gaining strategy no
but I do think there is a time and place
for not having a super prescriptive
training program all the time measure
what is measurable and make measure
people what isn't has become near Dogma
within the fitness space however what
evidence do we actually have for saying
that a meticulously planned approach
will result in far better gains compared
to a somewhat more loose approach that
still follows a few good guidelines the
most obvious area of evidence here would
be periodization which refers to the
manipulation of training variables over
time which requires planning this is
where the latest metanalysis by Moose
Gordon colleagues comes in when looking
at a total of 35 studies the following
Trends emerged first for one repetition
maximum strength periodization was
better than no periodization for muscle
growth however periodization did not
lead to better results than not
periodizing your training finally a
subgroup analysis suggested that
undulating imperialization was better
than linear periodization for one
repetition maximum strength no such
results were found for growth so for
strength there does appear to be a
benefit to changing training variables
over time but for hypertrophy there
wasn't importantly in my view this
doesn't support super strong support in
favor of strictly planning sessions
after all no periodization in the
training research means literally doing
the exact same session over and over
again the same intensity the same number
of sets the same exercises the same
number of reps so no periodization is
actually not a very good Training
approach especially when you're trading
a performance outcome at the end which
you might want to peek and paper for but
that doesn't mean that you need to plan
your training super rigidly in fact if
you go into the gym day to day with an
open mind you'll typically wind up
adopting a form of undulating or daily
undulating periodization anyways where
you kind of change things a little bit
day to day based on your Readiness based
on your soreness based on your
motivation and that sort of stuff so if
you're currently not super strictly
planning your sessions you shouldn't be
wearing too much here's a few
recommendations and take away released
from this video first if you're going
with this approach as a short-term
strategy don't worry too much about
having super strict guidelines in place
as long as you're doing things roughly
right training somewhat hard using some
of the same exercises session to session
training in a relatively productive rep
range if it's a short-term strategy you
don't need to worry too much about
optimizing or having a lot of guidelines
to go by you can go relatively freestyle
and still make some pretty solid games
that being said if you're using this as
a longer term strategy say more than
about a month and or you still want
really good gains here's a few things to
check off first I'd recommend training
each muscle group at least twice a week
and I would generally take most sets for
hypertrophy within about two reps of
failure do about two to four sets per
exercise on average as far as rep ranges
go you can go anywhere between 5 and 50
reps provided you actually train close
enough to failure finally it is probably
worth including some exercise variation
AKA not just doing chin ups every single
time you hit back for certain complex
muscle groups like for example the back
that's probably benefits from a variety
of pulling angles here is a very quick
example of a full body split for muscle
growth
for strength I would recommend
frequencies of once to three times a
week for the squat twice to five times a
week for the bench and finally once or
twice a week for the deadlift most sets
for strength should be within about
seven reps of failure I would do sets of
anywhere between one and five reps on
the main lifts and sets of anywhere
between 3 and 10 reps on accessories on
average you should probably be doing
about two to three sets per exercise for
strength especially the degree of
variation whether or not you want to
include a lot of exercise variations
versus just doing the main lifts that
you care about is mostly up to you
anyways that's the video if you're
currently feeling stressed out with
training or you're not even planning
your training consistently that's fine a
more loose and less rigidly and
meticulously planned approach can still
yield really solid gains if you enjoy
the video please comment like subscribe
if you have any suggestions leave them
down below and I'll see you guys my
subscribers favorite people in the whole
world in that next one peace