sugar makes you fat not fat that is a
fact okay Gary Brea has fallen down to
my list of people I'm not really
enthused with because anything in excess
makes you fat there are some Nuance
there the direct conversion of protein
to fat is questionable and may not
happen on Moss and humans so if you
overeat protein you stop burning a lot
of fat stop burning it entirely really
but maybe you can't add a ton of body
fat eating excessive protein if you eat
excessive carbohydrate the conversion of
carbohydrate into fat happens through
multiple Pathways and you can directly
turn carbs into fat also if you eat
excessive carbohydrates and your
calories are too high you stop burning
fat entirely and then anytime your
calories too high from carbs some of
them turn to fat what did I leave out oh
yeah fats guess what your body has to do
the fats that it eats in order to
incorporate them into fat cells almost
nothing do you know why CU they're
already fats they just go right in
godamn it