what is going on everyone welcome to the
video so what we're going to be doing
here again is another sort of sit and
think and talk out loud video I think
I'm gonna call them think out loud
videos where I take some hot or
controversial topic in Fitness currently
and just share my opinions and current
thoughts on them before we get into the
topic of this video though I want to
give a huge shout out to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I've been using to run
Jeff nipper comm since I think early
2015 that's just about four years now
and it's great so if you're looking to
set up your own website or your own
online store I definitely recommend
using Squarespace they have beautiful
designer custom templates that can make
your page look really aesthetic and
amazing 24-hour customer support which I
use probably a couple times a month and
I'm using the platform every single day
to run my own online store where I saw
my training programs I'm so if you're
looking to get started with your own
website I can go to Squarespace comm /nu
pert and you can save 10% off your first
purchase okay so this video was actually
spurred on by a Facebook post from cliff
Wilson many of you guys will probably be
familiar with cliff I think he is if not
the top certainly one of the top natural
bodybuilding coaches in the world right
now
I mean cliff just doesn't miss when it
comes to natural bodybuilding and it's
crazy because if I go to a competition I
can literally pick out which clients are
cliffs just based on how shredded full
and dense they always look I'm so anyway
having tremendous amount of respect for
cliff but the other day he posted this
really controversial Facebook status and
I just couldn't help but share it on my
own Instagram I'm so I pulled you guys
or at least those of you who follow me
on Instagram and the results were really
interesting I'm so I'm just gonna read
out what his status said here so
basically he said far too many
bodybuilders placed too much emphasis on
squats deadlifts and bench presses
people act like these exercises are
essential well in bodybuilding there are
no exercises that you must do in fact
the closest thing to a must-do movement
and bodybuilding would have to be a
dumbbell lateral raise so I posted this
on my Instagram I'll just put the
results up here on the screen
but basically it was pretty much split
down the middle 58% of people said yes
and I think that I would agree with the
majority here for the most part I think
that the general crux overarching thesis
what cliff is trying to say here is
basically that in bodybuilding unlike a
lot of other performance driven sports
or activities it really doesn't matter
how you built your physique or what
exercises you use to build muscle as
long as your physique looks good on show
day then that's really all the judges
care about and I think that's also true
whether your bodybuilding to hit the
stage or just go to the beach and maybe
impress a crowd of people people don't
really care if you built your chest up
using a bench press or a PEC deck or
dumbbell flyes or what have you all that
they're really noticing is how big and
define your chest is for the most part
so I think that the general crux of this
is really obviously true unlike in a
sports a powerlifting where you have to
perform three lifts in bodybuilding
there are no must-do movements it just
matters how you show up taking to the
extreme you could make the case that you
don't even need to really lift at all as
long as you look good and I could
imagine a extreme genetic higher showing
up on stage having never lifted a weight
in his life if he has really impressive
genetics and maybe played football or
something like that you could actually
probably do pretty well at a local
bodybuilding show without actually even
lifting if you had good enough genetics
but still I don't think that gets to the
heart of what we really want to know
here which is our squats deadlifts and
bench presses the best exercises for
building muscle in any given individual
so I think that when it comes to that
cliff and I may have a little bit of a
difference of opinion I think I might be
a little bit more sympathetic to the
powerlifting centric approach than he is
and that's probably just because I do
have a little bit more of a sweet spot
for the power lifts because of my
extensive background in powerlifting
many viewers of the channel may not know
but I've competed in
at least half a dozen or more
powerlifting events myself to the
national level and I've coached people
from the provincial regional national
international and even on the world
level so I have a ton of interest in
powerlifting especially earlier in my
career and I've seen what these lifts
are capable of doing and I think that it
can be quite impressive but I think that
a lot of what cliff is saying here is
more or less a response to the trend
that we've seen in natural bodybuilding
where you have this crowd of people and
actually I think maybe coincidentally
tends to be aligned with the very very
science-based crowd or so-called
science-based crowd and I think this has
come a little bit more out of vogue
recently I remember around 2000 2014 or
2015 this sort of reached a peak to the
point that if you weren't doing squats
bench presses and deadlifts then you
might as well be Donizetti because
you're just training like a complete bro
and if you even did a bicep curl then
you obviously don't you know care about
science or whatever which in retrospect
seems a bit ridiculous but there was
this kind of dogmatic trend toward
powerlifting and I feel like that has
come a little bit out of popularity now
because a lot of those people just sort
of end up getting injured and realized
that maybe it wasn't worth it after all
but in my opinion I don't think that
there's anything necessarily inherently
injurious about the power lifts per se I
would say it's more so the fact that you
have this group of really disciplined
and driven bodybuilders who are turning
to powerlifting and they're getting very
emotionally invested and emotionally
attached to their performance on those
lifts we've all probably had the
experience of going in for a big
PR and if you miss it you just feel
really deflated if you get it you feel
amazing about yourself and I feel like
people kind of ended up taking on this
somewhat myopic approach to their
training where they got so numerically
driven that in practice it just ended up
being a reality that
sooner or later people were gonna bite
off more than they can chew when it
comes to how much weight they were
handling and in reality most people did
end up getting injured from this
approach but I think that's more so an
instance of bad lifting psychology and
bad programming not an inherent issue
with the power lifts themselves so
anyway with all that said I actually
quite like the power lifts for
bodybuilders for a few reasons
I would say the main one is that they're
just so motivating to train you can get
so fired up about going in and hitting a
benchpress PR in a way that you just
can't about hitting a Hammer Strength
press PR or PEC deck or something like
this and the same goes for for squats
and deadlifts so if you are feeling very
motivated about your training you're
having a ton of fun setting these PRS
and executing these lifts on a
consistent basis and we know that these
lifts activate a ton of musculature if
you're consistently applying progressive
overload with them you can build a ton
of muscle that way that isn't to say you
can't also build muscle by progressively
overloading on similar lifts that train
a similar biomechanical movement pattern
but I just don't think you can achieve
that same level of enjoyment intensity
and motivation as you would with the
power lifts or at least in most people
now of course that's kind of a bit of a
double-edged sword because by the same
token because you have such a high level
of motivation and readiness from day to
day like I said earlier chances are you
might end up pushing that a little bit
too far and just getting injured and
then setting yourself back further than
if you had just made more say slow and
steady progress with a hack squad or a
leg press or something like that so I
think you can come at this two ways but
as I've already said I think that going
against the power lifts is more so going
against careless and reckless
programming and reckless training
psychology not against the power lifts
per se so I still like the power lifts
for that reason the other reason is that
they can be a very efficient way to
Train like we said squat bench press and
deadlift activate a ton of
musculature and so if you're trying to
get let's say the most bang for your
buck with your training using these
heavy compound lifts is a way to really
optimize your time investment in the gym
and it brings me to a point that I feel
like a lot of people end up disagreeing
on or their people come at this from two
different angles
where you have one camp of trainers and
coaches who are looking for training
efficiency they want to know what
exercise is gonna give me the best
results per unit of time investment or
per unit of effort investment and then
on the other hand you have people like
cliff who are saying well I don't really
care so much about the time investment
and the efficiency I want to know what
program is gonna work the best for me I
don't really care how much effort or
time it takes and I think that both of
these approaches can have their merit
many people don't want to be the best
body builders in the world
which happen to be the people that cliff
is often coaching they might want to
just build a nice physique and then
still be able to party on the weekends
in which case a more efficient approach
might be better people arguing for
efficiency could also say well maybe the
most effective proach is also a more
inherently risky approach and you might
be more likely to get injured so you
should go for something that's going to
give you marginal returns over time and
just continue to train in an efficient
way and eventually you'll get to the
same spot you would have with the more
effectiveness approach over here so I
think that they can both have their
merit I personally being someone who
wants to chase the best results actually
aligned myself more with what I would
imagine is Cliff's philosophy on this
where I don't really think about my
programming in terms of how many
exercises can I strip away to maximise
on my time investment I think about what
exercises can I add in here to fill in
all the gaps and make the best training
program that I possibly can the most
effective training program for me so
let's just imagine that you are coming
at this from an efficiency standpoint
what would be the best routine I would
say a very powerlifting centric routine
with a focus on heavy compound lifts so
I would imagine the most efficient
routine would be something like this now
you pick
six exercises so for me you'd have the
squat the deadlift actually probably
recommend the Romanian deadlift for
bodybuilders which I'll get back to in a
minute the bench press the overhead
press a barbell row or a pendulum oh and
then you train twice a week so on one
day you do three of the exercises so
let's say Monday you'd go in you do your
squat you do your pull-up and you do
your bench press and then on the other
day you do your Romanian deadlift your
Pendley row and your overhead press you
probably do something like four to six
sets for each movement and train for
about an hour each day so you'd be in
the gym only two hours per week that's
it and only two days per week and you'd
still be hitting every body part twice
per week and you can get very impressive
results with this training style and
only spend two hours a week in the gym
actually I would imagine you would
probably get something like 80% of the
results that you would from a much more
convoluted routine for something like 20
maybe 20% of the time investment I'm so
you're looking for the most efficient
routine but you should do something like
that if you're looking for the most
effective routine then I feel like there
are a lot of holes in that program that
would need to be filled in to make the
best program possible and that's what I
think I'll unpack as I go through this
in a little more detail okay so I'm
gonna go through this status here one
line at a time and just kind of share my
quick thoughts on it so the first line
here we've got far too many body
builders place too much emphasis on
squats deadlifts and bench presses now I
should say from the outset I've already
said this but if cliff and I were on a
call here together we would probably
share at least 90% common ground on a
lot of this stuff and if not I would at
least respect her disagreements her
areas of disagreement but anyway I feel
like this first statement here I
actually pretty strongly disagree with
on a 1 to 5 scale with 5 being strongly
agree and 1 being strongly disagree I'm
probably a hard two on this one because
I feel like some body builders probably
place too much emphasis on squats
deadlifts and bench presses especially
if they're getting injured and not
getting the best results but in my
experience actually a lot of body
builders aren't putting emphasis on
these lifts
like I said I think it was really
popular around 2014-2015 in natural
bodybuilding there was definitely a
bandwagon effect going on there
back then but I feel like it's coming up
quite a bit out of popularity in natural
bodybuilding now you see guys using a
lot more exercise variation but in
bodybuilding generally I feel like if
you look at the NPC or the IFBB it's
actually pretty rare to see people
taking a powerlifting purist approach to
their training I don't have the closest
ties to IFBB bodybuilders but from those
that I have trained with they tend to
really focus on a ton of exercise
variation mind muscle connection
constant tension training in active mid
range ranges of motion and lots of
dynamic effort stuff variable resistance
stuff so there's just a ton of variety I
wouldn't say there's a lot of focus on
squatting dead lifting and bench
pressing as a power lifter would I
actually think that a lot of these guys
would benefit to do more squatting dead
lifting and bench pressing in lower rep
ranges especially in the offseason and
there's more room for various
periodization strategies and recoveries
probably a little bit better because I
feel like a lot of these guys are kind
of just in there pumping around maybe
spinning their wheels not really
progressively overloading and I feel
like these exercises could help them
build more of a strength base that could
then be applied to other exercises so I
would probably mostly disagree with that
one even though I would acknowledge that
there certainly are some body builders
placing too much emphasis on these three
lifts thinking that they're the be-all
end-all and really putting them up on a
pedestal where I don't think they
necessarily belong next part people act
like these exercises are essential I
definitely agree with that one probably
a four out of five agree on that because
there definitely are some people who act
like these exercises are required and
without them you just can't maximize
your potential that's just simply not
true there are so many different
exercises that you can do that if you're
injured or if these exercises just don't
jive with you you don't feel them
they're awkward they are uncomfortable
and so on and so forth and there's no
reason to think that you have to do
muscle muscle really only knows tension
ultimately and potentially damage in
metabolic stress but mostly tension so
there are so many different ways to
create that tension in the muscle that
yeah your muscles don't know what
exercises you're doing even though
different exercises can load the muscle
differently and that's an important
point and that's actually probably
something worth exploring a little bit
further because one of the problems with
this very essentialist focus on these
lifts is that we actually have research
showing that that isn't the most optimal
way to train there was a study published
and pull this up here so he published in
2014 Fonseca and colleagues Jacob Wilson
was on this paper too this is actually a
really cool study as a little bit
confusing if you just look at the
abstract here but in essence what they
found I'm gonna pull up the full text
here so basically what they did they had
one group perform only squats on their
training program that was it and the
other group did squats leg press
deadlifts and lunges so they had what
they called it a varied exercise
training program and what they found
I'll just read it off here from the full
text
they said the groups that varied
exercises throughout the training
program had more hypertrophy among all
the quadriceps muscle heads on the other
hand the group that varied neither the
intensity nor the exercises so they just
did squats had no significant
hypertrophy in the vastus medialis so
the tear drop muscle and rectus femoris
muscles so what this paper showed us
basically was that if you vary your
exercises and do more than just squat
chances are you'll get more even
hypertrophy across all heads of the
quads and I don't think it would be a
stretch to extend that onto other muscle
groups so if you say load the back from
different angles different planes of
motion different loading modalities
that's gonna be more effective than say
just doing a row or just doing a row on
a pull-up again I don't really have any
data to support that but I think it
makes them to ative sense based on this
ok so people do act like these exercises
are essential disagree or I agree with
cliff on that one in bodybuilding there
are no exercises that you must do 5 out
of 5 agree they're all that matters in
bodybuilding is that you've built a body
it really doesn't matter how you did it
this part is interesting so
in fact the closest thing to a must-do
movement in bodybuilding would have to
be a dumbbell lateral rate I honestly
don't think I've ever heard that said
before let alone by a coach as
prestigious as cliff it's a little bit
funny because it goes against so much of
what you hear but I think I totally see
what he's saying and the more I thought
about it I feel like I'm probably
somewhere in the middle I would say
neither agree nor disagree on this one
because I agree with the general
sentiment that side delts are extremely
important for bodybuilders and if we
just run with the six examples that are
the six exercises that I just outlined
so the squat deadlift bench press row
Pendley row pull up and overhead press I
think I got them all there's really no
exercise in there that's going to hit
the side delts adequately because the
bench press is a fantastic front delt
PEC and tricep exercise but not so great
for the side delts and almost no rear
adults but the row is pretty good for
the rear delts so that's fine and the
overhead press again is actually much
more front delt you can get a little bit
more side delt by doing the exercise
standing and with dumbbells but still I
wouldn't consider it to be nearly as
good as something like a lateral raise
so it seems like if there's really any
holes in this essentialist program it
probably is with respect to a side delt
exercise now you could make the case
that well what about the calves they're
not really being trained here at all
they get a little bit of stabilization
work on the squat and deadlift but not
really enough to maximize their growth
for sure so you could say a squat or a
calf raise would be the closest thing to
a must-do movement but I see that also
calves don't usually win bodybuilding
shows whereas a good set of capped side
delts really is critical to success in
bodybuilding
since it's just paramount to creating
that x-frame appearance which is
everything to a bodybuilder so I would
say side delts are more important than
calves and then you could say well what
about the traps because the ROE isn't
really going to hit the upper traps well
it'll really nail the mid
lower traps but the upper traps are
probably being neglected
they might get a bit of isometric work
from the deadlift and that is true they
probably would grow from that but still
nothing is really going to hit them
probably quite as much as a exercise
that actually trains scapular elevation
so you could say something like a shrug
would be a must-do movement but then
again similar to the calves I would say
no one really wins bodybuilding shows
based on their their upper traps so I
would say that yeah the side delt
exercise would still trump the traps in
that case however where I disagree a
little bit is on the choice of the
dumbbell lateral raise because if I was
to pick just one exercise which is a bit
of a silly exercise anyway because I
don't think any of us are really trying
to take this overly minimalist approach
where you're just trying to take like
the eight best exercises and only do
those and get a get rid of everything
else but still if we were to entertain
that as an idea I would probably go with
the upright row because with the upright
row you're getting both shoulder
abduction so bringing their arms out to
the side and scapular elevation so you
really get to hit the side delts and
you're also going to hit the upper traps
which would be neglected in those core
movements as well so I would have to put
the upright row over the dumbbell
lateral raise and I'd probably even put
the cable lateral raise over the
dumbbell lateral raise just because you
get a little bit more of a consistent
resistance curve with that one then with
the dumbbell or you have this circular
resistance path where you only get
really peak tension here up at the top
but in any case that would be nitpicking
a little bit I guess in cliffs defense
you could argue that well with the
lateral raise it's actually probably
less damaging overall than an upright
row would be because with the upright
row you've got multiple joints involved
you're gonna be using heavier weights so
it might actually be a little harder to
recover from whereas with the dumbbell
lateral raise you could really hammer
your side delts four five six days a
week with those squeezing a ton of
volume and really blow up your side
delts without too much of a recovery
cost as long as you're you're managing
your proximity to failure properly so I
totally see where he's coming from with
the lateral raise thing but if I was to
just pick one it would probably be an
upright row we don't actually have to
program like this in reality
we can pick and choose exercises to fill
in gaps as needed so I'm not a big fan
of this like purist essentialist
approach to programming in general which
is why I would say as a whole I actually
do agree quite a lot with what cliff is
talking about here so anyway hopefully
that was helpful if you guys enjoy this
sort of like sit and rant and talk video
obviously I kind of organize my thoughts
ahead of time but still this is sort of
how I'm thinking about this right now
one thing I've thought about doing is
kind of doing like a summary at the end
of these videos but they're already kind
of long and so what I might start doing
in the future is just given kind of a
bullet point summary of what I talked
about in the description box below so if
you guys think that that would be
helpful just let me know and once again
thank you to Squarespace for supporting
the video make sure you check out that
first link in the description box below
if you'd like to get started with your
own website or your own online store
thank you guys so much for watching
please leave a like if you enjoy the
video and I'll be back here with a new
technique Tuesday episode on Tuesday so
see you guys I'll hear that