because specifically I've seen you use a
checklist for should you go for your
next set have you rested for long enough
do you need more rest are you making a
mistake in your hypy training what I
want to get from you in this is how you
use the checklist what your rationale
for it is and what even is the checklist
sure so to me it's a couple of things
one is cardiovascular if you're still
breathing really heavily before your
next set there is a probability that
that next set you will hit failure in
your cardiovascular system before you
hit it in your muscular system and
that's no good because great training
for your cardiovascular system but if
you have like five reps left in your
quads but you can't breathe anymore and
you rack the weight you're done number
two is a very very poorly barely
undefined term that I still think has
some uh weight behind it and it is uh
your psychological perception of how
strong you feel because um activating
and recruiting