[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting where every Monday we're
gonna look at some fitness or nutrition
myth look at where that myth got started
and then why it's actually wrong based
on the most recent scientific evidence
so this week we're gonna be looking at
the idea that fasted cardio is better
for fat loss than doing fed cardio in
other words doing cardio first thing in
the morning on an empty stomach is
better than doing cardio after having
eaten a meal so first where did this
myth come from well the basic theory has
two prongs so the first prong states
that since first thing in the morning
insulin levels are low and insulin is
responsible for suppressing lipolysis
doing cardio when insulin is low should
result in a sort of release of this
inhibition on lipolysis and allow more
fat to be broken down during the cardio
session second prong states that since
first thing in the morning glycogen
levels are low our stored carbohydrate
levels are low the body should be more
likely to turn to stored fat as a fuel
source during the cardio session and as
it turns out both of these ideas have
been supported by several lines of
evidence back in 1976 albergue and
feelig showed that when you consume
carbohydrate during a cardio session
your body starts using much more
carbohydrate for fuel and much less fat
for fuel this early study was an
interesting one they had all subjects
performed light cardio for four hours
but one group consumes 200 grams of
glucose 90 minutes in and as you can see
here in the graph after that consumption
of glucose the body drastically
increased its use of glucose as fuel
compared to the controls which actually
utilize more and more fat as the session
went on so this led a lot of people to
believe that if you want to burn as much
fat as possible during a cardio session
you should avoid eating carbs before and
during the session and for the next 20
years or so this remained the prevailing
dogma with one study published 20 years
later in 1997 finding that small
elevations in plasma insulin before
exercise suppress lipolysis and appeared
to limit fat oxidation so this far it
seems to really be the case that if you
want to burn as much fat as possible
during your cardio session you should
perform it faster so where did this idea
go wrong
well the main take down against fasted
cardio is that just because you burn
more
during the cardio session itself which
is true doesn't necessarily imply that
you will lose more fat overall like over
a 24-hour period for example and this
was first brought to light in 2011 when
Paoli and colleagues discovered that if
you burn more of one substrate whether
it carbs or fats during a cardio session
you'll burn less of that substrate over
the course of the next 24 hours more
precisely what their study actually
measured was respiratory exchange ratio
or RER which can be used as a measure of
substrate utilization basically when you
do out the math burning one molecule of
carbohydrate results in a higher RDR
than burning one molecule of fat so in
this study what they found was that
right before the cardio session the fed
group had a higher R er implying they
were burning less fat before in during
the session however 12 hours after the
session the RER numbers completely
flipped 12 and 24 hours post exercised
the fasted cardio group was now burning
significantly less fat these new
findings led the authors of the study to
conclude that over long periods
exercising after breakfast would be more
effective than training fasted to lose
weight through the increased metabolism
and reduced RER in the hours after the
training session
however while helpful for generating
hypotheses the studies we've looked at
so far have been acute studies looking
at short-term changes in substrate
utilization not long-term trials
investigating full scale changes in body
fat so for that we need to turn to the
first study of this kind published in
2014 by Schoenfeld and colleagues they
took 20 young women and split them into
a fasted cardio and a fed cardio group
they were following a diet that put them
in a 500 calorie deficit with the same
macronutrients between the groups and
did one hour of moderate intensity
cardio three days per week either fasted
or fed depending on their group after
four weeks both groups lost a
significant amount of fat but they found
no difference in fat loss between the
groups implying that both fasted and fed
cardio are equally effective which led
the authors to claim that they refuted
the veracity of the hypothesis that
fasted exercise reduces body fat to a
greater extent the obvious limitations
here are that the sample size is pretty
small with only 10 women in each group
and the fact that the study was only run
for four weeks so a relatively short
study duration so it could stand a
reason that perhaps
over more time one of the groups would
have started to outperform the other in
terms of fat loss but I wouldn't expect
this to be the case especially based on
through the equivocal nature of the
acute mechanistic data on this anyway
I'd also note that these women although
healthy weren't all that leaf with an
average body fat percentage of 25% so it
could stand to reason that perhaps
leaner athletes or perhaps leaner men
would see different results however
again I wouldn't necessarily speculate
this given that in the field people have
been very successful in terms of getting
very lean with both fasted and fed
cardio and like I said there doesn't
really seem to be any real strong
mechanistic case for preferring one or
the other and so to sort of wrap this up
I'd like to turn to the results of a
2017 systematic review and meta-analysis
looking at five independent four to six
week trials which found that fasted
compared to fed exercise does not
increase the amount of weight loss and
that weight loss and fat loss from
exercise is more likely to be enhanced
through creating a meaningful caloric
deficit over a period of time rather
than exercising in fasted or fed States
furthermore the review suggested that
there is no detrimental effect on body
mass and body composition with utilizing
fasted cardio however they do
acknowledge that the data is still
somewhat limited and we need to see more
research in order to make really firm
conclusions about this issue so in terms
of practical takeaway here there doesn't
really seem to be any special benefit to
doing cardio fasted and the extent of
fat loss seems to really be mostly
dependent on the extent of the imposed
caloric deficit and secondly in my
personal experience it seems that some
people simply just prefer doing cardio
fasted first thing in the morning and
that might energize them for the day or
they may not have much of an appetite
first thing in the morning and so they
find that doing that cardio first thing
sort of starts to get their appetite
going and it would just be an
inconvenience for them to have to eat a
meal prior and I think that that's
perfectly fine so guys I wanted this
video to focus mostly on using fasted
cardio as a tool for enhancing the fat
loss there's a bunch of other stuff I
could have gotten into here including
metabolic differences hormonal
differences and whether or not training
fasted has any impact
on increasing or decreasing lean mass
and that's something I think I might get
to in a follow-up video to this
addressing some of these peripheral
issues I'll probably do another walk and
talk
follow-up video here so there's anything
you'd like to hear me cover on the topic
of training fasted that wasn't covered
in this video
just leave me a comment down below and
I'll try to get to the ones that people
seem to be wondering about the most and
you can stay tuned for that video but
for this one I'll just wrap it up here
with the main conclusion that there
doesn't seem to be any inherent benefit
to training fasted if you do prefer it
then you can do it and that doesn't seem
to really be detrimental in any way but
in terms of scheduling your cardio I
think that what is most important is
just finding a time where it fits in
your schedule best so that you can
adhere to it most effectively over the
long term and also doing cardio when you
feel more energized whether that's from
eating a meal before it or doing it fast
and first thing in the morning okay guys
that's gonna wrap up this week's
myth-busting day thank you so much for
watching if you did like the video don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up and I'll
have some more myth-busting day episodes
up here next to my head somewhere if
you'd like to check them out don't
forget to subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I will see you guys all
here next Monday