so it's totally fine to maybe do like a
set of underhand chin-ups or something
like that if you really want your arms
to grow first of all they're a great
bicep builder in their own right but
also they'll set your back up definitely
hit your back you can sort of check off
the whole compounds first box if that's
what you're into but the next exercise
should be a curl or something something
to hit your biceps really well and then
you can train the rest of your back
later and interestingly enough not only
does that mean you train biceps early in
the plan and they get a really good
stimulus but all of your back stuff you
do after likely pull Downs or rows your
biceps may be a limiting factor and all
of those exercises Now train your biceps
a lot because they're more of a
manufacturing they would be that still
hits your back not in any very good way
so if you really want back growth do not
fucking do that train your back first
but if you really want big arms
you got to Train Your Arms either first
or early