the hip thrust commonplace in many gyms
across the world does it actually grow
muscle in the glutes stick around and
find out the moment arms involved at the
knee and the range of motion that the
knee is going through during hip thrust
would heavily limit the growth of the
quadriceps and hamstrings muscles the
hip thrust is a prime candidate to
somewhat isolate and maximize the growth
of the gluteus maximus muscle but does
it actually do that in this study they
took beginners and had them train either
exclusively with deep squats or
exclusively with hip thrusts
interestingly both the squat group and
the hip thrust group saw similar grouped
growth as far as the quads the adapters
and the hamstrings went there was about
twice the growth in the quads and the
actors in the squad group compared to
the hip thrust group this study kind of
lends credibility that the hip thrust
really does a good job of training the
boots and doesn't grow other areas of
your lower body nearly as well whereas
the squat on the other hand saw pretty
good growth in the quads the adductors
and the glutes