fitness myths
series
number five
i'm dr mike
welcome to renaissance periodization's
youtube channel here's the myth vegan
diets are bad for gains really bad for
gains
let's take a look at what we have here
so the claim
generally looks something like well
vegans can't gain as much muscle as
people who eat animal products
and if vegans begin to eat animal
products then they will become
significantly more muscular now
interesting thing is if you go to like
reddit or youtube or instagram or
whatever other people go to talk twitter
they tweet they make bird sounds at each
other uh there's all these personal
stories
of people being like yeah i used to be
vegan and i was skinny and then i
finally said fuck that i started eating
meat and i got jacked and then pictures
and everything which is like neat but my
personal stories are are literally
anecdotal which means there could be
tons of personal stories in the other
direction we're just not seeing so like
if someone has a testimonial that's cool
and all it accounts for something but
that something isn't that much we could
be getting kind of like a statistically
very biased picture from what the
reality really is so we have to take
that with a grain of salt but that's
kind of the claim here is that like
vegans are missing out a lot on muscle
growth right
so why is this a myth why is this wrong
well theoretically if you get enough
protein fats
carbs vitamins and minerals you should
be able to grow pretty close to if not
the
um optimal amount of muscle given all of
your other inputs genetics sleep
so on and so forth how hard you're
training etc so if you actually get
those things
which you can from a properly fed vegan
diet you should be gaining like if not
the identical amount of muscle that an
omniverse person would gain
pretty god damn close maybe to the point
where you can't even tell the difference
right and in the research there's not
ton of research on this but what
research we do have indicates that
properly fed properly designed vegan
diets do about as well as omnivorous
diets uh maybe not exactly as well
sometimes uh just about as well
in gaining muscle or enhancing athletic
performance and so on and so forth so it
was wrong because gee the actual
evidence doesn't lend a ton of credence
to it now
as in almost every myth there are some
grains of truth and here they are
first just observationally most vegans
are not jacked and a lot of people will
be like vegan fucking blue-haired vegans
they're you know small and pale and
wimpy and that's not entirely wrong but
that's moral correlational or
causational thing like
most vegans just aren't that interested
in getting super jacked or at all jacked
and we think about it like of all of
humanity like us meatheads occupy like a
really small corner of this really
really weird world like if you think
about it we're like trying to add
physical tissue to our bodies like elon
musk is out there going to space and
mars and shit what the fuck are we doing
with our time so we like judge the fuck
out of vegans for being like tiny
motherfuckers like who gives a shit you
know and they might not give a shit so
if you see someone who literally just
basically doesn't lift weights they do
tons of cardio they're not eating a lot
of protein they're literally not trying
to get jacked if that just
demographically correlates with being
vegan then it looks like veganism causes
being not jacked but really it's just
correlation that they just might not
care as much and that's probably true on
average there's tons of vegans that care
about getting jacked but statistically
that they're the very small minority of
vegans
really when you think about it
similarly to how like people want to get
jacked are a very small fraction of
omnivores right like most people eat
meat and animal products and most people
don't lift weights and don't want to get
jacked and i think that's even more a
thing for vegans and i'll tell you a
little bit why about what
why that might be
vegans generally statistically as a
group tend to exhibit uh more sort of
feminized mental characteristics
including a higher degrees of sympathy
which probably brought them to be vegan
in the first place and generally
speaking
when you engage in hardcore resistance
training and an attempt to become
monstrous you're exhibiting more
masculinized characteristics which is
like good or bad it's not a valid
judgment it's just a different way to
roll and it's just like most vegans just
aren't on that spectrum of things which
is totally fine again it's totally cool
and just not all vegans etc but it's
just a thing like you know if you say
like oh man the hippie lifestyle isn't
conducive to getting jacked like i just
don't think most hippies want to get
jacked because i say think about
computer scientists like what is it
about computer science that makes people
small and pale skinned uh and like
socially awkward to be like wait is it
the computer science is the fact that
computer scientists themselves just
generally tend to be those things and
just don't care about being another way
it's probably more correlation than
causation another little tiny grain of
truth here okay
so and so so the grain of truth is like
most vegans aren't jack so you can see
where people are coming from in that
perspective but it's probably mostly
correlation and not causation
leucine yes leucine is anabolic yes
animal products have more leucine almost
always than plants
but
uh it is a good point and it might make
a very small difference but if your
protein intake is really high you can
actually supplement with leucine as well
as a vegan it really becomes mostly moot
point so yeah it's a point but it's a
tiny point it doesn't you know it's not
the difference between like sigma male
uh omnivore and you've got a beta cuck
vegan am i doing these terms correctly i
don't know what any of this means i've
been on instagram for a few days um so
leucine yeah it's a thing but it's a
very minor thing really really greatly
oversold
and at the end of the day we're not a
hundred percent sure
if animal products don't have something
else in them as yet either untabulated
or undiscovered that does promote actual
hypertrophy a little bit better than
than something that is absent
in plant products and only as an animal
product maybe some sort of like hormone
derivatives or some other kind of
chemicals that are in animal products
growth factors etc
that really just do actually make a
difference the thing is is that
this can't make a huge difference we
know that it might make a small one
which maybe not for sure can make
omnivorous diets diets that include
animal products just marginally a little
bit more hypertrophic so that's a
possibility we're not willing to rule
out so we're not willing to say it's a
total myth that vegan diets have
absolutely no impact on muscle gains it
might be true but we know at best it's a
tiny bit true or at worst and at best
it's not true at all right so where do
we go from there what are the best
practices
if you're okay with eating animals from
you know morally etc i have a whole list
of reasons about why to and why not to
do it on vegan so if you type in isrtel
veganism uh into youtube i think that's
how search engines work you should get
an interesting video or very not
interesting video depending on your
perspective it's like 30 minutes i
really beat the issue to death um but if
you're okay with eating animals given
all that um an omnivorous diet is
probably still your best bet for muscle
growth so like if somebody came to me
and they're like hey i don't care
whether i'm vegan or not at all for
ethical reasons don't care i want to be
an ifb pro and i have pretty good
genetics should i be eating animal
products or not i'd be like yeah for
sure i wouldn't rule them out like milk
and meat and eggs that's all really good
stuff so if you really want to get
jacked i definitely wouldn't say going
vegan is like the best proactive idea
however if you are vegan there's
probably nothing to worry about you're
probably going to get at least 95 to 97
of the gains you could have gotten if
not 100
but the way you do that is to make sure
you eat between 1.25 and 1.5 grams of
higher quality protein because vegan
sources tend to be lower quality per day
not a gram per pound but a bit more how
much more is up for debate there's some
nuance there but more
1.25 to 1.5 is my humble recommendation
based on my assessment of literature
do that
eat well eat consistently do everything
else you would normally and i would
highly recommend probably like some zinc
and maybe magnesium and a few other
things but generally speaking i would
say at least b vitamin supplement and
creatine
because um plant products have
essentially no creatine in them animal
products do uh supplemental creatine
tends to be something vegans respond to
very well because it's nearly absent
from their diets take some creatine take
some b vitamins be a vegan calm in the
morning you're gonna wake up looking
like fucking arnold
see you next time