welcome to the house of hypertrophy the
glute Max is the largest individual
lower body muscle and it is the quest of
many to only further grow this muscle
across the interwebs there are Fierce
debates about what exercises May best
develop this muscle one of them being
how the hip thrust May compare to the
classic back squats a brand new study
has directly compared these two
exercises for glute adductor hamstrings
and quadriceps hypertrophy and there are
also some additional interesting
findings let's dive into things
laughs
before we analyze the new study we have
this previous study by barbalio that you
may be aware of if you followed the
hypertrophy scientific literature for a
while it caused quite a stir across
social media and it compared hip thrust
to back squats and purportedly
established back squats evoked
approximately 2.5 times more gluteus
maximus hypertrophy compared to hip
thrusts but there is a massive problem
the author of the study barbalia has
been the author of numerous studies that
have improbable data patterns to the
extent it's likely his studies cannot be
trusted thus we can consider this new
study as the first legitimate one
comparing hit for us to back squads
[Music]
34 untrained individuals were assigned
into either a squat or hip thrust group
the hip thrust group trains exclusively
the barbell hip thrust
while the squat group exclusively
trained the barbell back Squad to as
deep as comfortable the author noted
four of them attained ACG while the
majority of the rest attained a parallel
depth both groups performed 8 to 12
repetitions to volitional failure per
set the number of sets they perform as
per workout increased across the study
duration and training was done twice per
week Progressive overload through
increasing load was applied across the
sessions to ensure subjects kept
training to volitional failure within
the 8 to 12 rep range quadriceps and
adductor growth was greater for the
squat group while neither group
experienced notable hamstrings
hypertrophy these findings make a ton of
sense squats move the knee joint through
a much greater range of motion relative
to hip thrusts and quite importantly
squats attain a great stretch of the
quads so it's expected squats produce
greater quad hypertrophy furthermore the
adductor Magnus specifically has been
documented to have great leverage near
the bottom position of the squad so we'd
expect it to grow very well with the
squats finally although the hamstrings
have leverage for hip extension but no
squats and hip thrusts involve knee Bend
and this places the hamstrings into a
position where it cannot effectively
generate Force so it makes sense both
exercises generate minimal hamstrings
hypertrophy as for gluteus maximus
hypertrophy it was ultimately found
growth at an upper middle and lower
region increased similarly between both
groups both exercises produce the
greatest growth at the lower region
followed by the middle region and then
the upper region why was this the lower
region of the glute Max is simply likely
the region that contributes the most to
hip extension
whereas although the upper regions still
perform hip extension they also play a
good role in hip abduction interestingly
there is another Factor worth noting
that is previous research indirectly
suggests that upper glute regions may
contain proportionally more slow twitch
muscle fibers while the lower regions
contain proportionally more fast switch
fibers with all else equal fast twitch
fibers have greater growth potential so
this may also contribute as to why the
lower region experience is the best
growth the researchers also measured
gluteus medius and Minimus growth and
changes in the size were also similar
between both groups but neither group
really saw meaningful growth which makes
sense since these muscles more so play a
role in hip abduction and hip external
rotation the researchers also assess
some strength measurements increases in
back squat strength were unsurprisingly
greater for the squat group while
increases in hip thrust strength were
unsurprisingly greater for the hip
thrust group interestingly the
researchers also measured deadlift
strength before and after the study and
both groups experienced similar gains
having now detailed a study there are
two considerations firstly the subjects
were previously untrained so we strictly
cannot be 100 certain we'll establish
the same thing in trained folks secondly
remember subjects perform their reps to
volitional failure it is easier for
researchers to use this definition but a
limitation is that it's vague thus we
cannot be 100 certain we'll establish
the same results if a different
Criterion for stopping a set of reps was
used so there we have it that's the
summary of the new study before wrapping
things up there are actually two other
studies directly measuring gluteus
maximus hypertrophy that I think are
important to be aware of
[Music]
this 2019 study by Kubo compared 90
degree knee flexion to 140 degree knee
flexion squats and established a 140
degree knee flexion squats produced
greater glute Max hypertrophy why was
this the 114 knee flexion group
presumably attained a greater stretch of
the glute Max and the scientific
literature indicates attaining a stretch
during an exercise can be powerful for
building muscle for example this 2021
Japanese study compared seated to Lang
leg holes seated Lego stretch out of the
hamstrings more and they evoked greater
hamstrings hypertrophy another 2022
Japanese study compared triceps overhead
extensions to pushdowns overhead
extensions stretch out of the long head
of the triceps more and they produce the
greater overall triceps hypertrophy
this talk of stretch raises an
interesting question in the new study I
noted the majority of the subjects
reached parallel squat depth but what if
all of them squatted deeper than this
would this have resulted in the glute
Max growing better with the squats we
can't rule this out we currently don't
have any research directly comparing
glue Max High perch food between
parallel and deeper squats it could be
possible there's a threshold to the
amount of stretch that's beneficial so
perhaps there's no difference in glute
Max growth between parallel and deeper
squats future research is required here
nevertheless some of you may be
pondering even though the majority of
subjects performance parallel squads
this still attains a greater stretch of
the glute Max compared to hip thrusts so
if attaining a stretch is powerful for
building muscle why didn't the parallel
squats generate greater glute Max
hypertrophy versus The Hip thrusts my
current working hypothesis is the glute
Max is a bit of an odd muscle let me
explain with the triceps and hamstrings
data we just mentioned we know overhead
extensions stretch out the long triceps
head while seated Legos better stretch
out the hamstrings but both of these
exercises will involve High overall
contractile forces from the muscle too
that is overhead extensions involve High
contractile forces from the triceps and
seated leg holes involve High
contractile forces from the hamstrings
this is important because it's likely
the combination of high contractile
forces plus stretch throughout the range
of motion that is probably the recipe
for best muscle growth here's the key
point with the glute mix we know it's
stretched in deeper angles of hip
flexion but at this point it actually
appears to have lower leverage for
producing hip extension compared to the
hamstrings and a duck to Magnus thus
although we're successfully stretching
the glute Max at lower portions of the
squad it may fail to experience a high
dose of overall contractile forces the
adductor Magnus since it has better
Leverage is presumably what sees a high
dose of contractile forces with the
hamstrings we know due to the knee
bending it won't really be involved much
so with traditional exercises we may not
be able to simultaneously have the glute
stretched while experiencing a high dose
of contractile forces throughout the
range of motion so this is why I think
the squats didn't produce Superior
growth compared to the hip thrusts
remember this is just a hypothesis and
I'm certainly open to being wrong
nonetheless moving on to the other study
exploring glute Max hypertrophy which is
this recent one by Casiano and
colleagues that it had 33 untrained
women trained three times per week
across 10 weeks one group trained just a
leg press and stiff-legged deadlift to
each with these variables a second group
also trained the leg press and stiff
like a deadlift but they added the hip
thrust the addition of the hip thrust
caused this second group to perform
higher volume that is number of sets per
week ultimately glute Max hypertrophy
was greater for this second group thus
this study adds to the notion that the
hip thrust is a perfectly fine exercise
to elicit glute Max hypertrophy of
course the fact the second group
performed more sets probably plays a
large part in the great hypertrophy
since as indicated by this meta-analysis
higher set numbers can produce more
muscle hypertrophy on average
in just 15 seconds let me tell you about
the alpha progression app with an
advanced generator it creates a program
precisely fitted to your needs the
training variables are grounded in
research aesthetic graphs display your
long-term progression and there's a vast
exercise database to assist you try the
app free for two weeks with a link in
the comments and description and if you
like it you get 20 off a subscription
[Music]
so this new study found squats and hip
thrust did a similar job at growing the
upper middle and low region of the glute
Max although since quadriceps and a duct
hypertrophy what's better with escorts
we can generally say squats are a better
overall developer of multiple muscle
groups while hip thrust better isolate
the gluteus maximus outside of the lab
you can of course train both in a
program a notable consideration related
to this is that since hip thrust trained
the glutes at a more shortened position
they are probably easier to recover from
so if you're particularly trying to
accelerate glue Max development using
the hip thrust as a tool to train the
groups with higher volumes can be a fine
strategy indeed we know a recent study
by Casiano found that having subjects at
the hip thrust on top of a leg press and
stiff-legged program which increase the
overall training volume was a perfectly
fine way to enhance glute Max
hypertrophene is training to failure
essential for hypertrophy check out our
most recent video on the related
research