[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm going to do
some Parmesan ranch chicken strips these
are from my second 100 recipe cookbook
the Renaissance feast and the way that I
look at these these are kind of like
grown-up chicken nuggets that's kind of
what my kids think of and these are
really really easy and just kind of a
different way for you to get in some
chicken protein so we're gonna go ahead
and get started we're gonna make a sauce
to toss these in so I'm gonna start with
sriracha sauce a little bit of extra
virgin olive oil and then some fresh
lime juice whisk fist combine everything
so this is just regular boneless
skinless chicken breasts that I've cut
into kind of like three or four byte
strips you know just kind of cut it into
like what you would think I was a
chicken strips eyes that's it
nothing too magical about it I'm just
kind of gently toss these in here until
all of them are coated
there's no pieces of chicken that are
not coated because they will you know
the chicken breast will stick together
and stuff so kind of just moving around
with your spatula to make sure you're
not missing any pieces and then we're
just going to toss it with some dry
ranch packets and just kind of carefully
toss it you don't want to you don't want
to mix this I mean if we wanted to mix
it we would have mixed it with the wet
sauce we don't want that it's just a
little bit of a dry coating so just kind
of carefully toss it and this is one of
those protein recipes where I like to do
cooling rack inside of a pan that way
the you know the fats can drip off onto
the bottom because we want this to be we
want this to get a little bit crunchy so
we don't want it to sit in its own
juices and kind of like you know boil in
there and then I like to cover this with
foil also so I will spray the foil
so it doesn't stick on the top side I'm
also going to put some salt and pepper
right on top first
you're just tinting it this is one of
those tent times in your life you don't
want this tight you're not trying to
steam in there I'm gonna pop it in the
oven careful of steam burns when you
take this off do it away from you look
how good those look here comes some
cheese she's always good so I like the
shredded parm
it's just a night it's more flavor in
your bite than it is if you have that
finely grated parm so I like the shreds
we don't need the top anymore and then
we're just gonna stick these back in the
oven for 10 minutes all right guys it
smells amazing in here so let's pull
these chicken strips out
[Music]
it smells so good how easy they are
grownup chicken nuggets
you
[Music]