hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and you want to look like
Thor too damn it don't you good news we
wrote up a superhero workout where you
can look just like Thor pause why would
you want to do this well I've been known
on this channel to do a little bit of
critiquing of Hollywood training you
could say some of it is hilarious some
of it falls on deaf ears but I will say
that not all Hollywood training for
celebrities to want to look like
superheroes is bad but a lot of it is
just bunk I have these workout videos
just random nonsense it's hard it was
only a matter of time until the began
Peak nonsense with do these people come
from so if you're like damn I kind of
want to look like Thor you Google some
things you could find some videos that
are less than helpful or find a whole
lot of nothing at all so what if you
actually want to look like your favorite
Hollywood star or your favorite movie
superhero or some combination of the two
well let's take a look at the challenge
and see if we can't figure out a workout
together me being all PhD of sport
Science and shit like that help you
along to look like well maybe even Thor
himself in the comics Thor's height and
weight have varied over the years
depending on the writer and artist but
he is typically portrayed as standing
around 66 to 69 holy fuck and weighing
between 240 to 640
lb depending on whether he is in his
mortal form or in his sardian form so
now I guess the workout really should
try to make you look like haor Julius
bson which really is his name is Thor
and he roughly meets those metrics and I
was going to say he's mortal but is that
really true who are you to put that to
the test fuck that no one's weighing 440
anytime soon and I sure shit most of you
probably though you think the mountain
from Game of Thrones looks very cool
maybe not exactly what you want to look
like let's scale the shit down to
semi-realistic just look at Chris
Hemsworth for that role what did Thor
look like when he was acted by Chris
Hemsworth super goodlooking
[Music]
dreaminess aside seems like a lot of
authorities say he's roughly 6'3 and 25
lbs for that roll okay that's way more
realistic and also pretty fucking cool
that's dope that's a hell of a look and
okay those are cool Dimensions but we
can't really change your height we can
give you weight gain or weight loss over
time but during that weight gain or
weight loss we also want you to be
shaped like Thor and that's what this
workout is going to be about getting you
to be shaped like him and so we'll need
to know which muscles really stand out
on Thor and which muscles are like oh
they're nice but they're not exactly the
stars of the show so let's take a look
at that what muscles are we going to be
emphasizing to me and I've looked at a
lot of male physiques over the years my
psychiatrist is too
many for Chris Hemsworth in this role
especially in the uh latest Thor as of
this creation of this PowerPoint the
movie love and thunder in that movie
love and thunder he was by far his most
jacked I mean holy crap he looked
ridiculous and in that whole Greek god
scene where he was all tied up or
whatever sounds like I'm describing a
different kind of movie he just looked
Mega Jack now of course there's some CGI
involved but what stood out to me most
about him and actually in a variety of
his roles as Thor was first of all his
back like you could see a motherfucker
lats through the front that's dope he a
big back and that's not something you
expect from Hollywood another one is his
shoulders big round capped off and big
ass arms if you look at his pecs they're
there they're cool but nothing too crazy
you look at his abs they're dope but
nothing psychotic and legs yeah I mean
he has them and they're muscular but
nothing to write home about so to me
looking like Thor is about having a big
ass back big ass shoulders and big ass
arms in this program that we're going to
write out for you guys that you could do
by yourself the other muscles will be
trained the major muscle of the body but
with much less emphasis so we're really
going to be focusing on back shoulders
and arms so you can look like th finally
get the Natalie Portman of your dreams
isn't that right Scott the video guy
would you look like Thor door to get a
little of her thunder and lightning
Scott has a bit of an obsession there
we'll talk about that in our spare time
now getting a superhero physique takes
serious work so the plan that we're
going to outline for you is going to be
a 5-day week plan can you condense it
into a 3 or 4 day week plan sure will it
work as well not exactly as well I just
want to get you guys the real re to get
you started and that means you're in for
some work so to the plan what does our
plan look like well here you go and you
don't have to remember all this or write
it down
because it's going to be visually
displayed for you you can simply pause
at any time and screenshot with your
phone there are going to be five days
and generally the structure is we train
back shoulders and arms our priority
muscles on Monday Wednesday Friday or
any way you want to do the 5 days
throughout the week it doesn't much
matter as long as you're sequencing it
in the similar fashion so if you want to
do Monday Wednesday Saturday no big deal
and then Tuesday Thursday we're going to
train kind of the rest of the major
parts of the body chest legs and ab so
on Monday or day one rather we start
with barbell bent over rows fees build
slabs of thick beef all around your back
and they also hit your traps and your
spinal rectors so when you turn to the
side with mule near the hammer people
are like damn that's a cool Hammer but
then others are like damn spinal rectors
are big I don't know which one I'm
afraid of more the infinite immortality
Hammer thingy or the fact that salami is
forur actors next you will do underhand
pull-ups underhand pull-ups are dope
because they really get your lats going
get you that width and they hit the lats
from the top to bottom so you get that
poofy V taper that Thor has tasty I know
but also because they're underhand they
hit your biceps a lot as well and that's
really cool cuz you're going to want big
arms next you go on to shoulders and you
do dumbbell lateral raises great
shoulder movement especially doe slow
and control with good technique and
you're going to follow this up with
dumbbell bicep curls for convenience we
could have picked any other kind of
bicep curl the type of curl you do
doesn't matter a ton but if you got the
dumbbells for laterals if you're you're
in the dumbbell area sometimes you use
similar weights for them you're already
halfway there super convenient last
exercise in this day is going to be the
triceps overhead Easy Bar extension you
can use a straight bar for this but the
easy bar is a little bit preferred
because it's generally uh easier on the
elbows and it makes the movement feel a
little bit more comfortable and lets you
connect the Mind muscle to your triceps
a ton without involving your shoulders
as much so great movement there you're
going to start the plan we'll talk about
progression later with roughly two sets
two working sets after warmup of all of
these exercises and you're going to
shoot for roughly 10 to 15 repetitions
per set very general formula it's going
to stay the same for every single day of
this plan next day two chest legs and
abs this is like a Tuesday or whatever
this isn't your high priority day we'll
talk about later how that's going to
shift to become not so difficult
compared to the other days but you still
got to put in the work cuz remember Thor
isn't just shoulders back and arms he
does have abs he does have a chest he
does actually walk on two legs that
aren't the skinniest things in the world
we're not talking about Captain America
here
oo ouch that hurts he does kind of have
peg legs though huh we are going to
start with high bar squats deep strict
with the chest up to fry the quads and
get the glutes and get the adductors and
a little bit more lower back work and
believe it or not if you pinch your
shoulders back to create that shelf it
even makes your traps more jacked which
is really good then because you're in
the rack already you can do high bar
good mornings these hit your glutes and
your hamstrings even your calves a
little bit they hit it a ton your lower
back your spinal Erectors get even more
hypertrophy great exercise so it's not
just hams but it's a ton of other stuff
as well which is awesome then you're
going to go and do incline dumbbell
presses full range of motion super big
stretch at the bottom with a nice pause
and then coming back up these will
develop your chest to a really great
extent also work on the front of your
delts which we don't really train in the
other days much and a little bit of
extra tricep work never hurt anyone
Grandma used to do it great grandma used
to do it you're going to get even bigger
triceps from this and lastly we're going
to finish up with slant board sit-ups
cuz abs are a thing and if you train
your abs in the hypertrophy rep range
they will grow they will pop out more
and you put that suit of armor on like
Thor they're still going to pop through
that shit and bitches be like damn poppy
wear them ABS D and you're like I don't
I'm not from the Bronx I don't know what
you're saying sets of 10 to 15 reps
we're going to start with two sets we'll
talk about later where we progress from
there day three we had a day break other
muscle groups were trained now it's day
three we're back to back shoulders and
arms again this time in a different
order because this time the back is
still maybe a little bit beat up from
Monday so we're going to put back a
little bit down into more of the middle
of the program and we're going to start
with shoulders shoulders fresh cuz last
time they weren't train fresh cable
crossbody lateral Rises awesome
especially if you really reach across
and let your side and re deck get
stretched for a few seconds at the
bottom of the movement come back up to
the top it's a really awesome exercise
you're going to need a cable station do
one arm rest for 10 seconds do the other
arm rest for 10 seconds or even 30
seconds and repeat barbell upright rows
any grip that you like that's
comfortable for you is really good
remember to always lead with your elbows
and even consider pausing at the top but
definitely control that Ecentric on the
way down this hits your side delts even
your rear delts it hits your traps and
it hits your biceps and your forearms a
little bit giving you more of that Thor
esque look next we're done with
shoulders we go on to chest supported
rows more back work but it's easier now
and not a ton of it it's the only back
exercise for today because the back was
pretty well cooked from last time hit it
still a little bit today will save more
back work for Friday Easy Bar bicep
curls great exercise you can definitely
use a straight bar if you want but the
Easy Bar generally a little more comfy
on the elbows and remember full range of
motion and slowly control that descent
in order to get the most muscle the
lowest risk of injury lastly cable
tricep pushdowns good technique here
moving mostly at the elbow not any other
joints slow control on the way up pause
at the top a little bit and then come
come back down for a full lockout in
most cases all of these exercises done
for at the beginning in the first week
for two sets of roughly 15 to 20
repetitions so you'll notice that's a
little higher than the first days that
we were training next day four chest
legs and abs again you're going to start
with machine flat chest press we started
Tuesday with uh we had an incline press
for chest but this time we have a flat
press to make sure that the whole peack
is trained throughout the week you're
going to move into hanging leg raises if
you're not Ultra super strong you can
just do hanging knee raises but if
you're super strong and can challenge
yourself in 10 to 15 rep range then you
can you straight leg and raise it all
the way up and slowly control on the way
down dumbbell lunges they hit the quads
they hit the adductors they hit the
glutes they're amazing for whole leg
development so we're going to do those
then still dumbbells you can do dumbbell
stiff-legged deadlifts actually trains a
lot of the back again tons of glute
stimulus an amazing hamstring stimulus
too with a little bit of calsun there
why not you finish off with those great
allaround workout two sets of 10 to 15
reps and look at that you're on to the
last day Friday this is a meaty day why
we have a lot of work to do to round out
our program and you have two days of
rest after this so we can work a little
bit harder cuz you have 2 days off
amazing you're going to start with
pull-ups probably overhand pull-ups to
get that gnarly lat width full range of
motion all the way down pause at the
bottom stretch no weird leg wiggliness
to get yourself up over the bar at the
top just touch your chin to the bar
roughly so and you're good to go next
inverted rows you can do these in a
Smith machine you can do these in a
power rack but it's basically like what
a skull crusher is to an inverted skull
crusher a row is to an inverted row you
basically just let your body weight do
the talking there are a variety of
places to touch on your chest or tummy I
would just play around I would say start
this exercise touching right at or just
underneath the nipple line and if you
want to touch to the tummy and it feels
better for your back or if you want to
touch a little higher in the chest and
it feels better that way there's no
wrong answers just pick a consistent
technique after a session or two stick
with that for a few months and then you
can change it later next up are cable
bicep curls these can be done with a
straight bar but if you want better
wrist and and elbow comfort you can do
them with an easy bar as usual slow the
Centric and do a full range of motion
then set up an incline bench and do
dumbbell incline curls these are gnarly
as shit you won't need a lot of weight
for them but make sure on The Descent
you're slowing the weight down and
reaching as far back behind your as you
can to put that bicep under an
incredible stretch cuz that's the part
that grows it the most Skull Crushers
afterwards don't actually crush your
skull you can come down in Skull
Crushers to touch your throat keep your
elbows in come down slow you can touch
your chin you can touch your nose you
can touch where your eyes are the bridge
of your nose you can touch your actual
skull or you can even touch the bar
behind yourself to the actual bench
there's no wrong answers just different
variations so your call which one you
like then afterwards we continue on with
triceps and you do cable overhead
extensions Pro tip take the cable rig
and set it up to just below shoulder
height so you can pick up the cable
really close to you arrange it behind
and go you don't necessarily want to set
it up at the bottom then have to fucking
power clean the whole thing while you
twist fuck that I'm not actually Thor I
can't do shit like that and then lastly
since you're at the cable station anyway
cable upright rows you can use any kind
of grip you want just make sure it's
comfortable for your shoulders and the
cue on the movement is to take your
elbows and reach high into the sky for
every single repetition you do all of
these for two sets of 10 to 15
repetitions it's going to be a hell of a
workout but it's Friday then you go to
the club you dress as Thor and well you
know the rest lots of women pay
attention to you now next part how do
you progress through the plan yes I just
described week one dope but how do you
actually make progress well you start
with picking a weight that gets you into
that 10 to 15 or 15 to 20 rep range and
then you first week two sets two working
sets shoot roughly three reps in reserve
so basically leave like about three reps
in the tank so as soon as the weight
really starts to get heavy and you start
to slow down with it stop cut it right
there write your reps down and you're
good to go four Tuesdays and Thursdays
they are not our priority days you're
going to stick to two sets throughout
the entire program never moving up in
sets but you're either going to add 5
lbs to the lift or repetition to the
lift every time that you can for Monday
Wednesday and Friday are back shoulder
and arm days the priority days the
really really super important ones you
definitely want to add either 5 lbs or
repetition to every single work set that
you can throughout that entire program
but if the exercise wasn't super
challenging last time the target muscle
wasn't sore the next time you had to
train it and it wasn't really tired and
you feel like man I could definitely do
more of this feel free to add a set per
session to just one of the exercises for
example if on well let's look through
the program really quick let's say on
day three you get to doing cable
crossbody lateral raises in barell
upright RADS and you notice that from
the dumbbell laterals that on Monday you
didn't really get tired your muscles
feel fresh you either got sore or they
healed or you never even got sore and
you honestly felt like on Monday you're
like n that wasn't a lot of shoulder
training I can challenge myself I'm well
within then totally next Monday instead
of two sets now you could do three sets
of dumbbell lateral races and so on and
so forth on the other hand if let's say
you are doing dumbbell bicep curls on
day one and your biceps are still sore
on day three when you do your bicep work
there then you know it's probably a good
idea for you to just stick to the same
number of sets because overlapping
soreness or if the muscle is still
really fatigued and you can't really do
a great job with a lift and hit a little
mini PR it's totally enough volume and
you don't need to do more more sets are
better when you can clearly recover from
them and more sets are worse when you
cannot recover from them it's not a
winner take all it's not as much as you
can grab it's that optimal fine line of
just enough to make a really good pump
really good soreness really good fatigue
and heal on time for next time if you're
getting that don't change a thing if
it's too easy add a few sets here and
there if it's too hard you can even take
sets away every 48 weeks you will become
tired you will be unable to make 5 pound
or one rep progressions anymore and
that's when you take a D Lo week which
means you just take an easy ass week
where you only go to the gym twice you
go to the gym on Monday you go to the
gym on Thursday and you do the same
workout you typically would on Monday
and the same one you win on Thursday
however you take all of the weights sets
and Reps in those workouts and you drop
them by half that's right so if you're
doing 100 lb for four sets of 10 now
you're doing 50 lb for two sets of five
easy as hell right that's the whole
point it's called recovery training
helps you heal completely so that after
that deal at week you are just RAR into
go you can't wait and then when you come
back you can repeat that program again
and continue on just like that after
about 8 to 16 weeks of total training
definitely d load again and then kind of
see how you look if you want want to
continue to become more Thor likee and
you really love the plan you can just
repeat this program again keeping the
exercises you really like that don't
feel stale the exercises you don't like
so much or that feel stale choose
analoges to replace them with so if
you've got barbell upright rows you can
replace with dumbbell or with cable or
face PSE some exercise for that same
muscle group replace that make your new
plan and continue along and then you hit
it again or you get bored of trying to
look like Thor you've already been
swimming in uh in female genital
excrement good God came out weird and
you've had too much no more ladies no
more Thor and then you can try another
program no big deal but 8 to 16 weeks of
this should really make a dent on your
appearance now if you want some help
with organizing your training we do have
the RP hypertrophy app and if you take
the app and you put all of the lifts
into the plan it can take care of all of
the rest for you you can rate all of
your workouts it automatically assigns
volumes it automatically progresses your
loads you check in all of your lifts
it's amazing I use it every single time
that I work out it's awesome I highly
recommend it it's less than a dollar a
month and most cases or roughly about
that holy crap to look like Thor it's
easy money spent you don't have to use
the app it'll just make things easier
there is a link in the description to
sign up Pro tip once you download the
app if you hit save to home screen on
your phone an app icon appears on your
home screen and it works just like every
other app on your phone next if you need
help with your diet we have two options
that I would generally recommend if
you're on the skinnier side of things
and you need realize Thor a lot bigger
than you 8 to 16 weeks with the program
you want to do a slow game with minimal
fat gain I would recommend a 250 calorie
daily Surplus looking to gain about 2
lbs a month that'll add some slab of
muscle probably burn some fat in most
cases or at least not add any it'll get
you well on your way on the other hand
option two is for 8 to 16 weeks you do a
slow fat loss with also a bit of muscle
gain in there like if you look like Loki
you need the gain plan if you look like
fat Thor you need the fat loss plan 500
calorie daily deficit try to get a step
tracker and get your steps to about 10
to 12,000 steps per day on average and
then look to lose about4 pound per month
you do that for 8 to 16 weeks you'll
look hella different and shoulders arms
back and all the other muscles will grow
substantially you're going to reveal
your more Thor like physique no problem
in either case whichever diet you use
give a consideration to trying the RP
diet coach app which is available on the
Google Play Store and in the uh Apple
Store and this app can you just put in
your goals it lets you time all your
meals it tells you exactly what to eat
and when it's going to take care of
everything for you so you can just
practice throwing the all near and
seeing if it comes
back
whoosh Bing and if it doesn't come back
I suppose that means you're not worthy
or it killed someone in his lodged
inside them anyway folks let me know if
you found this workout helpful or useful
if you'd maybe like to see some other
superhero workouts the Hulk would be
like 8 days of training cuz godamn but
in any case let me know if you have
comments or questions in the comment
section and I'll see you there
[Music]
peace