[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw Renaissance of an
organization and today we're going to do
an egg white quiche this is from my
second 100 recipe cookbook the
Renaissance feast and this is just you
know another interesting way I hear you
guys a lot saying like oh so sick of
eggs I'm so sick of egg whites so this
is definitely a different way for you to
have those and I love quiche if your
quiche fan you've definitely got to give
this one a shot and we're gonna make a
crust for this and I think you're gonna
love this crust and end up using it for
other things that's what I did so let's
start with some olive oil and huh and
then you want to get some ice water
ready on the side and you just need
three tablespoons from the ice water add
that right in the temperature is
important when you're making a crust so
you want that ice water for sure so
we're just gonna add three tablespoons
of ice water to our olive oil mix that
up a bit and then just let that sit
while we're doing the rest of this grab
your food processor and we're just gonna
add in flour a whole grain flour some
pistachios that I toasted and baking
powder and then add in a pinch of salt
and pepper
[Music]
so now while this is running we're gonna
grab our ice water and olive oil mix
we're going to slowly stream this in
while it's processing
let's check on it take a glass pie plate
spray it really well with cooking spray
we're just gonna dump all of our crust
mix right into the pie plate this is a
really easy crust to work with a lot of
people are intimidated by crusts I'm one
of them usually for pie crusts pack it
in there
cover up any holes you still have that
ice water off to the side if you need it
that'll help you patch you need holes
that pop up this is ready to pop in the
oven for 10 minutes while it's baking
for 10 minutes we're going to throw
everything in a blender to make the
filling so that when it comes out in ten
or pour that filling in and finish
baking it now we're gonna make our
filling for this egg white quiche so
we're gonna add everything to a blender
our egg white some low-fat cottage
cheese there's some raw garlic and some
fresh mint you haven't seen me write
about this or heard me talk about it
mint and eggs it's amazing
[Music]
that's it looks good it's a little bit
brown around the edge which is nice and
we're ready to go ahead and pour on our
filling put this back in for 15
[Music]
pretty that is it's all puffed up we're
gonna top it with some cheese and then
put it back in to finish baking
[Music]
all right so here we go
we've finished our quiche I let it set
for a bit you know with eggs you don't
want to really with anything any type of
casserole or anything you don't want to
cut it right when it comes out because
it'll just run all over the place so we
gave it a little bit to set up and then
I went ahead and cut it you can see how
pretty it is inside I put some fresh
mint on the top that cheese made a nice
little crust so I can't wait to dig into
this
[Music]