hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization you want a big upper chest
good news
i have a free
sample
specialization program for you to
maximize the size of your upper chest
and better news i have a detailed video
which is this video right here
explaining the hows and whys of
constructing that program so that you
not only get a sample program that you
can sort of do yourself you get one
better you get an understanding of the
principles and all the facets lead into
building one so if you want to
specialize something later by yourself
you will have the ability to make this
right so
how do we get an upper chest growth
program put together first question we
have to ask is like why do we need to
specialize can't we just train upper
chest like normal
you get good growth of course we can but
specialization has a few advantages
if
you want to grow one muscle group a lot
in relation to others you should
specialize on it because sometimes by
training a muscle a little bit more
maybe training others less you can get
better results overall which is really
really awesome if you really care about
your upper chest you don't so much care
about your glutes why would you spend
the same amount of effort training both
easy answer
secondly
by limiting the focus in some cases on
other muscles you free up more adaptive
energy for the target muscle that you
want so in a sense if you really want
the biggest upper pecs that you can get
training some of your other muscle
groups a little bit less frees up more
ability to have bigger upper pecs
actually occur so that is why
specialization is a really really big
deal
and a question that we get super super
often is okay specialization sounds like
it's just going to make me more jacked
can't i specialize my entire body all at
the same time you actually can sort of
train a ton of volume for everything
when you're a beginner when you're super
small and super weak but as you get
bigger and stronger your muscles and
your body take on much more fatigue so
the amount of muscle groups you can
specialize at the same time becomes more
limited
how do you find out how many currently
in your position you are able to
specialize with well you design a
specialization program that includes all
the muscles you want to specialize on
and see if you can survive the whole
mesocycle of that if it's way too much
volume you know for a fact it is you're
gonna have to take one or two of those
muscle groups and say hey i wanted to
get chest and quads and triceps and
biceps on the front burner so specialize
in i'm gonna take quads away and just
put that into regular training keep all
the other muscles and three of them
on specialization and it turns out i can
survive perfectly fine and you know
going forward that like yeah maybe three
four small muscle groups three larger
muscle groups i can specialize on at the
same time in a single program otherwise
more than that is too much for me
because i tried it hasn't worked so
the specialization itself
here are the basics of how to design a
specialized plan
on the specificity end and this is kind
of obvious but has to be said we want to
choose exercises and modalities ways of
doing exercise
rep ranges that preferentially stimulate
the target muscle we want so that means
like if you're going to be training your
upper packs a lot you're going to want
to select exercises that target your
protect no magic but it has to be said
since we're doing this principles sort
of first principles perspective we have
to say even the obvious things
something a little less obvious but
nonetheless very true is a
prioritization perspective here so the
next basis is that we want to make sure
often not always but often the muscle
we're specializing on we want to train
first in the workout so if you train
chest three times a week
you really want to bring up your chest
specifically upper chest i'd like to see
at least two of those workouts your
chest being the first thing you train
because you're fresh you can drive a ton
of stimulus if you say yeah i'm
prioritizing my biceps but every time
you train biceps after back
how can i possibly believe that you're
serious about training biceps if you
always train them really tired
bs you're going to want to put your
biceps first in this case your chest
first maybe not all the workouts of the
week but at least the majority of them
next it's been shown time and time again
that higher frequencies of training
usually result in better muscular
adaptations more muscle but they're not
overly sustainable well good news
specialization doesn't require
sustaining specialization is something
we do temporarily anyway and then back
off have a bigger muscle and let it rest
a little bit and then hit it again so
here we're going to take advantage of
the fact that higher frequencies are not
sustainable but better for muscle growth
in the short term and use our short term
specialization program with higher
frequencies
here that means you know one time a week
training you're not serious about
growing that muscle in a specialized way
twice a week training is fine but really
for a lot of muscles we specialize on
unless it's something like quads or
something maybe we get an exception they
just take too long to heal for many
muscles and for many if you're watching
three to four times per week of hitting
that muscle so it means if you want big
upper pecs you're looking at maybe three
workouts for upper packs per week
that's a serious attempt at
specialization if you say yeah i'm
specializing on chest i train chest
monday
and that's it next monday
nope muscles can recover way more often
than than just once a week if not
sustainably but you can drive more
growth by entering a higher frequency
program
last
how much reduction do you want in
non-specialized muscle groups to make
room for recovery the thing is it's kind
of like you can get away with reducing
nothing and still have good gains but if
you reduce even a little bit you can
have better gains so it's something for
you to think about in your own time how
much of a trade-off you want to make now
mind you you're not losing any size for
other muscle groups you are either
choosing to turn them down to
maintenance volume where they don't get
any bigger or you're choosing to turn
them down into closer to minimum
effective volume so they do grow but not
as fast as the muscle group you're
specializing so you want to consider
reducing overall volume for other muscle
groups at least a little bit just taking
a little bit of volume away maybe they
make very similar progress but just not
overdoing it on the other stuff
this is especially true if you think
about it from a serious perspective like
a contest bodybuilder would like if
you're just a regular guy training at
the gym and you want to make your upper
pecs bigger you may not be okay with
reducing anything else you'll be like
fucking if my upper packs grow great if
not no big deal i tried and if they
don't grow for the next three months and
it's because i'm doing too much stuff in
the gym uh for other muscle groups i'll
just reduce it then but if you know
your judges at your last show said
listen you need more upper chest mass
and if you haven't we're gonna promote
you to the next level you turn pro or
whatever you get second place instead of
third
if they said that it's serious
and then when you design your program
and you want your best effort at
increasing the upper pack because they
said look your quads and glutes and
everything it looks great you don't need
any more mass there for your current
frame but your perfect is just
definitely lagging it's the only reason
we're really taking points off you're
not going to mess around with being like
yeah i know i can still keep everything
in the program and grow just fine ah
you're gonna reduce the rest of the
program just by a little bit even if
it's by a volume reduction of just 20
percent like normally you do five sets
for something on average uh you know per
session now it's four even something
like that can make a big difference if
you're serious you'll do it if you're
just fucking around like i've done a
whole bunch of fucking around no big
deal try just specializing without
reducing anything and if it doesn't work
you're like ah shit i should have
reduced it if it does work great you got
away with with all of them the second
thing about non-specialized training
reduction
is especially considering again if
you're serious reducing synergist muscle
volume because the synergists can
prevent you from maxing out your actual
target muscle
because they get tired or they get too
much interference or whatever else you
don't want that to be a factor so for
example
if
you are interested in the biggest upper
pecs you can be
what you want to do is make sure that
none of the muscles that interact that
synergize with driving upper pec growth
in typical good exercises are the
limiting factor and instead of your
packs unless you want to reduce their
overall volume pretty substantially in
the program so what does that mean
if i'm serious about upper pec increases
in size i don't want to train my triceps
a lot i don't want to train my front
belts a lot maybe hardly at all for
front delts and just a little bit for
triceps because when you go to close to
fail on presses and all this other stuff
that use a lot of triceps and front
delts you want your chest to be fresh
and to be the limiting factor you don't
want to be tired from triceps you want
triceps to be fresh too if you're tired
from triceps you know the day before two
days before you had a bunch of skull
crushers now you're going to failure
it's because of your triceps and your
pecs are kind of like
you know we would work harder if the
triceps sort of weren't sandbagging us
so you want to make sure that your
synergist muscles
are something you reduce a little bit
same idea happens and we'll cover this
later in later videos we talk about
these muscle groups specifically but
like if you want to really improve your
leg size you want to stay the fuck out
of a lot of lower back training in your
other plans because if your lower back
is cooked it actually prevents your legs
from training as hard as they could
because the lower back is a huge
synergist muscle in squats and tons of
other exercises that involve legs so you
want to make sure that if you're serious
you reduce maybe all the muscles just a
little bit is how much you're training
and definitely muscles that are
synergists and you need them to be fresh
so that we push the target muscle as far
as it will go without limiting it from
anything else
now
actually constructing here's a
step-by-step guide
frequency how often should you train
your upper chest if you want a bigger
upper chest and you're really willing to
do the specialization well i would say
consider training your chest three or
four times per week it doesn't mean 20
sets each time that means like maybe
five to ten sets each time three or four
times per week and two or three of those
should be highly focused on upper pec
exercises okay not all of them but most
of them
exercises this is kind of a no-brainer
include a core of incline pressing
because incline pressing is probably the
most dependable way to make your chest
bigger you can also choose to do some
incline flies some cable flies where
there's a lot of tension at the top but
the contraction is a really good start
and you want to keep in some flat chest
work or sorry flat chest good god what
am i saying some flat press work is
really good but maybe later in the
session so you maybe do two exercises
for upper pecs and then one exercise for
just the whole pack or even the lower
packs is totally fine
the reason they're later and in lower
volumes is because they're distinctly on
the back burner
there are a lot of exercises you can do
i'll have some samples
there is no one best exercise for upper
chest so just straight up throw that
shit right out of your mind it depends
on the individual it depends on their
biomechanics if their preference what
they were training before what's fresh
and a trillion other factors that we can
predict so we can have a candidate list
of maybe 10 to 15 really good upper
chest exercises it's your job to pick
from them try them see what works well
see what works less well and sort of
whittle down the list to your best five
to ten which you will just rotate
forever so there's no such thing as one
best exercise for upper chest just like
there's no such thing as like one best
meal someone's like okay what's the best
meal to eat aliens come down to earth
they go ahead what's what's your best
food earth what well there's like you
know at least five foods i don't know
teramisu or some other shit that are in
the top five and then it's kind of just
up to personal preference slash when you
get sick and tired of stuff uh i would
also avoid exercises that are difficult
to execute and difficult to progress so
uh there's been some literature that
underhand uh sorry uh yeah underhand
reverse grip bench pressing activates
the upper pack see i'm sure in
laboratory does that fine
if the uh that exercise the reverse grip
bench press is something you can hold
securely load heavily do a full range of
motion progress well hey fuck it up
that's great exercise but if it's like
feels weird for your elbows and
shoulders and you can't even go down
away and then all of a sudden you like
bars starting to slip and you only have
to use like nominal weights that doesn't
work so avoid gimmicky bullshit and if
an exercise works well for you awesome
but if you're like i feel like this
exercise i don't know what i'm getting
out of it you don't have to use you know
most of the best upper chest in the
world were just built with incline
barbell presses so you'll be totally
fine doing anything significantly less
fancy than what you were planning on
doing
okay we got frequency we got exercises
set numbers
start with two to six sets per session
for chest that's right if you have two
exercises it's like you know
one to three sets per exercise or
something very small but don't worry
we'll be ramping it up it's basically
whatever gets you a decent pump and
makes your chest feel like it had a bit
of a workout that's session one your job
is not to annihilate on session one is
to set a basic minimum standard and then
we're going to be adding and adding and
adding to that as your ability to
recover illustrates that
as far as loading and repetition ranges
generally and this is an advanced
lecture so if this doesn't make sense to
you go back to our hypertrophy made
simple videos watch this all the way
through come back here and this will
make more sense you want to use rep
ranges to get you the best stimulus to
fatigue ratios if you don't know what
those are go back through hypertrophy
made simple lecture or explain very very
well so basically if you get an unreal
stretch unreal tension crazy burn crazy
pump from sets of 12 in the incline
barbell press but if you try to do sets
of seven it just feels like your
shoulders hurt you're not really
connecting the muscle don't do a whole
lot of sets of seven do more sets of
twelve and if it happens to be sets of
22 or something that is the best feel
for your chest hey that's what it's
going to take it depends on individual
it depends on the exercise it depends on
the face it depends on your training
history pick the thing that works best
for you so you can confidently say wow
i'm getting great stimulus and a
relatively low fatigue from this
repetition range
generally
if there's a couple of repetition ranges
you want to hit with a couple of
different exercises you want to do your
heavy stuff first and your light stuff
last so start the session if there are
any exercises which work well for you
for your upper pecs in the 5 to 10 rep
range start with them let's say incline
barbell press and the 5 to 10 rep range
and then if you do some incline flies
after then you can save the 10 to 15 rep
range after unless you're ultra advanced
and doing some weird pre-exhaust type of
stuff i wouldn't flip those around
generally your heavier training first
and then your lighter training after
that all right
in addition to that if you have a week
of training where it's three or four
chest sessions you might want
to do more of the heavy work in the
beginning of the week and more of the
lighter work later in the week so that
you can recover for next week really
well having just done light stuff so
that your joints and connective tissues
have a high degree of integrity it's not
like you just went ultra heavy and you
have to go ultra heavy again generally
start heavier and go lighter through the
week it's backwards usually you would
think oh i got to go up no no you go
down through the week and the next week
starts higher and down and it starts
higher and you still climb the steps
just like that just in a really really
safe way
set numbers how many sets to do
now here sorry i went ahead of myself
we've constructed the plan from this
don't worry i'll give you a sample
planet a bit you can just copy and do
yourself or you can construct one but
basically these are instructions to
construct the beginning of a plan how do
we modify the plan as we progress here
we go what do we do with set numbers
generally speaking
if you're no longer sore before the next
time you want to train chest and you
feel strong again
then you can add one set to that prior
session so for example if i did chest on
monday and i have to do it again on
wednesday i do chest monday i come to
wednesday and i'm like man i healed
fucking days ago i don't even remember
being sore and then i have an awesome
workout next monday instead of four sets
like the first monday had five sets
because monday clearly as detected by
wednesday's session wasn't very damaging
we can probably do more and grow more
now if you're just barely recovered like
someone's like your training partner you
show up 5 p.m to train chest and you're
like oh god
all right i'm recovered i'm good and
he's like you sure yeah uh early this
morning i woke up i still had a twin
just soreness i'm barely here do not add
sets next time if that four sets got you
so sore that you barely recovered for
the next session for chest for monday
got you so sore you barely care for
wednesday
why would you add a set you're just
gonna get too sore and you're gonna have
overlapping soreness so that's no good
if you're still sore or weak you don't
have to reduce anything we'll talk about
fatigue management in another context we
have a bunch but
if you're still sore it's okay to go
train at least once or twice just don't
add anything right so if monday four
sets of chests destroyed your fucking
chest and wednesday you're still fucking
sore still trained warm up real easy
right warm up nice and slow hit your
numbers you're gonna feel weird training
sore but
next monday if it was four sets that got
you sore this past monday next monday
don't you dare do anything more than
four sets you may even try three sets
but the safe numbers are four again
because then you're more used to it
you're more adapted then four will make
you just soar that you just recover for
wednesday and everything is good after
that
all right what about reps in reserve how
far from failure do we start out well we
start out around three reps in reserve
the usual and then we add load and or
reps weekly we'll talk about that in
just a sec and then you deload when you
fail to match performance especially in
two sessions in a row so if your monday
session for chest you didn't do the same
thing as last week monday you couldn't
and then wednesday you also couldn't
it's over it's time to deload at least
for your chest relax recover rinse and
repeat
loading and repetition very closely
related to
the rirs is essentially you start with
three r and you start with a certain
weight in certain wraps and you either
add like two and a half to five pounds
each week or you add like one to two
reps each week i would recommend adding
just two and a half pounds not five i
would recommend adding just one rep not
two because there's little upside for
going up too fast you just fatigue
really fast but if you go up slow you
get more time to increase more quality
training it's safer and it probably
leads to better long-term results i know
it sounds weird you gotta go by these
tiny baby steps with baby steps summed
up over months and years make enormous
physiques that's how i got jacked just
doing little baby steps it wasn't always
fun wasn't always exciting but it gets
the work done
and you can target
how much weight you put on the bar to
roughly drop your rir either every week
or two weeks so you can have like three
rir one week three rr in the next week
then two then two then one and one then
zero then zero right that's like an
eight week plan or you can do a four
week plan where it's three two one zero
deload you don't even have to have a
preset number of weeks but generally
speaking the rar dropping will occur for
you automatically just by you putting
two and a half pounds in the bar more or
five pounds or adding a rep or two here
and there the rio will trend down anyway
you will eventually hit failure and
you'll have to deload so it's kind of a
self-solving
problem all right here's our sample plan
folks mind you huge caveat this is just
some stuff i drew up that i would do and
i would program for other folks to do
this is not like oh why did you choose
this exercise because it's just one of
the many that work there is no dogma
here i'm not insisting you have to do
incline barbell press dr mike says
incline barbell press bullshit it could
be smith press it could be machine press
it could be not a procedural it could be
a fly this is just a sample of something
that works well for the average person
it might not work ideally for you so
you'll have to change it around but
here's the program monday wednesday and
friday we train chess what's not
included is everything else you're
training in the context of your own
program that's totally fine
monday the recommendation here just as a
sample is to do incline bubble process
for three sets this is this is week one
five to ten reps three reps in reserve
after that we go to dumbbell flat press
because incline first flat after because
we're prioritizing upper chest two sets
again because it's not the priority 10
to 20 reps because now we're tired we
can do higher reps again three reps in
reserve on wednesday incline cable flies
great movement sets of 10 to 20 reps 3
rir just three sets
low incline dumbbell press still targets
the upper chest significantly but hits
the middle chest as well just two sets
10 to 20 reps through ir and then
friday's kind of a trippy day
it's just flat machine press for three
sets of 10 to 20 reps now that's not
very challenging we'll probably recover
really easily by monday and it has no
upper pack work why well it's both by
design
it's not very challenging so that when
we get back to monday for that incline
bomber plus we're super fresh and can
stimulate the upper packs like crazy if
we do tons of flat pressing sets on
friday or even incline pressing sets
what ends up happening is we're so sore
by monday or so tired for monday we
can't have a great workout monday and
especially if you just do flat presses
you're essentially taxing your triceps
and your mid and lower chest and harming
your upper chest development because
you're not relaxing as much so yes it is
on purpose that there is not so much to
do on friday
and that's so monday and wednesday
sessions can be left more fresh we can
really recover from them not only is it
we don't have a high volume on friday
but also we're not even touching the
upper chest now the upper chest will
still get work with a regular flat press
but not a ton of specialized work
over the monday and wednesday workouts
the fatigue in the upper chest will rise
we need it from a smaller volume and to
focus on the whole chest instead of jump
just the upper chest we need the fatigue
in the upper chest to drop a little bit
so we can have another good monday
wednesday sprint next week crazy upper
chest and then relax on friday and then
monday wednesday next week crazy upper
chest and then relax that pulsatile
wave-like function allows us to stretch
out our training beneficially for
multiple weeks and get tons of great
sustainable growth this is the same
thing as like if you want to work on a
project for school or for work really
really well
you do a lot of hard work and then you
get plenty of good rest and you rinse
and repeat you don't just work work work
work until your eyes turn red and you
drop dead that's not going to get
anything accomplished so we have to
think of things as this week i'm
trashing my upper chest but i'm also
taking some time to recover so that i
can do the same thing next week because
it's week after week after week that a
sustainable muscle really is put on it's
not just one crazy week of training will
do almost nothing for you muscularly
now
that is the first week's plan let me
flash over the final pre-week deload
sample of where you might get to this is
not a goal for you to hit all this has
to be done only through auto regulation
can you recover are you getting sore how
quickly you're covering but it can lead
to something like this so in week one we
incline barbell pressed
for three sets it might be seven sets by
the time that we get to our final
preview dealer maybe five or six weeks
later and notice it's zero reps in
reserve so we're pushing all the way
basically to failure or very close
last week we did dumbbell flat press
with two sets this time it goes up to
five sets much more work much more
growth because we are able to recover we
increase sets
last wednesday or sorry the first
wednesday of the program we did incline
cable flies for three sets total working
sets three reps in reserve now again
zero reps in reserve six sets holy crap
that's much more it's just a sample some
people adapt this fast some people don't
for me personally i had only like
usually one to two sets
for the whole meza cycle some people can
add five or six and they totally require
fine it's all about what you can recover
from
low incline demo press goes from two
sets to four sets on wednesday and now
check this out really interesting detail
on friday we started with three sets of
flat press and we ended with four now
hold on a second after that wednesday
workout couldn't we have done more than
four sets weren't we recovered enough of
course we were but remember that point
of the friday workout is just to get
another good stimulus keep the whole
chest as muscular as it should be it's
more of a maintenance day and it allows
the fatigue reduction to really occur so
that we really hit it hard next monday
and wednesday so instead of going and
doing five six seven sets which we could
do that would probably promote really
good overall chest growth we want mostly
upper pet growth so we're gonna really
cool it on friday yeah we're training
hard
not a ton of sets so that next monday
can be productive and that's the way we
do it the entire time
all right
now
you built a plan suite we have a
mesocycle we know how to accumulate we
know how to deal or how long do we
specialize for
ideally
more than one mesocycle because remember
you want a visual impact to your muscles
and a strength change that's like wow i
never could have done this before even
on a good day that generally takes
around two to three mesocycles of
specialization so if you're serious
about improving your upper chest size i
think you can take at least two or
probably three
programs in a row
four to six week cycles of accumulation
and then deload in a row until or sorry
four to six week cycles
two or three of those probably like
three to really tell yourself okay i did
all my due diligence and i really tried
to get the best upper packs that i could
and
every single one of these mesocycles is
very similar exercise type still lots of
incline work the rep ranges can shift
actually up a little bit you start
training heavier in the first mesocycle
as you go in and keep hammering your
upper chest your shoulders can have a
little bit of wear and tear on them
elbows so generally speaking you still
increase the loads in the rep ranges
that you have but while you might do you
know
two or three exercises in the five to 10
rep range in the first meso in the
second or third measure you may only do
oh you know one to two of those
exercises and the other exercises that
were added in were in the higher rep
ranges or
you might do you know an average of
three sets in the five to ten rep range
and the first meso in the second muzzle
you need more volume you're more
adaptable maybe you keep it just to
three and the five to ten and the place
where you add sets is more on the higher
rep ranges because you think to yourself
okay if i added a lot of sets in the low
rep ranges my body would just fall apart
but in the higher rep ranges i can add
sets still recover because higher reps
generally don't tend to tax their joints
and connective tissues nearly as much as
lower reps do
should you be doing new exercises in
these new motorcycles you can on just
sheer variation what i recommend is this
at the end of every mesocycle you take a
sort of evaluation you think okay how
good were these exercises for me how
high were the stimulus to fatigue ratios
like if you say okay incline bible press
felt like fucking gravy and even in the
last week man i can't wait to do more of
it it's this awesome exercise it greatly
stimulates my upper pecs it doesn't hurt
my shoulders or elbows at all i feel
amazing with it the progression is solid
don't remove it keep it in for that
second mesocycle and after the end of
the second mouth cycle it still feeds it
means keep it to the third but if you do
some incline flies and towards the end
of the first muscle you're like i don't
know
they're kind of stimulative i feel my
joints a little bit i want to try
another exercise for upper pecs i'm
going to go back to incline dumbbell
press this machine shit isn't working
for me i used to have great results with
the dumbbell press i want to go back
then if that exercise is stale and no
good no worries in the second meso
replace it but basically what i'm saying
is don't just replace exercises
willy-nilly replace them if there's a
good candidate exercise that has a
very likely higher stimulus to fatigue
ratio to replace it with but if things
are going well don't touch anything
of course still a very similar structure
to the way you're doing things so if
you're going to repeat this mesocycle i
just showed off basically conserve the
same structure if you want
you can have a slightly higher than
normal frequency
in the last meso so meso one three
sessions just like i showed for upper
chest meso two three sessions no big
deal meso three you might wanna throw in
a fourth one so like saturday you come
in and do some like you know incline
flies or something or some incline
pressing on a machine just to get that
extra bit of work mind you that is not
fucking sustainable you can't do that
month after month and month you'll fall
apart it's the last month of that
specialization phase you don't need to
be sustainable because at the end of the
month you'll be like oh my god i'm dead
but that's good because i can really
back away from my upper chest now and
that brings us to sort of the last
question is what do you do after let's
say you did two or three massive cycles
straight of upper chest specialization
work and of course train the rest of
your body and other muscles too
what do you do after
our best recommendation here is one of
two things an active rest phase which
you could use dual is retell active rest
videos will come up
and or a low volume phase which is four
weeks of essentially almost strength
training mostly sets of five to ten very
little volume barely a pump just to keep
your size
what that does is it reinvigorates your
muscles and your mind and the rest of
your body re-sensitizes you to high
volumes and to muscle growth because if
you just keep pulling at that muscle
growth string long enough it gets tired
and then all of a sudden or your body
gets tired the string doesn't get tired
the string starts to get frayed you want
to relax and recover so after a real big
push of two to three mesos on a certain
muscle group or just driving your body
to get gains take a little break take a
month of basically strength training or
two weeks of almost nothing just fucking
around and then you can come back and
either go to normal training specialize
the same muscle group again rerun the
same program essentially with a few
different features if that's still a
priority or
pick another set of muscle groups to run
specialization on those
which muscle groups well this is the
first video in a pretty long series of
we're going to give you guys programs
and how to specialize on more or less
every single muscle group we can think
of except for neck jeff nipper you go
see jeff nippert for neck i will never
answer neck questions about training
because i've never trained my neck i
just do brazilian jiu jitsu and my neck
just fucking looks like that i do a few
other things and not brazilian jiu jitsu
related you know what i'm saying big
neck is not my specialty because i just
sort of wandered into the shit jeff
nippert for neck everything else we
pretty much got you covered over the
next several weeks now we're not just
going to leave you with that we got more
shit for you
in the description below this video
we have a few things to help you out
first
there is an exercise video library that
we have at rp that if you want to think
okay upper chest what exercises are
available we have a whole list of them
with videos with me narrating the videos
to tell you exactly how to do the
technique voila problem solved
another thing we have is a muscle group
training guide the hypertrophy guide
central hub a chest is upper chest is
not a thing but chest specifically is a
thing and almost all those principles
apply so if you really want to learn
about the nuances of chest training
setting of a program rep ranges etc you
just click on that it's right in the
description below it's 100 free it's not
free like oh if you sign up for this
newsletter it's free it's just free free
it's a fucking website
next the hypertrophy made simple videos
also linked if some of the stuff is
confusing to you no big deal you're just
one really short simple video series
away from being 100 on track with
everyone else here and understanding
what all these concepts that are rir
fuck this fuck that who knows what i'm
saying you will know what i'm saying if
you look at the hypertrophy and simple
videos and they're made simple so i'm
speaking in super plain language
introducing you to all these concepts
and to be honest exercise science is not
that hard uh so uh the concepts aren't
terribly difficult as soon as you know
what rer means you're like oh fuck it's
just like how many reps i could have
done and then i quit yeah that's it
hypertrophy book
link in the description
myself and my colleagues wrote it okay
scientific principles if i purchase for
training it's not free it's a fucking
book it's an e-book it's like i don't
know 37 bucks or whatever but if you're
really fucking nerding out on the shit
and you want to coach other clients to
do this you should probably get the book
lastly
but not leastly and i mean actually
depending on what uh scott the video guy
decides it may be the first link you
guys see
you can build this specialization
program
almost effortlessly just by clicking on
the muscles you want to specialize and
the ones you don't in our custom
training template program builder which
will charge you money but it's a fucking
reasonable amount of money for months
and months of awesome training so when
you get a custom program builder build
yourself a specialization plan you'll
get a six-week plan and it's literally
the instruction to reuse it at least
twice possibly three or four times so
you can have 18 weeks of training
specialized to build your upper chest
made for you in pretty much two minutes
with just a click of some buttons you
don't have to worry about constructing
fucking shit
you the whole thing is designed for you
get it in your email it's this training
program you can make all the exercise
selections you want you can reuse it
multiple times 18 weeks of that shit is
just like 99 bucks that's not terrible
and if you don't like it fuck it you
don't have to buy it you can just make
your own program based on this video and
all the free resources you have folks
what muscle groups do you really want me
to talk about don't worry i already have
20 of these written out but if i miss
something maybe i'll write it in and
talk about it for you
drop those muscle groups in the comments
below
talk shit to me do whatever else you
have to do uh let's get these fucking
games together see you guys next time
you