after that leg break he got jacked
ripped just gigantic generally the
result of exogenous hormone use is Conor
McGregor Juiced to the gills
[Music]
well Bo there's not going to be a Mike
Isel here because me Conor McGregor
we're going to review me Diet me
training and maybe even me drug cycle
how fing Dare You ly you better stay
tuned
wed water the first thing I would have
in the morning is water and I'd stretch
and then I'd get my breakfast eggs
potatoes what the are BOS God damn
I thought I was going to do an Irish
accent I'm out of my league on
this mother but uh informative you know
maybe some mushroom sounds like a good
morning routine Q huberman Hues where
you at baby how many um showing his
eyeballs to the light minutes is he away
from Ultimate Health and Longevity you
know a green s a spinach and kale type
of juice or it could be like spinach on
the side then maybe like some fruit or
strawberry it always baffles me when
people want the details of the specific
foods that athletes eat I want macros
mother I want your daily activity I want
your Macros and calories that's about it
but everyone's always obsessed eat
mushrooms you're going to be a
big man like me winning World
Championships and if you don't eat them
son what a Fu
you a strawberry smoothie or like
strawberries and you know maybe some
watermelon or I think he's just listing
off random Foods I could even put aing
Pizza in a smoothie and why couldn't I
who's going to stop me you the camera
guy's like not me sir pineapple and that
would be a good fueled breakfast fully
fueled I do breakfast have the
Pre-Workout on that and then I usually
would work out yeah I don't understand
what he said did he say walk out or work
out Scott you are genetically Irish help
us it's a workout youing working out not
this Nery Bambi pamy stuff you've been
doing in the states
mate oh I'm never going to be able to go
back to the British Isles again did I
just say Ireland was part of the British
Isles I'm definitely getting from
that I would work out I'd come home then
I'd eat you know my lunch whatever that
would be maybe some rice dish maybe a
root veg root
veg maybe sweep it mash and maybe some
chicken or something like that Rice and
veg and potato mash and some chicken my
man eat them carbs so your good news he
is definitely fueling up for combat
sport training and not doing any kind of
fasting vegan keto carnivore nonsense
that uh a lot of mixed Marshalls
actually try every now and again and um
it's not ideal again I go back to the
structure wake up at a certain time
structure I love the Irish accent I
Can't Get Enough
Irish people anything you say ising
magical poetry I don't care what it is
whatever you're saying I'm listening and
little that shit's playing in my head
leprechauns and green fields with
Meadows and just good oldfashioned
drinking and violence that what's come
to mind uh but on a serious note you
guys are the bomb I man Scott if I said
I was Irish would you kiss me absolutely
and I'm back in the game where you
think I have all sorts of parts of I'm
going to throw up talking about that all
right train at a certain time structure
is the key to to to to to real success I
feel Connor is on some wise
structure is the key that are so
important a lot of times people who are
amazing at sports don't have much of a
structure to their training or their
diet and they just get by and just
training a lot and eating plenty and
just raw athleticism which is dope the
thing is Conor has all the raw
athleticism in the world world but on
top of that when you add in structure
you can take that 80% good approach
you're taking just by eating plenty and
training hard and make it a 90s
something perc approach is it night and
day no if you have the ultimate training
structure and you don't have a lick of
athleticism in your body like your boy I
blame entirely my Jewish Heritage for
that and Natan Levy Israeli Pro MMA
fighter if you see this yo uh guess
guess you got the Lucky Jeans man I
don't have any coordination but somebody
like me had noing Talent if they did all
the right and had the Deep
structure they would get well 20% better
but if you start at 20% total now you're
40% and that's where you cap out and
people look at that they look at the
guys in the gym who don't have the
talent who don't have the best genetics
and they're trying really hard with all
the structure and you can be ucer to be
like structure doesn't do look at
that guy he's all structured he sucks
but if you apply structure to talented
individuals you take them from being
very good to Supreme and supreme is two
things one where you want to be if you
want to win and two that one
company that Asians really like that
makes like a brick or
something oh my what is that thing what
the is he lifting a power rack it's like
a
self-balancing dildo bar for the
shoulders for presses I love it that's
great and full range of motion and he's
controlling the Ecentric
this like doing a behind the neck press
but you're leveraged in front this is
dope man he's got access to some cool
 look at me shoes what color are
they Max the other guy you better zoom
in in my shoes there's only one color
that I can see in you guessed it
oh
god oh yeah that's right that's when he
got his footed up first of all what's up
with the collar shirt just an aesthetic
thing for me second there's a lot of
swinging going on but not a whole lot of
muscle contraction I'd like to see some
slower more controlled reps it's not the
worst thing I've ever seen in my life
and it's amazing that he's in the gym uh
working out so soon after an injury you
know once the doctors clear you for
training for the rest of your body you
can spend many of the months healing
from the injury that you do have
building the rest of your body to Peak
Physical Perfection and Beyond so in
some sense an injury I mean really in
the most off you know most
straightforward sense that injury is a
terrible thing on the other hand anytime
I get hurt I reframe quickly as quickly
as I can in my head this is an
opportunity to work on the other parts
of my body that were not up and because
you generally outside of getting run
over by one of those asphalt trucks
Don't up all of your body at the same
time there got to be something you can
train Connor's doing an amazing thing
here by getting in the gym theying broke
my leg I'm going to be working on meing
arms then amazing great idea some of the
best athletes in the world you can't
keep them down they get hurt people
write them off they train everything
else and when an injury heals they train
that too and they come back 2.0
style better some of them even use the
RP hypertrophy app interesting I wonder
what that would be
[Music]
[Applause]
like training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same Conor McGregor Body Evolution makes
you wonder if he is all natural after he
broke the
leg oh AI Tick Tock announcer
noise what I feel like when my friends
go out shut up Stacy narrate your owning
Tik
toks no I'm weighing 85 kilos and I
before I see maybe more of his stuff of
him being juicy I will say
this is Conor McGregor Juiced to the
gills well I think he's like what 510
Scott the video guy yeah so he's
5'9 when you have excellent genetics and
you spend much of your time doing combat
training and dieting like a mother to
make super low weights that he was
always making when you decide that per
an injury and a change in your
priorities temporarily you want to just
lift weights a lot and eat a bunch of
food getting to 85 kilos and roughly the
same body fat as he used to be in the
70s somewhere when you were fighting it
was just not that hard and it kind of
comes naturally because finally you're
lifting 5 days a week instead of lifting
three days a week and doing 30 hours of
ma training which is insanely catabolic
by the way it just burns muscle off your
body it's so much high-intensity work
when you curtail that or cut down
basically to zero you start lifting
weights instead and you start prop put
the food the potatoes or whatever the he
said eggs potatoes then you can get
quite big
there's nothing about his physique that
I've seen yet as of the current time of
this video that tells me he's for sure
STS to the gills or to put it more
scientifically a high probability of
that fact I'd have to see some
compelling of him weighing 100K
110k then i' be like okay fine fine fine
we're on some but you know 85k
man you know if I saw every guy who was
5'9 and Wade 185 with some abs and
thought he was on drugs I'd be like most
of you desperate pathetic
on YouTube you just have shitty
genetics you look at Connor after that
leg break he got jacked ripped just
gigantic like 200 plus PB it looks like
just gigantic like 200 plus PB guys at 5
fo9 being 200 plus PB with sort of ABS
is very impressive but for someone who
spent maybe a year or two lifting
weights super hard and who used to fight
and no longer does it's definitely
possible to do without drugs now look if
he's on gear I'll eat my words and also
you know he probably is on gear but like
you know it's not something you you
automatically say he's for sure Sauced
up I think guys will see some mother
gain like five or 10 pounds of muscle
and they're like you see Dr Mike he's on
steroids relax maybe he is maybe he
isn't if you guys are enjoying this
video you might like the fact that we
have a long more extended even more
uncut version in Our member section and
if you have money we'll take it so you
can have fun watching that
video getting kicked by a world champion
MMA guy all
that and then weing run over or we push
theing
sled okay I have a little bit of a
problem with circuits in general and
this one in
particular circuits in general are very
popular among lots of people who are in
combat sport because the people who are
in combat sport generally and very
understandably do not like to train with
weights do not like for it to take a lot
of time so they generally try to spend a
very small amount of time and make the
thing as fun and mixed in to their sport
practice as possible but that deludes
the value of that
thing so so it's not ideal to do
circuits in most
cases if you have energy systems demands
for mixed martial arts training the best
way to attend to them is to do very hard
cardio or to do very hard fighting
related
drills things like hitting the heavy bag
hitting the
pads hitting the pads while wearing a
weight vest and having to do lots of
footwork and move around fighting or
sparring with or even just very gentle
but quick sparring with multiple
opponents at the same time that gives
you all of the physical qualities you
want from the conditioning aspect and
then it gives you tons of absolutely
real world super specific combat skills
and tactics and pacing that you can use
in the fight and then you take your
lifting and you understand that it does
something very separate it makes some
combination of bigger stronger and more
powerful and then you do well things
like three sets of three or three sets
of five in the squat in the push press
in the clean in the row in the
pull-up take a Smith machine throw that
bench as high as you can catch it that
is the best kind of training for mixed
martial arts and just combat athletes in
general you only have to do it two to
four times a week week and it's only
going to take 45 minutes at a time and
you'll get everything you need out of it
but you rest in between sets normally
because you want to maximize how much
force you're producing so you can work
on your ability to produce Force so it's
important to see the training process
for mixed martial arts like any sport in
a systematized manner you pull out every
subcomponent that you need and you go
how do we best train this one how do we
best train that one how do we best train
that one and then how do we integrate
them into the hole integrating into the
hole which sounds sexual but I assure
you is not is easy because that's just
what your live work does you put on the
pads and you just can Spar one two three
other opponents that's live work that's
what integrates all the strength and
power and mobility and flexibility and
cardio that training gets integrate
integrates everything no problem so the
other challenge you have is how to train
all of it ideally in its own little
world as a subcomponent when you start
mixing conditioning work like pushing
the sled with strength work like doing
pull-ups you just degrade the value of
the strength work and that person never
becomes quite as strong and as big as
they could have been and the
conditioning work can be a lot harder
than just kind of leaning into a sled
and sled pushing is just not that hard
if you want hard sled pushing you're
going to have to do a lot of reps of
that or it's going to have to be a
really heavy sled and then I'm not even
sure what we're training anymore
nitpicky but nonetheless trying to get
you guys a little bit of
knowledge and then we sort of leisurely
jog over oh first of all Conor
McGregor's arms are long as which really
helps uh it's one of reasons why he's
the best in the world reach is a big
deal his technique is actually quite
good full range of motion this is
excellent uh again the only nitpick I
have as the running around doing various
circuits um is not optimizing the what
do you want out of the training it's
just
not that was very good having met a sun
ball throws you guys will notice how
he's following through in the movement
his hands almost touch the ground at the
bottom a lot of people will get the
medicine ball up there and just kind of
go halfway down release it and just kind
of like uh and then it just dumps down
halfway efforts are total in
serious sport training we're training
with a movement like medicine ball slams
for one reason power the ability to
produce a ton of force rapidly and the
way you produce power both in training
and in an actual fight is allow time for
that acceleration to occur put a crazy
amount of what's technically known as
impulse force times time into that
object which means you follow through
and stick with it to the very end that
way if you have to punch someone you're
not going to punch and just do this
you're going to punch and follow through
their face to get as much energy
delivered to their brain as possible
making them have unhappy
thoughts and again because the purpose
here is to train power it would be
better if Connor rested between these
exercises so that he could really show
off some power and especially with power
which is force times velocity we know
from research that power is best
elevated is best
improved if every repetition you do to
train it is at least above around 90% of
your Peak ability to generate power in
any one rep so if by the time that he
gets to medicine ball slams he's already
at 85% Peak power on the first rep
because of all the shoulder presses and
pull-ups and the and all the sled
pushing he's done
before it's definitely going to give him
some utility but not close to the most
he could be getting if he treated this
workout as a standalone took one or two
minutes rest between each set one or two
minutes rest between each exercise it's
going to take a little bit of time but
to do something well dare I say close to
optimally you're going to have to take
some time so uh on the nutrition side
and the training side of what I have
observed I give Conor a comfortable
though generous but comfortable N9 out
of 10 yeah some really good stuff in
there just a little nitpicky with the
organization and the prioritization and
taking rest breaks between the heavy
lifts and taking the sled pushers and
just tossing them to the side um now on
the much more important scale of being
aing full blooded Irishman to make
youring people
proud
12 out of eight my
man all
right see you guys next time if you guys
like this video that video right there
YouTube thinks you like it and the
algorithm knows
[Music]
everything