welcome back Dr M wolf with today PhD
exercise science breaking down Chris
bumstead's training specifically we're
reacting to him training trust Chris
Bumstead is highly successful within the
bodybuilding realm having won I think
five Mr Olympia titles at this point in
classic physique so Jack dude handsome
as well very popular I'm pretty sure the
only bodybuilder more popular than him
at this point is Arnold scha and I think
he got popular not quite as much off
bodybuilding but more so off of other
Pursuits as well so in a league of his
own as far as popularity goes and as far
as competitive success but what I wanted
to do is react to his training technique
from an exercise science perspective
without further Ado let's react to him
training trust
[Music]
[Music]
got it would have love
[Music]
all right first off looks like he's
starting off the session with a
relatively comprehensive shoulder warm
up totally fine not sure it's required
or necessary but getting the upper body
warm before training it is a good idea
equally he would probably be just fine
just doing the actual movement for a few
more upsets instead but it's not the end
of the world here
[Music]
getting real old feel like when it rains
I can feel it in my joints now which is
a sign that I'm turning to my father
he's in his 60s I'm in my 20s so pretty
much the same thing as a bodybuilder but
trying to warm up just get my joints
ready to rock cuz I want to go heavier
than 120s last week I did three sets of
120 so I have to go up at least 10 lbs
this week hit the
130s and yeah that's about it I might
swap the pull Downs for pull-ups this
workout because we're having an event
for raw we're opening up our big gym in
the other city where our warehouse is
and we're going to have a big event and
on the Monday it's going to be Memorial
Day so we might do a murf and I still
don't think I'm going to do it because I
can't do more than 10 pull-ups at a time
and after doing three sets I can only do
two and I can't run a mile and I have to
run two miles for that and I can't do
those push-ups or air squats that are in
it so I might be moral support on a
little electric scooter cheering people
on feel like Kelvin or the our other
sales guys Stefan are probably going to
win this thing I'm just just going to me
a cheerleader so regardless I want to
start do more Pull-Ups so I'm going to
do those after this but that's what's
going on so stay tuned for that event
though cuz we're doing going to do like
a little meet and greet a little seminar
first Early Access to check out our new
gym when it's built and then a little
endurance run/ murf thing on the Monday
so give up some more information soon
so looks like he's starting off the
session with some slight incline
dumbbell bench pressing great variation
for building the upper chest and the
chest in general in fact the only study
we have comparing the incline press to
the flat press and measuring chest
growth by Chavis and colleagues has
found similar lower chest growth from a
45° incline press but greater upper
chest growth from a 45° incline press
compared to a flat bench press and so
all else being equal I would probably
pick an incline press over a flat press
if I had to pick one exercise for
building the chest initially I was a bit
skeptical about him starting the session
with the variation of neutral to normal
dumbbell pressing that just seemed to
bit givi key unnecessarily so but it
looks like that was just a war up to get
his joints feeling better or what have
you so totally fine great choice for
first exercise Let's Roll
word for the wise one warming up most
people tear when they're getting heavy
and they're trying to like muscle the
tear muscle when they try to muscle up
the weight so they get down here and
then they get that little jolt where you
like relax your muscle to get deeper and
then you explode out so when I'm warming
up I try and do like pause reps I really
lower it down and I let it pause in the
stretch so it sinks down and then I
press from there just so that part of my
muscle is actually warmed up in the
stretch position the heavier you go the
more it's going to naturally stretch you
down more likely you're going to [ __ ]
your [ __ ] up so warm up slowly don't
just like rep out I see a lot of people
warming up and they just rep really
quick slow down your warm-ups even more
than your working sets don't hurt
yourself cuz we're all getting Old Glory
Days oh wow the 17 one I agree by and
large I think warming up in the same
range of motion as you're going to be
training through is a good thing
[Applause]
I think I got a littlee of myself want
to do 140s here but they're in my hands
[ __ ] my [ __ ] up
[Applause]
that was pretty solid um I liked his
technique on the wom up sets a little
bit more when he was pausing in the very
lengthen position it was basically
perfect technique at that point with the
140s I respect the the fact that 140s
that's like 63 kg or something
ridiculous like that but I think his
technique is really solid minus the fact
that he now stopped doing the pause but
it's you know the Ecentric duration
perfect he's being pretty explosive out
of that bottom position he was even
pausing the warmup sets so as far as
technique goes this is like a a 9 to a
10 out of 10
beautiful that was proof I was being a
little [ __ ] last week 120s were hard
can't do 140s again but I got eight reps
so that counts
so it looks to me here like he's super
setting dumbbell pressing and pull-ups I
think that's a great option especially
if you're trying to save time ultimately
the pull-up and the incline L bench
press don't use similar muscle groups
the incline chest press uses mostly
chest upper chest triceps fromont belts
whereas the pull-up uses mostly lats ter
major some of back muscle biceps and
rear outs so the overlap in terms of
musculature is minimal which makes the
two exercises pretty well suited to
Super setting you do a set of one you
rest for a little bit you do a set of
pull-ups you rest for a little bit you
go back to decl chest press rest for a
little bit and repeat and this is a
technique called the antagonistic paired
superet made a whole video on that here
essentially allows you to get more
volume in in less time likely being a
good option for hypertrophy especially
for those who are busy and I personally
use antagonistic pair super sets in a
bunch of my training and it's awesome to
see someone like Chris who's highly
successful using this technique as well
[Applause]
[ __ ]
pullup technique is pretty solid I think
he's getting a full stretch on the triap
which is not the case for a lot of
people doing pull-ups so that's awesome
he's not being too pedantic about the
top position which is a short muscle
lengths so not as important anyways so
pretty solid technique it looks like
he's getting relatively few reps which
given his body weight kind of normal
it's hard to do pull-ups when you're 220
240 260 for a lot of people like I way
around 220 at the moment and I can get
maybe 12 15 good Pull-Ups so really
awesome technique on both the pull-up
and on the on
press my bench is crooked it's going to
[ __ ] me up
that was 10 out of 10 progress from last
week or two weeks ago whenever the [ __ ]
that last chest workout we filmed was
probably two weeks ago actually how slow
we were moving traveling but the beauty
of taking a lot of time off and feeling
weak at the beginning is every week your
strength just comes back so quick like
at the end of last year's off season I
was RPP in 150s easy last week I was
only doing 120s touched the 140s for one
set right now it's slowly all coming
back so try not to kill myself too much
so I did one heavy set up 140s drop back
down to 130s focusing on really
controlled rep so I'm actually building
proper strength throughout the whole
range feeling good so maybe I actually
will last year I was like I'm not going
to need heavy than 150s but I would love
to have to need them so maybe I'll hit
up dooring and be like yo I need some
170s 160s work my way up to 200s
probably
not yeah just awesome overall technique
I like the super set so far we're
looking really good and I also like the
emphasis he's putting on controlling the
Reps I think having that relatively slow
as Centric of but two to 3 seconds it
looks like it's awesome all right next
moving doing a t- BYO I love doing these
machine ones this gy Leo one too is
pretty fire so I'm going to do keep
doing the same kind of concept still
trying to get strong as [ __ ] right now
lift some serious we but with controlled
form it's cool when you really like
start an offseason or a strength
building program with perfect form
rather than just like trying to like
throw the weight off you [ __ ]
everything up you actually realize you
get stronger more efficiently you feel
better stronger everything and your
weights will keep progressively moving
without injury as well which is always
nice so that's the goal of this year I
always try and keep my form pretty damn
tight but I have to reiterate that out
loud to you guys to force it to myself
to do it because it builds a better
physique less injuries get stronger all
the benefits in the world so starting
off that now control the negative doing
a wide grip here really focus on my
midback so I'm a little bit further down
the pad rather than over top feet on the
ground and pull away
two great things here one I think the
idea of starting with a really solid
technique when you're starting a new
block great idea just sets a good
precedent when it comes to progressing
weight week to week make sure you're not
increasing weight to the point of having
technique breakdown from the get-go if
you establish a realistic working weight
at the story block using good technique
it just makes the rest of the block a
lot easier regarding his technique h on
Tor Rose he's getting an awesome stretch
at the bottom of each rep which is good
for hypertrophy controlled Ecentric
pretty explosive concentric phase he's
not cheating the weight up with any
other muscle groups or joints the one
thing I'm not crazy about is pausing at
the very top of the rep ultimately
that's making him spend more time at
Short muscle lengths which I personally
think is not ideal for hypertrophy but
even the exercise Choice the chest
support Toro if you remember my video on
the best back exercise I do think it's
one of the best choices there is for
upper back growth on account of being
chest supportive so minimizing fatigue
being difficult to cheat having a
resistance curve that bu towards the
lengthen position it's just a great
exercise overall
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
and hey what you could see Chris do is
do lengthen partials at the end of the
set when he couldn't quite get a full
rep anymore I think it's probably a good
idea is it as good as length and
partials on a principled level no but we
do have a new study that compared in the
calves one leg doing calf raises and
simply ending the set when they couldn't
get another full rep to another leg
doing calf raises as well but in this
case doing full reps until they couldn't
get another full rep but extending the
set with partials kind of like Chris is
doing here doing just lengthen partials
until he could even get another lengthen
partial and from before the training
intervention to after the training
intervention the leg that did the
partials at the end as well grew about
50% more muscle and so while this is one
study and it's the only study on the
topic I'm aware of it does lend quence
to the idea that hey if you're doing a 4
in Motion Set you can do some partials
at the end and probably see more
hypertrophy these findings are still
unpublished but those are the
preliminary findings that you get
courtesy over wolf coaching all right I
realized I took my mic off and I left it
over there and I just explained what I
was doing so essentially doing
the pure iron I always forget what it's
called the pure iron machine over here
this is one of their incline presses
that they're I think it's a prototype
still but it's pretty much perfect it
allows you CU they kind of connect both
sides of it so you can either do one arm
or two arm at a time and because I have
a [ __ ] up lopsided shoulder I like
doing one arm at a time same concept
with the dumbbell make sure everything's
symmetrical but I'm keeping it super
contr controlled it's pretty light but I
was really heavy with the dumbbells so
I'm going to do a little bit of rest
pause we just film the last set with my
volume like I said so this is my last
set going to aim for like at least 10
pause for like 10 15 seconds and then do
an aim
wrap oh wow I sound so CrossFit when I
say the word am wrap like do the
CrossFit games this
year it's heavier than I
thought that was way harder than I
thought so if I can get even four reps
here I'll be
proud all right [ __ ] that was tough
awesome machine it looks like let him
get a deep stretch I'm not try to
necessarily do another incline pressing
variation after already having having
done one just out of redundancy I think
the switch from pull-ups to chest
supported tball rows was really good I
think I would personally have rather
seen some sort of flat pressing
variation now technique hereit was
really solid as well controlled the e
entric a little bit more as you reached
the lengthen position generally got a
full stretch the one thing I'd say is on
the last rep controlling the Ecentric
might have made the set a tiny bit
better but who knows overall yet again
techniques really solid all right it's
probably going to be last two movements
I'm going to do like a semi super grip
here on this panata machine same
[ __ ] before super set with some
push-ups some pull-ups at the beginning
push-ups at the end and I'll never be
able to do a murf like that so I'm just
G to keep pretending and not actually
doing it
[ __ ] when I was a kid remember I had the
perfect push-ups these little things
that like twisted and You' hold the grip
and new push-ups and I could literally
do like double clap push-ups and I felt
so strong doing those in my basement
trying to work out and here I am now
getting bench like 300 lb and I've can
do way less pull-ups push-ups can't do
clapping push-ups anymore like a digress
from 12-year-old seum in his basement
trying to be jacked but those were the
Glory
Days yeah a good super set the end the
session I think at this point you'll
have gotten some heavier walk in some
more moderate workin and some ligh
workin which from a combining different
rep ranges throughout the session
perspective is really smart he also is
getting a flat pressing variation
quotquot in through the push-ups I don't
personally like the pull down machine
he's using that much because it looks
like the resistance curve is such it's
hardest at the shorten position but
overall he's gotten some vertical
pulling in some horizontal pulling he's
gotten some incline pressing in some
flat pressing as far as a chest and back
session goes and super setting different
exercises really solid
once again on this exercise he going
past F doing some link and partials not
a huge fan of pausing in the shorten
position just like for the rows but
honestly pretty good and yet again his
Tempo is solid he's getting a full
stretch on each rep so he's doing a good
job as far as technique goes
[Music]
so that was me reacting to Chris
bumstead's heavy chest and back session
honestly really impressed with technique
I'm personally not really someone who
watches Chris onstead train uh I know
he's wildly popular but there's
relatively few YouTubers actually watch
nowadays Fitness related anyways big
watch guy big coffee guy big cooking guy
big photography guy and all that stuff
but Fitness not so much so having not
been familiarized with Chris's training
before I was really impressed with what
I'm seeing here really if I had to give
Chris a score him I'd give it like an 8
or 9 out of 10 really solid there's a
few things I'd change about the session
design like for example I would try
pausing on Theo press I would remove the
pauses from the t-bar row and the pull
down when it came to the shortened
position I would potentially change his
push-up to a deficit push-up but
otherwise honestly everything else was
pretty much on point the explanations he
gave for stuff were generally on point
as well and so like yeah I'm really
feeling this and I feel like if you're
watching Chris bombad you're actually
getting a decent information source that
is the video If you enjoyed this video
please consider commenting liking
subscribing let me know down below who
else you want to see me react to If
you're not yet subscribed please do hit
the Subscribe button I know half of you
watching this right now aren't
subscribed hit the Bell as well so you
get notified whenever I release a video
if you'd like me to coach you consider
checking out the link above and we can
make that happen and in the meantime
have a great day take care of yourself
peace how's it feel times a charm It
Feels absolutely amazing six times now
that's crazy I have to say thank you to
my beautiful wife and mother of my child
Courtney but way more importantly than
that I have to credit this win and give
a huge thank you and shout out to Dr
Milo wolf for introducing me to l L
partials not only did link and partials
help me to add around 10% of additional
muscle growth and single-handedly secure
this win for me but they've also changed
my life for the better in so many ways
that I can't even begin to describe my
health has improved my finances have
improved I get so many more [ __ ] now
sorry Courtney so please search wolf
coaching on YouTube and subscribe so you
can change your life too