welcome back soon Tov Dr Milo Warfare
PhD in range of motion and today we're
reviewing athlean X's video on for range
motion athlan X AKA Jeff cavaliere has
some decent advice from what I can tell
and some pretty terrible advice let's
find out whether this video is poor or
any
good very cool intro looking stack
cavali a lovely job I said it full range
of motion is killing your gains and it
actually is true no bigger believer in
the benefits of full range of emotion on
an exercise for getting not only he's a
Believer but also for keeping you safe
as a physical therapist it matters to me
that you're not just gaining but that
you're staying healthy in the process
but if you're confusing full range of
motion of a joint with full range
emotion of an can promise you you're
leaving gains on the table here's
exactly what I'm talking about I'm going
to demonstrate first and foremost with a
pretty easy exercise to demonstrate on
it's actually exercises that people SK
tricep Kickback okay now the issue is
what is the range of motion of the joint
that's doing the work here if the joint
that's doing the work we know is the
elbow Jesus Christ it's the worst
exercise ever that is like the my my
worst nightmare of a tricep exercise you
get 20° of elbow extension range of
motion and it's all in the shortened
range and it gets harder as you try get
shorter we have evidence as I talk about
in this video that lengthening muscles
during exercise and for example doing
lengthened partials is good for growth
what the [ __ ] is that tricep exercise
you showing you all the way back but
that doesn't mean that the tricep
Kickback requires that you go through
full joint range of motion to do it it
requires that you go through full
exercise range of motion on a tricep
Kickback which is a lot different some
people would call this half repping but
I'm telling you it's a full rep you
don't want to go past here you start
here I mean first of all like the
exercise pretty much starts when your
forearm is perpendicular to the ground
so you're getting next to no joint range
of motion sure the exerise range of
motion he seems to be doing just fine
but like [ __ ] that is a terrible tricep
exercise for growth go back into
contraction here and you come back to
here again where the dumbbell is
parallel to gravity and then you go back
up again and then you come down it's a
short range of motion this is a
contracted position exercise where PE
yes it is which is not very good what
most people do is they keep going all
the way up to here and then they go up
and they go here and they go up because
they think that full range of motion of
the elbow is what's necessary but really
all I'm doing is a hammer I mean look
Jeff I I agree with your point that
going all the way up doesn't train the
triceps to any greater extent it will
train your biceps cuz you're effectively
doing a curl but like it's a shitty
tricep exercise to begin with and I
don't see this killing your games does
it take away from the tricep stimulus
Maybe cuz you're fatiguing your biceps
and getting a bit more fatigue overall
but like it's certainly not killing your
yam so that's like a pretty heavy click
bit title is a hammer curl from here to
here I'm not working my triceps okay but
there's other places that this rears its
ugly head too and one of them is a
surprise to a lot of people and it's a
shoulder press so when we shoulder press
a lot of us will go like this first of
all don't go with your elbows back
behind your head okay the elbows
traveling behind your head for a lot of
reasons we already talked about on this
channel about how that's not the safest
position by a long shot for your
shoulders so you always want your elbows
in front of your body but how so fun
fact Jeff cavali is pretty much known
for fear mongering around the lot of
positions I wouldn't take a lot of his
advice around pain and injury too
seriously I think his credibility as a
physical therapist has been questioned a
lot it may be the case that for some
people though that behind the head
position is a bit more challenging to
deal with but I think part of the reason
why a lot of people are very afraid of
spinal flexion very afraid of doing pull
Downs behind the head for example is
because of people like Jeff fear
mongering around certain positions and
it's just not productive because we do
know that pain is bioc psychosocial so
if you have certain beliefs set up
around a position like oh no if I round
my back it's going to lead to pain and
injury if you have that belief and you
know you never deadlift around and back
you avoid it like the plague and let's
say for example one day life just gets
you in that position somehow and you
have that belief that that position is
going to cause pain and injury you know
you're maxing out with your buddies and
you slap on one too many plates and your
backgrounds like a catback you
deadlifted up and because you know that
you're backgrounded you're actually
predisposed to pain more so because
there are beliefs that play into pain
and so fear mongering around pain and
injury in s positions really is not
productive and that's part of the reason
why I'm just not a huge fan of Jeff
Cavalier to be honest with you but how
low a lot of people will come all the
way down and press up and all the way
down and press up but what you're doing
by doing that is you're giving the
muscles a break for the bottom 20 or 30°
of that press cuz we really want to be
is right here cuz you can see from the
back that that middle delt doesn't
really kick in until I get to where my
elbows and my upper arms are pretty much
perpendicular to the ground holy [ __ ]
this is the worst reasoning I've ever
seen what do you mean your middle delt
doesn't kick in until you're about
halfway up for the bottom 20 30° does
nothing that's not how muscles work
muscles contribute to force production
regardless of what angle they're at
exactly yes different muscles will
contribute to different extents but you
using your body and how lean it is and
whether or not you're flexing that
muscle at a given point as a rationale
for skipping the stretch position which
we know is hypertrophic is just [ __ ]
like [ __ ] off okay down here they're
pretty much in a more relaxed position
and then they kick in right here they're
relaxed at the bottom they're not
relaxed at the bottom what are you
saying bro want to start pressing from
here if you want to keep the tension on
that middle
delt no you don't that is going to be
worse for growth doing shorten partials
is demonstrably worse at this point than
a full range Motion in this case not
doing full range motions kill you prob
have to decrease the amount of weight
that you're using to accomplish this but
at the end of the day not getting that
brief rest that's actually quite the
opposite first of all you don't get a
brief rest at the bottom if you're doing
it properly you can pause without
letting the weight rest on your
shoulders or on your chest or on your
clavicle like you're not getting a brief
rest and in fact most people over press
substantially more when for example they
overhead press without touching or
clavicle starting out the rack and
starting around here it's simply an
easier position to be in and now I want
to kind of get even a little trickier
and that is on a side dumbbell race now
the side dumbbell raise this shows you
how even the same exercise done with
different equipment can have a different
impact but full range of motion on this
exercise is not
this okay why he's making faces you know
it's going to be bad here the arm is
pretty relatively quiet if I want to
keep the tension have constant tension
on the delts here then what I want to do
is I want to start here and then come up
to here and then back down to here and
come up to here and instantly why did
this look brother not everyone wants to
have constant tension constant tension
is not this magical thing in fact
getting that lengthen position is pretty
important for certain exercises in the
case of the dumble ladder Ray it doesn't
matter a huge amount cuz there's not
going to be a lot of tension at the
bottom anyways it's pretty easy to do
the bottom position and so even if you
skip it it's not going to make a huge
difference but on principle it's the
idea that you need constant tension and
that you should skip skip out the bottom
position and avoid a full range motion
is just wrong you definitely want to
include the bottom position almost
always for muscle growth in this case it
doesn't really matter again not much
force going on at the bottom but in most
cases cutting out the bottom position is
just dumb and instantly why did this
15lb weight become that much more
difficult
because very cool it's like some some
people really try and make it seem as
though minimizing the load you're using
or making a session feel as hard as
possible is what's going to cause more
muscle growth and be more effective just
because something feels harder doesn't
mean it's better I could do a single leg
Squat and a poster ball with three bands
pulling in different directions and it's
going to feel hard and challenging is it
growing muscle [ __ ] no [ __ ] off I'm
keeping constant tension
on the muscles there in the
shoulder constant tension big buz
training was for overall strength okay
or power even in the Press I love how
he's equating overall strength and power
like those are the two same things
overall strength mostly refers to being
somewhat functional and potentially
being strong in there some main movement
patterns power on the other hand is a
completely different Fitness quality why
are you equating the two coming down and
using your legs and using your upper
chest to to press off of and recruit
more muscles is a different goal and
that's a different purpose but if
hypertrophy gains or what you're after
then you need to start considering that
full range of motion at a joint is not
always necessarily for range of motion
what's the twist here with this one well
we know that the shoulder can go across
the body we saw how once you get down to
midline here you're losing the tension
on the bicep on the on the shoulder what
the [ __ ] do you mean you're losing the
tension on the shoulder like you're not
losing the tension on the shoulder how
did we see it exactly you know like with
a dumbbell sure I guess you but with a
[ __ ] cable for example no you're not
losing tension your side belt is still
active even at those bottom positions
cutting those out is not the best I do
but not if I was doing it with a cable
so now if I do it with a cable come
around this way Jesse if I'm over here
now there is tension and stretch on this
muscle at the same time because as long
as I'm pulling in this direction a
little bit I've got stretching the
shoulder to all right Jeff I hear you I
see you range of motion on a cable side
lateral raise is
here to there
and back down you can see all that
tension his form is pretty still still
there and lengthened okay and
up and then down down tension tension
tension so you can see that bro if
you're lead enough you can make any
positions look like it's activating a
certain muscle group I could be
scratching my ass and making my biceps
look flexed does it mean that my biceps
are getting locked no [ __ ] off like you
can Flex a muscle group when you're lean
and make it look very impressive and
like it's being activated and all that
it doesn't really mean anything how your
muscles look during an exercise isn't a
valid demonstration of any sort of Point
even something that's supposed to be the
same is different in terms of range of
motion and it always varies from
exercise to exercise in terms of what
that range of motion is with the actual
joints range of motion so don't get
confused stop just doing everything
through full range of motion learn what
the actual for range is on that exercise
and I promise you you're going to get
more out of it I say it all the time
guys it's not what exercises you do is
how you do them I'm happy to show you
how to do all this step-by-step our
athletex training program click over
here make sure just plugging sh at this
point look there is absolutely a point
to good technique in all likelihood
better technique will yield slightly
better outcomes than poor technique on
the same exercise however picking good
exercises is still probably more
important than exactly the technique you
use so I don't really agree and more
importantly I think that as a rule of
thumb he was talking about not making it
complicated right as a rule of thumb
full range of motion or not skipping the
lengthen position is a much simpler
heuristic that will maximize muscle
growth rather than people trying to
individualize and trying to figure out
how much range of motion should I go
through for this exercise like for most
people for 1.3 million people
potentially this video was not all that
clear right so it's just he's making it
more complicated instead of less
complicated even though that's the claim
he's making all right that was the video
um if I had to rate a an X out of 10 I
would give him a 5 out of 10 he does
have a decent understanding of say joint
range of motion moment arms that sort of
stuff however he also has a very weird
attachment to constant tension training
and doesn't really understand this was
released 5 years ago so I'm not going to
hate too much for this but also kind of
seems to think that the length position
maybe isn't that important and for
example likes the tricep Kickback but
you know I think that but it's not
terrible again he has some knowledge and
I think that while full range emotion
certainly isn't killing your games it
wasn't the worst video ever anyways
that's the video if you want to see me
break down anyone else's trading advice
or anyone else's trading routine leave a
comment down below let me know what you
want to see and I'll see you guys my
favorite people in that next one peace