instead of doing regular flies lock in a
certain joint angle for your elbows
probably like 135Â° like here's 180 135
is like right over there as the weight
descends you push your chest up okay so
as you're descending under control not
quickly the lower you go the higher you
lift your chest that pre-stretches it
for you then as you're going down and
especially at the bottom you're
retracting your shoulder blades and then
do not bend your elbow any differently
because you're going to want to bend it
less and take the stretch off of the
pecs you want to keep the stretch on
keep that elbow bent to the same degree
you're going to develop a painful
ripping stretch through your pecs down
to where the pain is nice and high and
you really can't retract anymore without
losing a ton of tension keep the chest
up and hold that position for one full
second you're going to go like this big
chest big tearing and then gently come
back up and repeat if you try this
method it will your chest up