welcome to another episode of the ice
cream for pr's podcast my name is Jeff
knit bird and back with me again this
week is my co-host Robin going yet hi
and this week we have a very special
guest Andrew Vygotsky who is the reached
research consultant for the strength
guys welcome to the podcast Andrew
thanks for every minute so today we're
going to talk about a whole bunch of
stuff related to hamstrings we're gonna
start with the basic anatomy and then
we're gonna go into some more practical
stuff and answer questions like what is
the best way to go about training them
is the muscle fiber composition of any
great significance here and its
involvement in exercises like the squat
and the deadlift for example but before
we get into that Andrew why don't you
just go ahead and let her audience know
a little bit about your training
background and your academic background
sure so I used to body build I first got
into bodybuilding in 2010 after I had an
injury and I couldn't go back to
lacrosse so I started lifting and I just
got really into it I I first competed in
2010 like I said or now it's 2011 sorry
and then in 2012 I competed for the
third time I competed twice in 2011 and
then from there I just got really into
the academic end of things specifically
Exercise Science and kinesiology and I'm
finishing up my bachelor's in science of
kinesiology at Arizona State University
where I also complete a biomechanics
research and I work with Burke Contreras
and do research with him as well and
andrew is literally a really intelligent
guy and he's someone that I'm always
impressed by his ability just to cite
research off the top of his head so we
have a group chat with all of us coaches
at the strength guys and if I ever asked
a question it's like very he's very very
quick to respond with the author and the
date of the study and then you know a
link will follow or something so andrew
is a guy who definitely knows his stuff
so we'll delve right into the basic
anatomy of the hamstrings I'm not
exactly sure what our listenership
actually has in terms of education on
this topic so I'm just gonna start
relatively basic and through the course
of this conversation there's probably
going to be a nice bit of jargon that
you might not be familiar with so
there's a couple of things that we can
do here I'll either try to define it
when I can or you know ask Andrew or
Robin to elaborate a little bit more or
it might not hurt to just have a search
engine on hand in case you want you know
you didn't understand a certain time and
then you can just plug it in but we're
good like I said we're gonna start basic
so essentially the hamstrings are a
group of four muscles the
semimembranosus semitendinosus biceps
from where it's short head and biceps
femoris long head so andrew maybe you
can just give us a little bit more
detail about that basic anatomy in terms
of origin and insertion and then the
implications of that in terms of what
this muscle actually does when it
contracts so the hamstrings are kind of
split up into two parts the medial and
the lateral the medial consists of the
semimembranosus and the semitendinosus
and those insert into the medial side of
the lower leg or the tibia and then
those originate from part of the pelvis
it's called the ful tuberosity
so they cross both a hip joint and the
knee joint as far as the biceps femoris
goes that's split up into two parts so
there's the short head which originates
on the femur itself and that inserts
into the fibular head of the lower leg
and then the long head also originates
on the ischial tuberosity and that
inserts on the fibula hurts well
okay so just to break that down in case
people are having like a tough time
visualizing this basically the ischial
tuberosity comes off of your pelvis
pelvis so if you're picturing a pelvis
it's kind of like a heart like it's like
a butterfly shape and then the bottom
little part of the butterfly wing would
be the ischial tuberosity and that's
where the hamstrings originated from and
the difference between like what is
origination and or origin and insertion
and origin is the porch or the part of
the body where the muscle fibers connect
to the skeleton hey yeah it's it's
emotionally it's the most medial or the
medial or toxins yeah so it's like the
closest to the center of the body and
basically they're just two sides of the
same coin it's just weird the muscle
connects to the bone yeah on either side
yeah that's that's a good explanation so
in this case we have the hamstrings
originating at the pelvis then they pass
the hip joint
they go all the way down the femur which
is that long part of your upper leg they
cross the knee joint and then they
either insert more medially or that is
to say more close to the midline at the
tibia which is your shin bone if your
inner thigh yeah well they would they
would insert yeah they run down the
inner thigh seriously and they're part
of the lower leg yes which is your shin
bone /tpa or on the fibula which is the
thinner bone which also makes up your
lower leg that sound about right Andrew
yep that's perfect yeah so a particular
importance here is that this would be an
example of a by articular muscle and
basically that just means that it
crosses two joints so in this case the
hip joint and the knee joint and when
the muscle contracts it can control
movement at both joints so you can get
movement around the hip from the
hamstrings and then you can also get
movement around the knee from the
hamstrings right so as a result of this
the hamstring can contribute to both
knee flexion or
an action that you would do when you're
doing like a leg curl or it can also
contribute to hip extension which is
basically if you're bent over at the
hips then you straighten back out that
would be hip extension yeah like a hip
thrust would be an exemplary Romanian
deadlift so Andrew I think that is
something that has been talked about is
that not all of the heads of the
hamstrings or not all of the muscles
involved cross both joints and the short
head of the biceps femoris specifically
only crosses the knee joint and as such
it can't contribute to hip extension
since it doesn't even cross that joint
do you think that this is a significant
factor when it comes to training
hamstrings and you'll hear people say
things like leg curls are superior to
predominantly hip extension movements
because all four heads a bit are all
four muscles crossed the knee joint
whereas only three of them across the
hip joint what are your thoughts on that
well I don't think it's that dichotomous
I think it's best to work from both hip
extension and knee flexion but in
general the short head of the biceps
femoris isn't a very large muscle at
least not compared to the rest of the
hamstring so if someone were to only do
hip extension based movements I'm sure
their hamstrings would still grow just
probably not to the extent but something
also to consider is a bread Schoenfeld
and others came out to study late last
year I think it's just wonderful
natalie is here anyway what they showed
was playing leg curls exhibited higher
activation and the distal portion of the
hamstrings both medial and lateral but
straight leg deadlifts exhibited similar
proximal so closer to the hip activation
of the medial lateral hamstrings so they
had similar activations closer to the
hip but the Lange leg curl had better
activation further away from the hip
what
for hypertrophy we're not quite sure yet
he's saying that the lying that they
stiff like is dead live in a lying leg
curl had the same amount of activation
near to the hip but then at the knee
though the lying leg curl had like a lot
more activation that's the the bottom
portion of the hamstring and it was like
quite a bit more for the lateral
hamstrings and a little bit more for the
immediate hamstrings so does this weigh
in on the comparison of the two
exercises like with the with the leg
curl you have greater activation closer
to the knee joint and the same
activation closer to the hip joint so
this would sort of the tip of scale at
least a little bit in favor of a of a
knee flexion exercise right right you'd
think at least at first but something to
consider is I'm sure you've heard of
Brad schoenfelt's three mechanisms with
hypertrophy so there's mechanical
tension metabolic stress and muscle
damage yes well the thing is since
you're working the hamstrings at shorter
muscle lengths during a something like a
lying leg curl you're not getting as
much muscle damage because there's not
as much strain or not as much stretch on
the hamstrings so whatever what about a
seated leg curl then because there's
stretch that both the hip and the knee
joint so yeah I think that might show
something yeah I I think that would be
more similar to something like a good
morning or stiff like deadlift in terms
of mechanical tension or not or not
mechanical tension sorry muscle damage
because of the stretching so what that
means to our listeners is that when
you're bent over at the hips your
hamstrings are in a stretch position
near the hips and when your knee is
extended so like in a leg extension when
your knee is fully extended your leg is
straight your hamstrings are stretched
up the knee joint
so what Andrews saying is that it may be
better to be doing an exercise movement
that causes the hamstring to be fully
stretched in at one point in the
movement so where the hips are bent and
the knee is extended and that he's
saying will cause more muscle damage but
like you could you could make that same
argument for the CDA
leg curl from a standpoint of active
insufficiency don't you think I mean
just in case listeners don't know active
insufficiency is when your muscle can't
maximally contract at one joint because
it's already shortened at another joint
so in this case if you were lying down
and doing a lying leg curl your
hamstring would already be shortened at
the hip joint because your hips are
extended so then when it tries to
shorten by doing knee flexion it just
can't do that as much there's an
insufficiency there that's called active
insufficiency but when you sit down your
hip is flexed so your hamstring isn't
any longer it's not it's not shortened
at the hip anymore it's stretched at the
hip so you can more you can more
forcefully contract it at the knee joint
so there is no more active insufficiency
there do you think that that is a
another case to be made for seated leg
curls being superior to lying leg curls
well the thing with active insufficiency
is it just relates to torque so how much
force you can produce from that muscle
at a certain point in time I don't know
how that relates to hypertrophy but one
of the mechanisms is mechanical tension
so there might be something there so
you're not able to produce as much
tension within the muscle so I may not
signal to grow as much so back to the
lying leg curl versus the stiff legged
deadlift you were going to explain why
at first in me seeing that the leg curl
from this one study was superior because
you're getting the same activation at
the proximal area of the hamstring and
the distal or sorry you're getting the
same at the proximal and more at the
distal so at first it seems like this is
better but you are going to explain why
this may not actually be true so because
the hamstrings aren't put into any sort
of stretch with the lying leg curl
you're kind of missing out on one of the
mechanisms
but if you were to include both a hip
extension based movement and a knee
flexion based movement then you're kind
of hitting the hamstrings from both
sides and getting making the best of
both worlds mm-hmm so like the end Morel
or like the end of this kind of story
would be that it would just rather than
trying to make it black and white and
choose one or the other like it's best
to just incorporate both hip extension
hamstring exercises and the venue
flexion yeah exactly
yeah and do you think it would also just
subdivide that even further do you think
it would be a good idea to combine
seated leg curls and line leg curls for
the reasons that we sort of discussed
yeah I think that might be a good idea
it certainly can't hurt yeah so I'm
gonna get to you hip extension exercises
but first I just want to touch on the
leg curls because since we're there and
then we can kind of just like let that
one rest okay we talked about this quite
a bit Andrew and it was something that
seems quite simple when you just look at
it on its face but when you examine a
little bit more deeply there's kind of
quite a bit of complexity there and
that's where you point your ankles when
you're doing leg curls so in this case
we looked at lying leg curls and so you
can either plantar flex your ankle or
that is like the action that you would
do when you push down on a gas pedal or
you can dorsi flex your ankle which is
like pointing your toes up at the
ceiling when you're doing leg curls or
well if you're lying down it would be
like pointing it up at your shin I guess
so you can do one of those two things
and what I've found in my own experience
is that when I point my toes up towards
my shins where I dorsiflex
I'm stronger but if I if I plantar flex
I can get a better mind to muscle
connection no I know when we were
talking about this you went and you did
ran your own little EMG experiment on
yourself maybe you could talk a little
bit about that and if you think that one
variation might be better
the other or about your practical
recommendations would be so what I did
is I chose a load that I could do for
about 12 reps and I did it with my toes
pointing and dorsiflex and my toes
pointed towards my shins I guess you
could say and I was able to pump out 12
no problem then I recorded another trial
with my foot plantar flexed and it was a
bit harder I think if I controlled for
the load it would have changed things a
little bit but I found that when I did
plantar flex my hamstrings got a little
bit higher activation but it wasn't that
much so if I were to control for
intensity intensity of load that is it
would have been similar activation no
matter where I pointed my toes so long
as the I guess it was at 12 rep max or
whatever
does that make sense it does make sense
because you're saying that you were
probably weaker when you were plantar
flexed so even though you had the same
amount of load you might have gotten a
little bit of higher activation just
because you had to work harder is it is
that basically the nope that's exactly
it yeah and there was a study from 2000
that we spoke about Kuro so at all and
that also looked at the same problem
yeah and they had pretty much the exact
same finding so people too were able to
develop more torque with their ankles
plumper dorsiflexed but EMG was the same
as less torque with ankles plantar
flexed right so I guess the main
take-home here would be that you can
kind of do whatever is most comfortable
for you for me since we've had all these
conversations I've just been I've just
been dorsiflex in all the time because I
can move I can move more weight that way
and I think that you know that's just as
good as if I were to you know go through
the whole annoyance of having to plantar
flex my ankle and then do a knot and do
an exercise that feels awkward to me
and I just had a question were you
saying that when you wish you controlled
for the intensity of the load did you
were you saying that when you were
dorsiflexed you were just stronger and
you just had a higher 12 RM and that
when they were playing here Plex you
just you wanted to control that to make
it like you would have to control the
load so that it would right that's
exactly it
I didn't take a 12 rep max for each I
just took a 12 rep max for what I
normally do which I normally dorsiflex
so yeah then when I went to plantar flex
I wasn't as strong and it was a lot
harder to complete the set so in
controlling for that you're basically
just like accepting the fact that you
are definitely stronger when your dorsi
flexed and that movement yeah definitely
and plus it makes sense because you get
like contributor contributory torques
from the gastrocnemius because that
means from the basically your calves it
runs from your ankle to the back of the
femur the thigh it's a really big part
meaty part of the cab the one that's
just where the makes up for it so I was
just gonna get into a little bit more of
the intricacies there and then we'll
leave it Andrew so the reason presumably
why you're stronger in dorsiflexion is
because it it allows your gastroc to
contribute to knee flexion so for the
people who don't know gastrocnemius is
one of the calf muscles it crosses two
joints so it itself is by articular and
so one of its functions is to plantar
flex the ankle the other function is to
flex the knee so yes your calves would
contribute to a leg curl so when you
plantar flex or point your ankle down or
putting your foot down your
gastrocnemius is already shortened at
the ankle joint and so like we
sort of talked about earlier it can't
also maximally shorten at the knee joint
when you flex it you're like yes exactly
to you it would make sense that you
would be weaker
now when you dorsi flex or point your
toes up towards your shin so let's say
it takes your gastrocnemius out of
active insufficiency so now it can
contribute more fully to knee flexion
and so that would be why you're stronger
it's not because your hamstrings somehow
become better at moving the resistance
it's just that now you have another
muscle that's coming into play more so
do you think that would be an accurate
categorization of what's going on injury
yeah I couldn't afford to do it better
myself
okay and I also just wanted to talk
about one other thing just quickly
because I feel like people would be able
to relate to this when you're doing a
lying leg curl and you're on like a flat
like the bench is flat
I find myself anyway like trying to flex
up the hips to make it easier for me to
curl the weight so I'll like kind of
might put my elbows under my body and
prop myself up and that's to put my hip
hips out of full extension and try to
stretch my hamstrings a bit more to make
it easier for me to flex at the knee and
curl the weight up so if people can
relate to that like the fact that they
will they want to be stretched like
flexing at the hips and stretching their
hamstrings more it's because it's
actually like causing your hamstring to
be in a better position to curl up the
way I just thought I'd throw that in
there let's move on to the line the
basic yeah we can't obviously gliding
like her I suppose there are all these
variations of leg curls right like the
Nordic leg curl
there's the gliding leg curl do you have
any flavor that you like particularly or
is there any significant difference
amongst these different variations I
mean personally I love the gliding leg
curl because you're working both the
knee flexion and hip extension at the
same time yeah I just think that's
really efficient plus it feels great if
you've ever done
how do only add resistance to that
though because I've done them before and
I don't know I just like or is it just
like body made the plate around your
waist yeah you could put a plate or on
your waist or weight on your lap or you
could also switch to unilateral oh yeah
yeah that's what I'll usually do if you
want to describe the movement for our
listeners and you just so that they can
have a picture in their head of what a
gliding leg curl is okay it's a bit
complicated to describe it I'll do my
best
yeah okay so basically you want to hang
from a bar within a smith machine or if
nobody's there's squat rack and put your
foot up on a box such that your body
kind of forms an L so your torso is
vertical and your legs are parallel with
the ground and then you're gonna extend
out the hips and flex at the knees at
the same time such that when you finish
the movement your torso and your on the
upper part of your legs are parallel
with the ground and your lower legs are
perpendicular with the ground or the box
and when we say extent of the hips just
think thrusting your hips and then flex
that the news means curling your legs
just a bit people tend to realize that
just a couple months ago I wouldn't know
what that meant so that's really really
good though I got a really good figure
of fighting like girl with that
description and then the last one I want
to touch on is the Nordic ham curl so
this is where basically you just pin
your ankles down to the ground and you
sort of just fall forward and then curl
your own body back up against its own
resistance and this is a really
difficult exercise and from what I've
seen there's actually a lot of research
on this particular exercise in terms of
injury prevention is this one that
you've experimented with Andrew or is it
one that you use in your training or in
I haven't personally done the Nordic ham
girl but I have done a bunch of gluten
raises which are pretty similar but the
axis of rotation is gonna be a little
different so it makes it a little bit
easier but it's the same concept right
personally I love them I don't know that
I can do it nor they can't curl to be
honest they're really hard yeah I can
use that like a pole to like help push
your body weight up yeah or you can put
a band around yourself so that you know
that the hardest part of the movement
which would be as you get closer to the
ground you get more and more help from
the band essentially right so the
eccentric the eccentric curve or the
eccentric tension curve isn't you know
quite as difficult to overcome
so the glute-ham raise this I would
think would be probably one of the best
knee flexion exercises because it also
utilizes hip extension isometrically
right depending how you do it some
people fold down at the bottom I used to
I don't anymore
it's more difficult if you don't right
yeah it's definitely more difficult if
you don't because then you don't have
that inertia to kind of help you up from
the bottom yeah does that make sense no
it does so how significant is the fact
that you have to actively work to keep
the hips extended while flexing I mean
at the same time so my question is do
you think that the fact that I mean
clearly this exercise is loaded
differently than would be just as a
simple seated leg curl right yeah let's
say a line like curl because the hips
are extended in both exercises right all
you're doing is extending and flexing
the knee so we thought we had the lying
leg curl and then we have the glute/ham
raise well the torque curve is going to
be totally different so it's going to be
harder when your body is out straight in
the beginning of the movement and as you
go into active insufficiency it's the
movement itself there there's less
torque so there's less force I guess you
could say it's not force but so it's
they're matched up pretty well and like
the torque and then with the active
just from experience I'd say that torque
curve of the glute-ham raise is a little
bit steeper because it does get really
easy towards the top in my opinion yeah
true right actually wrote his fantastic
article in the glute-ham race it's
called gutting the glute-ham raise its
on t nation and he discusses all the
torque requisites and it's crazy how
much work you have or your hamstrings
have to do in order to raise your body
in that movement so you can just really
appreciate how strong the human body is
yeah but you wouldn't be willing to
stand on one side or the other with
respect to saying this exercise is
probably a better hamstring Builder than
this other exercise because I know a lot
of people will say that you know the
glute-ham raise is such a difficult
exercise right it's got to be better
than lying down and doing leg curls
I don't like dichotomizing exercises
well not sure well I'm sure it's better
for like injury prevention type stuff
because we were talking before the
Nordic hammer curl has been shown to be
beneficial because it's eccentric
accentuated and all that but as far as
building hamstrings the gluten raise
doesn't have constant tension so that's
something to consider with a lying leg
curl you're always in tension and your
hamstrings always have to produce a
force but there's a period in the
glute/ham race where that's not the case
so that's something to consider as far
as hypertrophy goes but yeah I I
wouldn't be I wouldn't say one is better
than the other see what I would have
what I would have thought before hearing
what you just said at the beginning
about the m-g activity in the most
proximal and distal aspects of the
hamstrings in the leg curl is that in I
would expect that the glute/ham rays
would have greater EMG activity towards
the hip so in the most proximal part
then a lying leg curl because you have
to act isometrically to keep the hips
extended throughout the movement
actively right as you descend whereas in
the leg curl you're just lying there so
all you're doing is just
I'm just calling the weight up it's
passive right so I would expect more
activation towards the I mean closer to
the ischial tuberosity let's say well
then if you bring something like the
stiff leg deadlift into this which is
totally hip extension why wouldn't that
have more proximal activation than the
flute Henry's so you're saying there is
no difference between the like stiff
legged deadlift and the glute-ham raise
for the activation near to the hip what
he's saying is is well according to my
logic then the strip the stiff leg
deadlift and the lying leg curl should
have completely different levels of
activation closer to the hip right he's
saying that the stiff leg deadlift
should have more proximal activation
because it's more actively works hip
extension but that's not what you see
you see equal activation yeah yeah yeah
it's exactly what I'm saying yeah okay
so that actually makes sense that clears
oh that's why I said that's what I would
have said if I hadn't heard what you
said about Schoenfeld Research Analyst
Schoenfeld yeah the regional differences
paper yeah okay so let's talk about the
different hip extension movements
different hip extension movements I
really like the 45-degree hyperextension
I don't know why it's called the back
extension but I think it should be
called hip extension what else do you
have good mornings which I actually just
published the paper on stiff leg
deadlift rdls
s LDLs there are a ton of them let's
just quickly compare and contrast these
so out of the deadlifts where how can we
best train the hamstrings with a
deadlift type movement so we have the
sumo deadlift conventional deadlift and
let's just say the Romanian deadlift
brett published an article called are
all hip extensions created equal this
was a couple years ago and he looked at
the torque curves of all these different
movements so horizontal back extension I
think it was good morning and 45-degree
hyper and what he found was that the 45
Piper intuitively kept the most they
kept the torque range of the hamster of
hip extension the highest throughout the
entire motion because you're never
perpendicular to the ground
does that make sense mmhmm yeah it does
make sense yet cuz in purpose when
you're perpendicular to the ground you
just lose the tension yup exactly
so for that reason I'd be partial to
saying the 45-degree hyper although it
doesn't always pan out like that but
with the 45-degree hyper you can
actually with all these movements you're
going to want to kind of train depending
on your stance so if you're a sumo
deadlift er you're going to want to go
wider and turn your feet out and I will
emphasize the lateral hamstrings which
actually have a greater hip extension
moment arm so they they're better for
hip extension than the other the other
two hamstrings I know if I could take
one and say that's best but so D if I
pick one and be 45-degree hyper yeah so
I mean I would put that exercise on
let's say higher ground than a
conventional deadlift oh yeah for sure
yeah the deadlift itself isn't a huge
hamstring exercise neither is this squad
interestingly enough even though
everybody says earth everybody talks
about it like it is but the hamstring
like when it shortens at the hip it
stretches up the knee and then vice
versa on the way up in the way down yup
exactly so it basically just plays like
a stabilizer role in each of those
movements yeah so there's a little bit
of stretch in the hamstrings and the
deadlift and a little bit less in the
squat it's hardly any in the squad but
it is there at least according to my
calculations there's one study on that
and I'm pretty sure their calculations
are wrong so let's talk about that then
because this is something you hear a lot
right you'll hear people say if you want
big lives all you have to do is squat
but yeah
squads are a great exercise for the
quads they're a good exercise for the
glutes but they're not a really good
exercise for the hamstrings because the
hamstrings are dynamic stabilizers for
the squat so when the knee when the knee
and the hip are both flexing on the way
down the hamstring is shortening at the
knee and lengthening at the hip so as
overall length doesn't really change and
then when you stand back up the opposite
happens so it just switches so it's
length doesn't really change again so we
can contrast this with let's say the
quadriceps which on the way down you
have the knee flexing and they're
lengthening and then when you stand back
up to extend the knee they shorten and
so it would make sense that this would
serve as a greater stimulus for that
muscle than would if it just stayed the
same length the whole way through the
movement really right so now let's
contrast that with let's just say a
conventional deadlift so how does a
conventional deadlift differ because
here you still have flexion at the hip
and the knee during the eccentric and
extension at both during the concentric
however like you said the stretch on the
hamstring is a little bit different
maybe it operate on that a little bit so
in the starting position of a
conventional deadlift somebody
somebody's hips are a lot higher off the
ground and when they squat so their
knees are more extended so they're gonna
start off with a longer hamstring than
they would if if they're squatting or
something like that like it when they're
in the bottom of a squat
yeah so because they're in such great
hip flexion and their knee flexion isn't
a whole lot they're gonna have a
stretched hamstring and that's gonna put
them in a kind of advantageous position
to utilize their hamstrings to help them
extend their hips especially after
they've passed their knees within the
problem
yeah cuz it's usually like a little bit
of knee extension and as you're passing
your knees your knees are fully
extension and extended and then it's all
hip extension from there mm-hmm so
biomechanically we have pretty good
grounds for using exercises other than
the squat if you want to build big
hamstrings
is there any EMG research that you know
of that sort of corroborates this yeah
there are a bunch of EMG research on the
squad looking at the hamstrings all of
them come out to between or they're all
actually around 20 percent of maximum
voluntary contraction of the hamstrings
and pretty crappy yeah it's it's not
good at all yeah actually I've been
there's a researcher named urban eb b en
he wrote a paper a few years ago just on
why the squad is not a good exercise for
developing the hamstrings so for those
interested in this topic that can be a
good read and while we're on the topic
of EMG research I know this is something
you've been vocal about maybe we can
touch on how we should use it and how we
should apply it and maybe you can just
briefly touch on its limitations I know
some people in the community are quick
to just disregard EMG research entirely
and then others are quick to jump on it
and say well look at this we have
greater activation here therefore X Y Z
so M G stands for electromyography and
basically when a muscle activates a an
electrical potential it's called a
voltage so an electrical potential spans
across the muscle fiber in order to tell
it to basically contract so we make use
of this by placing something called an
electrode which is kind of like a
voltmeter or it is a voltmeter it's just
a very very sensitive that picks up on
these electrical signals within the
muscle
and it tells the EMG unit which is
connected to a computer what the voltage
is at that point in time and then it'll
record the voltage across a certain time
span so something like 2,000 voltages
per second and it will record so you'll
have all those data points it will form
a graph and you can kind of see what
electrical potential exists within the
muscle across the course of a movement
so you're seeing like like you place the
little electrode at different points on
the person's skin like on the muscle
that you're trying to investigate and
then you'll see different patterns of
activation at different like at
different electrodes or like am I
correct in saying that yup exactly so
the electrode will only pick up what is
directly underneath the electrode so if
I have one on my deltoids or my shoulder
it won't pick up what's going on in my
tricep mm-hmm so how is it that you
you've used that in your research and
where how how broadly can it be applied
for that is to say what are its
limitations
in terms of application I just published
a study last month actually that looked
at the effects of load on good morning
EMG activity and kinematics so joint
angles and basically what I did I put a
mg on the medial and lateral hamstrings
and the lumbar and thoracic erector
spinae and I look to see how loads 50%
60 70 80 and 90 percent of one rep max
changed their EMG activity so that was
one application so it's kind of looking
to see how quote-unquote hard does the
muscle work in order to accomplish that
task there are other applications you
can see just if a muscle is on or off
you can see when a muscle turns on or
off you can see how much harder a muscle
is working than another muscle assuming
you normalize which is a whole other
process that we need to get into so like
if that
you want to control for when doing EMG
research would be like the amount of
weight that you're using on the exercise
and what like what would be examples of
things that that should be controlled
for when you're doing EMG research to
make sure that it's like a better
representation of what's actually going
on
yeah actually weight used or low used is
a huge one because there was a study
that looked at the squat quatre Rossano
and what they did was they looked at
different squat depths and its effects
on EMG activity what they did was they
didn't control for load so they used
this same load with a partial squat as
they did with a deep squat so obviously
if you use whatever eighty percent of
your one rep max of a deep squat with a
partial squat that's not going to be
that hard so your muscles aren't going
to need to work as hard to accomplish
that task so they saw these huge numbers
for what the gluteus maximus with a deep
squat but the partial squat wasn't as
much this subjects weren't being
challenged enough with eighty percent of
their deep squat max with a hassle yeah
yeah pretty much shot now don't quote me
on the 80 percent that's just an
arbitrary number sure yeah
but this is the study that you always
hear touted by people who are huge
advocates of ass to grass squats right
they'll say like the hams or the glutes
turn on by X percent more when you squat
below parallel but they forget to
realize that in this study load wasn't
equated across the different depths I
mean it wasn't there was no relative
loading excuse me yeah no relative
vodiane was yes and that's something
that a lot of studies that's so that's a
great point I've been a lot of studies
failed it utilized relative loading and
I think research is getting better as
far as that goes as realizing this as a
limitation okay so getting back to the
idea of hamstrings training one thing
that I heard early in my bodybuilding
career was that the hamstrings are
predominantly
a type 2 or a fast twitch muscle bite by
composition so they have more type ii
fibers than they do
type 1 fibers and so it would make more
sense to train them in lower rep ranges
since this is you know the best way to
recruit those fast twitch fibers do you
think that there's any truth to that or
is that Brobee well from what I've seen
there they have a fairly even blend of
fiber composition so type 1 and type 2
fibers and I'm not I know Dan Ogburn is
written on training first fiber type
composition and Chris Beardsley has an
awesome article that looks at the fiber
type composition of basically every
muscle but yeah from what I've seen they
haven't even type one and type two so I
wouldn't say training for one specific
fiber type would be beneficial but I
think it would be beneficial as like
Brad Schoenfeld always says training a
variety of rep ranges and loads so I
actually did look up look this up a
little bit and it seems to be you're
right it's actually a pretty even split
so I really don't know where that comes
from I think it's from the fact that I
don't know I think it comes from
observations and some sprinters yeah and
that they had they had like and don't
cite me on this this is speculative they
had greater type-2 fiber composition in
their hamstrings or something but across
populations I don't think it holds it
holds through and like you said it's
better to Train any given muscle across
a variety of rep ranges and intensity
ranges do you think that even even in
concept there's any value to training
specific to fiber tight unless fiber
type is specifically very dominant in a
muscle I don't really see a point in
doing it I can't think of any muscles
off the top of my head how do you know
if gastrics are predominantly type 2 I
don't necessarily
is type of wine if I recall correctly if
I could be real science though okay so
let's try to come up with a kind of like
a quick overarching summary of the
exercises that we've touched on if I
were to you know do a leg day I would I
would do my hip extension movement first
and then I would finish off with a
couple variations of leg curls in some
higher rep ranges do you think that that
makes sense and that would be a good
that would be a significantly better
hamstring workout than doing a bunch of
squats and you know for sure you know
maybe some deadlifts or something then
one thing to add on that is you can
always switch it up it doesn't have to
be that the hip extension based movement
is particularly heavy and low rep and
then the knee flexion movement is light
and high rub because you could switch it
up so you could do glute-ham raises and
that would probably be more low rep and
so that would be for knee flexion and
then for a hip extension you could do
something like 45 degree Hyper's and do
like sets of 20 or something like that
so it could really work both ways but I
do agree in that you should work of both
high and low intensities with different
rep ranges and you should definitely
include both movements at the knee and
at the hip yeah and what about the hip
thrusts
I know Bret is a huge fan of that
exercise and he's branded it but there's
actually a ton of EMG activity in the
hamstrings I don't want to talk about
data that's not published yet but so
it's looking good like the hip thrust is
looking good for hamstrings potentially
yeah but I wouldn't necessarily use it
as a hamstring developer because the
hamstrings don't go through that large
of a range of motion within it yeah
so I just use that more for glutes yeah
all right we'll talk about that later
once the research is out so is there
anything else you'd like to add in terms
of how best to go about training the
hamstrings or do you think we've pretty
much covered everything as far as I've
written quite a bit on injury prevention
I'm not I don't know how interested your
listeners are in that no I mean I've
heard that you know strengthening the
hamstrings is one of the best ways to go
about preserving me how easy okay yeah
so maybe you can talk about that a
little bit sure so in my good morning
paper actually related the good morning
a lot things like hamstring strains
within sprinting so there was one study
that looked at that maximum hamstring
length within a sprint and in some cases
strains occur at the basically when the
hamstrings are stretched the most so
when there's the most strain in the
hamstring and what I found was that the
good morning at all loads utilized and
in every one of the hamstring muscles is
stretched to a greater degree than
during a sprint so that may prove that
the good morning is a good exercise to
prevent hamstring strains within
sprinting and presumably other sports as
well and that may also come in or that
may also be the case for similar
eccentric hip extension based hamstring
exercises like the stiff leg deadlift or
RDL and as we know from other research
the Nordic Ham girl has been shown to be
an effective exercise at preventing
hamstring strains so in short I believe
strengthening the hamstrings not only
for hypertrophy but eccentric
accentuated movements for preventing
hamstring strains and potentially other
injuries like you said there are some
studies on using the hamstrings to
prevent ACL injuries because it prevents
enter tibial translation
because of an imbalance between the
quads and the hamstrings not miss teevan
yeah that's like a commonly purported
mechanism so basically so tibia or the
lower leg tries to move forward and if
the hamstrings aren't pulling it back
then the ACL is forced to work try to
force to unfortunately
okay that's when it fails and so why is
it that like would you know why it is
exactly that's the gluten ham or sorry
the good morning prevents injuries is it
because it just like teaches like I
don't know the technical terms of this
or like that because it teaches the
hamstrings to be able to adopt a more
stretched position so like they have
that increased range of motion or is it
because the hamstrings strengthen or is
it a combination of so well I can't yet
say specifically that the good one does
prevent injuries as much as I wish I
could but if I extrapolate other
research basically if you do a lot of
eccentric long length stuff it increases
the amount of sarcomeres in series so
your muscles get longer and also there's
a shift in your strength curve according
to the exercises you do so because the
good morning puts more torque and thus
requires more force from the hamstrings
in a maximal hip flexion which is
presumably when the hamstring strain
then they may be stronger at that point
therefore it may not they may better be
able to sustain the strain during
sprinting or some other sport yeah so it
basically shifts or it changes the
length tension relationship so it can
contract more forcefully in a more
lengthened position than it would if you
hadn't have done it's an exercise like
the good morning right yep preferably so
yeah cool that that's actually quite
interesting Andrew and Congrats on
getting that published by the way that's
pretty cool thank you so if I ever have
any questions about good mornings you're
the guy yeah I know more than I'd like
good morning that's cool all right man
well I guess I would say that I'm good
to wrap it up if you are I think that we
I actually have oh I don't know like
it's like so far gone I wanted to ask it
like when we are talking about it
earlier but maybe Jeff can edit it in
yeah beer be more work for you but um no
my question was going to be oh yeah so
when we're talking about the differences
between like the glute-ham raised and
the hyper extension where you're never
going your body like your trunk is never
going to be perpendicular to the floor
and those movement so they're like
constant tension movements is that am i
right in saying that or is it glue
hammer you smell know the green hatred
is it
yeah the blue temari's isn't but the
45-degree hyper is okay so so then the
45-degree hyperextension your child
never is perpendicular to the ground so
just to explain that to our listeners
when you're standing straight up and the
weight is on your back or when you're
holding the weight down it's been a dead
lift like when you're at the top of the
deadlift the weight is the force of
gravity is straight down through your
body or straight down your arms to the
ground
so you're passively well can I say I
mean your hamstrings and your like your
legs are possibly like holding that
weight up so there's no stretch in the
hamstring without that point there's no
tension in the hamstrings so that's why
there's a difference between that
exercise in the back hybrid or the 45
degree hyperextension
so is the only reason why the the 40
fibery hyperextension better is because
it keeps that tension well I think there
are a couple of ups and downs to
consider with both because the glute/ham
raise the axis of rotation is that the
knee it's a totally different exercise
right right okay yeah so that's knee
flexion and also there's a lot more
torque because you also have to move
your thigh plus your trunk and not just
your trunk which is the case in the 45
degree hyper
mm-hmm okay but with a 45-degree hyper
yes you're there's a constant torque
requirement from your hips at all times
but in the glute/ham race there's a
torque requirement from your knee but it
decreases as you go through the
concentric yeah that that makes sense it
would it would kind of be like you know
if you're doing a lateral raise then
when you bring the dumbbell down to the
ten of your sides there's no more
tension on your delt so in the top of
the glute-ham raised there's no more
tension on your hamstrings because
you're just sitting there kind of things
yeah they're just kneeling there I guess
all right Andrew well that has been a
very informative discussion for us I
hope that our listeners have learned
something from the conversation thank
you very much Andrew for coming on the
podcast with us no problem thanks for
having me I was hope I was able to
provide like some good information I
know I didn't know everything but help
definitely I think I think of anything
it's the opposite that's the problem
it's the fact that your knowledge level
is very high and I hope that it wasn't
you know not to insult the intelligence
of our audience I don't need to do that
at all but sometimes it's difficult to
relate relate complex topics in a
digestible way I'm not sure that we
succeeded but I hope we did I tried
helping all right Andrew I'm gonna wrap
it up here thank you again for coming on
the show and we'll hope to have you back
on again in the future