across many sports the advice is given
to athletes to not spend too much time
in the gym or lifting weights as this
can make them inflexible and muscle
bound is that true does lifting really
make you
inflexible welcome back Dr mil water
today with you PhD in sports science
gotten a bit more jacked and yet still
just as flexible but from a scientific
perspective is there any true to the
idea that lifting will make you less
flexible the only flexibility I care
about is how much I can Flex you the
common advice given to athletes in their
Sports is to do some static stretching
to make sure that they stay flexible and
indeed static stretching or passive
stretching does seem to make you more
flexible a metanalysis By Conrad and
colleagues from 2023 found that static
stretching did increase flexibility by a
moderate effect size and in in fact it
appeared that static stretching might be
slightly more beneficial for improving
flexibility compared to dynamic or
ballistic stretching as an additional
finding it seems that women tend to
benefit more from static stretching
training in terms of flexibility than
men now he you SE that's all well and
cool Dr Milo wolf I didn't need a PhD
for you to tell me that static
stretching makes you more flexible
everyone already knew that however where
my PhD does actually help me is that I'm
aware of a couple of papers that
compared stretching to lifting weights
and how that impacts flexibility these
two recent metanalyses looked at around
a dozen studies and found similar
improvements in flexibility when lifting
weights versus when doing static
stretching suggesting that lifting is
about as good at increasing your
flexibility as stretching now if you
look closely at the results you may find
that stretching does increase
flexibility to a slightly greater extent
than lifting weights but it's a minor
effect at best and then the science part
of the video is done let me tell you
about the real evidence and that is my n
equals 1 anecdote while I've been
lifting I've gotten more flexible over
time my squat depth has improved my
deadlift depth my my ability to protract
my shoulder blades all of the movement
patterns that I've trained in the gym
have gotten more flexible I've become
able to go through a greater range of
motion at the joints that I train
through the ranges of motion that I
train through when I first started
Lifting for example I struggled to squat
to depth now I can squat to
substantially below powerlifting depth
and I can get deeper than the vast
majority of beginners who were first
setting foot in the gym but that wasn't
always the case and lifting weights has
certainly made me more flexible you want
proof H proof you nerd and with that
being said my training has consisted of
mostly full range of motion training and
more recently length and partials always
bringing it back to length and partials
now that is in the context of me lifting
with a pretty full range of motion when
you're lifting Within These studies
compared to doing stretching it seems to
IND similar improvements and flexibility
that was also my experience that I've
gotten more flexible as I've kept
lifting weights so if anything the
opposite of what a lot of coaches are
saying but what about if you don't lift
with a full range of motion if you don't
lift with a full range of motion do you
actually become less flexible over time
well one sport where you don't typically
go through a full range of motion and
that involves lifting weights is
powerlifting and powerlifting when it
comes to the squat for example or even
more so the bench your range of motion
isn't full you could go deeper but
typically you're incentivized to
minimize range of motion within the
legal specifications of the sport to
lift more weight and specifically in the
bench press many power lifs use a lot of
arching in order to lift more weight
this isn't a value judgment they they
should be doing this if the r is to lift
as much weight as possible but it is the
case with one exception being the PF
recently inating a rule on how deep
lifters have to take the bench press but
by and large powerlifting remains a
partial range of motion sport in a way
and well we have a few studies in
powerlifting athletes looking at their
flexibility compared to people who don't
lift weights and broadly speaking the
findings are that powerlifters have
similar if not greater flexibility in
their lower body so for example squat
depth flexibility in their hamstrings
Etc and slightly worse flexibility when
it comes to their operable body and to
me this makes sense powerlifters Focus
only on one upper body exercise and that
is the bench press that is a very
limited amount of exercise selection to
be training with and secondly as I
mentioned earlier the bench press is
probably the one exercise where they go
through the least range of motion
compared to what a 4 range of motion is
at the very least when these studies
were performed comparing flexibility of
power lifters to non- lifters the bench
press rule wasn't in place yet so most
power lifters would be benching with a
partial range of motion so my suspicion
is that the lack of shoulder range of
motion and power lifs compared to non-
lifters has to do with a narrow excise
selection and a pretty sub maximal range
of motion being gone through in the
bench press and importantly to kind of
support that idea of lifting not
inherently being bad for shoulder range
of motion there are a couple of studies
by cber and colleagues and Morton and
colleagues that reported improvements in
shoulder range of motion from going
through a lifting program but in that
case they were using more complete
programs they were not not just benching
and often bench was a relatively small
part of the program so it may be that
using a sufficient amount of different
exercises in your program and going
through a relatively long if not four
range of motion is important when it
comes to improving your flexibility but
on principle lifting weights does likely
make you more flexible I think that if
you do bodybuilding style training with
a variety of exercises and the full
range of motion or even lengthen
partials there's a very good chance that
you'll become more flexible at least
when you first start lifting I'm not
sure you'd see substantial improvements
in flexibility once you've been Lifting
for a few years and you keep lifting but
you will likely get more flexible from
lifting in general so mythbusted by and
large lifting weights does not make you
any less flexible if you're an athlete
and you're currently lifting don't be
afraid to lift because it might make you
less flexible it won't and in general
there are plenty of good reasons to lift
if you're also an athlete and when it
comes to people who are lifters I don't
think most of you need to worry about
stretching in addition to your lifting
if want me to make a full video on
stretching and lifting whether you need
to be increasing your flexibility for
example if you're a lifter or if you're
just training for muscle building leave
a comment down below and I'll get to it
in the meantime if you enjoyed this
video please leave a like comment
subscribe letting me know what else you
want to see me cover if you like me to
coach you check out the link above and I
could be your coach in the meantime have
a great day and I will see you in that
next one peace