here is what I think is the most
effective leg day I've ever designed
using scientific
principles welcome back Dr Milo wolf
here today PhD in sports science with
wolf coaching breaking down the most
effective leg day I can possibly design
before we go into the actual leg day let
me break down what makes a session
effective for muscle growth there's a
few important things to know him the
first is that your session needs to fit
within your program the best leg day
doesn't nothing if your program as a
whole does not make sense even if I
designed the best leg day possible for
you right now but you only did it once a
year as part of your program it wouldn't
be that great conversely if I gave you a
super difficult leg day but your program
had you doing it six times a week it
wouldn't be that good and so in line
with that this session is designed to be
a pretty hard leg day performed two to
three times a week with some variations
and exercise selection and the focus
placed on different muscle groups in
this case this leg day will have a
slight qual emphasis but hit your
overall lower body very effectively if
you didn't want to run this as part of
an upper lower or push pull leg sort of
split but instead wanted to turn this
into a full body session split up this
session across two days instead for
instance on one day you could do the
lower body compounds alongside the upper
body isolation work and on the other day
you could do the upper body compounds
with a lower body isolation work in
general this will be a hard session and
leg days are going to be hard and that's
why I generally prefer a full body
approach noway by splitting up that leg
walk across the week a little bit more
it just makes each session more
manageable this leg day is closer to
something you do twice a week versus
even 3 times a week so if you train your
legs three times a week feel free to
remove some of the exercises and split
them across 3 days instead one homwork
of good session design is limiting
redundancy so essentially making sure
that you're not just doing the same
thing over and over again with each
additional set that is very similar to
the previous one in terms of the
movement pattern being trained in terms
of the muscle group being trained we are
getting diminishing returns for instance
an older meta analysis by creger and
colleagues on volume found this likewise
because we want to train most muscle
groups at least twice a week just
training your quads on one leg day and
just training your hamstrings on the
second leg day isn't making the most of
your training time for instance if you
did squats the hack squats and then a
lunging pattern in the same session that
is going to be a great stimulus for your
quadriceps for the most part your glutes
and your adductors but your hamstrings
are getting essentially no love so a
good leg day is going to have a good
distribution of different body parts
next up we want to be using maximally
effective rep ranges what does that mean
well the hypertrophy rep range is really
as wide as five reps per set to 50 reps
per set however for practicality reasons
and in order to ensure that we're pretty
accurate at gauging how close to failure
we are we'll want to use mostly sets of
5 to 15 a scoping review performed by
our own group found that people are
generally pretty accurate gauging how
close to failure they are until the rep
range gets to be above 12 12 reps or so
however some data also suggests that
using a variety of rep ranges within
your program leads to a bit more
hypertrophy potentially than just using
one so a good session will incorporate
some variety of rep ranges and at the
very least across the training week
we'll try and train most muscle groups
through a variety of rep ranges mostly
in the 5 to 15 rep range but all the way
to 30 reps pretty often additionally in
this specific example Super High Reps on
compound lower body training are
relatively silly you've probably heard
of doing sets of 20 reps on squats I
would not recommend that in most
situations and most examples that I've
seen of people doing this they end that
set of squats not because their quads or
glutes or adors were particularly close
to failure but just because they really
wanted to get out from underneath that
board it's a miserable experience and I
think you'd be better served going a
little bit heavier on the compound
movements and a little bit lighter on
the isolation movements next we want to
make sure we're using a maximumly
effective per session training volume
that is going to be somewhere between
about 5 to 15 sets per session per
muscle based on the most recent met
analyses by basalin colleagues and Sh
Felding colleagues assuming you train
most muscle groups twice to three times
a week at the top end of that range of
15 sets per session per muscle if you
train the muscle twice or three times a
week with that volume that is going to
result in a volume of about 30 to 45
sets based on some more recent research
a studies comparing volumes and excess
of 20 sets per week per muscle to lower
volumes of below 20 sets per week per
muscle four studies find a benefit in
favor of these higher volumes and four
find no difference if you want a whole
podcast episode on that check out the
Strong by size podcast we did but to
make a long story short when you're
specializing or when you really want to
maximize growth in an area those High
volumes might be beneficial and so a
range of 5 to 15 sets per session per
muscle is going to get you somewhere
between a solid hypertrophy stimulus to
a maximum hypertrophy stimulus across
the week next for ultimate leg day we
want to make sure we're taking each set
to a maximally effective relative intens
or proximity to failure generally we'll
take the earlier sets within that
session a little bit further from
failure and the later sets a little bit
closer to failure on average the closer
you take a set to failure the more
hypertrophy it produces but if we go to
failure on every set within that session
the performance at the store of the
session might be decent but the fatigue
from doing so will catch up with us and
limit performance on subsequent sets and
exercises and so to maintain a good
level of performance across a session
which might be important for overal
hypertrophy we're going to be varying
the proximity to failure a little bit
across sets and exercises next we'll
want to pick maximally effective
exercises for each muscle group or
training I have a whole series on that
very topic and I'll have some videos in
the description for the quad recepts
hamstrings glutes calves as well but to
give you a quick overview of what good
exercises have been Comon for
hypertrophy here's what they do first
they target one of the primary functions
of the target muscle that Target muscle
should also be the limiting factor with
a the exercise the exercise should be
stretch friendly meaning that you can
get a good stretch in the Target muscle
group there's plenty of t tension in
that position and ideally the exercise
is lengthen partial friendly where
possible we want to avoid exercises that
load the spine or other muscle groups
unnecessarily and finally ideally
especially for people who are low on
time it should be a time efficient
exercise that doesn't require a ton of
setup we'll also want to make sure that
we're picking the maximally effective
rest times between sets ultimately with
rest times you do have some wiggle room
if you rest for less Long between sets
the potency of each set becomes reduced
and you'll need to do more sets to make
up for it I have a whole video on the
topic here that you can check out but
generally for ler body training we'll
definitely want to rest for at least 1
minute between sets and often at least 2
minutes between sets in my own
experience with hard sets of squats or
RDL or what have you my own rest times
often need to be as high as 3 to 6
minutes between sets ultimately I think
that a good way to autoregulate
Restoration between sets is going to be
paying attention to your performance if
you're able to get a similar performance
from set to set the rest between those
two sets was likely sufficient next
exercise order isn't really important
for hypertrophy in fact a recent met
analysis by Nunes and colleagues found
exactly this but generally on a
principled level I personally order
exercises in the following way just to
be safe I'll start with exercises that
are more important to us for example if
you're specializing on your quad receps
maybe start with those exercises first
we may also want to order exercises in a
way that maximizes performance across
the session if for example you started
with leg extensions before doing your
squats you might find that your squats
take a relatively big hit in terms of
performance however if you switch the
order you may find that squatting before
doing leg extensions doesn't impact leg
extension performance at all or all that
much and generally it may or may not be
a good idea to order exercises in a
fashion that allows you to maximize
performance finally as a good rule of
thumb I think it's worth putting
compound exercises first within the
session all else being equal and the
final component of the ultimate leg day
is to use a good technique on all
exercises there are three to four
components of good technique as
identified in our recent review paper on
exactly this topic for muscle building
first we want to emphasize long muscle
lengths whatever range of motion you use
make sure you get a full stretch this
could be a full range of motion or this
could be length in partials second we'll
want to avoid using momentum from other
joints to lift the weight we'll want to
use a technique that essentially
maximizes the odds of the target muscle
being the limiting factor third we'll
want to have some Ecentric control with
the Reps taking between 2 and 8 seconds
on average there may be a slight benefit
to be had by controlling the Ecentric a
little bit more and being a bit more
explosive on the concentric or lifting
phase and finally putting aside these
three factors if there's a certain
technique that you prefer using by all
means go ahead and if a certain
technique causes you pain but another
one doesn't and they both are reasonably
similar in terms of how they achieve
range of motion Tempo and momentum go
for the technique that's less painful
and without further Ado based on all
these criteria that I think make up a
really solid hypertrophy session for the
legs here's the best leg dat I could
possibly design keep in mind this is for
a slightly quad biased leg tape first
we'll start with a squad pattern to hit
the quads adductors and glutes now none
of these get a complete stimulus for the
quads the Reus femoris likely doesn't
get train that well for the glutes the
glute medius and Minimus don't get
trained very well and for the adors the
Ador brevis and longus that don't
contribute to hip extension also don't
get trained very well but a squat
pattern provides a really s stimulus for
the knee extensor muscles by and large
and the hip extensor muscles by and
large we'll be performing either the
high bar squat with a full range of
motion or the Smith machine squat either
with full range of motion or lengthen
partials de Choice we'll be performing
two to four sets of 5 to eight
repetitions taking the first set to
about three repetitions in reserve and
the last set to about one repetition in
reserve between sets will take between 2
and 6 minutes of rest however much rest
you find you need to roughly maintain
Performance Set to set both of these
exercises load the stretch position very
well and specifically Smith machine
lengthened partials are brutal using the
smith machine makes it easier and safer
to push close to failure personally I
wouldn't do length and partials on a
regular Squad if if you're going to be
doing the high bar squat just use a full
range of motion pausing at the very
bottom importantly most of the data we
have on the stretch position being
really important for hypertrophy and
lengthened partials potentially being
beneficial is actually in the lower body
and specifically in the quadriceps so
don't skimp on the lengthen position in
my opinion in my experience low rep
ranges are best for squatting variation
if you go too high in reps like those TN
rep squats I mentioned earlier you will
likely find yourself ending the set not
because of the quads but because you're
out of breath once we've done the squats
we'll be moving on to a hip hinch
pattern to Target the hamstrings the
glutes and the adors once again certain
smaller muscles Within These categories
won't be hit perfectly but we'll be
coming back to those later I personally
recommend the dumbbell Romanian deadlift
or even the Smith machine good morning
for this exercise category we'll be
performing 2 to four sets of 8 to 12
repetitions taking the first set to
about three repetitions in reserve and
the last set one repetition from failure
I recommend a rest time of about 2 to 5
minutes between sets but once again let
your performance dictate your rest time
on this exercise I recommend doing
partials whether you're doing rdls or
good mornings you may actually want to
do length and partials to increase
hypertrophy even further and we have a
study that hasn't been published yet by
my colleagues the same group of
researchers that also did the seed leg C
versus Ling light C study and the
overhead extension versus push down
study that compared a lengthened partial
on the multi hiip machine to a full
range of motion a multi- hiip machine
with a knee relatively extended is a
similar movement pattern to an RDL or
any sort of hip hinge for the hamstrings
really they found about twice as much
hypertrophy in the hip extensors
collectively when doing length and
partials as compared to a 4 in motion
and so I think doing length and partials
on your hip Hing here is a good option
this exercise will Target the hamstrings
minus the short head of the hamstrings
that only does knee flexion the glutes
minus the gluteus medius and Minimus
that do not contribute to hip extension
and the adaps minus the brevis and
longest that don't contribute hip
extension either next up to get some
more stimulus for the quads and
hamstrings as a whole but specifically
to Target the rectus for morus and the
short head of the hamstrings will be
super setting two exercises I recommend
doing the seated light curl and the
reverse Nordic curl as a super set
you'll be doing two to three sets of 12
to 20 reps on the seated leg curl and
two to three sets of as many reps as
possible on the reverse n curl on both
of these exercises take the first set to
about one rep from failure and the last
set all the way to failure because
you'll be super setting I recommend
taking about 1 to 3 minutes of rest
between sets for the same exercise while
you're doing the reverse curl for
example your hamstrings are essentially
resting and so this super set can allow
you to save time equally if you don't
have time constraints feel free to do
them separately alternatively if you
don't have these machines available or
you don't like the reverse Nordic curl
feel free to switch out the seated light
curl for the lineing light Cur and the
reverse n c for either a squat or
even the leg extension the leg extension
probably won't be as good but that's my
take the reason I recommended the C of
leg curl and the reverse n curl
specifically is as follows one we have a
study by myi and colleagues directly
comparing the seed light curl to the
Ling light curl generally finding better
hypertrophy of the hamstrings in the
seated light curl and two we have a
study that's as of yet unpublished that
I'm involved in looking at the effects
of hip flexion angle during the leg
extension on hypertrophy of the rectus
femoris and Bas lateralis while we found
similar hypertrophy of the vast
lateralis no matter the hip flexion
angle we found substantially greater
hypertrophy of the rectus femoris
overall when your hips were more
extended as would be the case during a
reverse Nordic curl compared to a light
extension and so both of these exercises
the seated leg curl and the reverse ntic
curl take great advantage of the stretch
position to potentially cause more
muscle growth and again if you are
literally made of time you can not
superet these but for me I'll be super
setting them and getting straight back
to the studio # ret the remainder of the
exercises within this session are
relatively optional depending on your
goals how often you train your legs and
so forth but here's the full list of
exercises the next couple exercises I
would do in a good leg day that I
perform twice a week would be a super
set of the hip abduction and hip
adduction machine these two exercises
round out the stimulus that your
adductors and glutes get the aductor
brevis and longus and the gluteus medius
and Minimus don't get trained well
during hip extension exercises performed
earlier perform two to three sets of 12
to 20 reps on both of these machines
take the first set on these exercises to
one rep in reserve and the last set to
failure you likely won't need to rest
for much longer than about 45 seconds to
90 seconds between two sets for the same
exercise listen if you do choose to do
this just keep in mind they're
positioned right next to each other for
a reason they are literally made to suet
big gym wants you to suet these two
exercises don't disappoint me in all
likelihood by this point in the session
you'll be sufficiently warmed up that
you can just do one warm-up set and get
ready to go because your adoctor Magnus
and your gluteus maximus are both also
involved in these functions performed
during these exercises but there're also
hip extensors leaning forward during
these exercises increases the stretch on
these two muscle groups even more
potentially causing more hypertrophy try
it out if you're looking to maximize
overall lower body size I do think you
should be training your hip abductors
and adductors at least once a week so
that's why I'm including your hip and
for what it's worth my legs have never
looked bigger than now when I've been
training my hip adductors at least once
a week it just contributes to overall
teardrop shape of the leg and the final
optional super set is a super set of a
calf exercise with an ab exercise
neither of these muscle groups got a lot
of love during the session but if if you
want to maximize calf and ab growth do
them perform two to four sets of 5 to 10
repetitions and as many reps as possible
on the like press calf ra and ab wheel
rule out respectively because these are
two isolation exercises with no
overlapping musculature you likely won't
need more than about 45 to 90 seconds of
rest between two sets for the same
exercise if you don't have an AB wheel
like myself just grab a pre-loaded
barbell and you're ready to go if you're
strong consider standing up and that
will make the exercise a lot more
challenging if you're weak like me
consider kneeling down instead I
recommend the leg press calf phas is an
exercise for time efficiency it's Plug
and Play you select the load you lift
the load congratulations you've trained
your Cals additionally I recommend a
calfas variation with your knees
extended as opposed to flexed because we
do have a couple studies comparing the
seated calf to standing calf generally
finding better hypertrophy of a gas TR
in the standing cafr and similarish
Solus hypertrophy that's a study by
kosida and colleagues and a study out of
our own lab that we haven't published
yet likewise you may want to consider
length and partial as a recent study by
casano and colleagues comparing
lengthened partials to shortened
partials to a full range of motion found
the best hyper tropy following lengthen
partials lengthen partials being
approximately half reps why the ab wheel
roll out as an ab exercise well while it
doesn't fully stretch out the ABS in
terms of positioning it does provide the
most tension on the ABS when your abs
are relatively lengthened at the bottom
of that rep or you could just do cable
crunches or machine crunches now let's
go through a checklist to see whether or
not our session is optimally effective
first by training a variety movement
patterns we are limiting redundancy
second we are training through a variety
of rep Rangers and generally between 5
and 50 with a bias towards the 5 to 15
rep range third most of the muscle
groups minus some of the smaller ones
that may not be quite as important for
oral Aesthetics are being trained with
between 5 and 15 sets in the session
fourth we're generally taking each set
relatively close to failure going a
little bit further from failure as we're
starting the session and on more
compound movements and generally going
closer to failure as we get towards the
latter sets of an exercise and lad sets
of the session we've picked maximally
effective exercises for each muscle
group focusing on the few components
that make an exercise effective we also
have picked maximumly effective rest
Times by resting for at least 60 seconds
between sets closer to 2 minutes for
most things and generally letting
performance dictate how long we rest
while exercise order isn't very
important we generally place the more
compound exercises with the higher
overall yields on physique earlier in
the session and finally as you'll have
seen throughout this video we have used
good technique making sure to focus on
the stretch position through the tempo
having a sufficiently slow Ecentric
generally a rep duration of between 2
and 8 seconds with an explosive
concentric and making sure that the
target muscle group is the limiting
factor by minimizing Body English and
that is the video broke down a whole leg
day that I think is honestly the most
effective leg day I've ever designed if
you do a similar leg day to this twice a
week with some slight variations from
dayto day maybe placing more of a
hamstring emphasis on that second day
maybe removing some of the hip abduction
and adduction exercise
because you've already trained those
once in the week you've got yourself a
super effective leg routine that you can
repeat week upon week this session gave
you a complete stimulus for literally
all of the musculature in the lower body
besides maybe the tibial anterior if you
enjoyed this leg day please like comment
subscribe let me know what other muscle
groups you want to see me break down the
best session for I know like half of you
aren't subscribed if you enjoyed the
video please do consider subscribing hit
the Bell as well so that you get
notified when I release a new video if
you liked me to coach you and design
your program with many of these super
effective sessions so that you can grow
a bunch of muscle consider checking out
the link above and I could become your
coach in the meantime have a fantastic
day and I'll see you guys my subscribers
in that next one peace