[Music]
hey guys dr. Michelle here for
Renaissance predation rp+ & RP
University the next lecture in our
lecture series for the training
principle fundamentals is the principle
of variation so let's get into what we
have to cover today first we're going to
talk about the concept of training
staleness which is the primary need for
variation once we talk about what
training stainless means and why it
arises and how we can give a simple
definition and then a technical
definition of the principle of variation
we have a sub principle here so remember
the sub principles not all of the
training principles have sub principles
within them but some principles are
really important because they're kind of
too much under the grant architecture of
one principle to really sort of deserve
their own right there to simply
derivative and feed in too much into one
big principle to have their own mention
as an independent prey training
principle but they're important enough
with their own important enough
implications that they have to be kind
of sequestered aside and talked about
separately so we call them sub
principles we have a sub principle of
directed variation otherwise known as
strategic variation we'll talk about
what that means and understand what the
difference between regular variation
strategic variation is we're going to
talk about how to apply these things or
sort of examples our application and
then what the implications are for
programming how do we take the principal
variation and make sure we're using
appropriately in program design so
training staleness is it when you're
training smells kind of funny and you're
like I don't know if I should really eat
this sort of clothes so over long
periods of time and usually sort of we
take most sport abilities the average of
that period is months it's not days
usually it's not years but usually on
the order of months
over those long periods if we train in
pretty similar ways day-in day-out week
and week out what is called adaptive
resistance tend to arise in many systems
that if you do something the same way
for a long time because there is a lack
of novelty in a sense novelty a
different direction of a stimulus a
different kind of stimulus is a part of
what makes you progress and when there
is no novelty for a very long time
systems tend to develop adaptive
resistance which expresses itself as it
takes more and more work volume to get
the same level of adaptations because
the machinery involved every time it
gets a stimulus it ends up creating an
adaptation but if it's the same stimulus
over and over the machinery tends to get
a bit resistant it gets lazy so to speak
and doesn't incur the same amount of
adaptations over this is what training
stainless really fundamentally is about
it's that we keep training just as hard
as ever and we still provide overload
but because the training is so
monotonous after a while after a while
this adaptive resistance builds up to
levels where it really does interfere
considerably with the rate of gains that
the system is making so at the end of
this process kind of when adaptive
resistance has developed considerably
training no longer really stimulates as
much adaptation as it used to and where
the starts becoming concern I mean this
happens in all training just training
for a long time even if you vary things
up all the time eventually you don't get
better as fast it's part of the
maturation process of training age but
this doesn't happen on the order of
years it actually happens on the order
of months and if you do really really
similar stuff at some point you just
don't get a ton of adaptation out of it
and your gains can really really really
slow down to the point where maybe going
another path would make gains faster
that is not the only reason that we want
to change things up potentially and it's
not the only part of stainless stainless
because of the fact that we're doing
same things in various there's in long
ways the chances of wear-and-tear
injuries go up what do we mean by that
is it's quite a simple concept to
understand so if you let's say do squats
one week let's take a very extreme
example and then your next week you do
lots of like process the week after that
you do lots of lunges the week after
that you do lots of leg extensions and
you cycle all those in relatively
randomly week to week to week are you
violating specificity yes
directed annotation sub principle
specificity yes this need to be tough to
present an overload totally not a great
way to train we'll get into that later
over application of variation but just
to use that illustration the exact
directions the vectors of forces on the
quadricep tendon for example or the
different parts of the knee they're
relatively different workout to workout
if the knee doesn't experience forces
from the same directions during leg
press as it does during squat as a dust
during lunge especially as a dust during
leg extension and because these vectors
of force come from different angles and
they're of different magnitudes kind of
every time then parts of the knee and
tendon get beat up in one week but then
other parts get beat up in the other
week and well those other parts are
getting beat up really stressed and
possibly strained and pulled apart a
little bit when some parts are being
beat up other parts are not and those
parts heal so that if your variation is
very high the chances of wear and tear
is relatively low because you cycle
through the joint and muscle and tendons
areas of force application often enough
that you don't really ever get a chance
to accumulate a whole lot of specific
local damage and disruption on the other
hand if you do high bar squats four
times a week the exact same stance all
the time all the time weeks and weeks
and months and months if you get so much
as a little bit of a twinge at week just
a micro tear in the tendon
or some of the ligamentous structures
cartilaginous structures of the need the
exact stimulus that did that is coming
back with overload harder next time
and still next time and still next time
that exact same thing to use a really
McCobb example it's kind of like cutting
your finger by accident but then
whatever you cut your finger with
whatever process you were doing let's
say filing your nails you cut your
finger
the next day you filing your nails again
and you cut that same cut that's not
good I mean if you cut your finger
somewhere else other hand okay this one
will heal in this cut you know will open
up and it's kind of like something's
always cut but it's not a big deal
because it's healing where it's not cut
but if you recall the same cut we're
looking at really really nasty results
you cut it enough and it's a serious
disruption and with a tendon if you
continue to do the same things over and
over even with a relatively good fatigue
management those wear and tear
situations can expand into injuries so
all of a sudden you're you're you know
quad tendon hurts and you've got to back
off and you got to do something
different and all of a sudden not only
that but you have to compromise overload
because even if you start doing leg
presses or lunges your tendon so beat up
now that pretty much every single use of
it hurts so you got a sacrifice overload
at this point so chances of wear and
tear injuries blowing up is a big deal
for why staleness develops and for why
variation may be a good idea so at this
point if we've reached this point or
hopefully a little bit for it the
novelty of an independent stimulus
may actually be beneficial to refresh
adaptations of continuing progression
not just overload right so if you
continue to have our squats all the time
can you still overload yes can you put
more weight yes is overload in a sense
the biggest form of novelty totally but
at some point even just linearly
overloading isn't enough staleness
develops to such an extent that adaptive
resistance is very high
and risk of chronic wear and tear injury
is also very high at that point a change
in the direction of a stimulus may both
cause more rapid adaptations and it may
allow the you know different areas and
structures to get hit now we'll say more
about this in a little bit or so so
different structures to get hit which
means that they're not going to some
wear and tear up in one spot and then
there's a lower risk of wear and tear
we're gonna get to more detail a little
bit in a while but if we change the
focus for a while those areas that are
no longer being hit in a same way
because they're not being overloaded
either as much or at all they get unused
to being overloaded again and they're
adaptive resistance recedes
so the months we spent squatting now
that we're mostly leg pressing for
months let's say when we come back to
squatting months later the squats are no
longer have an element of stainless to
them they're stainless has receded
because you haven't really overloaded
them squats and so long or maybe as much
so if you go to squats if you go to leg
presses after squatting for months and
then you come back after months
squatting is fresh and new again
as you squat for months leg press
refreshes you may be able to go back and
forth between them getting the benefits
of continual progression without ever
getting into really big trouble with
adaptive resistance or with injury rates
so that's training stainless from that
we get the simple definition of
variation and it is here's the following
in order to combat the negatives of
stale training switching up the ways in
which you train on occasion can make you
progress more steadily in the long term
pretty straightforward definition
technical definition a little bit
fancier it is training variables must
periodically change to mitigate
stainless and continue to promote the
best possible rates of a long term gain
it is from the concept of stainless of
variations born right number one when we
say to mitigate training stainless we
have to alter training variables what do
we need well we mean any or any
combination of a lot of variables about
training probably all variables
training including volumes alterations
so at some point you're used to training
with super high volumes it might be good
to go to low volumes or vice versa
intense and alterations you're used to
doing sets of ten and going to sets of
five will provide a level of novelty
beyond overload that may improve the
systems characteristics frequency you
may be used to training four times a
week maybe going to two times or vice
versa is a novel stimulus that can
promote more gains technical style and
exercise selection like we use the you
know example with leg presses and squats
before you do a lot of leg presses just
a few squats in several mezzo cycles and
then a couple of message cycles later
you do mostly squats and just a few leg
presses or not at all that is a good
idea as far as variation it could work
technical focus so for example if you're
a wrestler you can work on takedowns for
a couple of weeks and then for a couple
of weeks you can work on takedown
defense and switch back and forth
different parts of your technical game
to exaggerate or regress and you can
also work on strategic or tactical focus
so for example to use another combat
sport example if you're a grappler you
can spend a couple of weeks advancing
your attacks and working on tactics on
how to advance yourself and then
occasionally
you can have several week periods after
some staleness develops an attack
advancement of defensive practice of
grappling so when you're up and against
an opponent and you're maybe down on
energy or you're transitioning from one
attack to another how do you regress
back and stay safe to make sure that
you're on a good defensive position we
can't say that that's a different move
it's a whole spectrum of moves but it's
different tactics so you work offense
defense offense defense and none of
those ever truly become super stale and
you always get really good results from
them or at least as good as you could
have with diminishing returns put into
place now here's the sub principle so
the sub prints of us variation in
general the sub principle is directed
variation also called strategic
variation essentially there are two
types of variation regular variation and
directed variation
well always we call a regular variation
you could just say variation for its own
sake variation for its own sake is when
you use a different stimulus to get more
gains because of novelty and refresh the
old stimulus right so like that example
switching from squats to leg presses we
start using more leg presses when squats
get stale so that we still have good
progress in quad hypertrophy but we're
also using leg presses to take some time
away from squatting super hard from
pushing our squats so that stainless can
drop in the squats Dept and refresh and
then we come back to squats we'll have a
novel quarter a sort of semi novel
stimulus to exploit for several
mesocycles while leg presses take a you
know a refresher and if we throw in hack
squats into the mix well geez we have a
3 a 3 way refreshing system that
basically we can continue to train for
years like that without ever really
experiencing true staleness
that's variation for its own sake notice
there is no real reason that we picked
squats leg presses and hack squats the
only reason we picked them is is they're
good at hypertrophy the quads which is
generally what we want directed
variation is when you use a different
stimulus because it trains a system that
you particularly want to improve so for
example if you need to get bigger legs
and to refresh squats for further bigger
legs but you also need bigger gluts like
that's what's missing from your physique
at the time is bigger gluts instead of
choosing hack squats or leg presses you
may strategically or directionally
choose lunges as a variant and then you
do a lot of lunches and a couple of
mesocycles and less squatting lunges
we'll both bring up your glutes and give
you all the refresher benefits but
notice we chose lunges for a purpose
different than just a refreshing quad
hypertrophy they certainly did that too
but we chose them on purpose
because we had another purpose for them
almost like a specificity purpose for
them thus the term door
rekted variation so when you're
designing a new mesocycle and you're
looking at another exercise to choose
let's say you've done barbell bent over
rows for four mesocycles in a row and
it's time for something different if you
don't have any particular focuses you
just want a bigger overall back you
could be like okay we could just do like
parallel bar rows or machine rows and
that'll be cool we'll just do that and
that's totally fine variation for its
own sake directed variation is when you
get to know what I really need maybe
like some low or Latin development and
I'm gonna be pushing my biceps mesocycle
pretty hard this time so I want a row
that really starts hitting my biceps -
for that hard heavy bicep component I'm
gonna do underhand easy borrows it's not
just a variant it's a variant with a
strategic purpose to develop something
that strategic variation do it or
directed variations otherwise known do
you have to use that all the time no
does your needs analysis from dr.
Hoffman's earlier lectures on program
design should your needs analysis at the
beginning of every mesocycle or before
we design one indicate where you would
need strategic or directional variation
yes absolutely right so it's not like
you have to come up with well I think
this is weak and you don't really know
look if everything is pretty well in
balance for your sports skills or for
your body or physique your lifts then no
worries but if you have something to
bring up on purpose that you clearly
need to bring up and it's a priority
you're gonna put that in the variation
you get a sort of toolbox but you're
going to get all the benefits of regular
variation and you're gonna do this
specific variant because there is a
demand for it so let the demand of your
physique let the demand of your sport
practice tell you what needs to be
strategically or sort of directionally
varied and if everything is relatively
in balance you can just pick for us I
wouldn't say random but just any
effective overloading variance without
much attention I will say this and this
is getting a little bit ahead of
ourselves we have many more courses
about this coming up for you guys
eventually but in a long term athlete
development situation
directed variation is probably something
that's going to be used much more for
the advanced athlete than for the
beginner the beginner and the
intermediate specialty beginner they
really kind of need everything developed
so we have a spectrum of effective
techniques they need to pluck out of
that spectrum and relat to kind of go to
everything every now and again and do
everything so it's like there's a
beginner bodybuilder need lower lats yes
upper lats yes outer lats yes inner lats
yes advanced bodybuilder may only need
one or two of those things to really
bring their physique together to get the
best package on stage so directed
variations awesome super effective but
you know if you're beginner designing
programs and you're wondering about how
do I apply director variation you mostly
don't just variation for its own sake
works really really great at that point
so how do we apply these things well
proper example of application miron has
been catching cleans for a long time
right actually racking his cleans as his
dominant pulling training in whatever
support preparation he's doing or maybe
he's an Olympic weightlifter so he
switches dominant pull training for a
couple of months from cleans to now
dominant pole training notice he may
still be doing cleans but most of his
work has switched from cleaning to doing
high poles right pulling up to here and
that allows him to revive cleans and
have cleans be a little bit more fresh
and more novel later when he comes back
to them and gets more benefit and also
it works on his kind of top and
follow-through because you know
weightlifting of pulling through is a
really good idea before backing under
and some individuals get really kind of
really good quick under the bar but
they're not pulling through enough like
they should be so high poles can develop
that characteristics and notice that's
directed variation as well as
conventional variation now there's
certainly an ability to take variation
overboard here's the example Jesse does
a different workout different reps
that's energy systems every single day
to try to get better to everything all
at once and never stall out does that
check the box of variation
you bet does it violate any of the other
principles yes it violates specificity
like crazy particularly directed an apt
ation and it's gonna be hard to overload
like that when you're basically training
at random because you violated directed
adaptation in specificity you're not
going to be able to sum a whole lot of
abilities before altering and switching
the focus and the summation degrading so
that how you supposed to present an
overload over a long time if you're not
improving very well where's another
problem right training generally
speaking this is derivative of
specificity of direct adaptation has a
momentum to it and retaining what you've
gotten out of the training process after
the training process is over look if you
focus on upper pecs and then you go back
to focusing on the chest as a whole if
you are to keep your big upper pecs it
is a much better idea to have hammered
into them in successive micro cycles so
that they retain their abilities in the
long term not just hit it once did
something else then did something else
then came back to upper pecs then did
something else so variation apply too
much makes training too chaotic for
adaptations to sink in as much and a
variety of other problems occur as well
one of these problems is that because
you are switching the technical this is
especially applied to strength power
athletes to whom performance is number
one it doesn't apply as much typer
trophy interested folks if you are
trying to get as good as possible at the
low bar squat
it may take you weeks of low bar
squatting to adjust to the technique to
begin to present to your best forms of
overload and that the the thing that
keeps you from presenting a ton of
overload early in a messy cycle is the
fact that you still get used
getting used to the low bar squat
technique if you low bar squat one week
have our squat the next front squat the
next leg press the next end of the low
bar again if you vary way too much you
never get technically proficient enough
at low bar squatting to really exploit
that top end of overload now is there
such a thing as low bar squatting for
too long
totally if you low bar squat for five
years straight
you're gonna be really technically
proficient at an exercise that really
doesn't get you much anymore as far as
that updation is concerned the variation
will be great then but there's a balance
there very a variant has to be done long
enough so that not only do we do direct
adaptation well but you got to get good
enough at it to keep milking out the
fact that you're getting better at it
allows you to present more overload that
process exhausts itself after multiple
massive cycles but before it does you
don't want to switch too soon because
you're still milking that out it's
almost like kind of getting into the
Gruben in the car with someone and they
play music and at first like you're like
the station kind of sucks and then a
good song comes on and you're like yeah
you start getting the groovy start
jamming and they like switch the song to
something ridiculous like limp Biskit
I'm just kidding with biscuits amazing
but our videographer is a huge limb
biscuit fan it's really kind of strange
so the person switches the radio to
another song and you're like I just
started grooving to that right you guys
ever say someone like so one of your
friends was like this for sure they
driving they switch songs like halfway
through each song which along with you
that's essentially the analog to an over
presentation of variation you don't get
out of the training process which you
needed to and you switch too fast now
taking the opposite example is bad too
so if you under ply variation you get in
a situation like here's the example
Sheldon does 5x5 in the squat high bar
for four years straight with no breaks
oh my god talk about stainless talk
about risk of injury and do something
four years straight with no breaks same
exercise is you've got to probably get
beat up even if you have good fatigue
management and I'll put it to you this
way
can you just fatigue manage taking
enough light days and do you load some
things like that enough to obviate the
injury risk from too much specificity
yes but then you're doing too much
fatigue management if you properly used
variation you would have to take fewer
breaks fewer light sessions in order to
accomplish the same general level of
fatigue
because while you're fatigued managing
one thing by varying you couldn't be
overloading another and then you switch
the two and go the other way now there
are still times to bring everything down
totally those times are fewer if you get
that variation system going as opposed
to just going on every single the
process that you just do on one single
line you have to do a lot more fatigue
management if your training is stale
than if it's not staying right so lastly
just some simple program design
implications these are going to be
SuperDuper general because this is a
general course in the more advanced
courses more specific courses on
hypertrophy training and on strength
training and on MMA training etcetera
we're gonna get really in-depth on exact
applications here them so that the
program design implications section of
the training principles and those
specific courses they'll be way way more
to the point just the generals here here
we go
so variation and specificity as you can
tell coming to trade off to each other
to a larger extent the more varied a
training is that the less specific is by
definition and vice versa the more
specific it is the last varied it is
which one of those is more important
what specificities the most important
and variation it doesn't even make the
top three so specificity is more
important and it should be dominant in
training program design so the most
important thing is to present sequential
and directed overload absolutely and
within that structure properly fatiguing
manage etc on SRA so variation we kind
of feel you know if oh if the
specificity principle is like the
meatballs and the spaghetti noodles
variation is like the sauce you don't
eat a bowl of sauce with some pasta in
it it's the other way around the sauce
is designed to accentuate to the pasta
and the meatballs not just completely
make everything taste like sauce and you
can't even tell if it's meatballs or
more noodles or nothing at all all of a
sudden you're just drinking gallons of
sauce that's not
people eat pasta I sure hope and if
that's how you eat pasta I'm just happy
we're not friends and we don't go out
together
so yeah luckily I don't have any friends
or go out so that's not a problem either
way so here's the deal
because sort of pasta sauce is a
modifier to the main ingredient of pasta
and meatballs just the same way
specificity is number one but Anna Cain
should be modified by intelligent use of
variation variation is not superlative
to specificity so it's not like your
number one goal in training should be to
shock the body and change things up no
your number one goal sure to keep stable
conditions and progressively overload
but in that context strategic uses
occasional uses of variation every
several mesocycles on average is a good
idea to make it that process better
makes sense specificity still most
important now another way in which so
point number two of implications another
importance of specificity revealed is
that variation should always be and only
be within the bounds of specificity so
specificity remember it's not just exact
exercises and rep ranges it is also
training of the underlying systems that
support those exact exercises and rep
ranges so football players um you know
they don't do things for sets of ten on
the football field but sets of ten in
the weight room can hypertrophy them so
that we can make them stronger so they
can express the strength on the football
field better so if something in the
training is within the overarching
underlying systems of that training it's
a fine variant but if we're choosing
variance and training so we've got let's
say several mesocycles of one kind of
training and rug okay it's getting
pretty stale time to switch things up
that the switch should only be within
the boundaries of what is at the most an
underlying system if not a direct
consequence or director out of that
training so for example if your goal is
to get big legs and you you know a three
mesocycles later after doing a lot of
high bar squats you want to pick another
dominant exercise
lunges great they'll make big legs leg
presses great
totally you can even weasel in some leg
extensions there maybe somehow but what
about if your variant for leg
hypertrophy is distance running I'm just
gonna do five K's this month still hits
my legs but all not a second that
doesn't even train any underlying
systems for hypertrophy there's no way
that we there's no way in on the net
balance that makes you better off for
getting bigger
it doesn't potentiate any bigger size it
certainly does directly costs you sighs
as a matter of fact so when you're using
variants make sure that they're still
within the general arc of specificity of
the system variation is not kind of
licensed to go crazy into all kinds of
you know really really funky stuff the
funky stuff has to be limited the stuff
has to be within the boundaries of what
we still want right so like ingredients
in a birthday cake can be chocolate or
can be strawberry but they're not going
to be meatloaf right if that's a food
but you don't put it in birthday cake
now I'm thinking maybe that's a good
idea I'm gonna get back to you guys on
that but in any case you know you don't
mix desserts and regular foods just the
same way you want to make sure that
whatever your main goal is per trophy
you've only picked variants that support
hypertrophy it's not just anything goes
will you experience adaptive refreshment
from a totally different goal yeah
actually will but you'll be losing
ground the entire time you experienced
it after a refreshment just enough so
that when you come back to hypertrophy
training you get back what you lost
that's not the point of the variation
principle that's not the point of its
application you don't want to lose
anything you just want to gain maintain
game maintain game maintain just like
that instead of gaining and losing and
gaining and losing that would be pretty
much right we've said this already with
if we implied at numerous times but it's
worthy again varying too often
interferes of both direct adaptation and
overlord application right interferes
direct adaptation because just changing
stuff around when you're making gains
was a bad idea because gains have a
certain momentum to them and a certain
kind of pool in the sense that they you
know systems don't like to change
they're permanent or semi-permanent
structures off of just one training
session they need multiple training
sessions especially in advance
leads just to her really bridge away
from that homeostatic range in which
they usually sit their set point has to
be pulled away with multiple sessions
until they get real good changes not
just one problem number two for all
edification just like the low bar squat
example let's just when you start
getting good at low bar squats after
only three weeks you change them out for
high bar squats Mochis you know did you
accomplish a lot of good overload yeah
totally sure did could you have gone
further done even more overload without
worrying about staleness too much
totally so maybe you should have kept
him in for some number of weeks more to
really exploit that so if you vary too
often you screw up both of those things
how do we make sure we don't have that
happen well you knows all kinds of
recommendations and the sort of
scientific ways to figure out if
something is stale but fundamentally you
want to make sure that your gains in a
particular mode of training really start
to slow down considerably before
switching mode so for example if you're
making great gains in flat benching and
you know for your chest to just get a
huge pumps your chest like you literally
legs or stretchmarks stuffs great way
down the bar is going up steadily it's
not the time to switch okay the time to
switch is one like you're like oh I felt
like at least three workouts on a row
now even though I'm fatigued managing
well I'm really are totally refreshed I
have no injuries man I just I just don't
there's not much strength increase
happening
the pumps aren't the same something's
not working it just doesn't seem like
this is getting me the results that it
used to get kind of an equality leap
basis at that point is probably good
idea switch away from maybe a regular
bench and go to wide grip got a close
grip go to dumbbells something like that
to refresh chest hypertrophy so milk it
out before you switch is the best way I
can say that one last implication every
variant you select when it comes time to
select a variant should always meet
Concord with the other principles of
training every single one of them so for
example our BOSU ball squats a good idea
for leg hypertrophy we'll know they
don't pass the overload condition there
they generate such an unstable condition
that your nervous system doesn't even
turn on most of your motor units most
parts of your muscle because it's
considered but more or less than
evolutionary logic is that it is unsafe
to do so
you know like if you're climbing trees
you don't just stomp on every tree
branch cuz one of those things you will
just break and fall through so if your
body detected stability on tree branches
you really tentatively your body helps
you generate very little force because
it doesn't want you to stomp through a
tree branch and end up you know on a
tree stump upside down 20 feet down just
the same thing with a BOSU ball when you
get on one it's an unstable surface your
body won't let you present high forces
that violates overload so if we're
looking for overloading variants for the
lower body growth or lower body strength
improvement geez forget that BOSU ball
sits not gonna be one of them because it
violates the overload principle so we
don't put it in a strength rotation we
don't put it in a hypertrophy rotation
if we had an individual who is trying to
get better at the balancing on unstable
surfaces most of all is an excellent
rotation is squatting in a machine good
for hypertrophy yes or like leg pressing
in a predetermined machine either like
pressing in a predetermined machine good
for getting good at unstable surface
manipulation probably not so if you're
looking for workouts that make you
better at unstable surfaces leg pressing
is probably not your number one pick
squatting probably better than that if
you need a leg strength and unstable
abilities so remember whatever we're
using as far as variance if they violate
fatigue management they're inadmissible
what's one that violates fatigue
management let's say you're used to
doing straight sets of ten in the squat
you've been doing sets of ten for
several months improved a ton of legs
are bigger now you want another variant
to do in the squat and for several
months what you're gonna do is you're
gonna use your 15 RM but you're gonna do
about 200 total reps with every workout
you're gonna do that three times a week
no you're not cuz you'll break in half
trying that so you're gonna really
violate fatigue management by
accumulating way too much fatigue and
that's not gonna work so we need to make
sure that our variation doesn't violate
specificity doesn't buy
over doesn't align fatigue management
doesn't violate SRA and etc.etc server
to every other training principle so is
a variation an invitation to get
creative with training yes are there
limits on their creativity
absolutely it still has to be in the
logical structure of via directed
variation logical structure what we need
and the limitations of all the other
training principles so that we get what
we want which is adaptation instead of
getting screwed up somehow and not
getting the best response thanks for
tuning in see you for the next training
principle
[Music]
you