morning guys Friday July the 8th time
out for my morning walk and I'm gonna be
hitting some upper body again today I
take two days off and just a rest up my
back I'm feeling 100% but basically what
I did was just eaten in a slight surplus
or at maintenance around 2800 roughly
tracking calories woke up this morning
at 150 6.6 that's up 1.6 pounds from my
lowest weigh-in this mini cut so I might
pull back on the calories just a little
bit just to make sure I'm on traffic
here today there's actually a Skrillex
concert going down but we might see if
we can actually see the concert from our
balcony over there we decided to switch
things up and get a serving of veggies
in this morning's or than making a
omelet green pepper red pepper onion and
a spinach 1/2 a cup of oats and egg
white omelet Robins oh it looks so much
better than my I just don't have the
patience to put all that together this
is my first time in about two days my
back wasn't feeling 100% and that's what
you kind of have to do when you're
battling injuries just know when it's
best to take a rest day and you'll be
better for it in a couple days I've got
some Brussels sprouts can of this
flavored dill and lemon tuna also gonna
have some chicken with that meal for the
next five days so this is Friday so
Friday Saturday Sunday Monday and
Tuesday I'm going to be doing what I'm
calling the final dig that based on like
my visual assessments like how I look I
would like to be a little bit tighter I
don't care about the scale too much even
though it's saying I'm 155 I'd rather be
just a little bit tighter so I'm gonna
keep pushing and I'm gonna dig one last
time for these remaining five days and
then that will give me Wednesday and
Thursday and then Friday morning to do
like a carb up my calories down
somewhere in like the 1,800 to 2,000
range fairly low keeping cardio the same
I'm gonna increase protein just for
satiety reasons and because it's muscle
sparing but I find that when I read
after a carb like mini depletion I find
I do respond to the carbs better I just
sort of soak them all up into the muscle
meal number three I can't believe it's
not butter spray on the Brussels sprouts
and I've got a little bit of salt on
those as well and then I've got one cup
of or actually I don't even know what
this is I'm guessing this is like this
is probably half a cup I'm calling it a
hundred grams I think this is like 100
grams of blueberries all right well
hello everyone welcome to the voiceover
for this latest upper body training
session or I should say full upper body
- back I'm still not able to train my
back because of the injury but I am able
to do some rear delt stuff which you
will see in just a minute
see I kicked this workout off with a lot
of shoulder stuff so first off it was
the machine shoulder press which I super
setted with some lateral raises and then
superset at that with some Y raises
which you're seeing there now and that's
gonna be kind of a recurring theme
throughout the following training
sessions is just me incorporating these
intensity techniques so that I can get
myself pretty close to that point of
failure without having to load the
muscles overly heavy and keep my back
away from that extra bit of stress one
thing that I do here just to generate
more fatigue in the delt is a rest pause
so after I get pretty close to failure
on the lateral raises I'll pause for a
little bit and then I'll bring the
band's closer out in front of me so that
I can get the front delt a little bit
more involved and continue to do reps
just to extend the set so after that it
was on to machine lateral raises for
some extra side delt work and I do think
that as a bodybuilder
having well-developed side delts can
really help your physique and a lot of
poses especially the front poses where
you're trying to make your frame look as
much like an X frame as possible with
wide shoulders and narrow waist and I
super setted the machine lateral raises
with one arm banded pull apart to get
some rear delt work in there and then
after that it was lean away lateral
raises so the good thing about lean away
lateral raises is that they effectively
take the rotator cuff muscles out of the
movement so for the bottom 30 degrees or
so of the lateral raise the rotator cuff
muscles do the majority of the work
whereas at the top range of the movement
the side delt tends to take over so by
leaning away you just effectively take
away that bottom part of the range of
motion and really isolate the side delt
which is what I'm trying to do here
after that it was machine chest press
and I did something interesting here
something new that I don't do very often
at all and this is actually just a
warm-up set first and I did superset
these with band pull-up hearts and
you'll see that I just wrapped the band
around my wrist to increase the tension
a little bit and I'm doing my best to
keep my shoulder blades protracted a
little bit so I'm not really squeezing
my shoulder blades together and working
the traps but just trying to keep that
tension on the rear delt and I'm playing
around with varying degrees of internal
and external rotation to try to find
that sweet spot where I feel my rear
delts firing the most some people will
find that if they rotate internally
they'll feel the rear delts more some
people find if they rotate externally
they'll feel it more the most important
thing I think is just to play around
with that and see what works best for
you so here you'll see I'm doing an ISO
hold at the bottom so if you actually
look at the plates you'll see that
they're not resting so what I do is I'll
do five reps and then I'll hold the
weight under tension at the bottom end
of the range of motion so when the PEC
is maximally stretched and I hold the
weight there for about a five-second
count
under tension do another five reps then
hold it for another five seconds yeah
this is a just a way to make the set a
little bit more difficult and now that
I'm looking at the clips I'm thinking
that maybe I wasn't holding for quite
five seconds and I basically just kept
doing that until I couldn't get another
five reps so I think I ended up getting
something like three sets of 20 on that
exercise and then like I said super
setting those with the earth with the
band pull apart after that it was
machine pec deck so this movement is
biomechanically almost identical to a
press except you're in more of a hammer
grip instead of a pronated grip and I'll
even internally rotate a little bit more
externally rotate a little bit more so
point my pinkies in and I find that that
helps really take the front delt out of
the movement so that you can isolate the
pecs a little bit better but yeah you
really want to think about bringing your
elbows together when doing this movement
or in other words you want to visualize
the text shortening and in doing so
bringing your upper arm across your
torso rather than just kind of leaning
forward and back and using my momentum
to sort of jerk the weight around I
think that you really want to establish
a mind muscle connection and really
squeeze the pecs at the top of those
especially if you can't go heavy like me
after that it was some arm stuff so I
started off with the spider curl so this
is basically a preacher curl with a
steeper incline so you get a fuller
range of motion and then you have the
shoulder in a less flexed position so
what this does is it essentially targets
the short head to a lesser degree so
relatively speaking you get a little bit
more long head activation doing this
than you would just a normal preacher
curl with the elbows up a little bit
more after that it was on to the
Bayesian cable curl one of my favorite
movements for the long head and then I
just finished off the arm day with some
plain old machine preacher curls and
because my back is a little bit
compromised right now in terms of its
capabilities I do like that move
just because it does keep my chest more
supported than it was some tricep stuff
so in addition to all the pressing I did
some rope press downs and that finished
off the workout so that's going to
conclude the commentary guys I hope that
you enjoy the rest of the vlog this is
part one of the post-workout meal it's
about 75 grams of chicken the reason I
haven't been weighing this stuff
actually is because our scale needs a
new battery and you're talking about
chicken it's like the margin of error is
pretty small
this is ground extra lean ground beef
with some taco seasoning and I'm gonna
have this with some lettuce and some
green beans and then I'll just see
whatever it is that I have left in my
macros if you want to follow me on my
fitness pal just to see exactly what I'm
eating this is my username feel free to
add me as a friend help keep me
accountable just keep in mind that if
you do add me I don't always track
everything so sometimes the calories
will come up like 1600 or 1800 or
something I'm usually I just like throw
on the extra 2 or 400 calories at night
and not always track that jump in the
hot tub see if I can hear any of that
concert I think I can hear it outside
now actually so I hope you guys enjoyed
it don't forget to hit the thumbs up
button if you did like the video
subscribe to the channel if you haven't
already and I will see you in the next
video