hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization muscle gain
dieting made simple video number eight
maintenance phases and mini cuts the
longer term approach for muscle gain so
last time in the last video
we learned about how to create a muscle
gain diet and actually run one and
execute it hopefully successfully with
difficulties and all
now when you're done with your muscle
gain diet you're bigger which is awesome
mission accomplished sort of but you
probably
experienced a situation where your body
is new to this level of size and kind of
wants to drag you back down to your old
weight or closer
and most people will succumb and lose a
bunch of weight lose a bunch of new
muscle
because homeostasis is a thing and your
body just wants you to become normal
again and we're all fighting to not be
normal
so
what do we do about this and how do we
give ourselves a fighting chance to
prevent this well here is the rest of
this video
the main enter the maintenance phase
okay
when your muscle gain diet ends
a lot of people make a huge mistake of
just going back to eating normally or
just like i eat protein because i'm
healthy and whatever and they lose a ton
of weight you're at a new level you have
to eat more
when you're done muscle gain dieting
you're not done dieting so step one
stick to your diet foods which in muscle
gain means lots of really good food
don't go off plan and lose your momentum
okay your hunger at the end of this
process will still be super low and it's
easy to just under eat and start losing
gains that sucks you just worked for 16
weeks or something like that don't lose
four or eight of those weeks just
because you're not hungry for two weeks
and you eat barely any
step number two
subtract away 50 of your surplus which
means that you were 3 000 calories at
maintenance before you started gaining
at the end of your gain process you were
3 500
when your maintenance phase starts after
whatever 16 weeks of gaining go to 3250.
32.50 it's more calories than your old
maintenance but it checks out you're
bigger and because your body has all
these metabolic adaptations so once you
start forcing it to gain weight it
speeds up your metabolism not only do
you need more calories because you're
now bigger but also you need some more
calories and that 3250 probably covers
it to make sure you add in for that
metabolism okay
this is to keep your weight up
at wherever you stopped or close and to
keep muscle on your body not have it
slop off
step three is to watch your weight and
if it goes down by any more than about
two percent because after about a week
you deload your lower volumes you're
gonna lose some body water but if it
keeps going down after the first week of
more than about two percent add in 250
calories you might have to do this a few
times even probably not but look
if you think oh my god i'm so tired of
eating i can't wait for my muscle gain
face to be over so i can eat less
you gotta have have to have a
maintenance phase after maybe an active
rest phase we'll get to that in a sec
where you purposefully still eat plenty
of food remember you signed up for this
you wanted to be jacked and you've seen
other jack guys before and you're like
holy fuck that guy eats a lot you're one
of those guys now in some respect you're
on that ladder and the higher you climb
up on that ladder the more food you have
to eat and that does not end and if you
are not a big eater
maybe you're watching this video because
you're not
you fall off that ladder every time you
let go you just fall all the way down
you got to grab again and climb back up
i don't want you to let go
so when you gain a certain amount of
weight don't just cut it off be like yay
i did it back to normal you want to do
back to normal you will be normal again
in every respect including losing a lot
of the muscle that you gained
step number four
your body is as the french would say a
little tired right and you're not really
sensitive to hypertrophy anymore you
need to heal up after your last week of
gaining you take your training volume
and cut it by half or less or cut it by
half or more rather for like two to four
weeks if it's like four weeks you can do
sets of three to ten reps strength
training is really good here keeps the
volume low the stimulus pretty high and
the three to ten strength training well
yeah three to six is strength training
and then you know six to ten is strength
training for isolation movements like
bicep curls and laterals and stuff like
that
or you can just do two weeks of active
rest which if you see all of our other
videos there's really two weeks of just
barely doing anything in the gym resting
a lot taking walks and throwing the
frisbee to the dog getting lots of sleep
getting lots of good foods your body can
really recover and relax and potentiate
another great phase of gaining after
hopefully right this gives your body a
huge break and lets you recharge for
more future gaining if you don't need
one of those it means you didn't train
hard enough in your last muscle gain
phase and you train harder next time
harder than last time i made sure to say
it
so
you're done with the main the muscle
gain phase you successfully pulled off
the maintenance phase and you didn't
lose a whole bunch of weight you're good
to go right time to start massing you
could but what if you're like a little
bit over fat fatter than you want to be
right
maybe that will happen to you some
people stay relatively lean and fuck
them they can just keep going but
in in most cases
you want to get rid of some of that old
body fat from you know potentially up to
16 weeks of gaining you want to get rid
of some of that body fat if for no other
reason p ratios or whatever that debate
is as yet unsettled just to give
yourself like more runway right you
like it when you see your abs and you
keep nice and lean and nice and fit and
it gives you the sort of metabolic
conditioning to be able to do really
good workouts and if you get much fat on
that you start to get out of breath and
all this other shit what you want to do
is like once you get up to this level of
body fat where your workouts kind of
start to suck you want to cut off that
body fat so that you can have another
well you know 8 to 16 weeks of gaining
after
and
that's called a mini cut purposefully
designed to potentiate weight gain later
it's a fat loss diet you would do for
about four to six weeks right in most
cases sometimes less sometimes more
you aim for between point five percent
weight loss per week all the way up to
one point two five percent a week that's
a shitload okay
and that usually scales inversely with
duration so if you're doing like a two
or three week mini cut under some
conditions you might lose one point two
five percent per week if you're doing a
six week mini cut even point five
percent per week as gee that's three
percent and if you lose no muscle which
is likely that could be up to three
percent body fat that you lose in those
six weeks that's awesome gee you know
that really clears you a ton to have
really productive massing phase muscle
gain phase after
during the mini cut train as usual but
with oh something like two thirds or
three quarters of the usual volume
right you want your just want to do
something anti-catabolic something that
prevents muscle loss you don't want to
gain muscle during a mini cut because
there's no new transfer you to do that
with you're not eating enough by a long
shot save that volume and intensity for
later for when you're doing a muscle
gain phase and of course as soon as your
mini cut is over you don't have to you
know deload and eat normally in
maintenance for that week of deload but
after the deload there's no need to
state maintenance for longer just start
getting into that surplus right away and
go go go and get jacked
at this point you're done
you've successfully gained weight you've
maintained it to solidify it and you've
primed yourself by a mini cut for
another muscle gain phase and here's the
thing if you're as big as you want to be
now many cuts actually burned off all
the fat you gained you can just train
and eat to maintain and enjoy your beach
muscles and all the attention that gets
you from the ladies
but
what if you want more muscle what if you
want more muscle by a long shot what if
you want the most muscle your body can
give you
for that we turn to our next video we'll
see you then next week