welcome to the house of hypertrophy are
you leaving games on the table if you're
not training to failure a new analysis
has explored the relationship between
proximity to failure and muscle
hypertrophy and some influencers say
this paper proves training to failure is
necessary for maximizing hypertrophy but
I feel there are some critical details
people are missing before dissecting
this it's worth knowing prior to this
new meta regression there have been
three meta-analyzes in the last three
years combining the results of the
overall literature all finding no
significant difference in muscle
hypertrophy between training to failure
and not training to failure an issue
with these meta-analyzes is they simply
compare training to failure versus
non-failure non-failure is vague are we
talking about one rep from failure two
six eight or even 10 reps from failure
this is where the new meta regression
comes into play it's evaluated how
precisely different proximities to
failure impact hypertrophy now this
meta-aggression is currently a pre-print
it's not officially published or
peer-reviewed changes to the paper can
still be made and if any notable changes
do occur I'll have an update nonetheless
let's dive into the current contents of
the paper
foreign
the new analysis collected all the
studies that compared how different
proximities to failure influence muscle
hypertrophy for the groups that did not
train to failure various estimations
were made to calculate how many reps in
reserve they left that is how many reps
away from failure did they stop
here are the average trading variables
used in the studies analyzed ultimately
the results indicate that muscle
hypertrophy improves non-linearly as you
get closer to failure this is largely
the only thing you see across social
media since the analysis finds greater
hypertrophy with failure people have
concluded failure is necessary for
maximizing growth however the
researchers actually detailed some
interesting additional analyzes and
importantly there are limitations
foreign
the researchers established an
interaction with load with heavier loads
there was less of a benefit of training
narrative failure versus with lighter
loads this might be quite logical
narrowing failure ensures you're
recruiting as many muscle fibers as you
possibly can but heavier loads contrary
to lighter loads readily necessitate
high levels of muscle fiber recruitment
in general so getting narrative failure
could be less important nonetheless the
researchers also outlined a range of
moderators most notably in my view
higher frequency of training a muscle
group higher set numbers per muscle
group and longer study durations with
each of these moderators there was less
of a benefit of training to failure in
fact null Point estimates were within
the confidence interval in layman's
terms this leaves the potential
possibility that there truly isn't a
benefit to failure
[Music]
this new meta regression is the most
comprehensive analysis of how different
proximities to failure influences
hyperture based on the current
scientific literature at the very least
this analysis only further reinforces
the notion nearing failure is crucial
for hypertrophy but does it as per the
main analysis prove training to failure
truly maximizes hypertrophy I don't
believe this analysis can prove this and
the researchers themselves allude to
this there are inherent limitations to
the existing body of literature on
training to failure the definition of
failure differs between studies some use
the definition of momentary muscular
failure While others know concentric
failure but some just State volitional
failure which is a lot vager recall we
had moderators which meant the benefit
of training to failure became less I've
yet to mention that studies using a
definition of failure such as momentary
muscular failure or concentric failure
were classed as a moderator that is in
these studies the benefit of training to
failure was less
another consideration is the majority of
the studies did not report how many reps
in reserve the subjects not training to
failure left meaning the researchers had
to use a variety of equations to
estimate reps in reserve I think the
authors did as good of a job as they
could have done but the estimates are
simply far from laser accurate take this
study by martorelli we'll focus on two
groups both training the barbell biceps
curl one group performed three sets of
repetitions to momentary muscular
failure with a 70 one rep max load per
session another group performed three
sets of seven reps with a 70 one rep max
load per session how many reps in
reserve was this well the authors of the
meta-aggression considered that before
the study the subjects were able to
perform a maximum average of 10.37
repetitions with the 70 one Remax load
thus they subtracted this from Seven
meaning that this second group was
estimated to be leaving 3.37 repetitions
in reserve this is virtually the best
single reps in reserve estimate you can
give but it's not going to be laser
accurate remember the subjects were
performing three sets in a session the
first set of seven reps likely was equal
to an average of leaving 3.37 reps in
reserve but the next two sets due to
cumulative fatigue we're likely slightly
closer to failure another consideration
is that the researchers of this study
only updated to 70 one rep max load
during the fifth week so subjects were
training with the exact same load for
five weeks you get stronger as you train
and so although before the study the
subjects could only perform an average
of 10.37 reps with this Baseline 70 one
rep max load they would have been able
to perform more than this as time
progressed across the five weeks and
thus the Reps and Reserve estimate of
3.37 would have been too low across time
at least with the first set
the researchers quite interestingly also
included a range of studies using
alternative set structures in their
analysis such as cluster and resp poor
sets and the equations used to estimate
reps and reserves with some of these
alternative set structures were also
likely far from laser accurate all in
all I think it may not have been worth
including alternative set structures in
this analysis since they are
physiologically not identical to normal
sets but the data from the moderator
analysis section implies the inclusion
of the alternative set structure studies
didn't drastically impact the results
nevertheless the limitations of this
analysis simply preclude us from
concluding it proves failure is superior
we need studies that more consistently
use better definitions of failure and
provide better estimates of reps in
reserve it's entirely possible that as
time goes by and we amass high quality
individual studies on training to
failure versus not training to failure
we'll find different results from the
new analysis only time will tell
[Music]
due to the various limitations
associated with the new meta regression
I still believe analyzing individual
studies specifically ones that are high
quality is worthwhile this 2020 study by
santianello is in my view the single
best study to date on training to
failure 14 men with an average of 5.1
years of training experience were
recruited subjects trained both the
unilateral leg press and unilateral leg
extension twice per week for 10 weeks a
great thing was the researchers
individualized set numbers the
researchers noted how many sets per week
the subjects perform for their
quadriceps before the study and then the
subjects perform 20 more for this study
for example if a subject performed 15
weekly sets for the quadriceps before
the study they would now be performing
18 weekly sets a 20 increase for the
quarter steps in this study evenly
divided between the leg press and leg
extension with one leg subjects
performed every set with repetitions to
momentary muscular failure with their
the leg they performed repetitions till
what the subjects perceived to be just
prior to failure with this leg an
average of 1.6 fuel reps were performed
versus the failure leg suggesting this
non-philia leg left 1.6 reps in reserve
but it probably fluctuated between one
to three reps in reserve based on the
standard deviations however remember
people's legs aren't always equally as
strong so these estimates are broad the
number of dominant legs was
counterbalanced between the failure and
non-failure conditions the fact each
subject performed both protocols with
either leg is also another strength of
the study because this removes genetics
and outside lifestyle from interfering
with the study's findings ultimately
vastus lateralis cross-sectional area
increases were not significantly
different between both legs
interestingly the raw gains somewhat
lean towards the non-failure leg so the
strongest single study to date on
training to failure indicates it isn't
necessary for maximizing hypertrophy
there are two other fairly high quality
studies in my eyes all beer on untrained
vigils further suggesting similar
hypertrophy between training to failure
and stopping shy or failure
if you're searching for additional ideas
about programming for muscle hypertrophy
the alpha progression app can help it
has an exceptionally flexible custom
workout generator that uses trading
variables based on meta-analities and
reviews from the scientific literature
specify your training experience the
equipment you have and how often and how
long you want to train for you can still
individualize things further by editing
things to your preference the app also
provides neat graphs displaying your
long-term progression and there's a
database of 550 exercises the link in
the comments and description allows you
to try everything on the app entirely
for free for two weeks and if you like
it and go beyond the link gives you 20
off a subscription we don't just partner
with anyone at the house of hypertrophy
so rest assured the app is great
[Music]
the new meta regression is a great
addition to the scientific research on
training to failure but there are
limitations and considerations and I
believe we should still consider high
quality individual studies when we do
this I think it's most level-headed to
conclude that training narrative failure
is absolutely an important variable for
building muscle but for the time being
at least I don't believe we can
undoubtedly say training to failure is
superior rather I think sticking to the
general recommendation of getting three
or fewer reps from failure and this
includes going to failure if you wish is
most sensible feel free to experiment
and decipher how to implement this in
your training of course including both
failure and non-failure training in your
program can certainly be done moreover
as many of you are probably thinking
there is certainly value in having good
experience with training to failure
because if you've never trained to
failure how do you know if you've left
two reps in reserve finally other
factors can interact with your decision
for example we've previously seen at the
house of hypertrophy that higher
frequency or higher volume training can
be viable for building muscle and with
these it may be easier to predominantly
leave reps in reserve contrastingly if
you're using lower frequencies and or
volumes predominantly going to failure
you may be more straightforward finally
the current research isn't ample enough
to truly delineate the effects of
proximity to failure on compound versus
isolation exercises but many find it
practical to leave reps in a reserve
with larger compound exercises such as
squats and bench presses and go to
failure with smaller isolation exercises
like curls and lateral raises there are
some other fascinating things related to
training to failure we've yet to discuss
such as whether individual differences
could exist and if more sets further
from failure can produce similar
hypertrophy to fewer sets closer to
failure furthermore it seems there's
another individual study in the works on
trained individuals comparing training
to momentary muscular failure to leaving
reps in reserve we will be covering
these things in the upcoming weeks and
months at the house of hypertrophy if
you're interested in our breakdown of
high intensity training feel free to
check out this video or if you're
interested in the breakdown of training
frequency feel free to check out this
video