6 to 12 hypertrophy rep range is a myth
kind of studies show that you can build
muscle equally well with all of these
rep zones as long as you're pushing
close to failure the study found that
three sets of 25 to 35 reps was just as
good as three sets of 8 to 12 reps and
the study found that seven sets of three
was just as good as three sets of ten
for muscle growth so if you need to use
light weights to work around an injury
you'll still build muscle as long as
you're pushing hard and if you prefer to
train with lower reps and heavier weight
this will still build muscle too however
even though they all work in theory 6 to
12 reps is still my hypertrophy Sweet
Spot not because it's inherently better
but because it's more practical doing
only High Reps can be very tiring and
doing only Low Reps makes it hard to do
enough volume so for muscle growth about
three quarters of my sets will be done
for 6 to 12 reps and the remaining
quarter will be split between higher
reps and lower reps sign up at the link
on screen to get on the waitlist for my
new pure bodybuilding program