I see far too many people butcher their
dumbbell press technique and it's
limiting how much muscle they
grow welcome back Dr Milo wolf here with
you today PhD in sports science with
wolf coaching breaking down the best
technique on the dumbbell press to build
muscle what is good technique for
building muscle and how much does it
even matter well fortunately for you I'm
an author on a paper on exactly that
topic and so I should be able to give
you some good technique pointers to
increase how much muscle you build with
dumbell pressing let me break down what
that paper found good exercise technique
for muscle growth likely has three or
four components that you need to be
aware of first you want to be using an
effective Tempo based on a metanalysis
by shenfeld and colleagues from a few
years ago repetitions lasting much
longer than about 8 seconds likely
aren't ideal for hypertrophy however
once you get in the right ballpark for
Tempo or how long each rep takes you
likely won't see any big differences in
how much muscle you build based on some
more recent evidence there may be a
benefit to be had in terms of muscle
growth by having an Ecentric phase of at
least 1 or 2 seconds and a slightly
faster or more explosive concentric
phase or lifting phase ultimately don't
just dive bomb your dumbbell press
actually lower the weight under control
no one's giving you any medals or
rewards for dumbbell pressing more
weight instead use the tempo that
maximizes your muscle building on the
other end of the spectrum just like you
don't want to dive bomb your reps as I
mentioned earlier you also don't want
your reps to take much longer than about
8 seconds not many people are doing this
anyways because a lot of people like
benching as much as they can and if they
control the Reps more the weight goes
down but as long as you're between about
2 seconds per rep and 8 seconds per rep
you're likely in the right ballp park so
a good Tempo is absolutely important for
maximizing hypertrophy but you actually
have a pretty wide range that you can
play around within the second Hallmark
of good technique for muscle building we
identified is external momentum Genera
by other joints or really in short Body
English ultimately the technique that we
use should maximize the chances of the
target muscle group or muscle groups
being the limiting factor in the
movement if you're using a ton of body
English it becomes less likely that the
target muscle groups are limiting factor
and you're also just generating
additional fatigue for potentially not
any additional benefit with that being
said no studies to date have actually
compared a more cheaty technique to a
more strict technique and seeing whether
one leads to more approach feet in the
other and so while we have a fairly
compelling rationale at this point that
you don't want to be cheating on your
lifts we still need direct evidence to
confirm that this is the case in the
Dumbo press exercise specifically the
chest can be the limiting factor or the
triceps or the front delts or they can
all be taken pretty close to failure the
third Hallmark of good technique for
muscle building is range of motion and
depending on the range of motion you use
you could be getting an additional 5 to
10% hypertrophy the main thing with
range of motion seems to be that we want
to emphasize getting a stretch in the
target movement while we don't have
evidence directly in the PEC or in the
noral press exercise we do have evidence
in a variety of muscle groups across a
variety of exercises lending Credence to
the idea that generally as far as range
of motion goes we do likely want to be
getting a full stretch in whatever
Technique we use Additionally the bottom
position would ideally be pretty
challenging fortunately in most dumbbell
pressing exercises that bottom position
is a loaded stretch it's not an easy
position to press out of on the flip
side it is fairly common for people to
miss out out on that bottom stretched
position because it is challenging and
skipping it makes it easier to lift more
weight but the research suggests that's
a mistake at the very least you'll want
to use a full range of motion on
dumbbell pressing exercises making sure
you get a full stretch if you wanted to
take the emphasis on the stretch even
further you could perform lengthened
partials essentially going from a fully
stretched position to about halfway up
personally I a for an elbow angle of
about 90° at the top of each rep
additionally the thumbnail press is one
of those exercises where you can safely
go to failure with length and partials
and then just drop the weight so you
could do a full range of motion set and
then just do partials at the end of the
set when you can no longer get a full
range of motion and in fact an as of yet
unpublished study that I'm involved in
actually found greater hypertrophy in
the Cavs when doing exactly this
technique finding about 50% more
hypertrophy when going past failure and
just doing length and partials at the
end compared to stopping the set when
you couldn't get another full rep going
all the way up on your tippy toes and so
the idea of doing length and partial
after going to full range of motion
failure may have some utility in order
to further emphasize that stretch
position through range of motion a
little tip I can give you is to angle
the dumbbells upwards as you reach down
this will increase how deep you can go
and how much of a stretch you can get on
your chest before the dumbbells just
straight up touch your chest finally
consider briefly pausing in that bottom
stretched position this just increases
how much time you spend down there with
that position likely being very
important for hypertrophy the final
component of optimal exercise technique
is preference and Pain Management let me
break it down if you're doing all of the
above you have a good Tempo you're
accentuating the stretch via range of
motion and you're minimizing Body
English and a certain technique just
feels more enjoyable by all means you
can use that technique for example if
instead of a 4 second Ecentric or
lowering phase you prefer a 2C Ecentric
lowering phase by all means you're
probably going to get the same
hypertrophy go for it the same goes for
elbow positioning being slightly more
flared out or slightly more tucked in
and the same goes for pain If you
experience pain using a certain
technique but not another consider
changing to that second technique for
instance even if angling your elbows out
a little bit more may give you a little
bit more of a stretch on your chest if
it makes you hurt maybe don't do it now
that I've broken down what the four
components of optimal technique are let
me break down how to do the dumbbell
bench press to maximize muscle growth
First grab a pair of dumbbells I like to
deadlift them onto the front of my
thighs once they're on top of your knees
aggressively kick your knees back
towards your shoulders in quick
succession of one another once both
dumbbells are on your chest press the
weight up anchoring your feet and
pressing them into the ground slightly
from here control the weight down for
about 2 seconds angle the dumbbells
inward slightly to increase the range of
motion once you get to the bottom pause
briefly when you reach your chest from
here press all the way up explosively
out of the stretch position no need to
touch the dumbell together at the top as
this motion is virtually unresisted if
you want to do lengthen partials come up
about halfway until your elbows reach an
angle of about 90° personally I like
using length and partials on the Dumbo
press exercise as a means to emphasize
the stretch even more and potentially
see more hypertrophy as there is now
some evidence comparing length and
partials to a full range of motion
suggesting length and partials may lead
to a little bit more hypertrophy once
you're done with the set reverse the
motion you started the setup with I find
it easiest to end the set when the
dumbbells are at the top of the rep
alternatively if you're comfortable with
this technique and there's no one around
you and it's safe to do so you could end
the set when the numbs are at the bottom
just dropping them onto the ground
slowly so that is the optimal technique
for dumbbell pressing and maximizing
chest shoulder and tricep development
let's go through a technique checklist
that I described earlier and see whether
or not we hit every component perfectly
as far as Tempo goes we're having at
least a 1 to 2 second Ecentric a brief
pause in the stretch position to
emphasize all muscle lengths and an
explosive concentric Landing us within
an effective 2 to 8 second duration for
each repetition second as far as the
range of motion goes we're making sure
we get that loaded stretch within the
movement going all the way down even
angling the dumbbells up a a little bit
to get a deeper stretch at the very
least we're getting a full range of
motion in and potentially we can
increase the stretch even more by just
doing length and partials coming about
halfway up so the range of motion box is
ticked off as well and finally as far as
limiting external momentum generated
we're not excessively using leg drive or
getting our hips Off the Bench turning
into more of a decline press not there's
anything wrong with a decline press as
an exercise but that is not the exercise
you set out to do in the first place
that is the video I broke down how to do
the dumbbell press exercise to maximize
hypertrophy of the chest triceps and
front delts if you enjoyed the video
please leave a like comment subscribe
let me know down below what other
exercises you struggle with and would
like to see me cover from a queuing and
technique perspective if you aren't
subscribed already please do consider
subscribing around 50% of you aren't at
the time of watching this and I would
really appreciate your support likewise
please hit the Bell as well sounding an
awful lot like needle drop right now
please hit the Bell as well as many of
you also aren't getting notifications
when I do post a video whatever you do
your support is much appreciated if you
like me to coach you consider checking
out the link above and I can become your
coach in the meantime have a fantastic
phenomenal sickening day me me Wolf the
big the big scien tost and I'll will see
you next time
peace Meo Wolf the big the big scientist
is a sickening shout out peace out by