[Music]
as far as total number of training days
per week for whole body the everything
that you train my idea of what like a
decent effort looks like a serious
attempt is four times a week training or
more and that means four times five
times or six times a week training total
not per muscle but just for the whole
body what does that mean that means that
if you're like yeah man I'm fucking
trying to get jacked I'm like oh cool
you go into the gym I do ask that
sometimes and be like yeah absolutely I
go to the gym twice a week like twice a
week as a beginner that work works but
if you are more of an intermediate
you've been training for a few years and
you're really struggling to get to that
next level of size you got to show up to
the fucking gym like the people you look
into the magazines Chris bumpstead and
shit like that Chris bumpstead doesn't
go to the gym twice a week he goes to
the gym four five or six times a week I
don't know exactly what his frequency is
but I bet you it's one of those I bet
you a considerable amount it's one of
those I'm Jewish I don't bet real many
on bullshit like this ever I only bet on
one thing it's a stock market it's not a
bet it's a it's a statistical
abstraction