[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting this week we're going to
be looking at the so called
mind muscle connection I'm so this idea
that you should intentionally focus on
squeezing and isolating the muscle that
you're trying to target when doing
weight training exercises this topic
caught my attention from a recent issue
of the mass research review where Greg
knuckles reviewed a new study on this
topic and so we're gonna use that as the
sort of backbone for this video now
historically there have been two sides
to this debate now I'm on the one hand
you've got bodybuilders who been arguing
for decades that it's really important
to really focus on isolating the muscle
you're working because you'll be able to
activate it better and force it to grow
as a result and then more recently on
the other hand you have more academic
types arguing that well the mind muscle
connection doesn't really matter all
that much because as long as you're
taking the weight through a full range
of motion and the muscles are gonna have
to be firing anyway in order to get the
weight up I'm so according to them what
you should instead think about is how
you're moving your body in 3d space and
how you're executing the movement
properly and you don't need to worry too
much about activating specific muscles
since they're going to be active if you
move the weight regardless I'm not up to
this point I think that as a whole the
scientific data has been somewhat in
favor of not using internal cueing or
what we would call a mind muscle
connection and instead using external
cueing so just focusing on proper
execution and just moving the weight and
as shown in this 15 year review of
attentional focus when it comes to
things like stability balance endurance
and even force production in sports
specific contexts as you can see here
external focus beats internal focus
pretty much across the board
but still up until now well there has
been a good deal of research measuring
acute variables like EMG activation and
performance and I discussed one of those
studies in a previous video which I'll
link below up until now there hasn't
been a single long-term training study
looking at whether an internal or
external focus would result in better
muscle size and strength gains so enter
this 2018 study out of dr. Bradshaw
infeld's lab and quickly just covering
the methods here they took 27
college-aged men and randomly assigned
them to either an internal focus group
so they were told to squeeze the muscle
or an external focus group where they
were told to focus on getting the weight
up and they trained for eight weeks
doing four sets of eight to twelve reps
on the standing barbell curl and a leg
extension only and all sets were taken
to concentric failure and they use
progressive overload each week adding
weight when possible and after the weeks
they measured hypertrophy of the biceps
and the quads and they found that there
was significantly more biceps
hypertrophy in the internal focus or the
mind muscle connection group but there
is no difference in quad growth between
the two groups and as you can see here
in the graph from the mass research
review the results were pretty
impressive over five percent more growth
over just eight weeks by simply focusing
on squeezing your biceps but then I
think the question becomes why does the
mind muscle connection only seem to work
for the biceps and not for the quads
well the authors of this paper suggest
that it could be because people seem to
simply have better control of and
coordination with their upper
extremities compared with their lower
extremities and I think this does make
some intuitive sense your upper limbs
are often better at performing fine
motor tasks that require more precision
and your lower limbs usually aren't as
good they also bring up that perhaps
this is something that could be trained
over time for example I remember seeing
a video of an ambidextrous Chinese woman
riding with her left and right hands in
the left and right feet simultaneously
I'm so despite the fact that most of us
aren't as finely coordinated with our
lower bodies I'm pretty confident that
experienced body builders are able to
harvest and summon this mind muscle
connection in the lower limbs over time
and I have a feeling that if they did
use more highly trained and experienced
subjects in this study perhaps we would
have seen better results for quad
hypertrophy as well now they also
measured strength gains in this study
and they did that through asymmetric
testing so basically measuring how much
force you can exert against an immovable
load and it didn't find any
statistically significant differences
between the groups so at this point on
the whole it really seems that since
there isn't any difference in strength
but there is better muscle gain with
the internal focus approach this really
seems like an obvious win for the bros
and for the mind-muscle connection but
before we make any firm conclusions I'd
like to just quickly point out a few
limitations with this study first I
think it's important to keep in mind
that we're only looking at single joint
isolation exercises in a moderate rep
range here so I don't think that these
results should be too loosely
extrapolated to other heavier compound
exercises like squats presses and
deadlifts and in fact based on previous
research I would expect that if compound
exercises had been used the external
focus group so just focusing on getting
the weight up would probably have seen
better strength gains than the internal
focus group also as I mentioned strength
outcomes were measured using an
isometric strength test which may not
capture what is supposed to be the main
benefit of using an external focus which
is to improve motor performance and when
you think about it if you're just
pushing against some immovable object
you aren't really testing your true
motor performance and its relation to
strength but still motor learning and
performance is generally not a big
player when it comes to these single
joint movements anyway I'm so in the
context of this study and what they
measured I think it still makes sense to
use it I'm so in all I think that in
combination with previous EMG research
which I've discussed here on the channel
before we really are starting to develop
a solid evidence base for the mind
muscle connection and in light of this
new data I would say the idea that the
mind muscle connection leads to greater
size gains is not busted pulling all
this together my recommendation would be
to use external cueing so just focus on
how your body is moving in space for
heavy compound exercises like squats
deadlifts and presses especially when
going heavy on those I'm so say anything
below 8 reps and I would reserve the
mind-muscle connection approach mainly
for isolation exercises where the goal
is gonna be to target a specific muscle
so things like bicep curls cable fly's
and I would even include leg extensions
and leg curls despite the findings in
this study and I also find that some
compound exercises like hip thrusts and
Romanian deadlifts can benefit from
using a mind muscle connection since
people often have a hard time activating
their glutes or hamstrings in those
movements and
to just focus on externally queuing and
just simply getting the weight up your
lower back or your quads may start to
take over I'm so anyway I'm looking
forward to seeing more research on this
topic but as it stands now that seems
that there really is some truth to what
the bros have been saying all along um
so that's gonna be it for this one guys
now we've talked a lot about the
importance of a mind muscle connection
in this video but before we go I want to
tell you guys about another very
important connection and that's a VPN or
a virtual private and network connection
expressvpn is a new sponsor of the
myth-busting day series and I think that
if you care about your privacy and
security online then you really should
be using a VPN to keep your browsing
data IP address and personal info safe
from your internet service provider ad
companies and hackers and one annoying
thing that I've found about traveling
back and forth between the US and Canada
all the time is that stuff and I can't
always stream our shows like Westworld
or last week tonight when we're in
Canada so I found that using this
expressvpn we've been able to watch it
here no problem at all I'm so I think
expressvpn really is the best service in
this area I'm it's super fast has 24/7
customer support and you can also get it
on smartphone and tablet so for viewers
of this channel if you go to expressvpn
comm forward slash net bird that's exp
ress VPN comm forward slash net bird and
you can get three months of free privacy
and security with a one-year package of
expressvpn that's less than seven bucks
a month with a 30-day money-back
guarantee so you can learn more by
checking out the first link in the
description box below so thank you to
expressvpn for showing your support on
the channel I really appreciate it thank
you guys so much for watching I don't
forget to leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video and next week I'm gonna have
another vlog on the way but after that
it's gonna be the mythbuster Season
Finale I should say season 1 finale
that's what I'm gonna try to do is recap
all of the previous episodes try to
condense them down all into one video
for what you really need to know so you
guys can stay tuned for that one hit up
the button over here to subscribe if you
haven't already and I will see you guys
all here next Monday