what is going on everyone welcome to the
video so today what I figured I'd do is
take you guys through week 4 day 2 which
is a push day in my push-pull legs
program one thing that isn't included in
my push-pull legs program is direct neck
training and I do still do that two
sometimes three times a week and I had
the good people over at neck flex send
me this contraption right here so I've
got so many hilarious comments about
this when I posted it on my Instagram
but it's a really interesting device
this isn't sponsored or anything by the
way they were just nice enough to send
it to me patty lifts connect assistant
over here it's gonna help me out so I'm
gonna throw this on we're gonna do two
or three sets here and then when you get
started with some bench press I'll do
like usually 20 reps like this for my
first set thank you I love this because
you your hands are not involved so
there's no way that you can cheat like
it has I guess I could use a bit of
momentum at my hips but pretty much has
to be your neck doing the work here
oh man I had a sweat going it's a good
look good little warm-up to wanna give a
shot let's get it
I probably look just as dumb my ig story
for some reason your hands are like this
it's all you're like she looks like a
struggling t-rex
all right we're gonna do two more rounds
each and we're gonna pop into some edge
press so this is the workout we have
today so push number one and it's day to
my printer kind of cut it off there a
bit but yeah we just did a bit of direct
neck training if you are gonna be doing
it make sure you're stretching out
properly doing a proper warm-up and do
your head rotations and all that kind of
stuff I've talked about in other videos
anyway after that we're gonna hop into a
barbell bench press as the first
exercise we're doing three sets four
reps 85% one rep max so I'm gonna plug
that in my calculator and see what that
is for me so 0.85 and I'm putting in my
1 rep max is 350 pounds so that'll take
me to to 97.5 I'm gonna actually round
that down for my first set to 295 Co
that heal
and it's moving quite easily I might go
up to 300 we'll see and we'll probably
do three maybe four warm-up sets pyramid
our way up to that weight and then begin
the real work so here we go with your
warm-ups you want to treat them as if
they're working sets so try to use the
same technique same positioning same
explosive power off the chest as if you
actually had your working weight on the
bar what kind of neurologically program
is what you're going to be doing later
so I want to really quickly take you
guys through the gear that I use for
bench pressing I'm so starting from the
bottom up the key theme here is that we
want to eliminate any potential force
transfer loss from the base of support
on the ground all the way up to where
the bar is moving off your chest I'm
just starting with the bottom I'm using
a powerlifting shoe with a raised heel
so these are the adidas light song twos
and they've got a one inch raised heel
and that's good because if you're doing
the bench press properly initiating with
leg drive sort of driving your heels
into the floor there will be a tendency
to want to go up on your toes to get
that extra bit of Drive and so if you
have a raised heel it can make it a lot
easier to not do that because you've got
this extra elevation off the ground
already and then also it's a very flat
bottom of the shoe so it just gives you
that very stable base of support and
with the benchpress that really is where
that horse's is initiating from it's
from the ground I want to think about
driving your feet into the ground and
pushing the floor away from you as you
push the bar up and back up next from
there we've got the rise old school belt
and I like this one instead of the lever
belt for benching because I find it's
not quite as heavy on my midsection it's
not quite as clunky and basically what
this does is what any belt will do and
that's increase intra-abdominal pressure
so as I take my air in before every rep
you can see that my gut is pushing out
against the belt and what that does is
creates almost like a rigid column in
your abdomen so there's no opportunity
for force to be lost in the midsection
either from moving around and then also
it gives you something to
against I wouldn't say that a belt is
mandatory by any means some power
lifters use it some don't for the bench
but I figure if I have one and I'm using
it for squats and deadlifts I do find it
gives me that like two to five percent
edge on the bench press so I do throw it
on up at the wrists I've got these
lifting wraps to basically prevent any
movement of the wrist back and forth so
that's a potential to create a moment
arm and to lose some force transfer if
your wrist is moving back and forth so
this helps lock everything in and I
won't use them for my warmup sets I also
won't use my belt for my warmup set but
once the weight gets heavy I do find
that these give me that this extra a
little bit of stability and support and
I'll have all the stuff linked in the
description box below if you want to
check it out like I said none of it is
mandatory by any means but it may give
you that little bit of edge in terms of
safety and performance essentials for
with 85% is pretty heavy because the
program goes through
by three
here we go
hopefully again my glue yeah maybe it's
just in my head then sometimes that
first one is the worst because takes a
while to get into a groove
easy now that myth-busting day is over I
think next month I'm going to be
launching a new series called technique
Tuesday I'm gonna go through all the
exercises all the main ones anyway and
from like top to bottom and go through
all the different technique cues that I
use what the sign says on different
executions and so forth so I'm gonna
save my full benchpress tutorial for
that but that's on the way soon all
right let's get it yeah here we go
easy let's get it
I hate when it doesn't move as fast as I
want to shoot it's like sometimes I'll
come in and it's just like Springs off
my chest and then other times it feels
like dead weight weighted is what it is
as long as it moves I'm happy I still
feel like I could have got a couple more
reps
all right guys unless you got a seated
dumbbell shoulder press three sets of
eight to ten one of the old tricks that
I use on this is you want to try to get
the bench as close to where the
dumbbells that you're gonna be using are
so you don't have to waste all your
energy doing farmers walks just to get
to the bench
so I actually can tire you out and we're
trying to train the shoulders here like
not the forearms or the trafficking so
I'll move this in here and then that way
just take the dumbbells off sit him down
get him up Oh waste as much energy
just crushes any like this
oh yeah
Oh
halfway through the set like right here
there's just a ring just a call coming
in already set it on do not disturb yeah
don't call me unwrapped for okay here we
go there we go
[Applause]
good job
I actually felt better than the first to
come next
we got three sets of weighted dips six
to ten reps and we're really gonna focus
on form here and not going some close to
failure so I like to go it around on RPF
seven on these so leaving about three
reps in the tank now in terms of
execution here we're really trying to
target the pecs not just the triceps
even though we will to a degree on these
machines there's usually it outside
setting and inside set I actually like
to go one outside one inside so it's
kind of like a moderate rip with you
want to tuck your elbows in but not all
the way so you don't wanna be pressing
out here but you also don't want to be
pressing in here so I like about a 45
degree elbow tuck and then you want to
position your torso about 15 degrees
forward so about here rather than you're
just going straight up and down you want
to get your chest more involved but
position slightly forward crossing your
legs over here at the bottom and you're
gonna dip down and press up
and that's it so I'm gonna strap in see
what feels good today and these these
are one of my favorites these are great
if you feel any shoulder pain on these I
would do like maybe a decline press
instead but if you can do weighted dips
I think they're fantastic overall mass
builder chest
pecs triceps general strength
there you go oh it's good
hitting press play this one help we
heard her I just remember this because
we're son asking if I was excited to go
to Hong Kong so Steph and I are both
going to Hong Kong on the 15th so by the
time this is out we'll be there but
we're doing a seminar at volume Hong
Kong gym it's gonna be October the 21st
at 2 p.m. so I'll have all the
information about the seminar linked in
the description box below if you guys
are interested I'm here from Hong Kong
or somewhere close by come out and say
what's up let them meet you guys pretty
good all right so guys pub next we're
doing low to high cable flyes with the
pecs you have the primary function being
transverse shoulder adduction so
bringing your arm in closer to the
midline so that's what you're doing when
you're pressing when you're doing flies
or what-have-you
the upper PEC also assists in shoulder
flexion so raising our arm up like in a
front raise the front delt also does
this but so does the upper PEC and
that's why when you go on an incline you
tend to activate the upper pecs more
that's because now you have more
shoulder and shoulder flexion involved
so when we do these low to high we're
getting a bit of shoulder flexion
involved and then also you have internal
rotation so if you just put your palm up
facing up and then point it down you can
feel your your pecs shorten here if we
go from externally rotated to internally
rotate it abducted to a ducted and then
also more extended to more flex you're
getting all 3 biomechanical functions of
the PEC is CLC he's externally rotating
at the bottom internet located here at
the top flexing his shoulders up
that's more involved and then making
sure he's bringing the cables in and not
just up
yeah
so I'm actually got three sets of 15
with dumbbell lateral raises one thing
I've been doing lately that's actually
quite different they've been trying to
keep these under a constant tension so
rather than letting the dumbbells come
to a stop on my side I'll stop though
3/4 of the way down and then go back up
what I think of this as is that novel
means of applying a progressive overload
here because once you get to the point
where at like 32 maybe 40 pound
dumbbells you really can't load it any
heavily like you kind of max out your
strength at some point and then you
increase the risk of injury and there's
almost no way you're not going to use
momentum so what I've done is I've
knocked myself back down to 20 25 pound
dumbbells and I just stopped the range
of motion about here and then reverse it
again
and it makes it so much harder so if you
guys are stuck on dumbbell lateral
raises and you feel you're not able to
progress any further just try this
slight variation out I guarantee you
it'll make it a lot harder you'll have
to go a little bit lighter the beginning
pub next we've got a dumbbell eisah
lateral skull Crusher's so here I'm
going to be working both arms
individually and this is another
exercise where I really feel like
constant tension has some merit it's
actually been shown in one study in
particular to have specific merit when
it comes to skull crushers they did a
video on that like a year or two ago so
I'll link that below if you're
interested but here we're trying to keep
constant tension on by not completely
locking out on the way up and then
keeping our elbow somewhat back on the
way down so when I extend I'm actually
finishing back here so the tricep is
forced to always be on so when I'm
extending I'm more back behind my head
rather than out here in front of my face
does that make sense so a couple little
form tweaks there but other than that
we're just doing a simple three sets of
12 reps
so I'll start here bring the elbows back
a bit feel the triceps turn on
three quarters of the way up nice bro
those are hard next I think it's just
ABS right yeah so I've got an AB wheel
roll out but I've been substituting
those sometimes I find them put a little
bit of pressure on my lower back so I'm
gonna do a decline AB med ball crunch
throw instead it sounds super random but
it's one of my favorites
let's do 300 now
Devlin
there we go finally yeah
all right guys that's a wrap for this
workout let me know if you enjoyed this
style of video where I kind of just like
take you through the workout as I do it
really easy for me to produce and I have
a lot of fun making them so just let me
know the whole full 16 week push
bollocks program is available on my
website so if you go to Jeff nipper comm
you can get it there also have a link
down there in the description box below
it's a two-block training program
slightly different focuses in each block
there's coaching notes from me
everything that I talked about in my
videos is kind of condensed down into
the program so if you'd like to check it
out support me get yourself a new
program in the process thank you guys so
much for watching please leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe to the channel if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video