it was prom night
she was wearing a beautiful dress she
looked right at you she started to walk
up to you your heart
skipped at least
one beat
she was coming up to you to tell you how
she felt exactly like you felt about her
but she didn't come up to you
she come up to the guy behind you who
she could see from behind you because
his outer lats were so big
and she was like excuse me and you moved
out of the way heartbroken of course and
she's like um why are your lats like uh
so bad and he was like i don't know what
to find out
elsewhere and she's like ah
and that was it that's all you remember
from prom but don't worry we have the
solution
wide lats
and a whole program for free right in
this video folks let's get to it
specialization why lats is the goal
first question is why specialize like
why can't we just train everything and
also train our lats to be wider you
totally can however specialization
offers a few advantages first
you sometimes just want one muscle to
grow bigger than the others like if your
shoulders are already pretty sweet and
your mid-back is already pretty cool but
your lats just aren't as wide as you
would want in relation to those
then
you can train your lats more with
specialization train everything else a
little bit less or normally and then
your lats may catch up a little bit
second thing is we can specialize and
part of the specialization is reducing
the focus on other muscle groups and
that gives your body more recovery
adaptive energy and nutrients in order
to pour into your upper lats so your
upper lats get much better much faster
than if you really try to hammer
everything the same
you can train everything normally but if
you want a little bit more speed with
which to get your lats a little wider
you may try a specialization program
like the one we're going to describe in
this video
now another big question always comes up
and it's okay well the prioritization or
specialization seems to grow my muscles
faster can i just prioritize everything
well you totally can as long as you can
recover from prioritizing everything
everyone but beginners can't and the
real question of well how much can it
recover from it's up to you to ask so
try to prioritize one muscle group at a
time keep everything else normal
training and see if you can recover
whole body if you can your whole body
can recover systemic fatigue isn't crazy
hey next mesocycle next program add
another thing instead of just focusing
on big lats focus on big lats and big
triceps see if that works and slowly
over time you'll find out that you can
specialize maybe four or five muscles at
a time and then five or six is just too
much for your body 85 or six is totally
fine it has to be something you find out
on your own my only
uh
sort of
best recommendation to you is not to try
to specialize everything all at once and
find out you can't and then start to
chop things off i would say work
everything normally and specialize one
thing and then two things and then three
things uh and then see where you hit
that top limit because then you make a
lot of gains going on the way there as
opposed to trying to go too much to
begin with making very poor gains doing
less still making poor gains um good
ideas to work your way up not work your
way down all right so we're into
specialization let's talk about some
basics of what makes a program a
specialized program as opposed to just a
regular program well first is
specificity you're going to choose your
exercises and the modalities like meyer
reps versus straight sets and your rep
ranges to preferentially stimulate the
target muscle so for example when you
choose exercises for your back but you
want wide lats you're going to do a lot
more vertical pulling than you are
horizontal rolling because horizontal
wrong just not as good especially for
the upper outer lats as is vertical
pulling so that's just a really good
example there
next is the idea of prioritization
you're going to train muscles or sorry
the exercises that really target your
upper lats and outer lats
mostly first often as the first exercise
or group of exercises in a bunch of the
days through the week you don't want to
have this thing where you're like yeah
i'm really focused on getting my lats
super big and someone's like oh yeah
when do you train them like after bench
and incline and biceps and triceps and
shoulders i'll do some lat work at the
end like i thought it was important to
you you want to train important things
fresh so maybe not every time you train
your back but most of the times you
train your back through the week if your
lats are really your goal to prioritize
train them first or second in the
workout don't train them last or in the
middle or something like that
another ingredient is frequency
generally speaking at least in the short
term
several weeks to several months at a
time higher frequency works better than
lower frequency especially to bring up a
lagging muscle group so maybe you can
train your lats once a week and that may
not bring you the best gains two times a
week would be much better but maybe even
three to four times a week for really
focusing on bringing up your upper outer
lats gee whiz that'll make you wider
faster is it sustainable maybe not but
you don't need to sustain you just need
bigger lats now
finally go
get a time machine go back to prom
elbow that guy which i like this one
he's like yeah you know with the elbow
and the back fist
he falls down and then you lat spread
and that girl comes right up to you and
she's like oh my god
i already know what you're going to say
let's go back to your room and she's
like totally let's say you're in the
money
lastly you may consider engaging in some
reduction of non-specialized training
especially for synergist muscle groups
that if they are too uh tired as the
french say they may actually limit your
lats from becoming as big and strong as
possible so for example if you're doing
a ton of bicep work in your program and
a lot of that transfers to all the
forearm flexors it could be that when
you're doing pull downs and pull-ups
your biceps and forearm flexors are so
tired from the massive volume you're
imposing on them that you end up failing
on pull-ups because your forearm flexors
fail not because your lats fail that's
not ideal for labs so one thing you want
to do is potentially if you really want
to just throw all the chips at it
really prioritize your upper back or
sorry upper outer lats what you want to
do is maybe reduce your bicep volume to
some extent reduce your rear delt volume
reduce the amount of rowing you're doing
all the muscles that work with the lats
to pull you want them to be maybe a
little bit on the back burner not it's
not a mandatory thing but if you really
you just had enough you're tired i'm not
going to prom or going to prom not
getting laid then you really want you
have to bring down the rolling volume
bring down the curling volume and then
every workout that you do for your upper
outer lats it's going to be hammering
them like crazy and they're going to be
the limiting factor if that's going to
give you your best thing it's not
something you have to do but again if
you really want to up the ante you're
really super serious about making these
gains it's definitely a tool in the
toolbox
all right
now it's time to construct your
specialized plan for upper outer lat
development sort of based on the stuff
we talked about earlier so first
frequency i would give some thought to
training the back three or four times
per week or three or four back centered
parts of your workout um and two or
three of those should be highly focused
on the upper outer lats and then maybe
another workout or two can be focused on
just general back development a little
bit more back burner if we focus every
single workout in the week on a specific
part of a muscle we can end up going and
fatiguing that local part so much that
doesn't have time to recover between the
weeks and then it just kind of
gets too tired over time and you don't
make great gains but if you want to make
a big push at the early part of the week
later part of the week a bit of a
relaxation and then another push you
just keep getting better and better and
better so it works really well
exercises nothing too fancy here the
first thing i'll say is i have some
recommendations right uh core of heavy
vertical pulling you want big upper
outer lats you know how many pull-ups
can you do if it's more than 10 how many
weighted pull-ups can you do how heavy
is the weight of course always a strict
technique show me a guy who can do
weighted pull-ups for pretty high reps
with a lot of weight i'll show you guys
with probably really big lats it's not
rocket science another thing is straight
arm pulling okay so lat prayers are an
excellent idea to target
the upper and outer lats you can of
course do any kind of machine variant of
that pullover also awesome
you can keep in rowing and you probably
should but uh i would put rowing later
in the session generally speaking
especially for the upper outer lats
vertical pulling and lap prayers just
target the upper outer lats better than
rows do rows can absolutely target lats
totally well but because they don't
allow that top stretch you know anytime
you stop with the roads here it's not up
here there's a limit to how much rows
can help rows are really good for the
rest of your back but for upper outer
lats i mean g whiz you know vertical
pulling and lap pairs are unlikely to be
b now
you may say to yourself hold on doctor
mike i have these other exercises that i
find really crush my upper outer lats
like you know the whole like one arm
pull down thing hey listen if that is a
great stimulus for you and it's very low
on fatigue by all means included these
are just example exercises but if you
have exercise that you really feel hit
the regen absolutely pepper them into
your program they're going to work great
for you i can't tell you what's 100
gonna work great for you that's up to
you to find out
set numbers
for the back
in this program start every session with
two to six sets at the beginning right
six sets of something like you've
trained lats for a while you know they
have a high volume tolerance you do six
sets of total back work in a session you
know you're going to be totally fine is
the beginning of your stimulus close to
your minimum effect of volume if you
know that great start at six if you
really haven't trained your back and
lats much start closer to two so you can
ramp up from there no reason to do it
all up front it actually causes more
damage than it does growth not something
we want as far as loading and rep ranges
this is something we have to be creative
with you have to do the loading which
translates to the rep ranges that's a 5
to 10 10 to 20 or 20 30 that correspond
with your best stimulus to fatigue ratio
here's the thing we're all built just a
bit differently
sometimes people really get an unreal
stimulus of sets of 8 in the weighted
pull-up
for the lats some people don't feel
hardly anything except joint pain in
that rep range they get much better work
out of sets of 15. still other people
say sets of 25 reps for like lap pairs
or something burn them and crush their
lats like no one else's business so what
i would say is focus on the rep ranges
that are best for you for your own pump
for your own tension for your own burn
the best stimulus and less fatigue for
you there are no wrong answers between
sets of five and six or 30 reps but
there are slightly better answers
depending on how your own feedback works
generally speaking if you're going to do
a mix of rep ranges i would start most
sessions with the heavy end so that's a
5 to 10 when you're fresh and that will
correspond with some exercise selection
so someone could say hey you know if i
want upper outer lats don't i want to
start with lap prayers first well maybe
but if you do those for sets of 10 to 20
maybe it's better to start with vertical
pulling let's say pull-ups with a weight
sets a five to ten
you're going to be super fresh with your
lats when you hit that and that's going
to be able to hit them for you usually
better than starting with an isolation
movement first but if the stimulus to
fatigue ratio in your case means
isolation first starting is a good idea
hey that's absolutely good i think good
idea to do
all right
we got a basic plan at least
intellectually laid out how do we
progress through it well first of all
set numbers if you are no longer sore
at all by the time that you start your
next back workout then the next week you
can probably do a little bit more work
if you're still sore or not even sore
but very tired and fatigued and unable
to get very good performances
you need to reduce the set numbers
you're doing so for example if you do
eight sets of lat work on monday and
then wednesday you have to come in and
do you know let's say seven sets
if by wednesday you were completely
recovered and you feel super strong
you're hitting mega pr's
g eight sets on monday that's at least
the correct answer i would say next week
try nine
but if you come in on wednesday and the
eight sets from monday messed you up
you're still sore you're still weaker
than you were before then gee you know
eight sets is probably overkill i would
go down to like six sets next monday
still increase load still increase wraps
but six sets total may be a better
stimulus with less of a recovery demand
that is going to result as you auto
regulate your program on average the
volume is going to calibrate a little
bit but it's probably going to go up as
your body gets used to the work over
time
reps in reserve relative effort
basically a hard to go start like around
three reps in reserve and then add like
a little bit of weight maybe two and a
half five pounds every week maybe a rep
or two every week to every lift and at
some point you're going to get really
close to failure and as soon as you have
a week of basically zero rer or failure
training you're probably going to
accumulate so much fatigue it's going to
be time to deload
loading and reps
easy same idea as the rir you add two
and a half to five pounds every week and
or one to two reps add what is
reasonable add what you'll be able to
hit for a rep pr next week but also if
you have three more weeks don't add so
much weight that you're just gonna peter
out add a little bit of weight at a time
if you add two and a half pounds all the
time and you do it for eight weeks
straight you're going to revolutionize
your physique if you had 10 pounds in
one session you're super proud of
yourself the next session you may be so
fatigued that there's no more ability to
add you have to deload wash away the
fatigue repeat it's super super annoying
all right so here's a sample plan
caveat it's a sample so this isn't like
the ultimate flat training program the
other thing there's too much individual
variation for us to ever say that but
here's a plan you can try it's your
weighted normal grip pull-ups overhand
so this is going to be in the 5-10 rep
range nice and heavy after that assisted
pull-ups after that barbell rows so your
upper lats are going to be super super
toasted
wednesday straight arm pull downs we
start out with those
then wide grip pull downs after notice
wednesday is an average lighter than
monday because we generally like to
train heavy when we're more fresh then
cable rows to the chest afterwards
really finish off the back notice we're
not backing off from all the other back
training just a little bit less
and then friday
just bent over rows two arm bent over
rows with dumbbells
for only two sets of 10 to 20 reps why
so little because we want to really make
enough of a stimulus that friday to
conserve the muscle we've built monday
and wednesday which almost certainly
conservation is very easy and then we
want to make sure that it's so little
work
that over the weekend you recover big
time so that next monday and wednesday
you can smash it again so it's kind of
like monday wednesday smash friday
easier monday wednesday smash find it
easier
here i thought fridays were for smashing
huh a little netflix and chill joke for
you guys all right so this would be like
what week one would look like if we
scroll over this is a sample of what the
final pre-deload week let's say week
four or five of the program would be
like
notice
instead of three reps in reserve
everything is zero reps in reserve there
are some sample increases in
sets
and notice the rep ranges are the same
but the sets have gone up and that's
just for you guys to sort of figure out
okay am i completely off the mark with
my own set increases or this is
something super realistic notice the
sets do increase significantly but it's
not like we add 10 sets per exercise
maybe more like three to five sets per
exercise maybe even three to five sets
total of the program one cool thing to
notice there is friday
okay
on the first friday we did two sets of
rows that was easy and on the last
friday we only do three sets of rows why
again because it's that recovery thing
friday maybe on the very last friday
maybe here we would do rows and a bunch
of other stuff because we don't care
because deals are coming up but on most
fridays
up until this one we do very small
amount of rowing work because we want
that recovery to come afterwards
all right
that's basically specialization for our
sample program for you guys for upper
auto lats to get that width so the girls
notice you
how long do you specialize for ideally
three mesocycles in a row accumulate
deload accumulate deload accumulate
deload then you're done
you can alter the rep ranges every
single time a lot of times you
accumulate a lot of fatigue as you go so
maybe doing more high rep stuff as each
month of training passes is a good idea
maybe if you can survive the lower up
stuff no big deal you can introduce some
new exercises especially if the
exercises you have tend to get stale on
you so if your your weighted pull-ups
are doing great they feel amazing very
minimum joint discomfort tons of great
pumps and tension you don't have to
trade them out you can keep them the
entire three months but if you've got
like some kind of cable row variant but
after a month or after the first program
is like ah it kind of feels weird my
lower back is really tired i'm not sure
i'm into this try a machine or something
else variation should be uh imposed from
a needs perspective not necessarily
we're just like hey here's variation for
no sake at all
similar structure similar frequency you
can try a little bit higher frequency in
the last meso so maybe in the first
mountain cycle you do three back
sessions a week second when you also do
three and the third one because we're
going to be having a very long time to
rest afterwards it doesn't have to be
sustainable you can try another cycle of
four back days per week holy crap four
back days per week don't worry you won't
be the first you won't be the last to do
it people have had great success with it
just reduce your pro session volumes a
little bit if you're used to starting
with four sets every back workout
maybe start with three but then over
time it's gonna work up over the weeks
to something with really high volume
it's gonna really put an exclamation
mark on your best effort to grow your
upper and outer lats after you finish
that whole mesocyclo four time a week
back training focused on the upper outer
lats gee whiz you know you're not going
to have a whole lot more
growth in the short term at least to get
out of that equation afterwards our
body's going to need a break ideally
you do two weeks of active rest after
those three mesocycles maybe four weeks
of maintenance training very low volume
relatively heavy load just to keep the
muscle on the body really reinvigorate
your musculature and the entire system
to be ready to grow again and then you
can do a normal block of training three
miles of cycles normal you can do three
mesos focused on another muscle
altogether or you can do another three
mesos of that with focused no big deal
you can do it back to back as long as
you take at least an active rest face
between them
all right that's a lot of stuff and
hopefully that's got you curious what
about this you don't know what the
exercises look like no big deal we have
some links right here for you first we
have an exercise video library totally
for free a bunch of the exercises we
recommended rp with none other than
myself narrating them and jared feather
doing them so all of a sudden you have
this really really cool resource
we have a muscle group training guide it
just uh it's in the link here but it's
hypertrophy guide central hub and we
have all of the muscle groups with
exercises and periodization
recommendations sample programs it's all
in there all for free so if you really
get curious about other muscles or even
this one good idea to try
we have the hypertrophy made simple
lifting videos if you're like what the
hell is rir go and click on that
playlist it'll be awesome it'll set you
up with a really good understanding of
muscle growth so if you circle back
around to this video a whole lot more
stuff will make sense
the hypertrophy book
which was authored by myself and a few
other co-authors is not free uh however
it is very very in-depth so if you're
really a nerd you really want to learn
about this stuff especially the program
for your clients who care about
hypertrophy or paying you money i would
get the hypertrophy book that's a good
idea and here's a really cool thing you
can build so yeah you can build this
program on your own using microsoft
excel or whatever but if you pass like
oh basically 100 bucks like 99 bucks
you can build your own specialization
program
for the upper outer lats or whatever
else you like with our custom training
template builder the link is right there
you you build your own program you tell
it how much of which muscle groups you
want to train
how many times a week you want to train
what your gender is it sends you a
program and then here's the thing that
program is quote unquote only for six
weeks however you can use it as at least
two more times and you can change the
exercises every time so you can design
a real back specific split on this back
specific specialization split and then
once you get your program you pick all
the exercises to be the ones for upper
outer lats for lat width that you want
you run a mesocycle keep all the
exercises for the next one that are
great replace the ones that were not
good it's right there you just drag and
drop no big deal and then do it again
and again and again so you can have this
entire thing that i just described
of you know three mesocycles of upper
back focus training to get your lats
super wide
if you want that
yes you can build it yourself we
encourage you to do so 100 i've got
enough lamborghinis but if you want to
put a little coin into lambo fund and
buy yourself a custom training template
then you can have this process really
ultra simplified for you and it's like
18 or more weeks of training for just
100 bucks not the worst deal in the
world give it some thought folks i'll
see you next time uh some other time for
another muscle group program for free
hey see you then
yeah being wide is cool from the back
what about being wide from the front
armored upper packs you want them
there's the link right there