so I posted that I'd be interviewing you
on my
to Graham and I got a bunch of questions
but I'm just gonna pick the one that I
heard the most frequently and it was it
had to do with whether or not you can
change your body fat setpoint yes so
let's say for example you're someone who
has historically had a round of roughly
fifteen to twenty percent body fat say
you're a male you want to diet down and
look a little bit leaner so you get down
to I don't know eight or ten percent do
you think that you can change that that
set point so that you can settle into
that that new look leaner look okay so
sort of just so people are kind of clear
on the terminology the idea the set
point is that the body has some set body
weight or body fat that it defends and
by defend I mean it tries to stay at
that level right they've shown this in
animals for years take an animal over
feed it metabolism goes up and hunger
goes down and it kind of returns to its
normal body weight under feet it tab
ilysm goes down hunger goes up let it
have food and it kind of and it'll it's
kinda you know the example I typically
used as a thermostat thermostat you set
your temperature
that's your setpoint things go above
that AC comes on I've got a bloat about
the heat comes on this has been somewhat
of a theoretical construct for a while
there this cuz they've been arguing
about this for thirty years about
whether or not it happens then again
they argued about whether or not
metabolic adaptation existed for about
twenty years to and we know now that it
it does there's another concept called a
settling point which is environmental
right so the idea is that if I take
someone who's been inactive and eating a
crappy diet and I increase activity and
fix their food they will eventually
their body weight body fat will come
down and they'll settle at that new
level and this argument has been going
on for years whether there's a true set
point or just a settling point and the
answer is it's both this is the most
comprehensive model includes both and it
has to within a range fairly narrow
range body weight can change you know
it'll tend to settle if you're a little
bit more active and watching your diet
your little leaner and little fat or
whatever but once you get beyond a
certain point these metabolic
adaptations kick in these are in
arguable like they every study has the
only studies that ever didn't find a
real metabolic adaptation
was in extremely obese people and
there's no reason for the body to really
adapt this adaptive thermogenesis the
setpoint exists now we might ask well if
it exists why do people getting a bit
keep getting obese and that gets them to
environmental factors clearly our
environment we are surrounded by cheap
tasty easily available food that can
overwhelm any biological system that
could be in place animals don't have
access to Pizza Hut right and even if
you give animals access to it's called a
cafeteria diet they basically give them
cookie dough they will eat themselves to
their obese like if you give them the
equivalent of the Western diet so that
can clearly offset the question you're
asking is does setpoint ever reset
itself lower like let's say your
setpoint is theoretically your body
wants to stay at 18% can you ever bring
that down and the answer is probably not
most of the studies that have ever been
done looking at what they can it's
mostly in obese people right realize
that researchers don't care about lean
people they don't have to they're not
lean people are not the problem a public
policy health standpoint if you look at
the post obese that have been dieted
down to some percentage below their
their previous body weight there is some
amount of metabolic adaptation that is
present up to at least seven years it
never seems to go away there's no
indication that it will ever disappear
or reset itself it seems like you can go
up some women you list they get pregnant
and for whatever reason like it never
comes back off OB he said he may be able
to reset it upwards but there's really
no indication that it it ever like it
gets that it ever resets itself in a
biological sense now people will point
out that yeah but how come the leaner
how come when you stay leaner for longer
it gets easier
that's probably behavioral you know most
people oh they're still just your habits
are becoming so well entrenched your
training is so consistent your diet is
so on time even if you start to slip you
usually catch yourself because let's
face it we know you know don't get a
little bit tighter but there's really
unfortunately no indication that's that
point can
or come back down so until you know in
in no model they ever examined you know
you don't start animals down and keep
them there and just it the body never
adjusts to that new new body fat level
or body weight unfortunately right so
say my body wants me to be a hundred and
eighty pounds but I like the way I look
better at 165 right what am i just
always gonna be hungry at 165 or is
there some way that I can increase my
food intake once I get there to sort of
offset that
yeah and that's probably you know what a
lot of the research that looks at like
exercise and weight loss finds that it
typically doesn't have an enormous
effect on weight loss per se mainly
because they don't give people a lot of
it like when you give people a lot of it
600 calories six days a week battle
that's that's that's a lot but it really
has shown its main benefit for weight
loss maintenance and I think that's a
big part of it is that one
first off realized that that unless
you're super lean these the metabolic
adaptations have done in some way
overstated
like in in the obese people you died and
down 10% below their resting metabolic
rate is decreased by about 50 calories
like it's not on some people are better
than others and actually most of the
drop in energy expenditure most of the
adaptive effect is inactivity it's
because you're burning less during
exercise and you tend to move around
less in the obese it's like 75 to 90
percent of the total drop is in non
resting energy expenditure
it's not even in resting metabolic rate
that's being really impacted so the
totals like 150 calories today and only
50 calories of those resting metabolic
right now you see bearded difference is
when you're dieting because leptin is
lower than it would be even at
maintenance but when you come up to
maintenance all these hormones at least
come back towards normal so increasing
in activity offsets a big part of that
decrease in whatever decrease in resting
metabolic rate has occurred but mainly
it's a decrease in activity so if
suddenly you're burning 15% less
calories in your aerobic exercise well
you do a little bit more and that will
offset that chain which also by doing
more exercise you can eat physic
more food and and that will help to
offset that so that's like you're really
you're not unfortunately eliminating the
any decrease there are you expenditure
but you are at least offsetting it with
with other activities so that you're not
having to keep your food as constrained
for as long right so yeah increasing
exercise activity but do you think that
there's any value and also trying to
sort of steadily increase your your food
intake so in a reverse diet I hosted a
debate with a bunch of people yeah he
kind of came to the conclusion that it
makes most sense just to go back to your
new maintenance rather than slowly hike
your way up to the new maintenance but
then once you let's say you get to your
new maintenance calories do you think
you can then sort of like push the
envelope further with further small
caloric increases to sort of mitigate
hunger and increase the the metabolic
rate even further yes and now you know
there I've had kind of a problem with
this for a little while and reverse
dieting kind of came to mean a couple of
different things one was this slow
increase from your diet level back to
maintenance and I didn't didn't have
time to listen the entire debate but it
seemed like the general conclusion was
my opinion is don't take more in about
two weeks like you don't have to come
immediately back to maintenance because
people get nutty about the water weight
but you need to start that system taking
weeks and weeks and weeks to get back to
maintenance
that's just weeks that you're still in a
deficit but once you're back at
maintenance and you stabilize what
you're asking is okay if I raise
calories little bits will I be able to
raise my energy expenditure
what-have-you and there are people
online that's where that this is
happening they're like I'm maintaining
at a higher level than I was before I
think there's a couple things going on
one is that the increase in in resting
metabolic rate is really pretty
insignificant like the studies they've
done don't overfeed him like a thousand
calories a day which is not what we're
talking about at exactly resting
metabolic rate might go up a hundred
like it doesn't offset anywhere near the
number of calories however when you
start to raise calories slightly you can
train harder and you can probably train
more to get more energy right people's
energy just goes to
a toilet when they're dieting it sucks I
think also there's frequently an
increase in that non-exercise activity
thermogenesis there's other daily
activities especially if you're
conscious to do it and I think
physically fit people tends to we're not
the ones that are taking the escalator
or driving around the park more lot to
when they go to the store and those
little things really do add up like the
really I'm sure you again I'm sure
you've done a podcast on this if not try
to get dr. Levine in here
he's the neat guy and basically the
conclusion is you can't affect resting
metabolic rate much you can't affect
thermic effect of food exercise for most
people is a non-starter non-exercise
activity thermogenesis that's where it's
at those walking treadmills little bits
add up a ton if you can increase your
your daily energy expenditure by a
calorie a minute it were over eight
hours that's five hours a day like it's
really really significant and I think a
lot of what's going on as people are
training more intensely more voluminous
ly because they're on more calories
their weight may be climbing very
gradually they're also probably being
generally more active and I think yeah
in that racing things even if their way
to staying relatively stable but again
it's mostly gonna be in my opinion on on
the energy expenditure I'm sorry the the
activity the energy expenditure and end
of things
yeah burning more calories during
exercise and during need so then did any
really effect on you know metabolic rate
per se right especially if no weight is
especially if you know weight is games
like if you gain weight there's a there
was a good like belle-isle did a study
where he overfed leaner of these people
the 10% over there starting body weight
and he actually saw about a 15 he saw
the same adaptive thermogenic increase
in energy expenditure of about 15
percent that you see with dieting but
they had to gain 10 percent of their
body weight which if you're trying to
maintain you know a lower weight that's
again that's not really your goal so yes
and no and and there seems to be massive
individuals variability in that as well
some people you can add 500 calories off
the bat and they don't gain any weight
where other people will retain a bunch
oh right and that's that's that class
and that's again that's genetics that's
you know the classic study was they
overfed a group of people a thousand
calories some gained like twelve kilos
it was something ridiculous and others
gained like two and those people moved
around more they just and that's
hormonal genetic it's increases in
insulin and nervous system output and
it's there's a brain in chemistry aspect
of and that controls all of this
they've depressingly shown getting back
to something you brought up the people
who increase energy expenditure the most
in response to overfeeding decrease it
the least during dieting right so they
are the most defended against weight
loss weight gain if they gain it it's
super easy and vice versa
the people who have the worst decrease
increase to over feeding have the
biggest decreased dieting so basically
you're either genetically blessed or
genetically screwed and probably kind of
bring this to a close in that study the
four people that showed the single worst
response in terms of neat with over
feeding we're women right yeah it's just
no surprise as to anybody yeah yeah so
people who have quote-unquote slow
metabolisms so that people who have to
diet on lower calories do you attribute
that mostly to meat and that's what it's
really looking what like there's not
huge variance in resting metabolic right
between people there's not turn thermic
effect of food there's very little
individual variance
most people don't exercise so they tend
to ignore that and research but but yeah
they're fine they're finding that if
total daily energy expenditure from the
Hiatt s the lowest meat can vary by
2,000 calories a day and that's absurd
that's absurd like that that could
literally double someone's energy
expenditure and some of it is certainly
cultural and societal I've found some
paper and there's one country where the
women's need is like triple men's but
they work on the farms and they do all
the housework in Europe Austria America
it's about the same and somewhere else
the men was fine
than the women I forget where it was
specifically so a lot of that is is
cultural in sociological I'm willing to
bet you that people in New York have
higher NEET than people in Texas because
we drive everywhere there is no
opportunist is not a walking City and
cities that are set up for the that I
guarantee you people get more neat than
others but there's a big genetic
component some people just move around
more than others and this is all it's
it's a neurochemical II mediated by
things like dopamine and and some of
their neuro chemicals that some people
are just because a lot of need is
subconscious you do it without even
noticing it just visitors and moving
around and it really does that up so
yeah I think I think the big part of
that slow or fast metabolism if you look
it's just it's never resting metabolic
rate there's just not that much
difference unless you got someone who's
like hypothyroid or hyperthyroid like
real disease states but by and large
there's just not a big difference even
the difference in between men and women
comes down there's about a 10%
difference for body weight it comes down
to the difference in body composition
flat out when you normalize for lean
body mounts women at most have a little
bit less but actually during the luteal
phase little bit higher because of that
progesterone metabolic effects though so
yeah I mean there's really not much
difference there thermic effect of food
unless you're eating a ton more you're
exercising a lot that's a big part of it
but I do really think it's neat
absolutely great so I think that would
serve as a nice segue into a metabolic
damage so yes you can correct me if I'm
wrong but I think the the metabolic
damage Theory is a little different than
the metabolic adaptation idea in that
metabolic adaptation are the changes
that occur as a result of the diet that
you're on metabolic damage at first the
idea that there's somehow a carryover
there's some permanent change so even
after you might regain your weight or
restore your right your food intake your
metabolism is somehow damaged in the
sense that you now will wrying weight on
calories that before you might have
maintained on right yeah
that'd been a bunch of crap um in my
opinion yes is the short answer pretty
much all the research I've seen ranging
from the early Minnesota study where
they starved men to the you know
limits of low body-fat their metabolisms
returned to normal now they did gain
more body fat but that was a weird thing
to do with regaining muscle mass that's
a whole different thing because they
lost the total muscle mass they didn't
put it back on quickly enough so their
body kept driving appetite in studies of
anorexics metabolism recovers completely
in the post obese it recovers completely
admittedly there's not a lot of data on
lean people but by and large the only
permanent changes I've seen and these
are some of the weirdest data points
I've ever come across two of them were
in Arctic explorers I kid you not I
don't know what it is there's just two
case studies and they lost a ton of
weight and when they regained it some
aspect of their energy expenditure was
looks like permanently five percent
below normal but here's the thing that's
trivial like that's that's I mean fine
it's a hundred calories a day or
whatever that air is another the
biosphere experiment if you're familiar
with that it basically they wanted to
see if they can have people be
self-sustaining for two year first and
because their crops failed it turned
into a caloric restriction study so they
all the men and women lost a ton of
weight and body fat and by the time they
were back to normal
their meat was permanently reduced by 5%
and I don't have any idea why like I
don't have any clue why there and again
it doesn't amount to a whole lot but for
whatever reason they're neat seem to be
permanently impaired the studies on
yo-yo dieting show no major changes and
body come again these are no decent
individuals is it conceivable that it
occurs in lean individuals maybe is it
conceivable that you know it potentially
I guess but again just the in the
aggregate I think especially anorexic so
there's a group that is screwing up
their physiology they can show up to a
30% decrease interesting minimal like
their system is just cortisol can be
double or two to four times normal like
if there's a group that's completely
provably screwed up physiologically and
when you refeed them to a normal way it
all comes back to normal so I don't I
don't know where the where this is
coming from it's possible that some
people are predisposed to it I have a
feeling it's just you know I'm a big
part of this and this would be a big
part of Styles you
really bad that truly estimating your
calories and a lot of people that are
saying they're eating X or eating X plus
30 to 80 percent I don't know if that's
universally the case I would love to see
these folks who you know go go get
measured because I mean every time
they've done this and someone's like I
have a slow metabolism for this many
other either their food intake is four
times what they thought it was I mean
their metabolism is never impaired
now if you add drugs to prep I know
Scott Abel's but talked about this for a
while and this isn't really my area of
expertise like I've I've heard that it's
possible to come you know to permanently
impact thyroid metabolism if you abuse
it for too long at too high of a dose I
know there's some evidence is that male
steroid abusers may permanently impact
the the gonad all access and and man the
pipe of gun battle in terms of what
limited research is available on you
know lean non drug using folks that are
starved Andrey fed I've seen no
indication that there's a permanent
change hmm yeah I know that Layne Norton
has alluded to some research done in
rats that refers to like a cellular
memory model so it's like the fat cell
can sense that it's been in a deficit
before but it hasn't here at home humans
right you know and I'm you know like I
said and while we haven't done that kind
of study in humans in terms of at the
biological level observational II just
the difference hasn't been seen because
that their I mean they've done it they
there was one and admittedly it is one
woman and they followed her through
three different diet studies and weight
regained her like diet her she got fat
again and I don't know and there was no
change in body composition there was no
fundamental change in and really in
anything I mean I guess there could be a
difference like let's say you diet down
you lose a total muscle and when you
gain the weight back you don't gain all
the muscle back that would have a small
impact but pound of muscle burns about
six calories so yeah yeah it's not an
amount honestly you know from from you
know so to change body composition
potentially you can have that effect
even so even if the fat cells have a
cellular memory I don't see how that's
impacting metabolism I don't see how
that's having a
to fact leptin levels return right back
to where they were I just again the
stuff I've seen looking directly at
metabolic rates in humans doesn't
support it and rat models off to show
some some very distinct differences so
lady said I'm you know I'm willing I
would love to see it I would love to see
you know some some more direct metabolic
measurements of super lean bodybuilders
you know there's a couple of case
studies that have been done but
everything seems to kind of return back
to normal when they get fat again yeah
so in terms of rates of gains here so is
it your impression that however long it
takes for the weight to go back on once
it's back on the metabolic rate should
be back to where it was pre diet that's
pretty much what what the research shows
I mean unfortunate because the setpoint
thing like you do have to gain the body
fat back and until that happens and that
was that weirdness in that Minnesota
study where they ended up gaining more
fat than they started with yeah
what what what it looks like is there's
there's different signals being sent to
the the brain body fat is a big one
because of leptin but muscle is sending
some unknown signal to the brain
regarding hunger they don't know what it
is yeah and what it looked like was
happening was so on the way down they
lost a ton of muscle and all the fat on
the way back they were gaining fat but
the muscle was coming back on slowly
yeah they didn't get back to 100% normal
till their muscle had been recovered at
which point appetite and it was all
driven by appetite anyway like their
appetite stayed up so yes they regain
more body fat but that's gets back to
the point you have to limit muscle loss
on a diet sufficient protein and
resistance training by the same token
when you're refeeding if you keep
protein high and resistance train any
muscle lost will come back on so that
you end up at the same body composition
right and that one case study of the
male body builder well his energy
expenditure cratered like he got to
contests like here and then he read the
gain and as soon as he hit his initial
body fat it all balance that's behind
yeah yeah so again is there the
potential some individual
just for whatever reasons some
physiological aspect of them cracks I
suppose but I'm of the you know when you
hear hooves think horses kind of model
that the human research just other than
that weird little drop in neat unless
sir or arctic explorers I just haven't
seen it yeah yeah so but I'm willing to
change my opinion if I do yeah and on
the Minnesota starvation study that one
of the reasons I are one of the
arguments I hear for not gaining the
weight back quickly is that it does take
your muscle a long time to rebuild after
the diet so you want say the rate of fat
cane to sort of match the rate of muscle
gain so you don't look like pudgy for a
couple months or whatever it looks like
but what I what I was but I just really
quickly what I would say to that is that
like the the subjects in the starvation
study weren't resistance trained whereas
contest dieters are obviously and so I
think that there would be more they
would be more susceptible to a muscle
memory response right so they would gain
the muscle back way faster in a
reasonable surplus than the starvation
subjects would so no absolutely and and
the starvation subjects weren't
resistance training on the way back up
people yeah so whatever was being put
back on because other research has shown
like again mostly in the post obese that
even if you do nothing but keep protein
intake high right it's taken 30 years
for obesity researchers to finally
realize yeah we should have higher
protein on a diet if you just simply do
that a larger proportion of the weight
gain is in lean body mass because your
body's getting you know like it or not
you know over over eating and over
feeding is anabolic in its own right
even without training yeah so if you're
getting enough protein some of that will
be laid down this muscle that could does
that peer so yeah I think if you're
looking at physique athletes you were
training of any sort they will have a
muscle memory effect yeah no no don't
give your honor I'm not saying you know
to get fat and this is where I think
people get a little bit confused like
gaining some fat when you're in a gang
phase or regaining body fat after a diet
does not mean get fat and I say you
should be but if you're at four percent
as a male or 10 percent as a female
you're gonna feel like crap until you
get you're not gonna get anything near
hormones levels till you're you know
male eight ten percent female sixteen to
eighteen percent and again there's a me
recommendations in the book specifically
yeah there's differences if you're just
a female dieting to eighteen percent
here's how you should stay there but if
you've died down ten percent you're
gonna need to regain some body fat in
the first four to six weeks to get
things back to normal and then you can
start a more gradual build but nothing
is gonna recover til your calories are
back towards maintenance on any level
any women have the issue of if they've
lost their menstrual cycle or have any
level of menstrual cycle dysfunction
they have to reverse that because
they're losing bone density period like
that's just the reality of it and it can
still take three to five months for the
menstrual cycle to resume after it's
been lost and and that happened and the
faster and at least in monkey models the
more calories you put in the faster it
comes back and again I'm not saying
maybe you know should should Gorge and
binge they need to bring the calories up
to at least predicted maintenance and
then start a gradual regain of body fat
but it can't take you know we're not
looking at a time you know a small
female you're only still looking at what
about on the fat gain a week but it
doesn't have to be because she's only
lost 15 pounds of fat anyway it's not
like we're looking at a tremendous
amount she didn't come down thirty
pounds
same thing for a male to get a male from
48 to from four to eight percent body
fat is not an enormous fat gained but at
least once they're getting some
relatively normalized hormones they can
start to stabilize again right so now
I'd like to move on to just general
training recommendations so I'm gonna
quote you again here you recently wrote
I think within the context of the the
research I think it was out of Brad
schoenfelt's yeah lab where he had one
group do something like seven sets of
three and yet another group do three
sets of 10 volume equated Sasa
hypertrophy so based on that I think you
said and the general conclusion was that
the idea is that there's some specific
hypertrophy range of 6 to 15 reps or
whatever isn't correct so long as volume
is match the effects are roughly the
same and and this has led to
this is quoting you this has led to what
I consider to be a silly idea which is
that volume is the most important factor
in growth right yeah yeah that context
on that like a part of me this is partly
me being pedantic but partly being
serious is that I think the idea that
it's like ah there's this single most
important if there's a single most
important factor to growth its
progressive tension and getting stronger
over time I think the idea that I mean
clearly no matter how much volume II to
do without sufficient density you won't
grow right if anything with sufficient
intensity low volume you will grow maybe
not well but you know same thing we've
got the triangle of frequency intensity
and volume and I think pretend thing
that any one of them is singularly more
important that's the problem I have with
that idea just because it I think it
leads down a rabbit hole of as long as
the volume is right none of these other
factors are important again it's
probably me being pedantic I took issue
with somebody over you know there's a
whole time under tension idea that's
been kind of falling out of favor and
his comment was we'll have time under
tension matt'll it was all that mattered
endurance athletes and I'm like okay
that's not what anybody ever meant even
when it was first kicked around it meant
time under high tension actually
something else if make that argument
which really disappointed me but time
under high tension doesn't make nearly
as cool of an acronym so like and same
thing I'm sure within the context of
this saying that volume is the most
important factor that's true
assuming intensity is a dis ficient
level and frequency of this but you know
isn't as a sufficient level you know in
our this is this is kind of an argument
an absurd extremist argument but it's
like okay well halt that map there's
this volume well I can do nine sets for
time you know every week or one I just
do 36 sets once a month I know nobody's
arguing that and this is me just being
me which is a so to speak a pedantic ass
but that's kind of where that's coming
from I like I think it without
considering the other variables I think
it become you know same reasons like oh
yeah and you've got the high frequency
advocates who are like ah train
every day and train six days a week and
it's like well we need to find a balance
of all these factors yeah and then you
still do have the the high intensity
crowd who really think that volume maybe
isn't quite as important as taking sets
to failure and I think it's fallen out
of flavor in like the mainstream
evidence-based crowd or whatever but
there are still its proposals within the
scientific community so what do you
think is is the the role of failure in
that triangle because you said volume
intensity frequency
how important is is how hard you're
working um I think within limits I mean
clearly you have to pass a certain
critical intensity although bread's done
that work where low intensity 35 reps to
failure seemed to cause growth to it it
sucks it's the worst work you'll ever do
but but clearly that does work that's a
little bit different what you're asking
about it is the idea of failure right
behind density training advocates
defined intensity very differently than
everyone else to them intensity is going
to limits yeah this training so you not
move the bar anymore they're not using a
more traditional intensity definition
yeah percentage of weight on the bar
whatever and that's been around forever
and it was really and I don't know if
Arthur Jones started it but he certainly
popularized it and it was almost a
logical argument of well if you don't go
but a failure you can't know how hard
you're working and I'm sorry but that's
just BS right we've got plenty of RPE
scales like all of that stuff and other
people have made the argument yeah
here's the thing you've gone to what you
think is failure I put a gun in your
face you'll get another rep right your
most true failure whatever you know back
and forth and back and forth and the
question then becomes is failure
required for growth laughs only not
because guys have grown without it for
decades literally does not required we
can ask is it optimal for growth and I
think that becomes another one of those
it's depends issues from a practical
standpoint if you're gonna use an RP
scale rating of perceived exertion or I
will recommend you know go one to two
reps short of failure well if you've
never actually trained your limits
you don't know what that means you don't
know what failure is you don't know what
to run short of failures so I think from
a practical standpoint spending some
time going to failure teaches you that
it also teaches you that you can
probably push a lot harder than you
think you can as far as using it
regularly in training I think it can
become become problematic in that it can
be really physically and mentally
exhausting going to failure that's
assuming you can do it in proper form
anyway like one of the arguments that
even making to the pro failure people
how many people have you ever seen take
a set of squats to true failure I don't
mean hard I mean to the point where they
get stuck in the middle of a rep and
then lower the bar and get pinned
helmut damn fair whew yeah fine if your
leg press whatever still don't see it
very often you don't see it same thing
with deadlifts you don't see it very
often and people progress just fine
because it's not very safe on a lot of
movements the research is mixed you know
it's it's depends on if you're looking
at strength or growth or short term
versus long term there was one study
that compared failure and non failure it
was like upper body was different than
lower body front leg and they actually
good it was really intelligent study
where it was like a block of training
and then a peaking to to a testing type
of thing like really more real-world
training I think the failure worked
better for been it's been worse for
squat for lower body and I don't
remember the details of it from a more
practical standpoint I think it
interacts with volume if you're only
doing one set you should probably go to
failure because that's your one set to
get anything out of if you're doing
multiple sets of an exercise many people
find that if they take that first or
second set to failure it crushes the
next the rest of the sentence whereas
you might have been able to do four set
to eight if you stayed less to failure
if they do ten in the first set they go
to six five four like it really it does
it crushes their volume that's very
individual I had one training partner if
he took a set too hard into failure it
would wreck the entire workout for him
admittedly he had 20 years of training
and he could generate intense
like most people can for him and I don't
know sir nervous system fatigue I don't
know what was going on but I have seen
that before
so I think the general consensus among
the evidence-based crowd is failure has
its place but sparingly one way I like
to use it practically in the gym is
let's say you've got four sets of ten
programs and this is really more body no
power lifters don't really do this
because it's not safe they work by RPE
they grunt and every once in a while
it's but tell her about body building
here let's say you've got four sets
eight and the idea is that you should be
a couple reps or a failure well you use
three sets of eight and go ahead and
take that four sets failure just because
it'll tell you where you are because
frequently you just kind of you start
lollygagging and you do that and guess
what if you got twelve reps on that last
set it's time to raise the way like I
think it I can't you know I think using
it like that every once in a while just
as a progress metric can be a good idea
but I think it does tends to burn people
out my mother early does the daily
undulating periodization or you know I
was doing different reps every day but
pretty much every day was a maximum they
all tended to burn out pretty quick yeah
we like they they would they would over
each Anna over train after about four to
six weeks so it can really take its toll
on the body so yes it has its place but
don't overuse it like so many things
right what do you think of say so that
is an argument I hear a lot is that free
you know if you're gonna take too many
sets to failure then your volume is
gonna be compromised because you're not
gonna be able to do as many reps on
subsequent sets yes so why not why not
take that hit and then do say like a
drop set era strip set yeah but which in
that you know that that is certainly one
way of going about it and you know that
that gets into theoretical arguments
well what's more important weight on the
bar number of reps if you're fatigued
and you drop the weight by 10 percent is
the stimulus to the muscle less than if
you'd kept the weight you know it's a
straight sets across versus like a no
Martin Burke and called it reverse
pyramid training Poliquin Brett was
recommending this years ago that and I
have to I think once you've been
training for a while
I recommend warming up jumping to your
top set you
you can stay there stay there if you
want to drop the weight back drop the
weight back I think those all are
potentially valid I think it might you
know some of its individuality of the
left arm if you're a lifter that going
to failure means no matter how much you
drop the weight you're still losing the
Turner reps then it's probably not good
for you some people are really good at
that nervous system thing you know some
people are great at repeat being sets
across on other people I don't care how
limited it is they're just not gonna get
it done playing pens and the exercise
biomechanics like all that that other
sort of stuff like even even me
personally alright I've got in my
training right now I'm kind of built to
squat so I can do repeat steps of squats
no problem but I've got long monkey arms
and my triceps already really always
been really lint in the name so if I try
to do four sets of eight in any Czech
compound chest exercise it will go down
the toilet I set three so practically
what I've done is I'll do like two heavy
sets of a compound chest move to two
sets of an isolation exercise no back to
two heavy compound sets and then
finished with two sets of isolation so I
split my volume up cuz that takes that
illumining factor for me someone who's
built to do compound chest exercises
might not meet they might be able to do
that force that say or do you know start
with a set of ten to failure drop at ten
percent depending on how many reps they
draw so yeah I think I think both are
definitely potentially about blood I
think you still have the issue of
failure core training eventually just
really wearing people out you have to
just get really pumped up and motivated
and it can be kind of exhausting after a
while right and do you think that
there's some sort of threshold like in
my experience when people leave leaving
like you know five six reps in the tank
it's like they're not stimulating enough
to really maximize their growth so I
would say like maybe like RP eight or
nine if your goal is hypertrophy and
then like you said take the last one to
failure that's absolutely like I think
we you know I'm you know like my to
share and some of the RPE guys like
they'll do the the ones that are like a
five six RPE it's usually speed work
it's a light its D load week it's a way
to get a lot of good technical volume
and stuff maximum which for powerlifting
very different sport you're looking at
some very different demands you can't
especially when you're lifting heavy
weights it's very exhausting on the body
and I know he does a lot of waving I
agree you completely I think for
hypertrophy purposes leaving five sets
and five reps in the tank is pointless I
don't think that does that's a good
warm-up set I don't I don't think that's
an even remotely useful in trying yeah
one to two reps in the tank max yeah
yeah and then in terms of actual volume
recommendations what do you think of
burn bombs recommendation of forty to
seventy reps I guess more popularly Erik
Helms's has made this recommendation to
I think it's 40 does it have any reps
per workout and or per body part and
then you do that three times a week or
two to three times a week so the total
reps yeah would be I don't know some
range that's like 210 per week yeah
that's what I've been using that for a
lot of years and that's really you know
for again he and I argue about this
constantly or discussed this rather and
yeah that is really kind of an
intermediate level at the advanced I
think he's more flexible with volume but
ten depends on the person I know is his
excellent training pyramid book he talks
about kind of the way he uses to decide
when it's time to up volume because at
some point you may have to I think for
most people if they're working intensely
I think that's a perfectly again I think
most people do far too much volume now
fine you know now I've traditionally
have not been a big fan of the pamorah
once a week type of thing but clearly
Brad's works show that it can work I
give you do enough volume and and work
intensely I think that's where people
went wrong even guys just pumping it up
for a day and that just doesn't do squat
without drugs
yeah forty to seventy reps if you're
looking at eight to twelve that's a good
four to eight steps and I think if you
look through a lot of empirically
demonstrated systems that work that's
about right I mean Paulo you go back to
Bill starpha 5x5 he did five by five and
then allowed up to 40 reps of beach work
well that's 25 and 40 is 65 Lee Haney
recommended eight seven eight and
you see that that numbers seems to crop
up a lot and again I don't I think the
research is there if you look at that
that relationship that's kind of where
things are optimized more work doesn't
get you more growth it is interesting
that even with those studies low volume
does generate some growth but that's not
debatable like one set to failure
clearly does generate growth however I
think if you look in the aggregate from
both the strength and growth standpoint
there is an optimal volume for growth or
strength or whatever and it tends to be
like they've done studies Olympic
lifters and swimmers that moderate
volumes work better than high and low
volumes like there is an optimal
stimulus per workout for per week or
whatever what have you I think of it do
too much I think they do too many
redundant exercises I think they do too
much overlap you watch a guy do flat
bench flies dumbbell bench dumbbell
flyes incline bench incline flyes it's
like dude those are all the same
exercise women again do endless endless
endless leg work at sort of some
intensity and I think most people you
know pick two or three quality exercises
some body parts knee to chest
you know legs may need three back
frequently needs three get out please
so yeah I think for most people that's
unless or at a very advanced level is
probably pretty good like I said I know
Eric will use that and when somebody
stops progressing and strength or
whatever he'll go ahead and bump that up
because they're probably ready for a
higher stimulus yeah I think for most
people that's by right after awhile I
was also wondering your thoughts on this
so-called volume rap do we need to take
a break no he's that we're fine he does
this every time okay so I was wondering
here your thoughts on the so called
volume trap or also the the maximum
recovery or maximum recoverable volume
some people will jump their volume up
really quickly rather than progressively
making their way up in volume and then
it's like what do you do at that point
once you once you're there do you just
add more volume and it's like a camel
I'm of the opinion is that you should
find the lowest volume and frequency
that will give you the games that you
want and if you look at like the probe
the progression levels of most elite
athletes if you look at how they trained
swimmers runners cyclists its it takes
him 10 years to get to the volume
they're using now swimmers start with
three days a week year later they had a
fourth day a week then they had a double
day you know by the time they're in high
school they're training 12 times a week
but like you said if you jump your
volume up or jump your frequency okay
when that stops working and you've
accommodated to that now what and I
realize you know and this is this will
sound bitter and cynical but it's just
true here's the reality
most people who do this stuff at best
will get past stock it's just reality
like it's not meant you know I never had
great genetics still don't but the
reality is that look you can spend all
the time you want right you're never
gonna be much better than that like you
can eat good and stuff but go ahead go
do something else like if you're at the
highlight if you're a high level athlete
if you're making that kind of progress
that's fine but still do it in steps
like it the body can adapt to things
every time you do that it's a huge
stress to the system and unless you're
doing you know shock micro-cycles are
doing two weeks of super volume to just
exhaust yourself so that you can then
super compensate but if you're looking
at long term development it needs to be
a gradual process you know
beginners you start with one set two or
three times a week build up to three
stay there for a while then you're
increasing you know at the six-month
mark as you become an intermediate like
it needs to become a gradual thing I
think a lot of people that that probably
are doing that again they're just not
working and particularly decent
intensity I mean the reality is if
you're working hard for eight sets you
shouldn't be able to do do much more you
know when I was when I was more married
to lower volume training like I would I
remember some guy and he was like oh I
can do all this work and I put him
through a set of 20 reps squats and I
was like alright what else would you
like to do for legs he's like nothing
I'm like right that's kind of the point
here that yes you need some volume but
quality you need enough quality too and
there's only so much quality work you
can get done
so that brings me to the topic of
training frequency so I didn't focus on
bodybuilding here yes I think it's a
little different for powerlifting we
won't get into so for bodybuilding
purposes I think it's fairly standard to
recommend two to three times per week
training frequencies for Naturals you
know however you know of late it's
becoming more trendy to train more
frequently than that I had I did an
interview with Mentos hence women's yeah
I think he's had some of his athletes
train as many as five or six times a
week and in some cases even two a days
his women's women athletes so do you
think there's any merit to increasing
their training frequency past a point or
what do you make of all that
I said I think the question comes down
to like you know we've got sort of
distributed versus concentrated volume
model by that I mean you're doing X
weekly volume so you're doing 10 sets
you could do two sets five days a week
you can do five sets twice a week you
can do ten sets once a week like
whatever that you know getting assuming
you're doing a fixed volume I think you
know I think you find that there is a
minimum threshold to stimulate any sort
of adaptation I think that's that's the
key thing and do we know what it is okay
fantastic maybe one set is enough if
you're going heavy enough I know you
know that that I don't know it's funny
that it's training runs in cycles and
has for decades and we go from intensity
to volume the frequency back and back
again and and this kind of comes through
I know part of that is coming out of you
know though the Norwegian powerlifting
study this this kind of very informal
thing they did with me you know elite
Norwegian powerlifting team and yeah
some of them gained more muscle training
six days a week versus three I believe
there was an interview with that coach
who still said he would train less
frequent get more volume despite those
results so yeah I mean it can be done I
think from a practical standpoint
there's just the reality that most
people have a life and there's a limit
to how much they can do I think another
thing that's often forgotten in all of
this in terms of the frequency issue
specifically is the one tissue that
wears out the most that nobody pays any
attention
- is connective tissue right muscles
whatever they can recover as quit you
know however quickly depending on how
much and how often you're training them
tendons ligaments those take forever to
adapt runners find this out the hard way
when they go from three days a week to
six they get hurt if they don't do it
very very very progressively I think
there's I think that's an unconsidered
aspect in this if you're you know it has
to be done very gradually if it's gonna
be done at all but yeah I have to wonder
you know what what those work out it's
like okay are we just going in and doing
two sets per body part because if you're
doing full-body five times a week
clearly you're not doing a whole lot of
volume there is some interesting stuff
on you know two day training and
endurance sports and and again Hokkien
and has shown that you know female
Olympic lifters seem to gain better if
they split their volume up across two
days again Olympic lifting is a very
different thing than bodybuilding I know
there's some current concern at one
point that his lifters get more advanced
the increase in protein synthesis isn't
as long of a duration which is actually
funny the tradition and bodybuilding has
been the more advanced you get the less
frequently you should train and it's
almost you can almost make an argument
that that's reversed because if your
muscles are not growing as free you know
as far as long from a given amount of
training as you get more advanced to
continue to growth you do almost need to
train it more frequently up to a point
I you know doesn't need to be training
the same muscle group every day or twice
a day you know I've even written about
two day training training the same
muscle group twice a day but still only
like twice a week so yeah I mean I guess
if you've determined someone can recover
from it or whatever I think again from
those people at probably just from a
practical reality standpoint most people
can't train like that their schedules
simply won't allow it but yeah you do
get surprised it gets a nice overlapping
gene expression type of stuff going on I
still wonder you know are you gonna be
able to surpass some critical volume or
intensity threshold per workout or
really to really stimulate those kind of
adaptations but you know without seeing
exactly what's being set up
yeah yeah how much weight do you think
we should be putting in that muscle
protein synthesis research I mean like
how strongly has that been shown to be
linked to actual hypertrophic outcomes I
think is pretty scant at this point yeah
it's actually it's really it's a really
good question it's like and there's like
people that just came out although it
was like they tracked multiple protein
synthesis over six hours and that didn't
correlate with growth in the long term
and I'll be honest at this point like
I've been so entrenched in the women's
stuff I haven't been able to keep
Bradshaw and Phelps probably the man to
talk to about this particular topic but
it's it's actually a really good
question is that these acute
hypertrophic responses there's always
the question of is this does this really
translate over into the long-term gains
and I don't know that that's always
necessarily been shown and it does kind
of raise some interesting questions you
know the probably growth is ultimately
very long-term response or remodeling of
the muscle and and all that tissue so is
focusing on that one specific pathway to
the exclusion of the rest that again I
really I haven't I can't claim to have
kept up with that particular literature
enough to give you an intelligible
answer but I think it is a really good
question if that's really we should be
focusing on here I mean like I said mom
I'm of the opinion that if you want to
get into a single most important factor
it's progressive tension overload like
that's what comes down so we've known
this since the 70s you know mechanism of
work and news hypertrophy
we know that viddy key to building a
bigger muscle is you have to
progressively tension overload of it the
biggest natural bodybuilders are always
strong period and guys that are not
strong do not get big unless they take
drugs and in which case it stops
mattering but that and and then it just
becomes well finding the frequency
intensity volume that will allow you to
do that over time
so I tend to think of that more than you
know the heute stuff is interesting but
I I don't know like you said if it's
gonna completely translate over I'd love
to your brother
I'm actually I'm having him on this
month so we'll bring that up yeah yeah
all right yeah yeah
so that covers all the questions that I
had for you and I think we did a good
job of getting into a lot of details
with that so I really really appreciate
your time and for all the meals that you
provided before you go I'll just give
you a quick chance maybe to plug any
places where people can find you maybe
give us some details on when we can
expect that book to drop I know I'll be
buying it okay best place to find you
know all my articles on articles I've
got like 500 plus of them now bonnie
recomposition comm spelled exactly how
it sounds you can also get there by Lyle
McDonald calm I do have a face for
Facebook group that's very active and
we've actually there's actually some
really read Brad's in there Alan Aragon
is in there there's got some really
really smart people posting in there
that's very active I'm of course on
Facebook that's pretty much it I tried
doing YouTube videos and there was too
much of a pain on my butt to get them
done so I stopped doing that but as far
as the women's book like it is in
progress and I hate to give scheduled
release times because I always miss them
taking a lot longer than I thought
because I think your listeners got an
idea of just the level of complexity of
this I'm grinding through a lot either
go back and add a ton of information on
natural cycle dysfunction that took a
lot of time so sometime this year is
just kind of the best thing I can say
like I wish it were done earlier because
I know folks might start their contests
perhaps but it's the way this project is
the comment alyttle gotta be done when
it's done so yeah sure and I think there
were a lot of really useful tidbits I
know even myself as a coach I learned a
lot from this conversation so I think
that if people are looking for practical
takeaways I think you offered a lot of
them here so yeah thanks for that so
guys that's gonna conclude this episode
of the ice cream for pears podcast if
you're listening on itunes don't forget
to subscribe if you're watching this on
youtube click the like button below and
subscribe to my youtube channel for more
interviews exactly like this one
I'm Lyle thank you once again for your
time and we'll see you guys next time