a lot of people don't even think to make
this one really simple adjustment on
their leg presses but it can definitely
reduce the effectiveness of the exercise
put more stress on your lower back and
make it harder to accurately track your
progress over time what's up guys Sean
aliwani real science athletics.com and
in this video today we're going to be
going through and making sure that you
are performing your leg presses
correctly to maximize lower body
development and minimize injury risk as
well I've got eight different mistakes
to go over here that people commonly
make and that you might be making in
your own training as well so definitely
give this a watch through to make sure
that you're ticking each one of these
boxes all right to start off let's get
the two dumbest mistakes out of the way
for lack of a better word and these are
things that I see in the gym all the
time they're not uncommon at all but
they're definitely things that you need
to avoid so the first is leg pressing
with your hands on your knees okay if
you have to push on your knees in order
to move the weight then either you're
just lifting too heavy to begin with OR
the amount of weight that you're lifting
is fine and you're just unnecessarily
making the exercise less effective you
never do a biceps curl and use your
other arm to assist on every rep so
there's no reason at all to do your leg
presses that way either all you're
really doing is reducing the tension on
your quads you're also making it harder
to track your strength progress because
you can't calculate exactly how much
extra force is coming from the
assistance from your hands versus how
much is coming from your legs and not
only that but when it comes to proper
leg pressing form you want to be holding
onto the handles throughout the set to
keep your lower back and your glutes
firmly in the seat because if they roll
backward then that's going to put more
stress on your lower back the second
particularly goofy leg press mistake is
performing your set while your training
partner assists You by pushing on the
sled so same concept as before all that
really means is that the weight that
you're using is too heavy in the first
place or it's not too heavy but your
spotter is just making the lift easier
for no real reason and preventing you
from truly training close to muscular
failure for any exercise that you
perform not just the leg press you want
to select a weight that you can lift on
your own in proper form using a full
range range of motion without any spot
or assistance and training that exercise
within about zero to three reps of
muscular failure depending on your
specific training approach or what phase
of a program you're in but there's no
reason whatsoever for your training
partner to be touching the light
pressing sled at any point during the
set unless we're talking about more
advanced trainees who are using high
intensity techniques like forced reps
which would be a kind of sketchy thing
to do on the leg press but technically
it could be done either that or a
situation where for some reason you
didn't put the safety catches in place
and you went too heavy and you
accidentally hit failure and your
spotter is jumping in to prevent the
weight from crashing down on your sack
mistake number three kind of a
controversial one um I included this in
an Instagram post a while back and a few
people were asking about it by the way
if you're not following me on Instagram
yet make sure to go ahead and do that
because I do post a lot of additional
tips and advice there but this
particular mistake was fully locking out
the knees on each rep now yes you might
be totally fine doing this okay it's uh
debatable in terms of just how much
stress it really puts on the any joint
but it's really just a matter of risk
versus reward okay there's no added
benefit to locking out your knees 100
because once the legs are straight there
is pretty much no stress on the quads at
all the leg press maximally stresses the
quads in the bottom position and then
the resistance gradually drops off as
you press further and further so even if
the risk for adverse effects on the knee
is small I would say that the logical
move is to still stop just short of
lockout because why go one extra inch
and direct hundreds of pounds onto your
knees for no reason it's not benefiting
you in any way but it might be harmful
even if the chance is minor and as an
added tip if you're someone with lower
back or other joint issues and you want
to maximize the stress on your quads
while using as little weight as possible
on the leg press to lessen some of that
load on your joints then what you can do
is stop several inches short of lockout
to really keep the stress on your quads
throughout the entire set using a more
constant tension style that way you can
get your quads close to failure while
using lesser weight since the quads
won't have any real point of rest during
the set alright leg press mistake number
four uh let's talk about foot placement
on the pad one common error that people
make is positioning the feet too high so
assuming that your primary goal here is
to Target your quads a very high foot
placement isn't going to be ideal
because it's going to reduce the range
of motion on the quads right the quads
lengthen as the knee flexes and they
shorten as the knee extends and you can
see here by looking at the angle of the
knee joint the amount of knee flexion
and knee extension is going to be
limited when the feet are placed too
high and you'll end up shifting more
emphasis onto the glutes instead now
this will still build your quads to a
certain extent but for maximum
stimulation a lower foot position is
going to give you a larger range of
motion on the quads overall now where
exactly you position your feet that's
going to depend on you and your
individual body structure and your
mobility and things like that so play
around with it a bit to find the foot
position that maximizes the range of
motion on your quads but still feels
comfortable on your back and knees and
of course if your goal is to emphasize
the glutes then using a higher foot
position is obviously fine mistake
number five also relates to range of
motion just in terms of how far you
actually lower the weight down now I'm
sure we've all seen people uh in the gym
who load up a ton of plates on the Light
press and then just pump out a bunch of
depressing little half reps or quarter
reps maybe you're guilty of this
yourself but this is not the optimal way
to live your life no one cares how much
you can leg press There's No Quarter rep
Light press Olympics and you're going to
be much better off by lightening the
weight a bit and then using a fuller
range of motion versus going super heavy
and only using a tiny range there's no
one single set in stone range that
everybody must use again because it
depends on you in terms of your
individual body structure and your
mobility and whether you have certain
joint issues that you're dealing with
maybe your lower back or your hips or
your knees or whatever else but the
basic goal would be to lower the pad
down as far as you comfortably can while
making sure that your butt is staying
firmly planted in the seat and that last
point is important we can use that as
mistake number six what you don't want
to be doing is lowering to wait so far
down that your lower back and your
glutes are rolling backward because
that's going to increase the stress on
your lower back so try to find an
appropriate middle ground for yourself
so the largest range that you can
comfortably use with the low back and
the glutes staying firmly planted by the
way if you're finding this video useful
so far and you want to get some help
getting your overall training approach
onto the very best path based on your
physique goals and where you're at right
now then once this video is over make
sure to head over to seanow.com custom
just fill out the short form there and
I'll send you back not only a free
step-by-step workout plan adjusted to
your individual needs but also a
nutrition plan as well I'll link it up
here in this card as well as Down Below
in the description box all right mistake
number seven is another one that ties
into range of motion and that's where
you position the seat so if the leg
press machine seat is positioned at a
high angle that's going to reduce the
range of motion as you can see here and
it's going to put more load on the lower
back as well whereas if you position the
seat at the lowest angle then that's
going to maximize the range of motion
and minimize lower back stress a lot of
people don't even think to make this one
really simple adjustment on their leg
presses but it can definitely reduce the
effectiveness of the exercise put more
stress on your lower back and make it
harder to accurately track your progress
over time and lastly leg press mistake
number eight is allowing your knees to
cave in as you lower and press the
weight so this is another very common
thing to see and not only is it going to
reduce your leg pressing strength but
it's also going to put more stress on
your knee joints as well this is
typically the result of underlying weak
links that are ultimately beyond the
scope of this video but as far as leg
press form is concerned if this is a
problem for you then make sure to
consciously think about spreading your
knees outward as you perform your reps
rather than allowing those knees to
buckle inward let me know in the
comments what exercise you want to see
me go over next or if there's anything
else that you want me to cover don't
forget to grab your free custom Training
and nutrition program over at
shawnell.com custom if you're looking
for no BS premium quality
supplementation options to maximize your
muscle building and fat burning results
without all the usual hype and gimmicks
that you find everywhere else then make
sure to visit realscienceathletics.com
this was all formulated by me using
effective research-backed clinically
dosed ingredients only and you can use
code YouTube 15 to save 15 off your
first order here's two more videos I'd
recommend watching now you can follow me
over on Instagram for more helpful tips
and information don't forget to
subscribe and turn on notifications to
stay up to date on future content and I
will talk to you again soon