I still remember the first time I ever
bought a dietary supplement it was the
old seisonn product by Gaspari Nutrition
which was as I remember it basically a
creatine and carbohydrate powder with a
proprietary cocktail of other
essentially useless stuff thrown in of
course this was about 10 years ago and
at the time I thought that one tub of
this stuff was going to have me looking
exactly like the guys who were endorsing
it in the magazines I didn't really know
much of a supplements back then ten
years later as a former Canadian natural
bodybuilding champion and natural
professional bodybuilder I would say the
supplements I used to achieve my current
physique comprise a very small piece of
the puzzle just how much they
contributed is tough to say because how
you look is dependent on such a
multitude of factors but all I can say
for sure is that it had a lesser impact
than my genetics nutrition and training
and of course being consistent with
those over the last 10 years but that
isn't to say supplements didn't help at
all they certainly did and so what I'd
like to do here is condense all that
I've learned from my personal experience
in education into my top five
supplements and delve into the
scientific literature vacuum so whey
protein is basically one of the proteins
in cow's milk comprising about 20% of
the total with the other 80% in casein
which is itself a potent muscle builder
whose slow digesting properties might
make it arguably a better choice than
way before bed the way vs. casein debate
is one that is ongoing in the literature
however it seems to be the case that
even post-workout when at least in
concept speedy nutrient uptake and
delivery to the muscles make sense a
mixture of fast and slow protein seemed
to be best in the protein book
scientific fitness author Lyle McDonald
recommends a mix of whey and Casey to
take advantage of ways effect on muscle
protein synthesis in caseins effect on
limiting breakdown for this reason
mixing way with milk rather than water
or using a wave plus casein blend would
be more optimal and ultimately whey is
at the top of my short list because it
provides such a convenient way of
hitting total daily protein targets
protein expert and researcher stu
phillips has been cited as recommending
protein intakes for trained lifters of
0.7 to 0.8 grams per pound per day when
bulking and a slightly higher 0.9 to 1.1
grams per pound when cutting just to
keep it simple one gram per pound is
probably enough for pretty much everyone
who is well trained and decently lean
and the bottom line is that
supplementing protein can make it a lot
easier to hit this
and for the record research shows that
way doesn't harm the liver or kidneys
except for when there is pre-existing
damage of contention supported by the
World Health Organization in Institute
of Medicine assuming you have adequate
calcium and vitamin D the former of
which way is a good source and
increasing protein has no negative
effect on bone health and may even
enhance it so my general recommendation
is to take whey protein as needed to hit
your total daily protein target of 0.7
to 1 grams per pound per day caffeine is
a central nervous system stimulant
extracted from the seeds of cafe au
plants and is the most widely consumed
psychoactive drug on the planet the main
reasons I recommend supplementing it are
because of its ability to increase power
output in training volume while
suppressing fatigue really interesting
2012 study split 16 rugby players into
two groups one with 4 milligrams per
kilogram of caffeine supplementation and
the other with placebo no caffeine the
subjects were further split into
sleep-deprived in well slept groups the
main finding was that sleep deprivation
only impaired training performance in
the placebo group meaning that caffeine
was essentially able to negate the
effect of miss sleep it also increased
the loads used in the non deprived group
indicating that even if you're sleeping
just fine caffeine may still be of
benefit for what it's worth the authors
also noted an increase in testosterone
with caffeine supplementation finding
that is common across multiple lines of
research but not only does caffeine
makes you stronger it also increases
energy expenditure while McDonald's
cites an extra 100 calories burned per
600 milligrams of caffeine which is a
pretty hefty daily dose but even half
that or 300 milligrams would still have
a significant caloric burn of 50 extra
calories per day which can add up over
enough time it's also worth mentioning
that caffeine is very susceptible to
tolerance which means that after
long-term use the effects will be
severely diminished and what has been
described as an insurmountable way which
basically means that increasing the dose
won't do much of anything the most
effective way to overcome this is by
cycling it my personal recommendation is
assuming daily use to take three to
seven days off caffeine every one to two
months for recent ization but the length
of time needed to resynthesize will
depend on how much you're taking per day
with larger doses needing longer off
cycles including cold turkey can lead to
withdrawal headaches which is why some
people prefer to save caffeine only
workouts where they feel like they
really need it such as when
sleep-deprived another compound worth
mentioning is Elfie any which appears to
enhance the effects of caffeine on
alertness in focus one study in rats
found that l-theanine could partially
reverse caffeine induced sleep reduction
so the caffeine keeps you from sleeping
l-theanine could be a redeeming Sandman
caffeine is generally recognized as safe
however it's important to keep in mind
that a single tablespoon of pure
caffeine powder can deliver a lethal
dose and to avoid a condition known as
caffeine ism you should avoid intakes in
the range of one gram per day I
personally always stay below 500
milligrams per day which is as it is
admittedly high for the general
population my general recommendation is
to take four milligrams per kilogram
before training as needed the basic goal
of so-called Tom products is to increase
vascularity through base a dilation
dilating the blood vessels this is
typically accomplished by increasing
nitric oxide concentration in the blood
which tells the smooth muscles in
arteries and veins to relax when
l-citrulline is supplemented it's
converted into arginine in the kidneys
which ultimately gives off an extra
dioxide molecule has the cycle repeats
because citrulline is better absorbed in
the gut and arginine somewhat
counter-intuitively taking citrulline
leads to higher argentine levels than
taking arginine does it also doesn't
give you diarrhea
unlike arginine and contrary to popular
belief citrulline is not merely a pump
product the 2010 study found that when
subjects were instructed to perform as
many reps as possible on the bench press
for 8 sets
citrulline malate was able to yield more
reps per set for all sets after set to
and the impact of supplementation seemed
to increase the more sets were performed
this means for higher volume training
sessions with more sets according to
this paper there's a very good chance
that citrulline malate can help you
crank out a few extra reps with fully
100% of 41 subjects responding
positively on set aid the same paper
also showed a significant decrease in
muscle soreness 24 and 48 hours post
exercise in effect with the authors
attributed civillians ability to buffer
acid and metabolites like lactate and
ammonia but even without these added
benefits the pump alone can make
training more enjoyable and can make you
look bigger in the gym but his purpose
in organic nitrate seems promising as
well but at this point more research
would be helpful to fully flesh out its
effects my general recommendation is to
take 4 to 10 grams of citrulline malate
but one hour before train if you'd like
to get nitrates a try 500 to 1000
milligrams an hour before training is a
good starting place while achievable for
some research indicates that it's not
always easy to obtain micronutrient
requirements from food alone especially
for athletes and even more so for
athletes in a caloric deficit in a study
examining nationally ranked pre contest
bodybuilders women consumed fully zero
percent of the RDA for vitamin D and
only 52 percent for calcium while
falling short on zinc copper chromium
and others in previous similar research
junior women competitors were described
as being remarkably deficient in calcium
probably because so many women cut dairy
from their diets thinking it will by
itself help them lose more fat which is
not only wrong but presents a very real
risk for osteoporosis if those nutrients
found in dairy aren't made up elsewhere
research by Misner Natal found that for
14 endurance athletes food alone failed
to meet the minimum recommended daily
allowance micronutrient requirements in
every single subject so while I think
that one should always aim to max out
their whole food options first before
turning to supplements it's important to
recognize that food alone doesn't always
get the job done in practice especially
for athletes my general recommendation
is to take one athlete formulated
multivitamin per day especially when in
a caloric deficit creatine is a molecule
produced naturally in the body but is
also found in some foods like meat and
fish
a typical omnivorous diet provides about
one gram of creatine a day which isn't
quite enough to see the benefits you'd
see from supplementation creatine
literally has hundreds of studies
supporting its efficacy and safety has
been shown to improve strength and power
in athletes again and again examine calm
references a strong effect for power
output across sixty six studies which
makes sense when you consider what
creatine does it allows for more ATP
production when energy demands are high
and while creatine does draw water into
the muscles through osmosis it doesn't
cause water retention anywhere else and
as such gives the muscles of a fuller
tighter appearance not a bloated watery
one and while it may not increase muscle
mass of its own accord it certainly can
improve performance in the gym resulting
in more weight being lifted which means
more tension on the muscle and a larger
stimulus for growth which is why long
term supplementation tends to be
associated with muscles
and there's no need to load creatine or
to cycle off it as unlike caffeine the
body doesn't develop a tolerance to its
effects and a 2003 study showed that 21
consecutive months of supplementation
led to no ill health effects it's worth
mentioning that it's been hypothesized
in the literature that so called
creatine non-responders exists with one
paper estimating as much as 30 percent
of people falling into this category it
basically means that you just don't get
the results that most people do when you
take creatine people who already get a
lot of creatine in their diet
so by eating a lot of meat for example
and older trainees are more likely to be
non-responsive however given the breadth
of research showing an effect and the
affordability of creatine I think it's
worth doing a bit of self
experimentation with a good indication
that it works for you is if you gain
weight after supplementing it for a few
weeks
provided dietary and training factors
are being controlled my general
recommendation is to take 3 to 5 grams
per day after training or when most
convenient and finally remember that
supplements make up a relatively small
piece of the puzzle but there's more
than enough science to support the use
of these 5 when wanting to take your
performance health or physique up
another level alright what is going on
everyone so first of all I just want to
say thank you so much for watching the
video as you can see I have made it back
to Tampa Florida and I'm here with
Stephanie just getting to the gym now
and I've been here for about a week and
I feel like I spent my first week here
just editing this video so I've put a
lot of effort into this one if you guys
did like it or you did take something
away from it please hit the thumbs up
button and if you haven't subscribed to
my channel yet please feel free to do so
I really wanted the focus of this video
to be on the active ingredients in
supplements but a lot of people will
also ask me though what products to use
so I've collaborated with my sponsors at
PE science to produce my own signature
stack and the stack comes with a protein
powder that's a way casein blend a
pre-workout that's are genetically dosed
with caffeine theanine and also
citrulline for the pump and a
multivitamin that specifically
formulated for athletes it also includes
ashwagandha which is a nootropic that i
didn't include in my top 5 list but it
probably would have been number 6
and it's been shown to reduce stress
reduce anxiety and improve mood and I
just find that taking that in
conjunction with my multivitamin first
thing in the morning really helps get my
day started off on the right foot
also I wasn't able to include everything
that I wanted to to do with supplements
in this video so I've got some
additional reading and all the
scientific references linked in the
description box also if you guys have
further questions for me you can feel
free to leave them below in the comments
I'm going to do my best to get back to
all supplement related questions within
the first day of posting this video you
can also feel free to reach out to me on
snapchat my username is just Jeff
Nippert that's it for now guys thank you
so much for watching once again and I
will see you in the next video