[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth busting their every Monday we're
gonna take a look at some popular
fitness or nutrition idea look at where
that idea got started and then figure
out whether it's true or false based on
the most recent scientific evidence so
this week we're gonna be looking at the
idea that HIIT or high-intensity
interval training is better for fat loss
than low intensity steady-state cardio
or lists so HIIT is when you do short
but very high effort sprints and they
don't actually have to be Sprint's as in
actually running but just a
high-intensity bout with whatever form
of cardio you're doing and those
high-intensity bursts are interspersed
with lower intensity steady-state work
in between intervals so an example of a
HIIT session be something like let's say
you're on the bike you do a five-minute
warm-up and 20 seconds all out and then
go at a light pace for two minutes and
then repeat that again for say five or
six intervals and on the other hand the
low intensity steady-state or list would
be like just walking on the treadmill
and had a constant incline just at a
steady pace the whole way through
without any bursts of max exertion and
while for a long time it was held that
low intensity steady state was in fact
the better option for fat loss mostly
because it tends to use more fat as fuel
during the cardio session itself which
is true high-intensity exercise tends to
utilize more carbohydrate for fuel and
fat for fuel but like we discussed in
the fasted cardio video on what really
matters isn't what substrate you're
burning during the cardio session itself
but what happens to phat balance over a
24-hour period and so popular opinion
has recently shifted away from the sort
of steady-state cardio camp and to
interval training being better for fat
loss under the assumption that well you
may not burn as much fat during the
cardio session itself you will burn more
fat after the session has ended and this
is a popular concept it's known as the
calorie after burn effect are more
precisely the epoch or post-exercise
oxygen consumption effect so basically
if you utilize a high intensity during
your cardio session you'll
earn more fat in hours following the
training session due to increased oxygen
consumption so when you're back just
laying on the couch after your cardio
session is over your body continues to
ramp up fat burning while you're just
sitting there basically
whereas with steady-state cardio you
really only get the caloric burn that
you get from the session itself and so
you totally just miss out on that sort
of post exercise epoch component and
while this after burn effect definitely
is real and it definitely is supported
by many lines of scientific evidence I
think it's practical relevance is
somewhat overblown
in a research review of a 2006 study on
epoch Lyle McDonald highlights research
showing that when subjects performed
high-intensity cardio for 80 minutes The
Epoch effect lasted for seven hours
after training however it only amounted
to about eighty extra calories burned
which draws into question which is going
to contribute more to fat loss the 700
or 800 calories burned during the
exercise bout itself or the 80 calories
burned afterwards and of course eighty
minutes is a lot of cardio I think most
people are doing at most probably half
that so according to this research you
probably be looking at something in the
ballpark of about 40 extra calories
burned because of the epoch effect and
more recent literature has underplayed
this even more 1 2017 systematic review
and meta-analysis looking at 28 studies
concluded that overall it appears that
epoch is unlikely to account for any
apparent greater fat loss potential with
HIIT so in my opinion I think the real
bonus to HIIT is that it does tend to be
more time efficient than steady-state
cardio and 2017 me Gian colleagues found
that across 13 studies there were no
significant differences between HIIT and
moderate intensity continuous training
for any body composition measure but
HIIT required approximately 40% less
training time commitment um so I think
on the face of it this really does look
like a home run for HIIT you get the
same fat loss with nearly half the time
investment um I would point out however
that this analysis was looking at obese
and overweight subjects without dietary
control so I would argue that a
potential reason why high-intensity
interval training appears to be so much
more time efficient
and could be due to first of all its
impact on reducing appetite I mean the
subjects in the HIIT group could have
just been consuming less calories and
the fact that people tend to feel like
they're working harder when doing
interval training which may lead them to
just push themselves harder in other
areas of their exercise routine and I'm
sort of just believe in the process more
or believe in their efforts more and so
while these points would technically
count as bonuses or as points for HIIT
under more uncontrolled say ad libitum
conditions I think that if these
extraneous factors were controlled for
especially in healthy non obese subjects
you'd see that difference in time
efficiency start to go away and when you
actually do out the math doing 30
minutes of interval training as we've
described the intervals here and 30
minutes of steady-state cardio they
should both burn roughly the same number
of calories and as Lyle McDonald pointed
out in his literature review the
interval workout is alternating between
very high caloric expenditures and very
low expenditures such that the average
expenditure still ends up coming out
about the same and again since the
influence of epoch is likely to be very
small
even if you do factor EPOC in here I
think that in reality you're looking at
more similar caloric burns between these
two modalities for the same time
investment and a lot of people probably
realize but for all that I still think
that people do tend to push themselves
harder with HIIT in the real world and
it does tend to be a little bit more
time efficient and just not probably as
exaggeratedly so as a lot of people seem
to believe so in addition to this sort
of time efficiency edge which again
depends on just how low your low
intensity cardio is I think that
high-intensity interval training also
just tends to be less boring which I
think can make it much easier to adhere
to in the real world however I think a
potential strike against HIIT is that it
does tend to be more difficult to
recover from especially if you're
combining it with weight training as
many of us do and we need to remember
that we're not only trying to lose fat
but also trying to retain as much muscle
as possible in the process and as dr.
Eric Helms put it in a March 2013 issue
of Allen arrogance research review HIIT
is by definition high-intensity which
it provides a high level of stress and
that stress has to be recovered from I'm
so in addition to generally just being
more taxing interval training may also
be somewhat redundant if you're doing
regular weight training because if you
think about it weight training does tend
to resemble high-intensity interval
training in a lot of ways so if you just
imagine going in for a normal weight
training session and you probably do an
all-out very high-intensity bout with
weights for say 20 or 30 seconds then
you'd rest for two or three minutes
between your sets and then just repeat
that for the duration of your workout so
it could be argued that if your just
weight training at a sufficient
intensity and you could be getting all
or at least most of the positive
adaptations seen with HIIT just from
your resistance training alone so to
conclude I'd like to point out that
perhaps this HIIT versus Liss question
isn't even the right question to be
asking and again I'm going to borrow
from dr. Eric Helms's Sentiments here
where he said cardio should not be the
primary vehicle for fat loss regardless
of whether you're performing hit or
lists truly the vast majority of fat
loss should come from diet so in terms
of practical application there are a few
benefits to HIIT first it's more time
efficient though probably not pay as
much as you think it may blunt appetite
a bit better it may actually get you
working a bit harder and it tends to be
less boring which may improve adherence
but then there are also drawbacks tends
to be harder to recover from and you
can't do them nearly as often as list
sessions if you need to and they may
also hurt your weight training strength
and performance may put you at an
increased risk of injury and it could be
redundant if you're already regularly
weight training I'm so practically
speaking I think the best recommendation
is just to pick a method of cardio that
works best for you personally when in a
fat loss phase I like to use a
combination of hit and list but I'll
rarely let my hit sessions exceed one to
two per week and when I do do them I try
to make sure that they're done on a
piece of equipment that tends to be less
impact so something like the bike or the
elliptical machine rather than doing
actual Sprint's on say the treadmill are
somewhere else now but ultimately I
think that this really comes down to
individual differences and preference
and assume you're recovering adequately
from your weight training routine I
would say to pick whatever cardio
modality is gonna allow you to fit it
best in your schedule allow you to
adhere to it best and to allow you to
basically fit it in to your weight
training routine in a way that sort of
minimizes their interference so all
things considered I would say that the
idea that HIIT is better for fat loss is
kind of busted based on the literature
we have HIIT may have a slight edge just
based on time efficiency although I
wouldn't say this is quite as much of an
advantage as it's often made out to be
and again they do come at a recovery
cost and just as one final takeaway here
if you do decide to do HIIT try to limit
those sessions to at most one to two
times per week and if you are going to
do them try to space them out as much as
possible from your leg days
so if you're doing legs one day try not
to do interval training the next day try
to have at least one day of recovery
between those and I try to fill in the
rest of your caloric deficit through
reductions in food intake and through
doing list sessions as needed to fill in
that caloric deficit that you need to
keep losing fat okay so guys that's
gonna wrap this one up I hope that you
really liked it if you guys are ever
looking for ways to sort of support me
and the content that I'm making over
here I have a bunch of ways that you can
do that linked in the description box
below basically it comes down to using
the things that my sponsors have to
offer one thing in particular that I
think you guys will really benefit from
is the mass research review that's
something that I'm reading every single
month and I'll pull from it for almost
all of these videos I find it to be
really helpful in terms of just
condensing all the science that's out
there down to what you really need to
know in terms of practical application
I'm so if you haven't ever checked that
out it is linked down there in the
description I'd recommend at least
giving it a read through and see if it's
something you think you might be
interested in once again guys I just
want to say thank you for watching if
you liked the video don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up now don't forget to
subscribe if you happen to be new and I
will see you guys all here next Monday