is tension the key to muscle growth or
is it a toxin coming after your children
tonight news at
11: thanks Gail Frank Mike galovich here
that was a terrible fake name is tension
the key to muscle growth yes but the
rest of this video exists so we got to
fill up the time
somehow is tension the key to muscle
growth you might have heard people say
this and oftentimes they're defending
very heavy lifting to grow muscle
fucking hard and heavy brother amazing
thank you sir why is your voice like
that they're not wrong it turns out the
vast majority of the growth response you
get from hypertrophy training training
for muscle growth is from receptors in
your muscle cells called mechano
receptors they literally detect
mechanical tension and they become more
active as protein kinases when that
happens and they signal through a few
different Pathways to the the rest of
the muscle cell to like grow more muscle
that's what they do much most of your
muscle growth is tension detection based
in that sense tension absolutely is the
core element of growing
muscle so if that's the case should we
all be trying to lift as much weight as
possible is there a 1 RM for growth RP
program coming on the RP hypertrophy app
no because there are at least four
considerations to contextualize the
understanding of what tension causing
muscle growth in the majority means and
here's the first one first there is a
minimum
threshold and then after that it doesn't
much matter what does that mean anything
over roughly your 30 rep max anything
heavier than
that is already tense enough enough
tension to create a robust growth
response you can go heavier for other
reasons maybe it's a better stimulus to
fatigue ratio for you maybe you just
enjoy it more maybe also want to get
stronger while getting bigger but going
heavier than even something like a 30
rep max so like going from 20 to 30 rep
max to 20 rep max to 10 rep max to five
rep max
lifting probably will result in roughly
the same growth for you over a several
month time span so at least in the short
to medium term how heavy you go as long
as it's heavy enough to be heavier than
roughly 30% of your rmx probably doesn't
matter much if at all so it's true to
say that heavier is better because
tension is King but that's just like if
someone's lifting their 100 rep max you
know like the guy at the gym that puts
the curl machine slot at the the like
the 10 like the first available
increment he's like doing
this hey Jim yep Tuesdays am I right all
right buddy see you
later and you're like I think gun to
your head you could do a thousand of
those like Andrew Tate don't train like
that that's too light it doesn't cause a
lot of muscle growth but if it's at
least your 30 RM 30 RM I can speak I
promise or heavier you're kind of good
to go so it's just not true to say that
much more tension beyond that is
necessarily going to cause more growth
so there's that minimum
threshold
secondly is the concept of area under
the
curve yes it is
true that if you
lift five reps
heavy the per rep mechano receptor
activity that tells your muscles to grow
is going to be pretty fucking high it's
like grow grow grow grow grow rack rest
so your muscle cell is like okay fuck
that was a lot of yelling me to grow
let's hit it fellas get the fucking
proteins doing whatever the fuck they do
let's grow sweet and it is also true to
say that if it's oh let's say your 20
rep m Max much lighter each repetition
with your 20 rep max is a much smaller
mechano receptor stimulus it's like grow
grow grow grow grow grow grow I'm not
going to do 20 fucking grows first of
all I can't count that high and second
of all that would be
annoying that's all true
however how this all works at the
molecular level is there's essentially
an integrator function occurring it
doesn't matter if it's one Cy totically
long Ultra heavy rep that fills up what
the mechano receptors can at maximum
give you as far as muscle growth
stimulus you can do five reps to get to
that Max you could do one psychotic
insane slow very heavy rep or you can do
up to 30 repetitions that individually
don't stimulate a lot of growth but
you're doing 30 of them shits and they
fill up roughly the same amount of
growth stimulus even from
tension you can win a boxing match in
two ways fundamentally forget about
points you can have one big right hook
to knock that motherfucker out with one
punch or you can soften his ass up with
small punches until he can't see shit
and that last punch isn't even that hard
and he's like fuck that I'm out either
way it's the same there's only a certain
amount of perturbation your brain can
take until it's like fuck this cash me
out I'm going to wake up somewhere else
similar idea in hypertrophy training yes
it's true that every rep heavy is more
of a tension mediate growth stimulus and
every light repetition is less of one
but you can do more light reps and that
generally tends to balance out so if the
curve of tension over reps looks like
this or if it looks like this dick
shaped of course it's still roughly the
same area and the area under the curve
is that integrator of total amount of
molecular signal received to cause you
to grow muscle so whether you do in sets
of 20 whether you sets a five if you go
hard and get close to failure it's
roughly the same result anyway even just
by the tension
pathway all right number
three there is a stimulus to fatigue
ratio consideration for heavier loads
even heavier than your 5 RM so yes it's
totally possible to lift sets of three
sets of two one rep max for growth it
can be done and honestly lifting your
3rm every single individual rep of your
3rm Max is going to grow more muscle
than every individual rep of your six
rep max for example absolutely by a long
shot but the per repetition fatigue
imposed joint and connective tissue
fatigue especially the injury risk
you're exposing yourself to albeit low
in the absolute sense is relatively much
higher if you go much
heavier that doesn't end up being a
really awesome sustainable way to train
have you ever met anyone it's like go
just they're fucking enormous you're
how'd you do it doubles bro sets of two
with my two rep max you're like I don't
know if I want to be big anymore the
thing is you'll probably never meet
anyone like that because people will
break into a million pieces training for
weeks and months like that at a time
whereas training in more reasonable sets
of five to sets of 30 repetitions is
much more sustainable because the
stimulus is similar but the fatigue is
much
lower also the number of sets you would
have to do to sum up enough of those
reps is obscene who the fuck is doing 10
sets of three if you do like a Westside
barbell program cool but that's for
strength and it works pretty well for
that but for hypertrophy if you told the
Westside guys like hey 10 cents a three
for size to be like the fuck is wrong
with you dude we do sets of five or 10
or even more Reps for size like for
strength yeah for size ah so you would
be making a mistake even in that regard
so there is no magic growth that you
can't get out of at most your F RM that
your four or three or two or one RM is
going to be able to give you but it's
going to come in with plenty of
downsides so I wouldn't even say like
well it's cool if you want to train with
3rm it'll get you the same results like
nah 5 to 30 gets you the same results
sets of three I'm not convinced that
that's going to give you the same
results because you're going to probably
break into a million pieces before you
get to being really
jacked lastly Point number
four metabolites and pumps matter as
well we have research confirmation of uh
multiple metabolites including lactate
actually triggering muscle growth
mechanistically in the muscle cell we
have multiple lines of evidence that
cell swelling itself is hypertrophic it
causes muscle growth as well and thus
the pump causes muscle growth
now heavier
loads probably cause more
growth by a small margin just from the
tension
pathway if it was only
tension that you were causing growth
with you would be better off doing sets
of 5 to 10 than you would be doing sets
of 20 to 30
even the area under the curve doesn't
match you actually get a more robust
stimulus with heavier loads you just do
for a few
reasons but what you get out of the
higher reps is all of that 90% of the
tension you need plus better metabolite
sequestration and due to metabolite
sequestration like when your fucking
muscles are burning up from lactic acid
like crazy that and a couple of other
mechanisms tend to cause a big pump and
that's how we get that research
confirmed thing that sets a five set a
30 and pretty much everything in between
on average for the average person is
roughly the same amount of growth
because the tension stimulus is almost
the same yeah training heavier works
better on attention Alone by a small
margin but the smaller margin is made up
for by metabolites and by the pump so in
the end it's all kind of same same
however there's nuances to this on the
individual
level some people will get permanently
better results just going heavier or
going lighter some people are just made
for fucking lifting heavy and they get
all the best results with it some people
are made for fuck fucking High Reps and
they love it but some people you do a
set of five on a leg press they're like
my knees hurt you do a set of 20 and
their quads blow up like crazy in their
sore for three fucking days like seem
I've worked for other people they do a
set of eight on on on fucking lying leg
curls and like oh my fucking God my hams
and they do a set of 25 and they're like
I felt like I just ran a mile I'm tired
I'm not getting sore I'm not getting a
pump this doesn't work fuck that so
definitely you got to lean to what works
best for you but it's also going to be
dependent on machines if you're doing
free weight body weight squats anything
much over 15 rep and it's really a
cardio exercise and a lower back
exercise is not limited by your legs
anymore so maybe save your that doesn't
mean sets of 15 and above are bad for
your quads because in set of 20 into the
leg press where your cardio is less of a
concern much less and your stability is
not a concern at all then it might be
really awesome rep range for you so it's
sometimes it's context dependent
sometimes it's muscle dependent like
your biceps love High Reps your triceps
fucking love low reps and sometimes it's
like that but also there's a variation
element if you train more for High Reps
than low reps after a few months the
High Reps aren't doing what they're
supposed to be doing you switch to Low
Reps oh now you're getting some great
mind muscle connection some great growth
great results you do that for a few
months and all of a sudden that's kind
of stale your joints feel a little beat
up you switch to higher reps and oh it's
like a rebirth tons of growth tons of
response again so there's tons of wiggle
room within this range of 5 to 30 but
generally speaking there's no totally
wrong answers there lot of IND
individualization but nothing that for
all people we can say definitely
everyone should be training with sets of
5 to 10 reps that's just not true all
right so taking all that together what
kind of recommendations can I give you
that you get the most jacked you
possibly can finally grow a pair of
fucking testicles you go over and you
ask that girl out the you were always
thinking she's so hot and she so pretty
I'd like to spend time looking into her
eyes and she says no and you somehow
have awesome cognitive dissonance enough
to re architect the situation in mind
that like you grew from it and you
weren't super disappointed you didn't
cry for days you didn't abandon all your
hopes and dreams and you're going to
experience love again even though you
know that's not true because you've only
had one love and it was that one girl in
high
school before that let's give you some
good research backed
recommendations yes there is a tiny
amount of research teeny tiny that a
combination within a single session of
higher reps and lower reps actually
gives you more growth than just doing
one or just the other but not enough of
that research to really like say ah this
confirmed so for those of you in the
comments are going to bring that
research up I wish we had more of it and
if I'm sold on that shit hell yeah I'll
be doing fucking sets of five and sets
of 30 in the same session that'd be
great but for now your best bet is as I
feel about five of these
points five I know what five is godamn
it one don't over index on tension at
all costs yes we're all male 92% of us
in this channel anyway and lifting heavy
is fucking sweet and you can Flex on
people in the gym but if you're there
for hypertrophy all you know yeah just
admit what's ego and admit what's not
and it's cool to fucking bash your skull
against heavy weights dope just don't
pretend it's like a better thing next
just stick to doing sets close to
failure in the 5 to 30 rep range and
fundamentally there's no wrong answers
next choose the best rep range to get
your best stimulus to fatigue ratio in
any given muscle uh machine exercise and
phase of training for example uh choose
rep ranges that for that muscle for that
time period give you a huge tension feel
like I really feel like my biceps are
fucking ripping up give you a crazy burn
if it's the High Reps like if you're
doing a High Reps and you're not getting
a crazy burn you're not getting out of
the High Reps what you think you're
getting get a huge pump that's guys that
respond really well to heavy weights
actually get their biggest pumps from
heavy weights and if they're not getting
a huge pump the tension perception is
fucking wild it's kind of has to balance
each other out if you're not feeling a
ton of tension from every rep because
it's light you better getting fucking
arre Burns and gnarly fucking pumps and
then you're good to go perturbation
whatever it is you do for your sets and
Reps after you're done your muscle have
to be fucked up wobbly poor coordination
much weaker than normal maybe prone to
cramping it's got to be something to me
that tells you like you train your pecs
if you're like hey I just trained my
pecs really hard I'm like sweet do you
want to do some bench pressure like yeah
and you could just lift the same amount
of weight you normally do maybe just
down by a little your muscles don't feel
tired a week you didn't fucking train
your packs whatever you did was fucking
wrong do you train your packs hard and
I'm like hey do you want a bench press I
put 135 in the bar you you got to be
like my fucking god what the hell
happened to me like aha you trained hard
that's perturbation and lastly
soreness like the muscles should get
tired after training and feel kind of
weird and maybe even delayed onset
soreness for a day later they get sore
that's all good stuff it's not mandatory
but it's a good sign and Lastly lastly
joint and connective tissue feel uh you
want to keep the joint joints and
connective tissues as U gingerly
attended to as possible so if you think
you grow really well from sets of eight
but your elbows are going to blow up any
day now and you get pretty good training
from sets of 15 but your elbows feel
amazing when you do sets of 15 more 15s
few rates you only got your own pairs of
joints and when you wear them out you're
that old guy at the gym like yep I used
to do that oh cool yep I'm a had a
double masectomy in my elbow joints
you're like I don't think that's never
mind Point number
four try to combine rep ranges on the
workout usually with different lifts or
sometimes with Downs sets so you do four
sets of uh 8 to 12 on the leg press and
your fifth set set you do a set of 25
reps try it out or you do squats for
sets of 5 to 10 reps and then on leg
presses for multiple sets you do sets of
15 to 20 reps give that a shot see if it
gives you a better feel I usually spread
those out into the week so I'll have
heavier is days in the week and the
lighter is days but sometimes I Mi some
Nash in the session this is going to
make a big difference in your training
But whichever one you like the best and
seems to work best for you for a variety
of uh indices give that one a shot
lastly feel free to keep it simp simple
as fuck like not that I'm attending to
these people but every now and again we
get a comment like man this guy fucking
over complicates shit just fucking lift
and train and eat gu I'm sorry that you
were burdened with a very low IQ from
the early age and things are confusing
to you that are not to most other people
but those motherfuckers have a bit of a
point and that's like dude just pick
some fucking weights with good
techniques get closer to failure uh in
the in the five to 30 rep range and eat
food sleep a lot recover come back hit
it again and there's kind of no wrong
answers everything else is
nitty-gritty There You Go full circle
I'm a bro now gonna go fist pump my
buddies and you know sex in the shower
that's what Bros do right see you bros
in the
shower there is no avoiding hard
training if you want to grow but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
[Music]
results