is this being streamed on Twitch what's
going on here we are live on Twitch
ladies and gentlemen I have now sided
with Alexander Bramley AKA Alex bronley
two bald bearded men against two penic
nerds you guys suck both you and Dr Wolf
this is the Bulan conflict Milos let's
get
ready hey I'm ready a Time anywhere both
Greek actually neither of them look
Greek Pac is a gingerbread does not look
Greek and they're basically Twins and
for by extension Alex does not look
Greek either very nice it it is funny
that that that I agree with I will say
that with your beard you're looking
everything to me you do look the most
Greek but look they wanted the
best they're not going to make it
blaha's not going to be here I'm gonna
be here we're gonna have this
conversation all about exercise science
and these pencil necks Alex that are
just ruining the space you made this
incendiary video okay just calling them
lame stupid weak small um it got a lot
of attention but I do want to have this
conversation I think it's a very
important conversation I think those
that are unfamiliar the two resources
prior maybe to listening to this
watching this should be your video in
the first place and then also Dr Milo
wolf his maybe response down below just
just to get a general feel of what we're
talking about but it's a fascinating
topic that has kind of been mulled over
in a variety of different ways but I
think think you did eloquently put
together a video essay of which we're
here to talk about so first maybe let's
do just some general introductions of
everyone and then we'll Kickstart Alex
with that video your general outline and
go from there so Alex can you just give
it a little introduction man yeah sure
uh my name is Alex Bramley I uh am a
professional YouTuber which I never
thought that I would say um I have about
20 years coming up on 20 years
experience in strongman I've competed at
the World level I ran a strongman gym
for a while uh I have some education
although I'm not going to get into the
Weeds on that um uh but yeah I decided
to take everything and put it into a
channel to try to dissect some of the
things I struggled with and that I know
a lot of other people struggle with with
regards to strength uh on that topic is
uh the topic of how science plays a role
and that's what led me to to make this
video so here we are
today fantastic Milo introduce
yourself right less experience at the
World stage unfortunately but also some
education in sports science so been
Lifting for about 10 years I've coached
a few more people uh recently got my PhD
so now real doctor alongside real doct
pack um on range of motion and
hypertrophy so something pretty relevant
I'd say to this discussion you know
getting my PhD in sports science
specifically with regards to muscle
growth and how science can inform our
pursuit of strength and hypertrophy so
that's my point of view in general
perspective when it comes to this debate
perfect and then pack Patrick close so
I've also been Lifting for close to like
13 years now um dabbled in powerlifting
a bit when I was younger nothing too
crazy though I am a recreational lifter
at the moment with uh a similar academic
background to doctor Milo wolf
highlighting the doctor part real doctor
not a physician um Google the paper whom
should we call doctors it's there on
pmed if you're mad but joking aside um
I've also coached um so I'm a full-time
coach worked with um hundreds of
individuals from competitive powerlifter
strong men strong women to your your
average Joe and my PhD was specifically
on the
minimum minimum effective training dose
required to increase one repetition
maximum strength in powerlifters
specifically and um yeah that's
me three very powerful channels now on
YouTube I might be I'm the moderator I'm
maintaining a neutral position but I
might have to shift an allegiance over
to Alex because I'm also a professional
YouTuber so I I don't know that that
Ivory Tower we're gonna get into it but
maybe let's kick it right off then Alex
about your video and maybe if you could
give a general outline of your points
and then I'll have Milo and pack respond
to them just the the flow because we
have the title fantastic title that's
how I know you're professional um but
then it is over 30 minutes long and
there are several points you bring up so
if you had to give kind of a a brief
summary or let's say an outline because
you did note before the call that some
people watched the video and maybe they
didn't watch it all the way but there
was maybe a little confusion this is
your opportunity man just to State the
case of what you're thinking clearly to
the audience sure the whole video was um
basically an attempt to get into uh what
the state of exercise science is uh what
some of the misconceptions consumers
have around it and what ultimately it
can inform if it can inform anything
about what the average person needs to
do in order to uh improve themselves
consistently over time especially if
you're talking about applying it to
where the stakes are the highest which
would be the world stage the Olympics
Elite bodybuilding Elite powerlifting
and and professional sports and so on so
uh the primary outline of the video was
just pointing out some of the flaws in
research and again there was an emphasis
on what the consumer probably doesn't
know there was a misconception I think
that I was like making this for the
benefit of researchers or phds like I
was some disgruntled homeless qinon guy
that was like doing curls in an alley
and then started you know yelling about
how you can't trust the science um and
then I just went and started throwing
rocks at a university and calling phds
idiots uh all of the things that I
sourced for the video uh come from in
house so I cided heavily uh a lot of the
guys in the field I pulled from the
replication crisis that exists in other
fields that has really kind of cast a
shadow on Academia it's caused a lot of
problems some of the fields have had to
outright reinvent the way that they do
uh research and the way they handle
these incentives and that wasn't to say
hey this is so stupid why why are any of
you wasting time with this I think the
field absolutely has some things to uh
to offer but I think in order to get to
any of that you have to be very careful
about how you go about it you have to be
very skeptical and uh you can't assume
that the way things are done is going to
at the end of the Day lead to the type
of conclusions you want so basically the
point of this was to fill the consumer
who is forever being sold Things based
on you know this being organic non-GMO
scientific whatever it might be it very
often gets used as kind of a marketing
gimmick and uh scientific literacy and
this sounds like an insult but it's not
I'm I'm not literate in Greek uh you
have to go to college you have to learn
a bunch of things about uh the way to
interpret statistics and evaluate how
these models are put together and the
average consumer doesn't really have
that so I feel like there's a lot of
people who are at a disadvantage who are
inclined to take away the wrong things
who are inclined to hyperfocus on things
that uh might seem significant and might
seem like they're scientific but might
ultimately pull them away from the
really important things in their
training and that's overall what the
video set out to
do so real quick Alex what you say one
of the potential issues is not with
exercise science itself but the
interpretation by the consumer and the
inability then to perceive some of the
knowledge that's out there or what's
trying to be distilled you think there
is a gap between the two is that one of
the issues uh I think there's a gap but
I think a lot of that has to fall at the
feet of the people in the field and the
communicators who are responsible for
making this stuff digestible for the
consumer I think that um it's known in
any field no matter what you're doing
that there is a market there's a direct
incentive and wherever there's an
incentive there's potential for bias
especially when it's a financial one and
you can draw parallels very closely to
what like psychology went through like I
took shots at a lot of fields for things
that are pretty well established about
the problems that they deal with and how
it's different from how I think the lay
person interprets science which is they
think a guy in a lab figuring out the
fundamental laws of the universe and a
lot of fields you don't quite have your
hands in the gears that way I'm about to
finish my uh bachelors in Psychology I
decided after all these years to go back
like hey maybe I want to teach at some
point when I'm done making videos for
the tubes but um my father was a
psychiatrist so we're very close to kind
of this field me and my wife have worked
in mental health pop psychology is an
absolute [ __ ] show and nobody in the
field will deny that fact the
replication crisis is embarrassing we
just had this thing with Franchesca Gino
not that long ago getting uh sold out
and even regardless of moving stuff
around the types of research they did
when you look at it and you're like what
possible purpose does any of this serve
in the real world and there's there's
very little of it but because there's an
industry because there's magazines and
headlines and books and lectures and Ted
Talks to be given there's an incentive
for people to put out uh research that
isn't really relevant or isn't
thoroughly vetted and if left unchecked
like it was for so long that can lead to
a really big problem so um yeah the the
consumer needs to be able to interpret
it but we're not going to hold our
breath for consumers to be able to read
research and make sense of it for
themselves or do the statistical
analysis or figure it out figure out
effect size um or look for signs of like
fraudulent data of course not so it
really does have to be for the people
that engage directly with this stuff I
think to remind them of the limitations
but also remind them of the other stuff
you know we don't find everything we
know about the universe in a in a
laboratory setting or in in a a double
blinded study no matter how much we want
that to be the case so uh yeah balancing
out the fundamental things that are
required for training to me that's the
biggest thing thing and that's what all
of my content's been about so that's
where I like to redirect people Alex
that is a very interesting premise when
you said it is it falls at the hands of
communicators science communicators to
educate the consumers if only we're to
have a round table discussion with maybe
a couple hunks discussing this issue
maybe some new channels with some phds
who knows so let's kick it off uh maybe
Milo is there anything that you want to
respond to first and then we'll go to
pack and then we'll go back uh to Alex
because I think I think that's a a good
initial setup your video was quite in-
depth and we will get into all the
different points and then Branch up from
there but Milo do you want to kick
things
off first off I think Alex did a
tremendous job summarizing his video and
clarifying some of the finer points I
think that on net balance the video is
probably a slight positive and the
reason for that is I think he did a good
job with representing some of the
limitations of science as it currently
stands but especially of How It's been
done for quite a while the issue I take
with uh the video as a
complete sort of uh package let's put it
that way is that I think It ultimately
represents only one side of the coin I
think It ultimately points out a lot of
the limitations of science but doesn't
point out how science has been working
to improve upon essentially all the
limitations that you mentioned in some
capacity and how much of the more recent
research has in fact addressed a lot of
the fact a lot of the stuff that was
mentioned in the video so I think it's
useful for consumers of information to
know ex like everything pretty much that
you mentioned in the video right like
when it comes to the replication crisis
when it comes to studies being
potentially underpowered there was a lot
of stuff that was true in there for sure
right and that's why I think it's a that
positive the issue that for me arose was
simply the fact that it was kind of just
one side of the quein ultimately like
like there's there's been many movements
and initiatives that have started in the
last couple decades trying to address
many of these issues and it would also
be wrong to say that many of these
issues aren't already addressed through
the fact that on many topics for example
different Labs conduct studies on the
same topic with similar designs and if
there's a consistency Within These
findings yes it's not the exact same
thing as a replication for example but
it is going to lend some credibility to
an overall overarching principle right
for example if you consider L find that
higher volumes show more hypertrophy and
we see this in a variety of labs maybe
they didn't specifically perform
replication studies aiming to perform
the exact same study over and over again
with increasing um increasingly large
sample sizes but it still can overall
provide more confidence in a finding so
while I do agree with some the
limitations I think there sometimes your
interpretation thereof or your
presentation thereof might have not been
perfectly charitable the thing I'll
quickly say say uh besides that on
taking issue with science being used as
a marketing term is that I agree I think
there is an issue when science is merely
used as a means to Market an approach or
essentially financially win off of it
the thing I would rebuke however is
that on the flip side of that of science
being used as a marketing tool you have
people making claims that are not based
on any science right
and if we are
to reject science as our best tool not a
broken tool and I think some people
might have come away from the video with
that idea not a broken tool but still
our best tool to arrive at what is the
truth then that leaves us much more
susceptible and vulnerable to marketing
claims made by people with less even of
a scientific basis at least with
scientific claims we do have studies
coming out you know on many topics
several times a year that do quickly
rectify the or sort of change the record
for the better or rectify the record if
there was acious claim being made
whereas with claims made by many gurus
in the industry right you don't have
that ability or at the very least if
they don't site research or if they are
talking about speculative topics we're
just not able to dispel that fous
marketing and so I think it is an issue
with science let's call it science-based
lifting specific
but it's even more of an issue by far I
think for overall lifting specifically
supplementation but even training
nowadays a little bit with some programs
being sold that might not actually have
much Merit the final thing I'll say is
many there is absolutely Merit in
combining and marrying practice and the
evidence when it comes to informing how
you program for lifters because for many
topics we don't have perfect research
right we have some research that is
somewhat relevant and we have to make
that translate into who we coach and how
we coach them but we also have some
practical experience and that is
absolutely valuable however the issue
comes when we only or prominantly rely
on just practical experience because as
much as science has limitations the use
of uncontrolled anecdote has potentially
even more meaningful limitations and so
that's where science comes in by
providing a means of providing
inferences based on at least relatively
controlled and relatively relevant data
sets so that's kind of where coming at
this topic from um but as I said I think
on net balance the video is probably for
the better because some of these issues
do widely go undescribed and unannounced
and so the average person in the
industry just doesn't really have a good
idea of this stuff and I think your
video at least informed them of this and
ultimately look this is not a sexy topic
so you did a good job with making it at
least a little bit marketable it's my
middle
name Alex I will say this so pack do you
want want to speak and then Alice I am
uh very aware acutely aware of the fact
that we have two people uh two doctors
here talking and then Alex also I want
to make sure Alex you have the time
though so I'm going to make sure they
have ample time man to talk pack is
there something you want to say before I
give it over uh Alex and I want you Alex
to have a lot of time to just go right
into man yeah I want to just slightly
open up a parenthesis and touch on the
on the fact that we as scientists and as
truly science-based uh practitioners are
the ones that are or should be but we
are the ones that are aware of the
limitations of science more than than
everybody else and not just Sports
Science but science as a whole and the
the one thing that I thought was a bit
of an issue with uh with your video
specifically is that exercise science
was sort of highlighted as a science
where there would be incentive for more
bias or fraud or like sloppy science to
occur when in reality um the incentives
in even the medical science uh and
science like even Neuroscience economics
evolutionary biology and ecology a bunch
of other Sciences we have documented
examples of uh fraud and bias that has
led to people one dying for example if
we look at uh M arini the the surgeon
who was uh who essentially came up with
a trachea transplant technique and he
was appointed at the noble uh the the
the house of the Noble in physiology
Hospital in Sweden The kolinska
Institute so he essentially frauded some
data um the gist of it was that you
would code a transplant um in certain
cells and the body would welcome it
that's the gist of it I'm not a surgeon
uh and as a result of it even though his
studies were published in the best uh
journals in the world um they did not
note that the people that got these
operations s then died and we have
plenty of other um plenty of other
fields like Neuroscience where we you
know there was a 10% sort of replication
rate in in some topics same with
economics and so on and so forth and
Sport Science specifically and a lot of
the big names in sports science
unbeknown to the the average individual
are not really directly benefiting much
from publishing studies especially those
who are tenured and those who are
already established in their in their
career there's not there's no funding
there's not many people in Academia uh
care about the stuff that we look into
especially when it comes to physique and
strength Sports and optimizing muscle
hypertrophy for the average uh gym goer
it's mostly our Eco chamber that cares
there's not much money and success that
comes with it uh but in other fields and
again Medical Science um things are much
much more um much greater in terms of
actual Financial incentives other than
that I Echo Milo in the to to say that
you did identify a lot of the
limitations of science but the
conclusion of the video which was along
the lines of hey just figure out what
works for you um sort of presents two
two sides when in
reality it's not just find out what
works for you or do what the conclusion
of a A study says or an abstract but
rather see what the totality of evidence
says what works for you and then apply
that and we see that in like if we
actually look at the conclusions of
papers the infamous or rather famous
meta analysis by shanfeld atal which has
been scrutinized and has been called all
sorts of names and you had certain
individuals there that hated on it if we
actually read the full paper um the
conclusion says that although there is
certainly a threshold for volume Beyond
which hypertrophic adaptations plateau
and perhaps even regret you to
overtraining K research isn't sufficient
to determine the limage of this dop
relationship and then it concludes with
it is clear that the optimal RT dose
will ultimately vary between individuals
and these differences may have a genetic
component consistent with an
evidence-based approach practitioners
should carefully monitor client
progression and adjust training dosages
based on the individual's response
versus this sort of straw man where
scientists are telling people hey you
should do all these sets otherwise you
will see no gains and as Eric Helms had
uh put it uh science is more like a like
a torch let's say you're like in a in a
dark maze and it's showing you it's
allowing you to see somewhat in front of
you but it's not showing you a clear way
and you can use science to navigate
yourself through that maze while
obviously also using experience which in
the analogy would be I don't know your
sense senses and you know touching
things and just hearing things and
navigate versus solely relying on the
conclusions of a of a study but um yeah
that's me Alex right before you kick off
I want to say the Eric Helms ISM that's
appropriate here I believe he said in a
podcast episode that science isn't here
to teach you a research paper isn't here
to teach you how to train on a Tuesday
but but kick it off Al take your time
man please I'm I got I'm running out of
paper I got a lot to respond to you I'm
going to try my best to get everything
uh Point by point because uh those are
all great ideas and I want to be able to
engage with each one without leaving
anything behind um especially like I I
just watched something with Eric Helms
recently and I've digested of his
content and others uh and there's a
bunch about the way he presents that I
think either of us could probably pull
into our argument a little bit depending
but um I'm going to save that for last
and try and go in order so the first
thing U Milo talked about um the
one-sidedness of the video and this is
something that you kind of struggle with
when you see the pendulum swing too far
and I think this is a a normal feature
you can't really get away from whenever
you're engaged in activism or if you
think that there's something that's kind
of going checked you want to check it um
there is an important difference between
defining exactly what you think is true
versus saying like you're too far and
trying to pull it back and that's why we
kind of have this eternal pendulum swing
in things like politics and uh in Social
topics and so on so uh I can accept that
I probably didn't do a great enough job
of of putting together what I think is
like the completely combined theory of
how all this fits together however at
the end of all of this like I'm going to
say my my view of how this potentially
can insert directly into somebody's
training is still probably a bit more
bearish but um yeah I mean I saw a
problem so I was going after it so
things are inevitably going to be
one-sided but that's why we have
conversations like this because the more
we flesh it out the more resolution we
can add um let's see we talked about um
replication so like uh that was one
thing I mentioned with the problems with
these other fields uh that was a small
part and I probably spent too much time
on it in the video as well because I did
want to educate people the consumer
consumers uh as to the actual
limitations but the limitations go Way
Beyond just replication and I think I
had alluded to this earlier and at some
point later after I've addressed all
these questions I'd like to get into
that because I have not just concerns
about the best case scenario but I think
I have some kind of relevant ideas for
ways that you might be able to improve
because in no way shape or form am I
suggesting that that brow whether you
want to call it bro science or
experience or anecdote or whatever it's
like you know do I credit you for
something or do I blame you it's a say
thing positive negative anecdote or
sorry positive negative connotation um
in no way am I saying that like things
are just fine like people figure it out
and they're good like there's problems
guys there are problems trust me and
that's why I made a channel because
those problems eight away at years of my
progress I have scar tissue from those
problems so I'm eager to talk about
those and uh things that uh the ways
that things can increase uh and
improve uh things don't just happen in a
laboratory setting right it you guys are
talking about this marrying of different
things and I'm always going back to the
consumer because it it isn't a straw man
like pack said because I'm not accusing
the researchers or the phds or at least
many of them there's going to be people
who are guilty of this all over the
board but I'm not accusing the field of
being guilty of this so much as I'm
trying to point out the fact that this
is how it gets interpreted and I've
heard all of the the videos about how um
you go over these studies you lay out
your case and then at the end you speak
very carefully about what means and what
it doesn't mean at the end of every Jeff
nipp nippard video and I give nippard a
hard time I I genuinely like nippard but
I just take issues with the way he
engages with uh these types of topics um
at the end it's always like you got to
do what works for you things vary
shenfeld and Helms and creger these are
all guys I quoted they're very very
clear about the limitations of this
stuff it doesn't matter because to the
consumer they see science and it goes in
one ear and out the other to the point
where they know they're they he they're
supposed to change things according to
their needs and their individual
variants they didn't get any tools to do
that from the thing that they're
watching in addition to that uh they
will stick they're likely to stick to
the recommendations they heard because
they think they'll be betraying what is
optimal and then I can get into what
even optimal means as we talk about more
complex uh iterations of of training as
you develop uh programs and you carry
them on over time um we talked about
like claims without science this is a
tricky one because
formal academic science isn't the only
thing that causes uh things to improve
and it's not just this is what we did
back in the day before colleges we still
do this in many fields uh I use martial
arts as an example and fight Sciences as
an example because they're not getting
strategies for fighting directly from um
peer-reviewed research when you have a
massive group of people that are running
through a simulation over and over and
over and over and there is a firm
selection barrier what you end up
getting is Preservation of consequential
information and consequent IAL
information diffuses through Society so
before a university ever existed we knew
how to predict uh the weather or predict
Seasons we had almanacs we built
pyramids we made inventions and that's
still going on to this day and I would
cite training as something that is still
in that realm where if we can capitalize
the right way in order to select for the
right answer we can do potentially big
things I'm just skeptical as to whether
or not it's going to go on in a
laboratory setting the average person I
talked about scientific literacy sees
science in kind of a a a one-dimensional
way kind of a childlike way because kind
of an aspect of the Dunning Krueger
effect which is ironic because that's
another casualty of the replication
crisis but the way people think about um
knowing just enough knowing just enough
to think you know more than you actually
do the average person hear science and
they think well I have tasty food and a
smartphone and I can get on an airplane
and that's better than doing super
icious nonsense where I'm rolling
chicken bones on my front porch trying
to guess if there's going to be a
tornado tomorrow but obviously there's
so much more resolution about uh what is
and what is not and most people will
dramatically underestimate what is
required not what you can get away with
but what is required as far as
experience determining your outcomes uh
and how you predict your outcomes uh and
probably overestimating what an
individual study even though you guys
know a lot of consumers will
overestimate what an individual study is
even capable of saying about their
training um
gez I'm I'm starting to forget what all
these notes even meant I'm going down a
rabbit hole um let me just get to the
last couple a pack brought up um uh the
other um the other fields and this is
also something I got push back on
because it did seem like I was singling
out certain fields or like
misrepresenting the benefit one field
has versus another um there's a little
bit of a gap here because on one the one
hand I talked about hard and soft
Sciences just solely talk about
predictive power when you have
constituents of physics you have like
engineering and chemistry and this and
so on um you have insane predictive
power you come up with models that give
the right answer 10 out of 10 times it's
the only reason you put your child on an
airplane filled with jet fuel take it
30,000 feet in the air and land it on
the other side of the country because
you know that's actually safer than
getting in the car and getting on the
freeway um as you get away from that you
have more complexity and most of the
complexity has to do with the human
organism yes we're we're still given to
the laws of of of physics but um you
have so much complexity you're trying to
talk about changes the way you have to
talk about it a lot of the examples of
like the replication crisis you're right
it wasn't just psychology uh cancer
research was horrible it was to the
point where the pharmaceutical companies
who are actually the ones causing the
bias because they're selecting what gets
studied for creating the incentive to
show certain types of reactions but not
others the pharmaceutical companies were
like guys we can't build off of anything
that's coming out of your field like the
pharmaceutical companies were worried
about their bottom line because things
went off the rails so medical science is
a problem yeah it's based in physics and
chemistry and biology and everything
else but you're dealing with complexity
uh and that's the big thing the
complexity hinders your ability to make
firm conclusions and it's also very easy
to focus on small things where you lose
the forest from the trees when in
reality you have to have this huge
holistic uh idea of how an organism
works and it's very difficult to do once
you add in all the confounding variables
um we went down to to the straw man I
addressed that already uh and I'll
finish with there was a mention of Eric
Helms um one of the reasons I have a lot
of respect for a lot of these guys is
because the more you listen to them the
more you will hear them be very careful
about how they say what we can and can't
know and it's to a point where um like
I've heard Milo say and I think you put
it in your last Instagram post you think
exercise science is the best thing we
have to inform your training and I
actually think that if we pressed a lot
of the phds in this field a lot of them
probably wouldn't even commit to that
when you hear shenfeld talk about the
three-prong approach that was derived
from medical Sciences with the problem
it was having with its crisis you have
individual experience you have
individual variability from your clients
and then you have the evidence but when
you look at what the evidence can or
can't say with regards to what an
individual does it's less of a leg of a
chair and it's more like a nub and
that's the thing that I worry about and
Eric Helms in a interview he did like
six uh six months ago with cassum from
N1 um cassum had asked him um what is
evidence-based coaching even mean [ __ ]
was like I don't think I can write a
program that's evidence-based because
there isn't enough information in any
one piece of evidence to say this is
what goes in this program and this is
something the consumer has no idea when
you're writing a program they're
inclined to think everything you put on
that paper can be substantiated with
research and the truth is most of it uh
is either arbitrary it's stuff that's
been done in the field for five decades
um or it's stuff where okay you're the
guy with the PHD you think it's this way
but in reality you're taking three four
five steps and I I mentioned to pack the
other day when we're messaging Israel
very recently got into an argument with
fuad and you know he was a little toasty
he had uh he was a little inebriated
when he did this but he was going hard
in the paint that Ronnie Coleman's legs
would have been bigger if he just
squatted a few inches deeper and I think
there's a lot of people that would see
that type of claim as being ridiculous
on his face I really like Israel he's
usually extremely measured in everything
he says I think that's just what happens
when you sell t-shirts to say team full
range of motion where you end up having
to commit to things to kind of a
ridiculous degree and that's the type of
thing that I'm worried about I'll take a
I'll take a breath I got
lightheaded well Alex I I want to kick
over to Malo I just want to say quickly
thank you for making perhaps the least
sexy topic interesting to the masses
because your video got over 100,000
views I think this is a very interesting
topic I'm surprised we're even here in
the first place talking about it Milo
maybe I don't know if you want to
reverse your way back from the last
point or whatever you want but kick it
over to you first I want to give Pac a
chance to speak because I I went first
last time sure
a thank you so I just want to touch
briefly on the on whether designing a
program can be evidence-based so if we
the true definition of evidence-based is
scientific literature scientific
evidence experience and client
preferences but we are all coaches here
I mean maybe Omar excluded Omar is also
a fellow lifter but if we are let's say
we interview a new client for who wants
to gain muscle just just muscle let's
say we have certain variables that we
need to take in consideration exercise
technique which will have Tempo and
range of motion as its
components uh training volume training
frequency exercise
selection and I think that's that's more
or less it do you not think that based
on the current scientific evidence we
can have a solid base for What on
average works for these things and then
using the current scientific evidence
adjust that to the preference of
individual for example if you want to
maximize muscle hypertrophy we know that
great more training volume on average
will probably lead to greater results
that's where we factor in what the
client has also done in the past what
they've recovered from and so on and so
forth but then science says okay this is
the direction you need to take as far as
training volume we know from the current
available evidence that training
frequency does not seem to play a huge
role we know that we can be relatively
flexible with training loads um and at
the same time we also uh know that
they're probably it's probably best that
they do a lot of their training at long
muscle lengths and utilize a range of
motion that allows them to do that all
that that base is built by science and
we we can have a certain uh we can have
a certain amount of confidence in that
our program will be taking a lot of
basic box boxes because of the current
scientific evidence which we can then
modify based on the individual's
preference if we were to take things
back in the 70s where exercise signs
were still in its absolute infancy and
we solely so solely relied on the word
of experts at the time meaning famous
bodybuilders powerlifters and coaches
you would be looking at extremes one
extreme being you know the Dorian Yates
and the what's his name Mike Menor of
the time um and then the Arnolds one
saying high volume is it four hours in
the gym the other person saying it's one
set is all you need um light versus
heavy and that and I will sort of add to
Mike's Mike Israel's point that yeah in
theory I would agree that maybe Ronnie
colan would be bigger does does that
mean that Ronnie colan would be
substantially bigger probably not but
would Ronnie colan be as injured now as
if we had more signs back in the day and
he was like you know what you don't
really need the triple ply 3rm Squad two
weeks out from the Olympia but we also
um we also wouldn't know much about
Regional hypertrophy do we need to do
just squats or do we need leg extensions
or like [ __ ] squats that will um allow
our quads to be more fully developed um
all those things were not really clear
back in the day when science was not
there but now and we're still at a point
where exercise science is growing and
there's a lot of there's a lot of work
to be done and there's a lot of things
that we need to fix as far as scientific
rigor methodology and so on and so forth
and transparency but I do not think I I
I I think that an evidencebased program
is relatively clear um to to to make and
we can have much more confidence in that
program working versus back in the day
where we would have to sort of either go
with one train of thought school of
thought or the other and the same goes
with sports like strongman and
powerlifting where we are currently
seeing more and more data come out on
you know Force production and whether
using very high fatiguing sets make
sense uh or whether we can pull pull
back on some things and all those are
things that we can directly Implement in
working with not only average people but
Elite athletes and you have many people
like the strength guys uh so Jason
tremble Ben escrow who work with some of
the best powerlifters in the world at
the moment who are constantly drawing
from that science and from from our
research with the minimum effective dose
for for powerlifters and are informing
their practice and it is making an
actual difference versus back in the day
where you'd have to sort of rely on what
one coach said what the other coach said
grab a few books and then sort of trial
and error everything with a lot of
co-founders and a lot of like
um a lot of cloudiness uh to to put it
scientifically as far as your judgment
goes so sure real quick jent my proposal
here now I want to hear Alex respond and
then is it cool if I go back to mil just
just so there's a better conversation
flow would that be acceptable just so we
don't have like 15 points 15 points
awesome yeah Alex please yeah sure um so
to start
off to start off uh a little bit of an
olive branch is that I I think that
there is a huge problem with anecdote I
think there's a huge problem with the
way uh gym culture was organized I came
up in like the high school weight room
which is probably one of the worst ways
to learn anything about anything uh and
it's probably made worse for the fact of
High School coaches trying to tell you
what to do and then I graduated from
there into the weight room at like a
24-hour fitness where you have
everything from you know guys that were
repeating their prison workouts in the
corner uh to people that just were
replicating their worst idea of what
Arnold's training program was like and
guys that had been lifting the same
weight for the same sets and Reps for 35
years trying to tell you what works and
it's an absolute mess uh I mentioned
martial arts and having complex systems
um I mean it traces back to like how you
deal with anything where there's a lot
of variables where you have to run
through a simulation over and over and
over and have that selective pressure
that's how you get really firm grasps on
things that are too complex to build
from scratch and to build from first
principles and I would like lifting to
do something like that it'd be great if
there were things like Dojo or gyms
where you go in and they did that at
Westside they Sho did that in his gym
you're there you're doing exactly what
their ideology is and you're fleshing it
out you're getting the best possible
application of that as more people run
through it theoretically if you had
thousands of gyms that did that and then
they could compete against thousands of
gyms that did their own ideology you
could make some firm conclusions
exercise signs would be really useful in
crunching data to figure out how these
stack up together and that that would be
fantastic I don't know that that's ever
going to happen but that's my grand idea
on how the culture could kind of fix
itself if you know people people hitting
2,000 PB totals ever became as desirable
for the average person which probably
not um we're we're stuck with all of our
a athletes and talent dedicated people
going to professional sports so uh so
yeah that is a problem that's something
we have to fix now part of the problem
when I think from my experience and
these other systems that exist and have
been evolving for the last you know 150
years or so the big problem is the
number of variables that you have it's
all the confounding variables that
doesn't just mean the things you can't
really grasp when you when you do the
study that means uh the dimensions of
fuzziness that are created by uh the
context of the entire program because
every individual thing you can talk
about volume you know we're talking
about it in terms of well we know the
best volume tends to be how volume
impacts you is directly affected by
every single other variable in the
system and anybody that works with these
different types of systems realizes that
where if you're going to pick a certain
range everything else has to kind of
move around it so the question of what
the optimal exercise selection is or
frequency outside of the context of
everything else going into that program
I find not to be that useful and is
probably going to give you less and less
resolution as time goes on there's also
the context of we've talked about uh
genetics that's the ghost in the machine
everybody loves to talk about you have
an anecdote that kind of works against a
narrative is like well that guy's the
genetic freak you know and it might be
true but the problem is we can't Define
it we can't talk about it genetics are
you can count genetics you can um you
can measure exactly what the coding is
you can have so many different
combinations does that mean we're
talking about psychology aggression pain
tolerance anthropometry exercise
scientists love to use a squat and it
probably has the single most noise
relative to the individual than any
other exercise you could use um is it
how fast you grow muscle how many
different pieces of genetic material
determine how fast you grow muscle or
how long you'll grow it for and we talk
about it like well they can grow from
anything which talent scouts know you
want to invest money you're not doing it
in another study you're doing it and
getting more Talent because that
provides the most consequential effect
to the outcome so it makes sense to
think okay well there's probably
different strategies in theory if we had
this information that would probably be
more or less appropriate based on the
individual but we don't have that and
exercise science as it stands right now
can only do averages can only lump
people together and hope it all comes
out in the wash and that gives at best
best case scenario a starting point for
somebody assuming you're in the middle
of that bell curve but the default
recommendation should be for people hey
Things Are going to have to change me
tailor to you if you want something that
you consider optimal in the context at
broader program the third piece of
context that this one boils my blood all
over the place not just an exercise
science but training in general sucks at
dealing with this and that is the
context of time take that individual
take that entire complex system where
all those variables are going to
inevitably have some different outcome
what
happens after workout one what happens
after workout 10 what happens after
workout 100 because we talk about things
being optimal but the body is an
Adaptive machine adaptation is
definitionally growing muscle building
adaptation so that the stress you
experienced is inert so do you talk
about something in the beginning as
saying like hey this grew me 6% more
than people over there it's optimal well
what does it do six months from now what
does it do six years from now no matter
how optimal the thing is you're on the
hook for progressing so there's the
stress of what goes on in the workout
but then there's the way you increase
stress over time to keep that going and
that's inevitably going to require
strategies that don't have anything to
do with uh the way we think about
hypertrophy or growth right now which is
everything you do carries on its
shoulders like this is a certain
percentage of the potential growth you
could get we talk about like where
volume potentially drops off coming from
strength Sports volume is default
something that you manipulate over time
you don't set it and forget it it's
something that as it's uh accumulating
you build up fatigue but as you build up
a tolerance to it you tend to grow
muscle it's also something that
accumulates fatigue to a point where you
have to strip it back back eventually to
get some typee of growth to catch up and
that's absent from the models of how we
think about hypert and that is something
that stands out that uh it seems when we
talk about strength it's like a foregone
conclusion that you need more complexity
and when you look at programs that
decouple volume and intensity or that
have heavy light medium days where
everything doesn't have to be in the
effective rep Zone uh or if you're
talking about D loads it's it's a
foregone conclusion that if you're going
to keep running these workouts together
fatigue has to dissipate and it doesn't
seem that that comes into any of
discussion about what grows you if seems
very much to be well this is the value
we figured out in a vacuum that is going
to produce the best result and it's like
given what so that's something that I
take issue with I think you have to
start it at a complex uh a system of
sufficient complexity I don't think
you're going to be able to do this
Atomic approach where you're finding out
uh properties of volume properties of
frequency properties of exercises and
then assemble them together like Lincoln
Logs or Legos to build up a fully
complex system I think you have to start
at the level of this system and just
like with drug resistant bacteria gain
of function research just like with um
teaching you know robots or simulations
to walk or to engage in like RPGs and
beat them faster given all the immense
amount of strategy points of strategy
that could go on you have to start with
the complexity and let the simulation
run itself I just don't see a situation
where you're going to be able to piece
these things together and then the final
thing I'll say is that um with regards
to the initial point of is this an
evidence-based thing if you really have
to stretch yourself if you're sitting
down and writing something or giving
advice consider very thoroughly exactly
how many things are you recommending
that are specifically explicitly shown
in the research I feel like if anybody's
being honest they're going to recognize
that most of what makes up a program is
something that has been around for a
while most of their decisionmaking is
likely to produce a good result anyways
and and so pack made a comment about uh
a sign that the program is working or
make you confident the program is
working the claims aren't about whether
or not the program works everything
works and how well it works depends on
the individual and the recent training
history uh the claims are being made
that it's optimal and that's where my
brain kind of breaks because I think the
question doesn't even make sense unless
you can engage with all of the other
confounding variables that exist and I
just don't think you
can who wants to kick it
off P I'm guessing you're pointing down
at me yeah yeah oh sorry I said e either
of you Milo do you who who wants to go I
was pointing at Milo because he was uh
it was it was his turn I was above it
above him in my screen but uh my Giga
brain of a scientist allowed me to
assume he was above me on his screen
anyways let me respond someone these
claims
um one thing I want to Circle back to
real quick and this is not a major point
in the original video and I don't think
it'll be a major point in this debate
but the way that fraud was presented
within Sport Science in the original
video
uh to me just read as making a sort of
blanket statement around the state of
sports science it's worth mentioning
that the two well the one instance of
fraud that was mentioned uh well
suspected fraud rather by barbalo and
colleagues uh with regards to falsifying
data and another instance by Jacob
Wilson uh again alleged fraud I'm not
claiming anything here are basically the
only two that I can think of within
Sport and exercise science when it comes
to lifting research or nutrition
research when it comes to Hyo in
strength so I think claiming that fraud
is this rampant issue that is
meaningfully impacting Sport Science
might be pushing a little bit too far uh
I think it's definitely an issue to be
aware of with any scientific Pursuit but
I think we shouldn't oversell the issue
essentially um with that aside I think I
want to respond to some of the arguments
put forth just now by
Alex one thing is the idea that for
example martial arts has a lot more of
its
practices informed by the past you know
hundreds of years of practice than it
does through science and in maral arts
that that may or may not be true but to
bring it back to some of the variance
and complexity that Alex brought brought
up with biological systems it's worth
acknowledging that this very much
applies to anecdotal evidence as well so
when we're deciding what is the single
best tool or at least the main tool that
we want to use to informal practice we
need to acknowledge that hey some of
these issues with one tool also apply to
the other tool and in fact one tool in
this case anecdotal evidence may have
even less power to control for some of
this noise than others and that's one
thing I want to mention is
um Alex you kind of seem to focus mostly
on studies that are internally valid and
kind of proof of concept and taking
issue with how those are interpreted I
think it's important to acknowledge that
you're taking more so issue with how
these studies are interpreted versus how
they're conducted right because these
studies do aim to minimize the impact of
compounding variables by controlling for
as many things as possible right or at
least influential things so for example
if we know that volume is an influential
variable when it comes to hypertrophy
then studies looking at how close to
failure you train and how that
hypertrophy will try and equate for how
many sets each group does so that that
noise is reduced to to the greatest
extent that we can possibly reduce it
right and so just making clear that
studies do have the inherent advantage
of Trying to minimize that noise and
only manipulating one variable at a time
and so yes there is still going to be
noise but it is going to reduce that
noise so that you know in the case of
one good bodybuilder versus another
slightly better bodybuilder let's say
for example I don't know Mike mener and
Ronnie Coleman right as far as their
training approaches go quite distinct
the volumes used by these two people
were quite distinct in terms of you know
Mike mener might have been doing five to
15 sets on average per muscle group or
less per week whereas one frequently
doing triple that you know and yet one
was better than the other does that
provide us with much predictive power as
to whether one approach was better than
the other with the amount of noise and
how many more influential variables
there are that aren't controlled for no
and I think when you're dealing with a
small sample size of elite athletes and
much more influential variables like for
example genetics as you mentioned like
sleep like stress are we really going to
be able to detect the influence for
example
of range of motion during Ronnie squat
on his hypertrophy right could really
have told from let's say Mike men squ
deeper right and let's say for example
in a parallel universe Mike men got
bigger could we tell Ronnie well look
Mike like Mike's bigger than you and he
squats deeper so you should squat deeper
to get bigger legs we couldn't tell that
that easily and we need bigger samples
and we need to accurately control
specific variables and not others to be
able to tell whether on principle one
approach works better than another on
average and that's something I want to
come to as well is that you mentioned
that exercise science only deals in
averages that's not entirely correct so
we do nowadays look a lot more variance
and for example whether there is
individual response and the degree to
which different people respond
differently to a given intervention
right so as I mentioned in my video
there's been a call in medicine in the
past but nowadays excise science as well
to try and assess okay do different
people respond meaningfully differently
for example to range of motion or to
volume or to what have you
and so one thing for example that you
mentioned was we need to account for
previous training history and that is
actually something that studies have
looked at it's like okay well does
previous training volume impact how you
respond to Future training volume like
for example if you had low volume before
does that impact how you're going to
respond to high volume or what have you
and for example recent review paper by
Hammerton colleagues broadly showed that
findings are kind of inconsistent as to
whether your previous training impacts
how you're going to respond to Future
training and so I think some of these
assumptions that we make in practice
which I've made in the past as well like
in the past when I'm in the gym and I
see someone who's been training with
high volumes their whole life and
they're like yep I'm going to try low
volume you know p is like ah you might
lose some muscle you know but equally
those are assumptions that we need to
verify and test and I think the best way
to test them isn't
to in an Ideal World we could do what
you're suggesting right just look at a
large volume of anecdotes which yes lack
the internal control and validity of
many studies but that we can mostly make
up for Via sufficiently sophisticated
analyses and sheer sample size if we
have hundreds of thousands of people but
ultimately we're not having those data
sets of that many people that we can
look at confidently and so until then
this is kind of the best we got I think
I think that with studies it's just
worth mentioning that most of the
studies that you're referring to in kind
of referring to as atomic namely that
they only look at one variable in
isolation and so you can't necessarily
take those findings and apply them to
your training verbum because your
training doesn't look like the training
of people in your studies I think it's a
valid point but the studies you're
mentioning are mostly internally valed
proof of concept studies typically by
internal internally valid or internal
validity what I'm referring to
essentially is that the study is seeking
to answer or to test a concept in its
purest form so essentially when
everything else is equated for and we
take a relatively simple straightforward
approach does one approach for example
higher volume yield better muscle growth
than another approach for example lower
volume and those studies are highly
internally valid because they control
for everything else they sometimes even
control for genetics and sleep and
stress by having within subject designs
wherein they train one arm with high
volume for example and another arm with
lower volume and so a lot of those
really influential confounders that
plague or inferences when it comes to
anecdotes are essentially washed away
right because we are doing within
subject design that controls for a lot
of those things right um the other on
the other end of the spectrum of these
internally valid studies we have more
ecologically valid studies where we do
try and study the population that might
try and apply these findings where we do
try and use programs that resemble or
mimic what is used in practice as an
example I am currently running a range
of motion study where contrary to many
studies we're not using untrained
lifters we're using people who've been
training for three years we're using a
program that is hopefully somewhat
similar to what people use in practice
so they're train the upper body three
days a week which is you know a
frequency that many people use in their
training and they're doing multiple
exercises for each muscle group involved
so multiple variations of overhead press
multiple variations of chest press
multiple variations of vertical pulling
and Rowing and what have you using a
volume that is similar to what people
use so between 10 and 20 sets per week
per muscle group and so there are
studies out there that do try and look
at ecologically valid contexts and with
those studies you can look at those and
say well this looks pretty similar to
what I do and these people have been
training for at least a year or two and
for a lot of people that will be close
enough to what they do that they can
draw reasonable inferences from that I
think think we have to acknowledge that
each type of study the more internally
valid proof of concept study and the
more ecologically valid study that is
more close to what you would do in
practice they both have their pros and
cons I think we need both in order to
have confidence that a something works
on principle and then B that it will
translate to the context of what you're
speaking of this has been the case for
many years now in medicine for example
where for the past few decades there's
been a call for a distinction to be made
between efficacy and effective
efficacy essentially refers to in the
Contex of this study you know over weeks
in the lab does intervention for example
taking this drug help you with the
outcome of your interest for example
your symptoms in a given
illness and then that's e efficacy right
but then you also have Effectiveness
which is essentially the opposite where
it's okay we know this intervention
works on principle it is efficacious
does it actually translate into practice
and I think I would be remiss not to
mention that there are sports science
studies out there that are more so
focused on Effectiveness as opposed to
efficacy
Alex all right oh P want to can I can I
add just can I add just a a little minor
point so just just for the sake of the
argument so if we were to remove science
alt together and solely rely on on
anecdote especially in our applied field
it is likely that we would rely mostly
on you know Elite genetic individuals
who get the most results and have the
most impressive physiques and the most
impressive lifts and similarly to
environments like let's say Westside
barbell which produced a lot of world
champions or very strong lifters which
then brings on even more cofounders and
more and muddies the water further and I
wanted to quote one of uh one of your
videos where you talked about U fixing
your deadlift where you said that I
desperately researched how good
deadlifters do the deadlift but that
didn't help any the best in the world
has such a varied approach to
deadlifting that it almost seemed like
the training practices were not actually
the thing responsible for the world crft
performances some pulled frequently some
did this some did that and so in a in a
scenario where we don't have exercise
science guiding us and and doing exactly
what Milo said we would be left with
mostly um anecdotes
from genetic freaks or at least lifters
and their coaches who would be sort of
providing us with information that may
not necessarily apply to the average
individual and would vary quite a bit in
terms of um their recommendations so
technique cues volume recommendations
loading recommendations frequency what
worked what didn't and then it would
Boggle down to who won the most Mr
olympas who uh had the strongest
deadlift which gym produced the
strongest lifters completely ignoring
whether Westside barbell as far as like
access to to uh different populations
and different ethnicities maybe was
closer to a larger pool of individuals
etc etc so just wanted to throw that on
top
sure uh so I'll address that really
quick and then I'll go back to uh to
Milo's cases um I uh absolutely agree
that uh focusing on the best performers
is a problem in no way shape performed
you want the the best um Olympians or
the best bodybuilders to be able to to
try and set the bar for what people
should uh be doing uh tal like I said
Talent scouting is huge because it's the
most consequential thing if you're
Russia and you want to win another
Olympic gold medal in weightlifting you
dedicate your money to finding the best
talent who's going to grow from
everything and then make sure that
you're bribing the right W officials so
they can keep doping that's that's the
recipe in sports if you want to
guarantee it so um what I uh don't
necessarily agree with is that that
would by default just leave us uh to
follow them and with no other
information because
given the nature of this field it's a
very consumer-driven field very bottom
up it's not like uh Pro Sports where you
have a billion or whatever you have a
lot of football players and then you
just have fans that watch so
everything's oriented towards the best
performers uh lifting culture in general
for every one Olympian there's a
thousand people that are just lifting uh
just cuz so again using martial arts as
the example the the thing moves forward
not just based on what the the best
performers do but what on everybody who
exists in these different hubs would
record when dealing with average people
because an average coach an average uh
trainer is going to engage with a bunch
more regular ass people than they are
going to engage with somebody who is um
who is Elite and that just comes down
again this is all hypothetical I don't
know how the field would ever transition
into something like this but in that
scenario uh it would just be a matter of
making sure that there was some
standardization of how people
implemented their policies according to
whatever School of thought they um they
were part of and then recording the
things that tended to work for most
people um that's what I would think so I
I don't I don't necessarily believe that
uh without science to check this work
the way it does now at least with uh
research that we would be left without
anything because if that was true I mean
none none of these other fields would be
able to discover what they have so going
back to Milo's point he started out uh
talking about fraud in the field this is
a hard one because like I understand you
don't want mck being thrown the field
like every everybody there is a
charlatan and they're just trying to get
ahead but that exists and it's not as if
I don't know the degree to which I said
exercise science or implied exercise
science is specifically susceptible um
but like I said I just uh mentioned
Franchesca Gino in uh she was a Harvard
behavioral scientist this happens all
over the place um there's and it's it's
in weirdly egregious ways if you ever go
down that rabbit hole people that were
just Shameless but in those fields the
extra uh kind of mathematical lit ly you
need and again that's not a knock
against exercise scientist but there's
just more rigor involved in some of
these other fields given how easy it is
to get past the peer review process uh
which a lot of them are underpaid a lot
of them are volunteers uh given how hard
it is how much mathematical literacy you
need to be able to sniff it out and you
have to have the motivation to sniff it
out Greg Knuckles was the one who outed
the barbalo studies and it's the reason
they all got
retracted Omar knows Greg Knuckles how
many people in the field are the human
calculators that Greg Knuckles has I
don't think I've ever met anybody else
who has the pairing of actual uh
experience along with knowing the exact
math like to the te um I'm not saying
that people don't exist but you just
have to kind of weigh it out how many
people are able to sniff this stuff out
how many people are motivated to sniff
it out I think it's a little bit
dismissive to suggest actively that it
isn't a problem because these problems
arise when people don't check their work
enough not when they're checking their
work too much um
but then again it's not like I have some
special evidence I'm just broadly
pointing that like hey these are things
you got to be aware of because there are
massive incentives for people who have
to meet these requirements if you're
going to do you need funding if you're
going to do a study you better make sure
it gets published that means it better
be statistically significant that mean
it better not support the null
hypothesis uh that mean it better be
interesting and new um and for that
reason it selects a lot of stuff that's
irrelevant or that's obvious uh that
doesn't do anything and again that's
super evident in popular psychology
which I will say again is an absolute
[ __ ] show um so anyway it's just
something to be aware of to have in your
back pocket and again I'm educating a
group of people that probably haven't
heard this before um so I don't know I
would take a little bit of issue with
saying that it's actively not a problem
but it's just something to be aware of I
don't have any special knowledge on the
degree to which it does or doesn't go on
an exercise science um let's see oh uh I
took I take a little issue with um the
term the best use the best in the
context of is this going to be the best
thing um
because I think it's it's not so much
about the way the studies are done
because the problems I have with any
potential limitations of the studies or
sources of
error that is meaningless if you
consider that the types of questions
that are being asked don't even really
make sense uh the idea of best again the
human organism changes and adapts what
was the best for you two weeks ago is
not the best for you two weeks uh two
weeks from now every study is limited by
time none of these studies follow people
through six years or even so many months
to find out what happens when they
become resistant that's a big question
mark in a black box what happens when we
take our optimal values and people
become resistant to it um and again so
many other systems Implement things to
get around this that that break out the
mold of how we think of individual
workouts you have decoupling of volume
and intensity you have big and little
workouts you have workouts that aren't
that stimulative but they're kind of
stimulative but in the big picture
that's really good because it also
allowed you to recover so anything you
do you have this Push Pull where if
something strong enough to to get a
stimulation to uh get a growth response
it also has this thing pulling in the
opposite direction because you put
yourself in a recovery hole so that
tension it's only if the stimulus can
overpower the recovery that anything
happens at all and again that goes back
to like the accumulation fatigue along
with a whole bunch of other things so I
I'm not really sure it's useful to talk
about individual variables or even
individual programs if they're the best
and forget about for an individual even
if we're talking about for a genuine a
general population because that question
changes over time
um anybody who's peaked for a contest
whether it's a strong man contest or a
bodybuilding show your training has to
change for the meat you come back you
decondition very quickly and you know
that your sensitivity to certain things
is different God help you if you have a
study where somebody was in really good
shape six months ago or so many years
back and they haven't done much of
anything whatever they do is going to
make that uh look good and that's not
even a dig against that's not even
trying to establish another source of
air that's trying to say that it's just
it's very obvious that exactly how you
grow it does not go that way forever and
it's heavily biased by what happens
before um yeah let's see you talked
about reducing noise I can appreciate
attempts to reduce noise and that's
something that you should absolutely be
wanting to do it's
just the ability you have to reduce
noise given the insane amount of
confounding variables you're we're going
from evaluating something considering
all the different things that aren't in
that study that you can't touch and then
drawing a conclusion about giving a
recommendation to a population of people
knowing full well that the margin of
that the brackets are operating in
they're going to have to move around
anyways so I think in pragmatic terms if
people are supposed to be moving around
to whatever benefits them it is in their
best interest to learn strategies for
that because it doesn't matter what you
start with if the end goal is to get you
to something that is productive for you
and that's something again I think the
experience the anecdote the Bro Science
should focus on that that's what I try
to write about how do you give people
tools to know how to find their way to
that and I think that is infinitely more
powerful as a strategy than focusing on
what you theoretically might start off
of as a as a guideline um and again
going back to all the other researchers
I looked at they'll all say very clearly
this is a guideline this is a starting
point things have to change for you and
that really is a stark contrast to how
some people will represent the authority
of the specific clusion conclusions that
they're trying to promote and then once
again that extra uh that extra Cloud
which is how the consumer interprets it
which again in one ear out the other um
uh let me see I can't I'm talking faster
than I can read uh which isn't very fast
um oh one of the big questions I have
and I would actually pait this to you
guys um because I've talked enough but
like would you guys expect to see as
this field moves forward would you
expect to see
training
converge meaning that as things go on
you find the same recommendations across
the board in something that looks like a
completely realized program where
individual variables don't differ
because everything is so secured that
this is kind of the right answer for
everybody and to what degree would you
expect that to be the case or not be the
case I'd be really interested to give up
the floor just to hear what either of
you have to say about
that in a in a Fant in a like
hypothetical
scenario yeah like if exercise science
uh continues to make discoveries forward
would you expect training methods to
like would you expect something like a
grand unified theory of of gains where
you expect to converge on a particular
program that would be used uh across the
board it's a it's a bit of a tricky
question I assume like in a hypothetical
scenario where you poured um millions
and millions in in sports science and
let's say you know Elon Musk woke up
toor and said okay we're going to do
exercise science and I'm going to get
the James Steels or and the Milo wolves
and a lot of wolves there w and have
them uh have them design studies that
are transparent that are this that are
that and we do a lot of advanced uh
statistical analyses and have huge
samples and this and that I do feel that
we will be able in a few years to
confidently uh say that you know for
again for the majority of people with
plenty of confidence that x amount of
volume is probably going to produce
Superior results versus this or that or
you need to be within a specific RP
range to absolutely maximize strength
development or this is this is the the
best peing strategy for powerlifting um
and so on and so forth but that's a
hypothetical where we're pouring
millions and millions however yeah to be
clear to be clear I'm exactly like I'm
stretching out to the ultimate
conclusion like take half the population
to study the other half of the
population to run the study and crunch
the numbers just best case scenario let
me grant you all the statistical power
you need um and you could run you could
come up with studies however you wanted
to try to flush that out over time um
but you're I I just want to point out
you're talking about again individual
variables I mean those have to go
together so it's your assumption that
when you find those ranges you just put
them together into a super program and
that's the thing that gets disseminated
to everybody you would you would have a
you would have um let's say a control
panel where you would enter certain
variables that are individual and then
it would say okay this is the best
program based on those variables I sleep
x amount of hours I'm this and I'm that
but I see Milo wanting to to say
something yeah I think this is kind of
missing the idea that whenever we're
conducting research on a given topic we
take studies from being closer to
something like a proof concept looking
at that variable in isolation to
gradually designing studies for example
there's been studies where they're
comparing and they plans for studies
where they're comparing different
volumes and different proximities to
failure at the same time for example if
you're just doing one set to failure is
that as good as two sets to say two reps
and Reserve what have you there are
studies being conducted that try and
combine different variables and
different iterations of programs to
compare those but in order to even
arrive at reasonable study designs to
compare different programs to eventually
get to what you're suggesting we first
need to establish is there a dose
response relationship with this variable
is there some sort of sweet point with
this variable when the other ones are
sort of equated for right and then we
can form study designs where we can
compare different iterations of programs
with think might be a pretty solid bet
and I think this is evidenced by the
idea that recommendations for volume for
relative intensity for frequency for
range of motion for rep ranges for a lot
of things have converged for a couple
decades at least now like it's not as
though we haven't made progress and as
though the evidence is nearly as
heterogeneous I think as the anecdotes
we have of successful bodybuilders for
example because we are controlling for
many of these things and so we're able
to form recommendations based on studies
whose findings are relatively consistent
because we don't have perfect power
they're not perfectly consistent I'll
grant you that and I think any
experimental science with a high degree
of variance due to a biological system
will have some degree of inconsistency
because you can never achieve perfect
power but recommendations have converged
for years and decades and that is
leading to our ability to design studies
that are more ecologically valid that
try and compare different approaches
that combine different variables being
manipulated like for example volume and
Rel intensity at once so I think it is
something we're arriving towards and
we've been working towards for decades
and I think that's where the benefit of
science ultimately lies as opposed to
something like anecdote where it's just
difficult to draw those
inferences so uh if I can um so I would
say I'm not entirely sure that things uh
that things have been converging and I
know that again we can't look at what
the elites do to inform our training but
you have to assume that if you're in a
saturated field where there's very high
incen
that you in some sense you have to have
every Ace in the deck to to get that
goat status um and if it's not the case
if genetics make that much of a
difference it's like holy hell let's
just all call it a day right now but um
I think that's that's an assumption but
it's a reasonable assumption that
everybody together at the elite level
fighting each other out you're going to
see a clear reward for something if it's
not universally better at least in some
sense better for that individual given
their circumstances and what we see I
just did an hour and 45 minute long
documentary about the entire history of
bodybuilding culture
um and it's not just me talking it was
legitimately I I probably covered three
dozen different bodybuilding templates
going back to the Victoria strongman era
and the basic recommendations that have
led to uh strength records um throughout
history in addition to physiques um have
been very similar in a very broad sense
as far as Progressive overload the types
of movements you use the consistency the
effort and so on since the 1800s and
then what you see is a swelling of a
talent pool of course you see the uh
popularization drugs around the 50s or
60s um but a lot of what the best in the
world do at the top of bodybuilding
where there's very high incentives at
the top of Olympic lifting not only very
high incentives you have uh State uh
subsidized coaches and Drug programs and
and everything people living on
compounds people being that's our path
out of poverty if you're in the right
part of the world uh massive incentives
being given and what you see is people
are essentially doing the same things
that they've done over the last 30 or 40
years uh you also see a huge Divergence
of method that seem to give worldclass
results the Bulgarian method looked like
it was written by an angry High School
sophomore Max every lift three times a
day six days a week if you don't break
in half uh you're going to be a world
champion and a lot of those numbers
haven't even be been beaten to this day
um you take the most heavy-handed over
simp uh overly simple uh approach and it
seems to have uh it seems to have U
created a virtually unbeatable uh
outcome so I'm not seeing anywhere I
look in sport
uh people really making use of what's
coming out of the research and I I feel
like I'm certainly not seeing anything
converge because if you look at the
entire sea especially as the the thing
gets more complex Olympic lifting is
pretty simple um you look at something
like strong man that's wildly varied you
look at powerlifting I mean the best
powerlifters range from dieh hard
bodybuilders to people that only squat
bench and deadlift once a week go home
eat a ham sandwich and put uh recovery
uh on uh on supercharge mode so the more
variables exist it seems like there is
less ability to converge and you get
wildly different frequencies you get
wildly different exercise selection you
get wildly different uh tempos and it
just feels to me that when you fix it on
the variable and and again we're back to
trying to eliminate the Noise by
isolating the variables in a vacuum and
one of my main points is that the
variables don't work in a vacuum so if
you can isolate it but then you can only
talk about it in the context of the way
it was studied because a second it gets
put into a different context text the
outcome's entirely different and you
have no information about it and that's
a problem I have so when you said that
um the noise kind of gets washed away I
I don't have reason to believe that that
noise gets washed away and it doesn't
seem like when you pull the lens back
that you are actually seeing the most
incentivized lifters in the world uh
Converge on single methods it seems they
all live and die by what does my body
respond to and how do I get there as
fast as
possible Alex uh do you want to go
there's one thing I want to say Pat can
I say it or let me just quickly just so
I just wanted to to touch on first of
all it's important to clarify that this
is mostly an observation from your end
and an assumption that things have not
really transferred so for example um my
PhD was on the minimum effective dose
I've spoken with coaches from the NBA uh
with elite powerlifters elite coaches
and Elite athletes who have said hey
this was useful we're now actually uh
implementing that but I feel as if we're
slightly changing the the conversation
here because the this whole thing
started from um exercise science is
killing your gains being directed to the
average individual rather than you know
your professional athlete uh or whatever
and I do not foresee many many scenarios
in practice where you would look for
example at the the length at the volume
research or the the research on range of
motion and that would not apply to the
the majority of gym goers uh even if
their circumstances are somewhat more
more unique like or like the the
literature on machines versus free
weights or training frequency or
recently we published a paper on uh
training technique I think for the
average uh viewer who wants to be big
and strong and and hit
PRS I don't I don't see a scenario where
their circumstances are so different to
what's been done in research in young
trained individuals where you have all
the details laid out um in the studies
themselves uh where they they won't be
able to apply that information
whatsoever Alex so one thing I do want
to say I'm moderating here I'm sitting
out I'm also a professional YouTuber
don't have the PHD but I do want to say
just very quickly because we are talking
let's say now about Elite athletes and
maybe we could shift the conversation
pack just uh spoke about his research
dose we're also talking about strength
athletes um I want to talk about this
concept though of convergence whether or
not it's occurring because I will say
from being in the space observing let's
say tested powerlifters like ipf tested
powerlifters and the practices that top
tier coaches will do I will say as an
outside Observer from speaking to many
of them like Eric Helms Ben escrow like
Joey Flex uh Joe game day um marcelis
like SW fat like you just go over like
all these systems um that I would say
that a lot of them are now using science
informed practices in terms of their
decision-making like how they organize
their programs and so on and so forth
that is marrying their experience
alongside what they've observed and then
what tends to be Trends elsewhere that
come from um various places as opposed
to because uh I was around over a decade
ago when you know I I was at foris as
example did the Westside program and I
remember when Dan Green actually even
wrote um West the West Side how
incendiary once again that was where he
was curious it was it was the desire and
the pursuit the acquisition of knowledge
that he was after what is the best
practice and I just do wonder and I want
you to respond to the other thing in
general whether or not we do think
there's a convergence of methodologies
or agreed upon let's say standards or
things that need to be used in
powerlifting and if that is the case
what is going on there because I I
certainly do see the overall increase in
performance and it seems like amongst
the coaches whereas there' be a wider
split of approaches I would personally
feel a decade ago at the top those are
seem to perform at the top and the
coaches I see a slight convergence per
and that's just a complete aside not
trying to participate in the
conversation but please Alex go ahead
yes so uh so there's two things I'd like
to tackle there one is about um the the
discussion of elite athletes uh versus
the average person and what's
appropriate or likely to work for the
average person and then the other one is
the topic of convergence so I'll start
with the first one um as as far as uh
what is likely to work for an average
person I mean you're talking about
something that's as wide as the Grand
Canyon uh newbies respond to just about
everything I mean the average person
doesn't have difficulty getting their
first three or 400 pound deadlift
typically if they're consistent uh it
seems to be once uh gains stop and then
now some Wizardry is required to get you
moving again that it becomes a little
bit more important uh than what you do
or a little bit more important what you
do uh but that cuts to okay are you is
what you're doing in the individual
workout good does that tie into the weak
in an intelligent manner does that tie
into the Block in an intelligent Manner
and does that have Direction because we
know terms like Progressive overload
that can mean a million different things
and even a lot of people that think they
understand it if you ask them a very
focused question about exactly how do I
progress my workout to workout you'll
either end up getting a a flood of like
15 different things you could
potentially do or you'll get them kind
of Meandering around but how you
progress on top of even if you found the
optimal thing how you keep that going is
very difficult but when we're talking
about the average lifter we're talking
about somebody who um probably isn't
trying to quote unquote maximize
anything they'll buy research or sorry
they'll buy um they'll buy products
books so listen to content about
maximizing stuff but usually it's the
same consumer trap of I want to be able
to buy the shortcut I want to be able to
engage with the thing that's going to
get it a little faster we know I think
more than anything and I don't know what
the research says but if you talk to any
coach the amount
of extra whatever X Factor that you get
when you have somebody who absolutely
loves to train who has an immense pain
tolerance and is willing to kill thems
no matter what you give them that tends
to outperform um and that's a rare thing
that usually is only conducive to um to
somebody who's uh chasing the upper
limit the reason I bring up Elite
athletes it's not to use their training
to inform what they do it's to suggest
that Elite athletes have the incentive
they have the desire they want to be as
good as possible which means they don't
want to leave anything on the table and
if it's razor thin between them and the
other guys because that half a percent
is what's going to jump you five places
at the next Big World level contest you
do the assumption is that they're doing
everything they can to find out the most
correct legit way uh to train that's
going to yield the best possible result
um so that's why I bring that up and I
would think that again we're using the
term optimal this is what gets turned
around or thrown around so I'm assuming
that when we're talking about average
lifters we're still talking about people
that want to do as good as they possibly
can even with their [ __ ] genetics which
means you would similarly see a desire
or see sorry see the outcome where um
what they do would start to converge if
it does indeed work out this way and
it's not that there's actually so many
genetic differences that could determine
outcome and how that plays not with just
one variable but how all those variables
fit together in one complete program and
how that then evolves over time into
your decision- making so that's the only
reason I bring up elad athlet but but
yeah again it's like that's not who you
look for when you're trying to come up
with rules for how people uh for how
people put things together it's just a
sign that um where there are the highest
Stakes it doesn't seem like that type of
attention is being paid to this aspect
of exercise science that was my only
Point um as far as the topic of
convergence
um you
have you have so many different things
that come together for a program so many
different if you multiply each variable
out and then you again incorporate time
how that would go in a week There's
countless different iterations of
training you could potentially come up
with it's like how how finite are the
rules of music or the notes you could
play but how many different songs can
you play just off that I mean that's how
I think about it now of course only some
of those will be not nonsense but still
there's a lot of potential options so
when you're talking about natural
powerlifting I'll admit that's something
I don't have a ton of experience with
when I started lifting and we were
talking about this in the beginning
powerlifting was just a sideshow nobody
took it seriously people would go
because they were just brave souls and
be like I'm just going to go squat bench
and deadlift even though everybody else
is in triple ply Kevlar gear uh that
requires 1,200 pounds just to hit depth
that's what it was in like the 90s going
into the 2000s then you saw the
Resurgence of raw powerlifting now
becoming a thing and lifting was fun
again and it was less of a Sao was more
accessible to more people and the entire
world started to follow that rise we
were talking about uh Lily bridge and
malanichev and finally breaking Don
reinout record and all of that great
stuff and now it's starting to evolve
further so the biggest stages that have
been around have been things like
Olympic lifting and bodybuilding and I
would also say powerlifting however this
specific Niche we have of um of raw
Natty powerlifting is kind of an
interesting thing because I think it's
relatively new or at least its
popularity is probably relatively new I
um am not surprised that there's certain
things that would becoming kind of part
for the course like Olympic lifting did
see that if you compare Olympic lifting
in 1900 versus 19 40 versus 1970 there
were some changes being made so excuse
me there's some persistent uh
convergence on certain things that you
do see that tend to be better like
nobody does a a split snatch anymore but
on the other hand within that framework
there still is wild variability that
suggests the question of what is optimal
for a specific set exercise execution
implementation of volume is so dependent
on the individual situation that you
can't make a broad inference about it um
and I would also I don't want to throw
shade it
The Natty powerlifting Community but um
I would not be surprised if there are a
lot of things that drive decision making
that might not necessarily be what
exactly gets the best outcome but maybe
this is how me and all my friends train
or this is what we think is going to be
the best thing um I've talked about it's
it's been a couple years since I've
talked about how I hate Sumo delity but
you see a lot of people where they they
will go off what their idea of the thing
is before they actually get there um
even in a way that's non optimal I
learned from strongman that if you're
not doing a lot of [ __ ] work bent
over in a really shitty position you're
probably not going to get a very strong
posterior um and and that's just an
example but as far as the actual
methodology
um that's an interesting one and I can't
really I can't really comment from The
Natty lifting thing but I'd be very
interested to see what those methods are
and how closely they are adhered to uh
at the top level and I'd also be
interested to um see if there are any
outliers you know and and what they do
differently or why it might work for
them but that that's something I don't
have a lot of direct experience
with yeah so there's a lot to touch on
there um there's a few things I want to
mention the first was the idea earlier
and this goes back a little bit that
only significant findings or
predominantly significant findings as in
there is a bias towards significant
findings being published preferentially
over non-significant findings right and
this is a common idea um the important
thing to mention there yet again is that
it's important not to present only one
set of that coin we do in fact have ways
of assing whether or not this is
happening for example in met analyses
looking at a field of evidence on volume
or relative intensity what have you we
can conduct for example a fnal plot
analysis wherein you see okay do most of
the findings just happen to be barely
significant because if they do that's a
sign that only the significant findings
are being published there's not a sort
of normal distribution of findings that
are significant and not significant as
we would expect so it's important to
mention that hey some of these issues
are abs will be present but it's not as
though we're ignorant to them and we're
not already doing our best to address
them to a large extent
um uh kind of going forward here a
little bit
is recommendations there's a distinction
to be made between have practices in the
field converged and have scientific
recommendations for what is quotequote
optimal converged because I think those
are distinct things and the idea that
maybe practices overall Haven converg
that much but the recommendations that
we Acquired and arrived at through
scientific research have converged is an
important distinction and if anything to
me the idea that hey our recommendations
have stayed relatively similar for a
couple decades if anything they've
become a bit more precise and we have a
bit more confidence around what volume
might be best on average what relative
intensity Etc they idea that there is
Convergence in that versus in practices
suggests to me that s science might
actually be a better tool to inform
practice than just looking at practices
because practices still apparently don't
seem to be converging very much and so
that's kind of a limitation there and
that's part of the issue with looking at
what high level bodybuilding programs
have done for decades or centuries you
just mentioned the issue of the natural
palting Community obviously there is
a uh normative component to it right
there's a psychological component to it
there's hey what are people around me
doing there's Buy in there's a bunch of
factors that imp practices that are not
around Effectiveness right they might be
around what your fellow bro is doing and
what seems fun and a lot of other things
and fortunately those things don't play
into what volume is better for
hypertrophy in the research for example
but they do play into what you see
surviving in practice you see if you
know if the person who got you into
lifting taught you a certain way of
lifting that is going to self-perpetuate
whereas in research we tend to test new
things and you know see if they work or
not
and so that's where research I think can
win out over just looking at what high
level bodybuilders are doing or even
what the widespread practice within hypy
training is like if the average person
does five sets for example um another
thing I wanted to touch on is you kind
of made the point that if your context
is different from the context of the
study or if you change your volume for
example then that directly means that
you can make inferences from a given
study to your own training there is
definitely a contextual element right
like how how close to failure train for
example will impact how much volume you
benefit from right but the idea that you
cannot make inferences categorically
from studies to your own training just
because your training isn't exactly the
same as it was in those studies to me
just kind
of likely just isn't true I think you
can still make inferences but the degree
to which you can make that inference
depends on the similarities between the
context of the study and your own
ultimately just how ecologically valid
was that study to your own own context
how similar were the two contexts so I
think it's just worth mentioning that
it's not
categorically can you make an inference
or can you not make an inference it's
more of a Continuum right and I think we
agree there it's just worth clarifying
that hey if your context is reasonably
similar like you know you've been
training for a couple years which by the
way is most of the people watching these
videos online so it's not as though the
population in these studies is that
similar from the people watching a lot
of these videos online I think um
certainly with Elite athletes there is
more of a
disparity between their context and the
context Within These studies but I think
for the average person which is
ultimately who we're speaking to her um
who's been training for a few years it
is
reasonably
generalizable
um the final thing I just wanted to
mention is I do think the average lifter
wants to maximize their outcomes I think
he touched on the idea that they only
want to do so when it's not at the
expense of sort of time spent in the gym
or effort or too much financial burden
what have you and I do agree with that
but I do think the average lifter still
wants to maximize their progress
ultimately and I think that throwing out
the idea of optimal alog together which
you seem to do towards the end of your
video I'm not a fan of because in the
Quest for optimal we also arrive at what
is better or closer to Optimal we may
never arrive at what is strictly optimal
and we may never arrive at what is the
individualized optimal through science
purely but we can certainly arrive much
closer to what is going to be
close to Optimal for the average person
and navigate our way from there and I
think that's a much better approach to
arriving at what might be optimal for
the individual versus just
troubleshooting and going off what other
good lifters or even just the average
lifter is doing around
you can I touch on the optimal point
it's it's also important to to
understand that we are dealing with a
niche of strength and hypertrophy
enthusiasts and gym enthusiasts that may
want to optimize for the fun of it as
well and make educated guesses or
educated bets rather than no for sure so
like the same with any other
Niche I don't know like I'm trying to
think of an analogy I don't know car
people for example I'm sure they do a
bunch of stuff to optimize speed that
are not really based on the most solid
of evidence but for them just the
pursuit of optimal in itself can be fun
and I would also ask like from the
biggest evidence-based and science-based
sort of channels and resources on
YouTube is there really anybody out
there that's saying anything that absurd
or counterproductive to gains or
anything that discredits experience or
personal preference so I do feel
like we we tend to to go like and by we
I mean myself and Milo in our Circle we
are full on against you know the PubMed
Warriors and the people that
misinterpret science and you know will
will hang off the the conclusions of an
abstract uh but at the same time I do
not think that there is a huge huge
issue where people are missing out on
gains because they're getting overly
confused um with by following the
biggest sort of evidence-based names
sure there's confusion but as Milo
already alluded to there was confusion
before uh when we're relying mostly on
anecdote and there would be even more
confusion if we didn't have science in
this place but um yeah that's that's
all Al um okay um to Pack's uh point
about um the pursuit of
optimal and and doing it for fun and I
mean we all do this it's like I'm not
getting
uh I'm not getting a disability check
you know every time I uh tear a bicep or
something it's like this is something I
go out on a limb for because I enjoy it
and so many people do too um doing
something to to try to be as good it as
possible there's certainly a lot of
people people in the field that do that
um I I would just question what
percentage of the viewership does do it
I think people that have a really robust
amount of coaching experience in person
uh and and in online uh
capacity would probably have a more
cynical view of how many people actually
want to be optimal however but doing
things for the love of it I think on the
other side of that coin
experimentation that's like the kind of
shadow of optimal because
experimentation is extremely necessary
even when something may not in fact be
optimal because as long as you're
recording what the results are and you
have some ability to preserve that and
carry it forward that's ultimately how
you get closer to what your final form
is going to be and I know I've suffered
and benefited a lot from uh
experimentation I took the scenic route
to being competitive at anything because
I jumped around and did a lot of [ __ ] um
if I were to point to I think the
biggest cancers in the field as far as
that that even that's hyperbolic we're
we're talking about lifting weights here
it's not that serious but the biggest
things that limit people from progress
they otherwise would almost be
guaranteed I think it would be things
that derail them from the big rocks so
when I consider the big rocks uh the
things that provide the most uh effect
the most real tangible effect to whether
or not somebody's going to be good long
term and the thing that is probably the
most easily [ __ ] up that happens uh
repeatedly um you're talking about
people having a baseline of work that
they're comfortable with which can exist
in a pretty wide nebula uh and learning
how to progress in a very deliberate way
learning how to track the recovery this
is the hard thing having enough
experimentation to to try to find new
things while not having so much that
you're bouncing around and if you can do
that long term and take notes and think
critically then eventually you start to
get a right answer and the reason I say
Throw optimal out the window is because
you can assume that most of your
training is not going to be linear you
know it's not like fat loss it's not
linear you you get long punctuated
periods of nothing I know I've
experienced that and then all of a
sudden there's a certain change
something that happens where that stress
recovery balance gets hit just the right
way or it's some novel stimulus that you
couldn't have accounted for that bumps
you forward again it again your training
has to evolve with you so if you look at
it from that
perspective to consider the idea of
something being optimal in any one one
specific uh
situation and even uh Milo you had an
interview with uh not an interview you
had a discussion with Israel and he made
this point he's like if you're not
gaining anything if you're all the way
at the limit you're grinding in this
program optimal is something optimal is
just a little bit of progress where you
otherwise wouldn't have gotten any and
um what how that's going to work for you
at that given point I I just have a hard
time believing is going to rely on what
you consider reasonably generous uh
reasonably
generalizable um and it seems as more we
talk about actually making inferences
there has to be more and more language
that recognizes the inferences have to
be vague they have to be open-ended they
can't be specific and the thing is when
you're dealing with somebody your
recommendations have to be specific you
have to write something on a piece of
paper and that's what I brought up
earlier when I talked about what even is
evidence-based because at the end of the
day you got to take what you know and
try to do something specific so uh the
big rocks and and I'll say it again it's
the context of the entire program each
variable interacting differently based
on how all the other variables are set
if you do squat three times per week
optimal for one day whether it's for
size or anything else is going to change
uh the types of exercise you can do how
hard you can go on them and so on uh the
individual genetic uh differences and
that person's history and how they're
going to train when they experience
inevitably that brick wall everybody
feels where you're doing the most
optimal thing and you just stop growing
and then what comes next has to be
decidedly unoptimal and I want to make
sure I don't know if I skipped over what
Milo said
um I I I think that's
about that's about all I have to
say yeah so I just want to highlight
that that is so the issue with missing
the the the the tree the forest for the
tree is is down to Scientific
interpretation being poor and not
looking at the totality of available
evidence and as you said yourself
science is not giving you very specific
optimal guidelines that you must follow
without the the input of trial and error
but rather it gives you more general
optimal guidelines for let's say
training volume frequency range of
motion and so on and so forth that you
then pair with trial and error to come
to an individualized optimal uh approach
and then my question to you would be for
example training volume you have you
have uh the data that shows 10 to 20
sets may be best if you were to have two
twins and you were to I don't know have
have a bet or somebody will tell you
okay Bet on whoever is going to gain
most muscle and then one twin was doing
20 to 30 sets and the other one was
doing 10 to 20 sets
just based so just based on the current
scientific evidence uh and the your
observations which one would you would
you bet on would you would it be the 20
to 30 set twin or the 10 to 20 set
twin 20 to 30 set twin or 10 to 20 set I
don't think the evidence gives me any
ability to predict that I mean odds if
we're going off odds you can look at the
evidence that ex might come but but here
here's the thing because because you
have the the re Arch that has gone crazy
into the volume territory and there's
controversy over you have the people
within each study that experience high
amounts of volume do very well and
similarly people in that same group
experience high amounts of volume and
don't do well at all um so again it's we
can we can make kind of an odds based
statement with regards to what's
actually been studied but you can't
derive from that any accurate prediction
about what's going to happen with two
people it doesn't have to be accurate
I'm saying it's a it's a hypothetical
you have to bet all your money on one or
the other based on the yeah so I'd
probably bet uh bet my money on what is
it 10 to 20 is the typical
recommendation uh however this is what I
conceptualize these thought experiments
are what I think about because the way
you get to the bottom of this I think
about this whenever we talk about one
variable is I want to know all the
different ways that variable was tested
how many different scenarios can that
variable exist because one of the
reasons God I saw a study that was
dealing it actually tried to deal with
uh periodization it was like Block
periodization versus like I don't know
either dup or linear or something the
first thing I think about what is the
best iteration that you can
conceptualize of what this looks like
because now we're talking about a lot of
variables so you can conceptualize the
best iteration of what this thing is I
want to see those things pitted against
each other in addition to their ability
to mold themselves to the individual so
um what is the I mean we're talking
about volume I mean what's the best uh
uh application of volume what does that
best program look like and I think
anybody would have difficulty even
trying to think of what that uh what
that would be if you could even say it's
one thing like you you would definitely
not start at uh two to four sets per
muscle group per week you know that
you're probably best starting at 10 plus
sets based on the current scientific
evidence so as practitioners that would
be our our starting point same with our
minimum dose stuff if we had um if the
current literature showed that hey a
single set a couple of times per week or
the studies we did with powerlifters
show that if you're doing two to three
sets per week you're actually regressing
and you had three or four studies it's
very unlikely that for the majority of
people that you worked with you would
start them at one or two sets per week
whereas now you can feel confident based
on the scientific evidence that you can
do that um so and I would also I would
also point out that those
recommendations are are pretty Broad and
they also seem to fall into what most
reasonable programs look like like
unless you have I know every all the
kids are on the Mike men are bandwaggon
today but um it it seems like this was
something uh I remember thinking with
pipin's chart I think I did a video
about that a long time ago because in
powerlifting pipin's chart was like the
scientific thing that you reference
because it made you sound legit like
I've read the literature like I know
what the Russians did or whatever um and
when you break it down it's like okay
pulled from a different population of
elite lifters doing entirely different
exercise um on a bunch of peeds I don't
even think anybody has access to the
data it's never been replicated and then
when you actually the funny thing is
when you actually crunch the numbers you
actually accidentally find just about
every reasonable set and rep range you
could ever come up with so when people
say oh I follow PR and Shard I'm like
okay so you basically did about anything
anybody would have done anyways uh and
that's the reason I push back because
the the ranges are so big the margins of
error we're talking about or the margins
of recommendations are so broad that um
again that gap of interpretation people
are hearing this as if this is something
specific I have to stay in in the middle
of when in reality the handle you have
is on what you do to navigate and that's
what people are missing and I I just I
think you said you don't think there's
really an epidemic of people missing out
on gains um and that that's a value
judgment I don't I don't know how I
would con convince you that it's more or
less and I might even be remiss in
saying it's as much as I think it is um
but I've watched enough of the videos of
the way people engage with research
again is Jeff nippard hanging up this is
a point for failure this is a point
against failure even though every single
study is wildly different from each
other uh and people read that and they
come to very very very specific
inclusions about what they think is
being said there that has no real basis
in reality and that it's so so it hinges
I think on just a value judgment of what
the real effect of these interpretations
are so sorry I want I want to I want to
give another example you're trying to
optimize hypertrophy you have to choose
between um a person training with uh an
emphasis on the stretch versus a person
training with the shorter ranges of
motion so mid to Short doing the sort of
pump training that a lot of bodybuilders
advocated for again who do you bet on
and why I don't I uh I I think most uh
of the valuable lifts that provide the
biggest bang for the buck you're talking
about compound movements typically get
done through something like a full range
of motion and then uh I think there's
plenty of room for variability I mean I
think it's productive at certain points
to do things like mid-range partials uh
and there's a lot of disagreement on
that between coaches and bodybuilders I
know that full range of motion I mean
that's been like a rule for like correct
lifting for as long as I've been lifting
and I think it's very valuable I myself
have had have overcome hypertrophic
plateaus uh because I emphasize on a
partial range of motion that was able to
put a stress in a particular muscle
especially when I'm so used to compound
movements that uh I wasn't otherwise
able to do now that's not to say that's
the only way to do it or that's going to
be correct every time but um even that
it's like this false choice you have
where you have to do one or you have to
do the other most people do a mix and I
think they do it for that reason to be
well-rounded to cover all their bases
and because there isn't really a firm
conclusion there's a guy and again this
goes back to this is anecdotal this goes
back entirely to the power of genetics
this guy Philip Morris trained at my gym
I made a video about him as well he told
me the first time I met him I'm like
what do you bench dude because he was
built like a brick [ __ ] house he told me
675 I looked him in the face and I'm
like you're full of [ __ ] that's like
saying I deadlift a thousand pounds I'm
like I haven't seen you at a contest
like no you don't that's just a madeup
number that's like I'm an Olympic gold
medalist I'm like no you're not uh he
legit did he was an Eric spot he was a
bench gim rat every lift he ever did
over his entire body was some type of
bastardized uh explosive half range
partial his favorite lifts were like
ugly bent rows where he's at like barely
bending over using his whole body he
would do like quarter box squats he
would do uh highy Ros that were
basically like explosive High Poes and
he would bench through a limited R
mid-range of motion
Phillip Philip looked like an ifbb Pro
now of course you say well it's genetics
that's a catch all genetics it's
steroids whatever it is but it's at
least verifiable that there is some
application to this in a way that uh
that is at least productive now the
question of how productive it is I don't
think anybody knows that I don't think
there's any amount of research that is
so conclusive you could say pick one
over the other dismiss these other
things and um I think people that pick
one because they think that's going to
give them the permanent Edge I think
it's a bit
shortsighted but again we're talking in
the context of optimizing so and I would
argue
versus the picking one and the other so
another point a deadlift with an
Ecentric versus a deadlift without an
Ecentric which one would you pick would
you not pick the one if you were trying
to maximize hypertrophy and have an
optimal approach to
hypertrophy uh yeah probably with any
Ecentric
why uh because it's been long observed
that if you are uh under attention
longer demonstrating more control more
disadvantage uh that's that's been a
truism and lifting for a long time I
mean uh when you're blasting past stick
points you have momentum at every inch
of the movement so if uh you actually
have to be under control at parts of the
movement where you're typically uh only
experiencing upward momentum uh there's
a better developmental effect it's the
same reason why I do uh uh halting
deadlifts at my knees to try to increase
my mid-range because tension there
creates a better uh response so Sans a
reason hypertrophy would be higher there
as well but but wouldn't it be because
the amount of scientific evidence we
have showing that hey the entric
actually leads to more hypertrophy than
just the concentric I mean that that
helps but that's kind of the trend of of
where it does converge it's on things
that people know for a very long time um
I've I've never come across any studies
about that that's not denying that that
they're there that they're thorough but
that's something that's been known for
like a very long
time yeah anyways my point my point is
that if we're we're talking about
optimizing and we are let's say we had a
beted between us we had two athletes
twins who's going to get which one
bigger I assume that a lot of things you
do would borrow from exercise science uh
so that you make sure that you do
absolutely everything in your in your
ability to maximize outcomes even if
that's an educated bet and in reality it
may not offer as much as you as you hope
well let me let me put it this way like
I think when you look at an individual
study and you control this one variable
and you have people go on I think there
is a point in your training where that
variable stops being the thing that's
potentially holding you back or costing
you gains it could very well be some
other variable that you've ignored or
haven't considered you grow quickly from
things you're not sensitive to so as you
become very very adapted to training in
a very deep range of motion is there no
reason to think that the increase in
tonnage uh would have any effect to a
very very resistant lifter who's been
doing Olympic squats his whole life take
it an Olympic lifter and have them do
bodybuilding work like uh any of your
favorite bodybuilders do is there reason
to believe their quads wouldn't
experience New Growth the thing that's
not being taken into account here is
repeated bout it is the fact that you do
adapt these things you become resistant
so I find it uh I just find it short
sided so I would actually ask you if you
were if if you had triplets and you were
told hey uh you have to get each one of
these jacked as possible but you have to
do three different things you know
Triplet a um is going to uh do nothing
but full range of motion or even
lengthen partials he'll do he'll take a
note from Milo's book just lengthen
partials the other one is just gonna do
I don't know mid-range partials or
number three you can mix and match how
you want where what would you what would
you put your money on if you were going
to bet what's
optimal and and and please where you can
cite the literature that informs that
decision okay um trip I'll I'll let I'll
let Milo respond to that even more trip
tripet 2 is getting a slap on the head
and is instantly removed from from my
will from for the mid to short partials
uh but my I mean with the third triplet
you didn't we didn't really Define the
specifics you said mix and match but we
would have to have like full range of
motion plus length and partials whatever
we we'd have talk about what exercises
how often they're doing what order
they're doing the different ranges of
motion in it would let me put it this
way it would definitely not be triple 2
triple 2 would be out of the picture for
sure no money on Triple 2 and depending
on the spefic spefic would either be
tripled one or tripled 3 citing wolf
atal
2022 U meta analysis but that's 2023
Chief 2023 of course just checking
whether he
remembers
um but you you asked let me hey range
emotions my stuff so go go you know the
only reason I wouldn't bet a dime on
triplet 2 is because of the evidence
like as far as practices go there are
comfortably dozens and dozens of very
successful bodybuilders that never got a
full stretch they did essentially
shorten partials were they successful
yes does that mean I will yield
uncritically to their practices as to my
own no I'll look at what the evidence
says because ultimately when it comes to
certain less influential variables it
allows us to actually detect differences
that are otherwise super easily
overshadowed by a us just looking at
physique as a means of measurement in
practice and B to much more influential
variables that comfortably overshadow
their impact and so that's where you
know that's why I wouldn't bet anything
on triplet 2 and would probably bet most
of my money on triplet if that was doing
uh only length and partials but there is
some degree of inference there but that
inference applies to anecdotes as well
like just because something worked for
someone else doesn't mean it will work
for you in practice especially with the
uh greater and Superior amount of
confounders is involved so that's why I
would bet on tripet doing link partials
in this case and that's what I forgot to
reply to the question about the not the
question the point about the Olympic
weightlifter and squats and them getting
their legs to explode yes by adding leg
extensions or [ __ ] squats and allowing
them to develop directors for moris more
based on the scientific evidence yes I
would expect again based on the
scientific evidence that the addition of
quad isolation work
uh would allow them to get a bit more
quad hypertrophy out of their program
versus just the atg squats that they've
been doing unless they've been doing
much but again it's the science I mean I
mean I mean uh modifying their squats so
they don't squat as deep to where they
can now handle let's say 15 to 20% more
weight uh and they can maintain tension
on the muscle like so many bodybuilders
like to do without relying on uh
mechanical tension to support them at
the bottom or uh or standing all the way
up you you would find uh you don't think
there's a use case you'd find no no
benefit for somebody that was very
desensitized or un not or sorry very
sensitive to that
stimulus expect any new growth we're
we're we're we're moderating you Omar
now so I'm going to moderate this just
because uh I think this is it's
interesting but I think we're deviating
away from maybe some of the central
conversations which is crazy they we're
almost at two hours this has been very
interesting but I think there's two
fundamental points like two fundamental
points of conversation maybe to actually
get into um and and we'll deal with what
we've been discussing before but the
first one is actually what you said Alex
I want to hear from all parties here
what they feel to be some of the biggest
limiting factors in our space right now
in other words what is truly preventing
individuals from making gains because
the title of the video is why exercise
science is killing your gains right so
that's that that's an interesting bold
claim um and I'm just curious also I
think when you talk Alex or maybe even
like a Pac M they talk with researchers
and so on and so forth and they talk
against like Pub Warriors is that we
have to be always acutely aware of the
audience where I would put forth and I
don't know if You' agree Alex just me
now on the outside so in our age cohort
and who we're talking to like some of
these conversations like it's an insular
conversation that's uh important but in
the metag grer space what I see those
Tik Tok kids and in terms of like I'm
joking but in terms of what's followed
or why it's being followed I see uh many
many many other issues you just brought
up as an example the Mike mener kind of
trend I'm like where did that come from
why did that even reemerge in the first
place where it's more like a cultural
phenomenon where people want to identify
with the person and with their values as
opposed to this is what's going to get
me the results and that to me just as an
outsider I want to hear everyone what
they're saying um I see and I I look at
magnitude of effect right like in terms
of okay this person is getting a million
views like Alex you did a very good job
of getting a topic to get almost 200,000
views that before that nobody wants to
talk about so that's like kudos to you
in terms of shaping a very compelling
video essay and that's why we're here
man so it's nothing but respect but I'm
saying in terms of actual impact in our
space and if we take a look at the
entire Fitness industry so forget like
our own personal interest like all four
of us you know what I mean like we're we
all kind of we converge to use that word
in similar interest but there's that
greater Fitness space do we not also
think that
over time what's happened and I'd say
one of maybe the functions and pack and
Milo could talk about this of Sciences
to disconfirm there were almost we have
a an abundance now of information of
things that do not work meaning that
over a decade ago and there's a point
I'm coming to and I want to hear what
you think are the big rocks then
preventing people um over a decade ago
there's those huge debates in terms of
calories like whether or not the
validity of macronutrients whether or
not you need to count calories what is
the thing what is the impetus that
causes someone to lose weight and
there's all these you know heavy-handed
beliefs these core beliefs anecdotal
passed over time through coaches gurus
and so on and so forth the basically got
obliterated as a result of a lot of the
research and now we're like in a
2024 uh scenario here where a lot of I
would say the big rocks that were just
used by marketers when you talk about
incentive structures magazines and so on
and so forth that allowed essentially
I'm going to say it a lot of [ __ ] to
remain relevant and for people then to
believe it as truisms have now been kind
of eroded and there are people then the
the interest then is trying to get the
information correct now there's a couple
different ways the people pursue that or
what they think is the best path towards
it but I do think 2024 vers let's say
2014 um it is as a result of
scrutinizing some of these fundamental
concepts testing them that we now arrive
at a place where I think we're having
this conversation and I do Wonder just
amongst the four of us here what we
really feel are the major ma limiting
factors preventing the average listener
we'd have to Define who our population
is preventing them from gains and that's
an interesting question that I would
need to think about but when I take a
look Alex I would just say broadly once
again kudos to you with the video at the
greater space and what you said Mike
mener I could site like I'm not gonna
I'm not gonna call anyone else out but
uh I I see some big problems man is what
I'm saying so I maybe I want to hear
from you the Milo pack because then I
think the the last portion of the
conversation would be talking then about
exercise sence what its intended
function and then what can its utility
be for the audience but I want to hear
what do we think the actual big problems
because the title was exercise science
is killing your gains Again part of it
the title like I watched your video to
get people to click but go ahead
man is this to me um yes yeah for okay
so first of all I I have to address the
the clickbait because as I got better at
navigating YouTube uh I got a lot of
feedback about my choice of thumbnails
and titles that not everybody is in love
with but um I actually used that title
because there were some people that were
outright offended and another this is
killing your gains title that was
straight up tongue and cheek because
athleen X puts out the killing your
gains title so that was anyways I think
that went over some people's head and it
just looked like I was actually trying
to replicate that uh the success of that
very incendiary thumbnail but um yes I'm
I'm getting better at clickbait and
hopefully I can use those powers for
good to actually give people substance
and subvert their expectations that oh
there's something meaningful here so uh
anyways as far as what is holding the
average lifter back that is a hard thing
because you have to evaluate uh stuff
with the individual um things that don't
have anything to do with the actual
prescription of the workout that I think
there are massive things that the
individual can take accountability for
that they don't often um and then you do
have to look at the prescriptions where
they're getting their information how
they go about putting it into practice
uh how they're learning and evolving
with their program as they go on part of
it is having Direction here's something
I don't even know like I've kicked this
idea around if you want somebody to be
the biggest hos they can be is it better
to glue them to a system that's proven
and just have them do that on end and
learn it to milk it for everything it's
worth or is it better to have people go
through different phases through their
their life where they try different
things I don't even have an answer to
that I don't have any way to Grapple
with it there's schools of thought
that's kick people off with starting
strength where they do three or four
barbell exercises and it's the
progression with pretty good stimulating
lifts that gets growth uh to a pretty
sufficient degree and you could say that
okay it's simple and it works well so
psychologically that's a win for a lot
of people it's motivating for lot a lot
of people to see the weight go up every
week it gives them technical expertise
but you could also say it doesn't teach
them a damn thing about handling
complexity in a workout on the other
hand you have basically what they do
with youth athletes which is you have
them start out uh doing everything under
the sun you know play as a developmental
tool to be well-rounded to grow every
little bit of uh muscle to learn
different movement patterns unilateral
work like lunges body weight stuff um
dumbbells machines and so on what's best
couldn't couldn't tell you and I don't
think anybody else has a lot of insight
into that either the superpower is that
the average lifter starts out as a
novice grows from just about everything
because we sit indoors so our Baseline
is very very low from where it should be
so we're super sensitive to any stimulus
um and the good news is that whatever
you get into uh it's just a matter of
application and showing up and even if
you get stuck and you hit those walls
which everybody does there is a way over
it you just have to believe that there
is and it's going to come from paying
attention and engaging more and being
present I would be inclined to say most
of it if we're talking about the average
lifter again this's a value judgment but
I'm talking about the type of person who
probably wants to be bigger probably
wants to be leaner but in very real
terms doesn't have the pain tolerance
that some people do or doesn't have the
willingness to forgo other things in
their life that's a real thing um I know
the most competitive people and uh you
know they're off
they're off and it's it's uh you know
the thing that leads to success I had an
interesting discussion with Sam shether
who's very very smart dude uh just hit a
600 pound bench uh his brother hit like
a 2,000 pound total at like 19 um and
he's very involved in the Raw
powerlifting or The Natty powerlifting
Community oh my God sorry my dog is
losing it um but he was talking about
how heavy-handed approaches work very
well that's other confounding factor to
what degree is just being durable
something that can can keep you in one
piece if you apply heavy-handed
approaches and people survive they get
pretty strong pretty quick so I really
think it's people learning how to work
hard uh I think it's uh consistency not
what you think consistency is but
holding yourself to a high standard to
know if the people you're following are
doing this because they're motivated to
as far as showing up doing what they're
supposed to do not skipping out on their
work expecting themselves to work harder
as time goes on and if they're taking
notes that continued progress is all but
guaranteed and it's usually when they
don't do one of those things that they
stall out again to whatever degree it's
optimal the optimal thing is to have
some way of growing continuously on
autopilot without um continuously having
to jump around and try different things
so so that would be on an individual
like case- by case basis how they're
actually applying themselves to their
training as far as actual information
the same things that have been around
forever getting distracted by things
they think are it getting sucked into
Cult of Personality uh I do think and I
know this is the Crux of this argument I
do think there's a person that's
attracted to science as a marketing tool
and they apply a very un thorough low
resolution view of what science is and I
do think that has uh effects on how they
put the answer out there in something
that's optimal as opposed to putting it
on them to figure it out uh and then
like you program hopping is a big one
it's it's not doing anything
consistently enough to grow not applying
yourself to the program to learn how to
milk it for all its worth I really think
that's probably what holds most people
back yeah Milo you changed the mood
lighting you've been silent uh you've
just been putting out the Vibes let's
hear let's hear from you because I do
think that um that is the konel that got
people to click and then you went over
Alex like your video your point and I do
think you're very thorough with your
argument and that is perhaps what people
I think that's the thing that people
identify with currently because
personally what I've observed especially
on social media I I do see a push back
i' call not an anti-intellectual
movement but it's like oh these science
Bros they lame and then they listen to
your and ah okay so if we want to answer
the question of the title the video then
what do you think uh Milo is like what
are some of the biggest limiting factors
for your average lifter that is you know
Desiring to make
progress for sure so for the average
lifter I think has next to nothing to do
with this conversation and that is
consistency I think the average lifter
who goes to the gym goes for like six
months and then stops lifting and then
repeats the cycle stops Lifting for two
years goes back to the gym does it again
so not really relevant to the
conversation I'd say but
to answer the question of is exercise
science killing your gains I think it
isn't um I think the vast majority of
exis science content on YouTube is at
least getting you to hit the big rocks
is there going to be some
misinterpretation in there absolutely
not everyone has a PHD and even phds
like myself often make mistakes in
interpretation that's just how it is um
but equally interpretations are rarely
so egregious that they lead to you
completely missing the big rocks
so I think the statement and I don't
think Alex claims this by the way I
think it's just clickbait ultimately but
the statement that excise science is
killing your gains is just not true in
my view um so yeah that's the the boring
answer I think that broadly speaking if
I had to pinpoint one issue being more
prevalent than another I would say the
issue of Cults of personality and
relying excessively on anecdotes and on
someone's credentials I.E their physique
and their previous success in a given
sport is probably more of an issue than
relying on science because again
practices in at high level in high level
bodybuilding high level pting I would
say are more heterogeneous than the big
rocks that evidence-based information
typically provides and I think brly
speaking I see more of an issue with
just blindly following what highle
athletes are doing versus or even just
not even high level like there's plenty
of Jack Tik Tok influencers and
Instagram influencers that aren't high
level athletes or anything but they just
jacked enough to impress the common folk
and people will take what they do as
gospel and I think that's much more of
an issue than uh the potential
occasional misinterpretation of science
because I think It ultimately the vast
majority of the time still leads people
to a pretty reasonable place with the
big rocks in
place
P yeah so echoing
Milo all everything that he said like
yeah the average individual who is not
who's for sure not watching this
especially at this stage if you're
watching code 64 to claim your
$100 barbell I don't remember your
company name Alex will send you a $100
voucher which Omar will pay um but
joking I said yeah the average
individual just needs to stay consistent
and and take the the main boxes I think
what's affecting people negatively is
the poor interpretation of Science and
worrying about the details and
forgetting the big boxes because I do
think that even if you're too concerned
with the details if you're still taking
the boxes you can be as concerned as you
like about whether your Tempo was
optimal or not you're not going to not
make gains and that's why I asked like I
posed the question of who's really
putting out their uh content that is
pushing away from the from the the big
boxes like you watch Jeff nippard you
watch other evidence-based channels and
sure you may go and try this new
technique or uh try resting a bit less
or a bit more or this exercise or that
exercise but at the end of the video
you're still being told to lift hard add
weight over time train hard and so on
and so forth um so just for for whoever
is listening remember that it's the
totality of evidence that that we're
looking at Factor your personal
preference and you're on your way to
make gains science is your friend make
sure you're listening to the consensus
of the scientific Community because
there will always be the Joel sedans and
the whatever's and bias in science if 25
scientists that are also coaches and
athletes are saying you know what if you
want to maximize gains potentially do
this then that's probably a good idea
and keep in mind that optimal chasing
optimal um should be viewed more as a as
a as a fun Journey rather than that one
SP specific variable that will
definitely get you the optimal
gains look at everyone now being unified
we had a beautiful moment that all a
branch extended once again look we got
we gotta bring because there there is
way bigger [ __ ] going on okay and what
you said the mic when you said that mic
like I know exactly what you mean uh but
what I want to say because I'm I'm down
to go for like at least 20 more minutes
I do think there's one final part of
this conversation um but what I will say
it's interesting to me pic I'm done with
this is that uh what's interesting to me
and must be noted and this is once again
being an outsat or not being a
researcher like pack and Milo but now
having visited like so UK like solent
going to Texas Tech is one thing I do
want to note for the viewers or
listeners is simply that most research
researchers just like us right here are
extremely passionate about what they do
and so we talk about all these
incentives and these structures and like
some like bias or so on and so forth
It's like these folks aren't getting
paid a lot um in terms of the grants
that they're given compared to other you
know uh uh places inside the
universities or colleges they're not
very high a lot of them like when I went
to Texas Tech and like so Madison and
like Christian the two PhD students that
are doing it they came in on off thing
this wasn't a thing like they had to do
in order to complete their program it is
by and large uh by the passion that they
have that a lot of these things move
forward so I do just want to give a
respect to all the people putting in the
time and effort shout out as example on
iron culture we have Kai he doesn't get
paid okay we're terrible okay we're anti
we're we're pure capitalist there but he
does he does the time stamps and stuff
because he's a about once again the
culture so I think we're all United and
being Enthusiast and I think one of the
things that I did respect Alex with your
video is one of the common criticisms of
like let's say those that are science
adjacent um would be you know some of
the tropes like oh they well they don't
train hard like they're they're like
pencil next to this and that and that's
not obviously the route you took at all
but it is funny that once again like I
think Jeff just because he has a large
Channel he'd be catching Strays sometime
where they'll be like I'm not going to
name that person a certain person that
sounds like a parrot that said years ago
Jeff doesn't train hard meanwhile Jeff
is a natural bodybuilding champion in
Canada like my country he is a former
National powerlifting Champion you know
what I mean like he's like he's at the
highest of the highest level and so you
just have these Reckless things being
said so all that to say very very
positive let's maybe just sill it back
though and let's get a little
inflammatory and just say so let's
perhaps answer the question of what is
the intended function of exercise
science and what's its utility for let's
say we're talking now the consumer or
the average listener like what is it
supposed to be and is there some sort of
Chasm what you're saying Alex between
what's going on how it's being
communicated and then how it's being
interpreted so there is an issue
potentially of you know once again you
said like the replication like like some
of those things but to me it seems more
like it's kind of the middle ground like
some of the the communication and then
also maybe because of some of the
marketing how it's interpreted by the
consumer can we like bring it now to the
the Central
Point yeah sure um yeah and all of those
are all all kind of peripheral because I
mean even at the at the center of my
argument there's this real concern over
if you grant all of the the things you
want to do it the best way possible uh
can you even get there uh in a way in a
way I think that people imagine that you
probably can which is what makes this
worthwhile um
and
that that's that's really the
shortcoming it's really um I I believe
that the thing that keeps people from
being the strongest most game day ready
version of themselves whatever people
people talk about genetic ceiling
nobody's ever experienced it but uh if
you actually are to get there um I'm I
have so many questions about what each
step along the way has to look like and
how do you predict when that step is
appropriate uh I feel like there's just
um too many confounding variables to get
to this level of predictability that you
want at least that would outpace uh what
people do by themselves so when I'm
trying to think about what the role is I
feel like there's potentially good work
that could be done like I would imagine
I would imagine if you could collect
data the way Google does and you could
crunch data from I I feel like there
should be just a massive program to just
pull data from every lifting app that's
ever existed and you would have a
potentially a lot of good data that you
could make some sense of there's
probably insights that you could have
and I'm not here's the thing I'm not
even um I come off I think as being more
cynical and assholish than I actually
feel because it really is only when I
think the field is overreaching that
there's a problem uh I feel like there
are probably things that are going to be
uh confirmed and maybe it'll take time
but there probably are things that are
we're going to converge on at least
little bits that can uh be settle
debates that still rage on unnecessarily
uh and I think that can absolutely
happen What role it has with the
individual I can't even begin to to say
that because I have a lot of issues with
the ways the questions get asked and
presented um I uh I think it's the same
as everything else it's it's don't turn
away from information but hold yourself
highly accountable to be able to
interpret it the best possible way
ideally we would have a very rigid
system of uh instructors with a
hierarchy where you would know how to
get these questions answered or have
them laid out uh I think it's rare that
we get a panel like this that's kind of
really thorough and digs deep into it
which I think is really cool um but yeah
in the midst of all of that chaos and
unanswered questions and uncertainty and
people trying to capture attention it's
it's just uh be vigilant do the best you
can and don't take any piece of
information for granted whether it is uh
anecdotal because you heard it from the
buff guy at the 24-Hour Fitness or if it
does come out of a single piece of
research that somebody somewhere is
going to be holding up is like oh well
this is the thing your training needs to
revolve
around sure who wants to go first pack I
see you pointing oh yeah come on pack go
ahead bro bring it in uh yeah so again
be an
evidence-based have an EV a truly
evidence-based practice understand the
limitations of science understand the
tnc's that come with a lot of studies
look at the totality of available
evidence and the strength of that
evidence because just because we have a
meta analysis on something that meta
analysis is made of other studies listen
to people listen to the scientific
consensus value practical experience
especially in areas where we don't have
signs for example accessories for your
powerlifts powerlifting peing methods
although we have some science of that
and at the same time remember that you
must be open-minded and ready to change
your mind in light of new evidence but
don't turn away from the science because
you know some people abuse it don't turn
away from practice because some some
people abuse it use a combination of
both and you will be solid especially if
you're trying to
optimize adaptations as exercise
scientists we need to do better uh we
have things that we we are actively uh
trying to promote like open science
being transparent with methods open data
um using statisticians actual
statisticians as we've done in most of
our projects in the the past three years
uh versus doing the stats ourselves um
in order to have a more appropriate sort
of uh analysis of the data uh and at the
same time transparency is key for
exercise science so there's obviously
what the listener takes away but also
what we need to do in order to improve
and from the practitioner side of things
there's no need to create this sort of
uh strawman monster of the the
science-based lifter who disregards the
experience in the trenches uh we should
all collaborate with each other draw
from expert opinion draw from those
experiences draw from scientific
evidence and Legalize It come on throw
that message in there it's finally time
420 Blaze It Free the guys Milo back to
you my
brother I mean not to just Echo what
pack just said including legalization of
course
um I mean It ultimately comes down to
Scientific literacy if you think you
good scientific literacy feel free to
read papers and be slow to change your
mind is the main thing if you already
have the big rocks in place just because
one study comes out if there's already a
relatively well established body of
evidence don't just change all your
training practices at once this is one
thing I see ququ science-based lifters
do sometimes which is to be very quick
to change their whole practices because
one study came out ultimately with
relatively small sample sizes in sport
Science you do need to be cautious and
gradual and a late adopter when it comes
to some new
findings equally if you don't have the
scientific literacy which I think
applies to most people uh when it comes
to Sport Science
findings I would recommend following a
multitude of relatively well respected
Sports scientists and seeing what they
seemingly agree upon for the most part I
think that will give you a comparable
understanding of the evidence as opposed
to trying to haphazardly make your way
through the evidence yourself ultimately
I think for a lot of people that is
going to be a better approach than to
try and interpret and stay up to date
themselves equally there are going to be
things like pack said not to reiterate
exactly what he said where we don't have
evidence we don't have much evidence or
it's difficult or impossible to get
evidence like for example one thing we
don't have a lot of evidence directly
looking at is does getting bigger
directly make you stronger that's
difficult to really assess
experimentally however you can draw
certain inferences from practice as well
but just make sure
that with your world view and whether
you think scientific evidence is more
informative when it comes to your
practices or whether you think other
people's practices or more informative
to your own practices just make sure
that you draw on some sort of
information Source I think for pack and
I speaking for him now that is going to
be the evidence base um and I think that
where possible you should refer to the
evidence base over anecdote but I think
that a combination thereof is going to
be best and when you don't have evidence
anecdotes will be your second best
bet did we just do it nope I now
disagree with Milo I'm with Alex [ __ ]
you
Milo I'm joking sorry I had to I had to
I think I think the one way to really uh
bring this all together would be
eventually because we all actually like
to lift is get a lifting session
in that would be awesome imagine though
we show up and we were like that much
smaller much weaker and like with gomers
measuring everything Alex has a wig for
some reason my my body fat is exactly as
high as it looks so I don't think I'm
subverting anybody's expectation no I'm
I'm the old hasbin I don't even lift bro
uh pack is like me when I was all
bright-eyed and full of wonder and
coming up in my uh my lifting career I'm
the I'm the look closely this is where
it's headed if you're not careful uh
cheeks and
all no I will say I I think it's great
that all of us are unified in our desire
to better the community right furthered
along and that is was the impetus Alex
behind your video and why we got on for
this chat so I just want to say
appreciate everyone for being so civil
for enduring honestly it's like a a twoh
hour and 20 minute chat don't know how
we're going to chop it up but I think
there's a lot of insight there uh I am
curious what people think like when they
made it to Pack's point where it's like
at the hour 50 Mark he said like comment
down down below um but these are these
are necessary steps and I like that
we're having just conversations in
general in the space so I I want to say
first thank you for inviting me and also
thank you to the three of you for
participating it was awesome and thank
you Alex had a great time yeah thank you
for doing this guys I'm happy we did
this it was great to see that you were
open to to doing this so quickly and
this was I think very insightful for for
both ends and we look to we look forward
to training with you on someday and
absolutely come come on to Texas I might
I might have to change my plans in March
I might have to leave my wife with the
new newborn and head up to Ohio it's my
favorite place in the world Ohio you're
coming all the way to the United States
like that's that's the place you're
checking out lucky oh you told you told
them about uh you told I told him but
this is this is between us this can't
say it publicly the record
button I forgot to ask that's a secret
yeah that is a secret we'll leave you at
this at that let's just Le to say
goodbye and we can have the
chitat much respect peace
peace and then you guys can