do pack here with fellow real doctor
another handshake Dr radfeld real
doctors unite um I mean the medical
community has been really silent since
we we met up today I think they feel
threatened they feel like they're losing
the title I don't think they had it ever
but I digress we're here literally in
your house thank you for having us to
briefly talk about the new study that we
just pre-printed not peerreview
published just yet on super sets and the
potential for suets to be quite an
effective strategy or technique whatever
you want to call it at making really
solid muscle growth gains and very
little time and also to discuss whether
things could even be more potent than
straight sets in some scenarios but
let's just start with the study so can
you give us a very brief rundown of the
study
sure uh we started with 50 subjects uh
we ended with 43 so we had seven
dropouts one group did um paired suet
where they did an Agonist into an
antagonist movement so for instance
biceps into triceps leg extensions into
leg curls lat pull Downs into bench
press the other group did the same
exercises just the straight s so they do
setle out pull Downs rest two minutes
setle out pull Downs rest two minutes
Etc of four sets per
exercise uh and we trained them all to
failure on all sets sounds like they
were untrained but wait a second oh wait
they were all had at least one year of
resistance training experience and uh
some of them were actually quite well
trained that's awesome and we assessed
strength hypertrophy muscle endurance
correct power anything else I'm missing
uh session RP session RP as well and
there was
some qualitative feedback collected as
far as nausea goes correct very nice and
what did we find so basically the super
set group uh did just as well as the
traditional set group and virtually
every measure there were some very mild
thees but none of them statistically
meant much and I think the overall
conclusion was that supersets were
literally just as effective for muscular
adaptations as
traditional sets and they completed the
decision to what 36% list I 36% list
we'll call it 40% just we'll round it up
yeah side typical social media phds now
my question is obviously we this was not
a study where we had participants do all
the volume in the world correct so
roughly how much volume are we talking
about
um so six exercises for it was 48 sets
throughout the week told it for all the
body so it's basically four sets six
exercises 24 sets per session twice a
week so nowhere near to I need a 30 set
recommendation per muscle group even 10
would you yeah would you call it like
low to moderate training volume would
call it on the lower volume on the lower
volume coming straight from the high
volume uh Mansion so were I mean it's
not ultra low but uh yeah it's it would
be considered I think by most people
training a week and uh 48 total sets I
think is pretty low volume for most
people I can see the sniper across the
the house now that I as about volume and
is like hey wait a second be careful
there with the terminology um so in
theory obviously we don't have any
direct evidence looking at Super sets in
the context of maximizing muscle growth
in comparison to traditional sets or
straight sets as some people call them
but given this study in trained
individuals and the bit of literature
that exists before that would you say
that in the context of getting more
volume in and there's more evidence
coming out that there's we haven't
essentially found that limit that upper
threshold to training volume and Hyper
and would you say that for somebody who
may not necessarily be insanely pressed
for time but still wants to get a lot of
volume in um that super sets could be
potentially more potent that straight
sets simply because they allow you to
get more volume in so that's kind of the
million-dollar question is somewhat hard
to answer because we don't know that if
you do more volume might there be uh
issues with residual fatigue from the
Suess I certainly uh hold out the
potential that that is the case that you
might get uh more that would be more
effective can't necessarily
extrapolate uh with the volume that we
have to hire vies because we don't know
obvious so again to your point you
mentioned about the um nausea the
superet group particularly at the
beginning did have more than double the
subjects experienced nausea um and some
of them experienced it throughout the
study to some extent so it uh it is a
more demanding way to train although
interestingly the session RP it was more
at the beginning of the study but it did
seem to equate of course of the study
um it's kind of uh I think a it's a
study that certainly needs to be done to
get clarification on that but I think uh
without the evidence I I think it's
something that can be experimented with
just like Drop says there's another uh I
think technique that can be experimented
with in a similar vein that you can get
more volume in without really add on
much time yeah and I do think
that if we were to again make an
educated bed for somebody who wants to
not for not for people people want to ma
only want to maximize gains but want to
make really solid gains going from let's
say four to six weekly sets per muscle
group at least direct sets going to 10
to 12 I think that can make a meaningful
difference and using super sets can be
an easy way to get that in obviously as
you mentioned there may be more fatigue
associated with that potentially some
side effects but in practice that's
easily adjustable like sure you're going
to rest a bit more between each superet
so you could instead of resting 20 or
less seconds like they did in the study
you could rest for 30 seconds um you
could take a bit more time between each
superet and you could slowly phase those
in for muscle groups that feel easier so
for example you could do most of your
leg training as like straight sets
especially exercises that require that
have a high skill component and then do
a lot of your either isolation work or
machine based work in the form of super
sets you using exercises that are not as
systemically fatiguing as um as others
totally agree I I do also want to point
out this is something that I'm very big
on that each study is just a piece in a
puzzle so um this was the first study to
actually look at the topic in resistance
strengths participants we need
replication we need just more different
types of focus like you said more volume
perhaps different rest intervals in
terms of the sets get really a better
handle on this but I think it really
provides strong preliminary evidence
that the super set at the very least are
very time efficient alternative and I
think uh we can certainly apply this I
think the biggest application is to the
general public where time is a real
issue uh time is considered a primary
barrier to exercise adherence and that
if we um if we can cut training Time by
close to 40% and keep value the same
that really has very practically
meaningful and important implications
for getting more people involved in
resistance training and seeing the
results that they want to get from from
their efforts yeah a super practical way
that people can Implement Agonist andon
superet in my opinion is to opt for
exercises that so like pick a machine
and then carry a pair of dumbells with
them to the machine so they don't have
to hog two machines cuz that's a common
criticism yeah so like you could do a
lat pull down and have um a couple of
dumbbells and then do tricep extensions
or push-ups or whatever so so that is a
big issue that um you will deal with
when training in a gym that particularly
if you want to do let's say we did leg
extensions into leg curls you want to
take two machines out you know good luck
with that when the guy next to you says
what are you talking about I only use
that machine you're using that machine
no no no you got to stay away I got
another uh 5 minutes before before you
can actually work in that does not go
over well generally in a gym but yeah
you can use I think like you said you
can do work arounds that use dumbbells
barbells whatever try to structure your
super set so that you're uh you're using
the equipment efficiently and that is
not being a burden to other people cuz
we don't want to do that yeah I think
that's a that's a limitation that yes it
does exist to a certain extent but if
you are really fresh for time and you
really want to make solid Gams there's
you're going to be so flexible with your
exercise selection and as you've said
thousands of times you can use lighter
loads for higher repetitions heavier
loads for lower repetitions there's so
much flexibility that you can make it
work toally plus it's extra motivation
for you to make more money so you can
buy your own home gym and buy or buy
even the commercial gym that you work
out uh at good boy yeah so that's the
real reason why you should do super sets
so you get sick of people working and
then you just buy the entire place any
um any huge limitations that you can
foresee cuz personally when um I saw the
results of the study I was like um aside
from leaning into superet slowly and
fatigue and obviously still a few things
to learned I don't see a pum downsides
to implementing them no I think again
the higher volumes is a question that
needs to be answered and I
think where might there be a cut point
so you go to let's say 10 sets let's say
you so we did four 48 let's say you go
up to 70 sets which is starting to get
into more moderate volume what about 90
sets what about 100 sets for when I talk
about 100 CS for all all the major m not
for K muscle y I'm I'm going to edit
this 100 CS every week per muscle group
so you know you start getting in where
all the set the total body training if
you add up all the sets and you're using
multiple super sets could there be
issues from fatigue it's possible but
that's I think to me the major one is
impementation I think thing that need
needs to be studied more yeah perfect so
the next time you're in the gym and
you're finding it hard to get your
volume in or you want to get more volume
in and don't have enough time super sets
are strategy that you can give a go I'd
say be a bit careful with your exercise
selection it may not be the best idea to
superet a highbar squand with a marble
with um deficit Romanian deadlift where
you know there's a bit of a skill
component there you may be way too
fatigued from one going into the other
play around with different exercises but
at the end of the day if you also look
at the rest literature even if you end
up resting a bit less or going to a set
a bit more fatigued it's not the end of
the world great perfect thank you so
much for having me in your house and
we'll see you guys next time don't
forget to like subscribe buy stuff buy
Dr Shan's books and if you're doing less
than 50 sets per muscle group a week are
you even training peace
[Music]