welcome to the house of hypertrophy
lifting is cardio somehow it takes about
lifting and cardio exist on the internet
for example it's reported Arthur Jones
States lifting of weight is so much
Superior for the purpose of improving
the cardiovascular condition of a human
being I don't think anybody's disputing
the fact lifting can get your heart rate
up but the question is can lifting be
highly effective for developing
cardiovascular fitness long term what
cardiovascular fitness adaptations does
lifting produce and is it a proper
replacement for cardio in certain
contexts let's examine the scientific
literature
high intensity interval training it is
one form of cardiovascular training
involving alternating between periods of
intense exercise with less intense
recovery periods it's performed by
cycling or running commonly but it is
possible to use standard weight training
exercises a 2018 study examined the
effectiveness of this for VO2 max games
16 well-trained power lifters and strong
men were assigned into either a hit
lifting or hit Cycling group both groups
continued performing their resistance
training as normal reporting to beat in
a hypertrophy or general strength phase
using these variables however the hit
Cycling group added two weekly hit
cycling sessions where they perform
seven thirty second Sprints at an 8 to 9
rpe with 90 seconds of recovery between
Sprints the hit lifting group added two
weekly hit lifting sessions one session
used the squads while the second session
used deadlift each session the exercise
was performed for seven sets of reps up
to a 8 to 9 rpe using a sixty percent
One Rate Max load and 90 seconds of rest
between sets on average this group
performed 8 to 15 reps per set in the
duration of around 16 to 30 seconds
after eight weeks leg extension strength
gains were similar between both groups
so neither hit protocol impaired
strength adaptations worse both groups
successfully increased their VO2 max yet
the games were greater for the hit
Cycling group so hit lifting certainly
can enhance cardiovascular gains but the
gains are likely inferior to hit cycling
there are limitations to this study I've
mentioned them in the comments for those
interested but ultimately the
limitations don't change the
interpretation of the study so why was
hit cycling Superior after all volume
and intensity were equated between the
hit cycling and lifting groups it could
be because most lifting doesn't involve
constant effort throughout it's easier
to lower than to lift and there are
pauses in between repetitions this can
compromise the demand placed on a
cardiovascular system versus something
like cycling which involves a fairly
constant exertion of effort finally for
this section squats and deadlifts are
relatively complex exercises the
subjects of the study were well-trained
power lifters and strongermen so it may
not be an issue for them but for Less
trained individuals who really want to
perform hit lifting using less complex
movements such as machine or dumbbell
variations might be more sensible now
some machines and dumbbell variations
can be less cardiovascularly demanding
due to lower muscle mass involvement but
perhaps you compensate for this by just
performing even higher rep numbers
foreign
studies suggests lifting isn't on par
with more traditional cardio for
cardiovascular fitness gains it's still
evidence lifting canopositively
influence cardiovascular fitness at the
least indeed although not always
consistently found in the literature
resistance training can produce
increases in capillary and mitochondria
densities two Hallmark adaptations of
traditional cardio capillaries are tiny
blood vessels involved in delivering
oxygen nutrients hormones and other
things to cells mitochondria or
organelles involved in generating energy
for various biochemical and
physiological processes of course
increasing the density of these things
enhances cardiovascular performance
fascinatingly eccentric Hearts
hypertrophy in bodybuilders is not
uncommon and this is an adaptation
prominently seen in endurance athletes
that positively benefit the capacity of
their hearts of course not all
resistance training is equal training
styles that prolong the duration of a
set and involves shorter rest periods
presumably enhanced cardiovascular
adaptations for example a 2019 Canadian
study established that training with 30
one rep max loads more effectively
increased the content of several
mitochondrial proteins versus training
with an 80 one rep max load circuit
training with typical resistance
training exercises is likely going to be
quite effective at producing
cardiovascular fitness adaptations
generally circuit training involves
performing multiple different exercises
with short rest periods between them and
numerous rounds of these circuits can be
performed in a session a 2017
meta-analysis from Spain combined the
data from numerous studies and
established circuit training produce
notable VO2 max increases some may be
wondering if circuit training
compromises hypertrophy and strength
gains minimal data has examined this
unfortunately but one 2011 Spanish study
suggests it may be fine 26 six trained
men were assigned to either a circuit or
traditional group the traditional group
performed all the three to six sets on
one exercise before moving to the next
using three minutes of rest between sets
and exercises the circuit group
performed two different circuits for
each circuit subjects performed a set on
each exercise with 35 seconds of rest
between exercises to complete one round
this circuit was repeated for three to
six rounds subjects rested five minutes
before going on to their second circuit
where they did the same thing after
training Thrice a week for 8 weeks bench
press and half squat strength games were
similar between both groups lean mass
body gains were also similar between
both groups the caveat is this is only
one study and lean body mass isn't the
most precise measure of muscle
hypertrophy
so can lifting replace cardio not truly
no we've seen lifting certainly can
develop cardiovascular adaptations but
it won't be near the magnitude of
standard cardio it's also probably the
case that those who do increase their
VO2 max the most from lifting are the
ones with poor VO2 Maxes to begin with
this is demonstrated by a 2013 Japanese
analysis which found those who increased
their VO2 max the most from lifting were
simply the ones with the lowest VO2 max
to begin with also long duration
continuous cardio training with typical
modes likely produces adaptations to a
degree simply not attainable with
lifting and even high intensity interval
training specifically continuous cardio
training is likely Superior for
enhancing mitochondria efficiency and
respiration and truly producing
substantial capillary density increases
I encourage individuals to not be afraid
of adding dedicated cardio on top of
their lifting it can provide great
health benefits for example a 2019
review and meta-analysis indicates
resistance training alone was associated
with a 21 decrease in risk of all cause
mortality while cardio plus resistance
training was associated with a 40
decrease in risk of all cause mortality
as thoroughly explored in a previous
video the idea cardio kills muscle and
strength gains is largely overblown
provided you're not super highly trained
and or performing very high resistance
training volumes updated analyzes fail
to find adding cardio impairs muscle and
strength gains moreover as thoroughly
examined in another one of the videos at
the house of hypertrophy various lines
of scientific research indicate cardio
can help you build more muscle in
certain cases
speaking of building more muscle
consistent training is vital and
tracking your progression and
performance over time can help spot
Trends and enhance the understanding of
your own response to various training
Alpha progression can greatly help this
process at the house of hypertrophy rest
assured I'm never going to promote trash
Alpha progression is a unique and
elegant app rated 4.9 stars in Google
Play and 4.8 stars on Apple Store you
can input your program or use their
custom generator that produces solid
programs you can paradise reps in
reserve and sets and schedule dealer
weeks workouts can be tracked live and
the app generates solid progression
recommendations across sessions
aesthetic graphs contract virtually any
measure across time like bench press
strength number of workouts a week body
weight and even set numbers per muscle
group and circumference measures of body
parts it has a clean design with a
database of more than 450 exercises with
great text and video tutorials through
the link in the comments and description
you can get two weeks free of all its
features plus twenty percent off a
subscription if you do buy the app the
house of hypertrophy will get fifty
percent so this sincerely helps support
these free videos thank you
[Music]
hit lifting style can be effective for
increasing VO2 max although not quite as
good as hit with standard cardio modes
lifting weight has been documented to
cause a variety of positive
cardiovascular adaptations and variables
that prolong the duration of sets and
use short rest probably enhance these
adaptations though lifting weights won't
deliver these cardiovascular gains to
the degree of standard cardio training
plus there are unique benefits to long
duration continuous cardio furthermore
those who see the largest VO2 max games
from lifting are likely that individuals
with the poorest VO2 max levels to begin
with now it's worth remembering if
you're performing cardio the local
endurance games such as mitochondria and
capillary adaptations are largely
specific to the muscle strained
therefore using resistance training as a
tool to enhance local cardiovascular
adaptations in muscles not trained with
your cardio it's certainly not a bad
idea whatsoever
finally I have a free Ultimate Guide to
bench pressing ebook that covers these
areas feel free to get it in the link in
the comments and description
[Music]