it's one on everyone it is Monday
September the 12th and today I'm here at
so this is called honeymoon honeymoon
island
and yeah if you go check out this peach
it was the only beach snack that I
brought these hot fudge sundae pop-tarts
that I picked up at Publix yesterday
okay so just finished up at the each now
I'm super hungry I haven't eaten since
breakfast which was at around 10 a.m. I
just had egg whites and grits I'm so now
I'm here at Publix and apparently they
have really good subs here so I'm coming
to get ya no sorry
please please
that means a chat
so that's very meaty
first bro free scores of snow
char's just like foods overall go
okay what's going on everyone so I'm
here for another informative voiceover
and what I want to do in this one is
just kind of take you guys through this
workout and just touch on some of the
relevant studies along the way as usual
with my shoulder training on push days I
really try to emphasize the side or
lateral delts then I'll put the majority
of the rear delt focus on my whole days
so we kick this workout off with machine
shoulder press and I guess one thing to
note here is just how the handles force
your elbows more out in front of you
which I would imagine results in greater
front delt activation relative to side
delt activation just because the side
delts tend to be more active when the
upper arm is closer to being in the mid
frontal plane with the elbow sort of
more out to the side such as in the
behind the neck press but without any
data comparing the different handle
positions it's tough to say that for
sure
but based on this I Center the rest of
the workout to emphasizing the side
delts and I think before we can
understand how to make an exercise or a
workout more side delt focus we first
need to understand what it is that the
side delts do they have three primary
functions abduction such as when you
bring your arm away from your body out
to the side like in a lateral raise and
the involvement here is increased with
greater internal rotation the second
function is flexion such as when you
bring your arm up into the front such as
in a front raise and again the side delt
contribution is accentuated with greater
internal rotation based on this one
quick tip to get more side delt
involvement out of your front raises is
to simply internally rotate or in other
words point your pinkies up at the third
function of the side delts this
transverse abduction with external
rotation so this is the type of movement
you perform when you do a reverse PEC
deck and you can turn a reverse PEC deck
into a more side delt focused exercise
simply by externally rotating or in
other words pointing your thumbs up and
if you're ever unsure of whether or not
you're performing an exercise in a way
that will target the side delt I think
there are two little checks that you can
do the first is a biomechanics check so
just simply think about the direction in
which the side delts fibers run and ask
yourself if they're more or
less in line with the application of the
load just try raising your arm up to the
front of your body like in a front raise
can you imagine the lateral delt being
in a position to contribute more with
your thumb up or with your pinky up and
it should be clear that if your thumb is
up your front delt is more in line with
the load your pinkies up then your side
delt is put more in line with the
application of the load and then the
other thing you can do is just simply
feel for a difference and you can either
feel this difference more internally by
seeing what it is that allows you to
establish a better mind muscle
connection or you could actually
physically palpate the muscle to test
and see if it's firing more in different
positions okay so then I moved on to the
Rope upright row and there are a few
things that I do here to get more side
delt involvement the first being
throughout the range of motion I think
about initiating the movement out
instead of up so this emphasizes
abduction over flexion or the same sort
of movement you do with the front raise
I actively aim to pull the rope apart
which trains abduction isometrically
and then at the top of the range of
motion ix ternal ii rotates slightly as
the movement begins to involve
transverse abduction remember here that
when it comes to transverse abduction
the side delts are more active when the
arm is externally rotated so after that
I did a bunch of lateral raises first
starting with the dumbbells with this
movement I want to focus in on a 2012
paper by on Jen erin jela vaq which
looked at how applying external momentum
or in other words cheating affects peak
torque and what he was calling total
hypertrophy stimulus for the lateral
raise and the lateral delts so what he
did in this study was he ran a
computer-based simulation of the
exercise other than having subjects
perform it and then he performed a bunch
of calculations using anthropometric
measures and data from previous work on
muscular recruitment to conclude that
the use of moderate momentum at the
beginning of each rat was able to
facilitate the use of heavier loads and
better overload of the muscles in bio
mechanically advantageous positions and
the biomechanical advantageous position
for the side delt is in the middle of
the range of the motion I also say
thirty to sixty degrees of abduction and
he argues that if momentum is supplied
to the load at the point in the lift at
which the target muscles are in a
biomechanically inferior position to
exert effective force this weakness can
be overcome by allowing greater force to
be applied in the range
motion which is better suited for
overloading the muscles so in other
words you use a little bit of momentum
at the beginning of the movement so that
you can exert more force throughout the
more effective part of the range of
motion and in looking at the results of
the study it was found that an initial
angular velocity of 57 and 1/2 degrees
per second tended to produce the highest
peak forces since not everyone can
measure the angular velocity of their
lateral raises I think a good guide here
is to simply find a balance between an
amount of cheating that allows you to
handle moderately heavier loads without
losing control of the weight especially
on the eccentric so something like a
slight forward lean at the beginning to
get the weight moving and then a more
upright posture for the remainder of the
concentric and the full eccentric since
I think lateral raises really are the
best way to isolate the side delts since
the anterior and posterior fibers really
just serve as stabilizers on this
movement I've been including multiple
variations of them in my training every
session so including things like
machines cables dumbbells bands and so
on and so on this workout I opted for a
machine variant and finally I finished
off the workout with a close grip bench
press just to get a little bit of extra
tricep and upper PEC work since I didn't
do any chest on this push day at all and
guys that is going to conclude this
workout I hope that you enjoyed the
commentary and I hope that you liked the
remainder of the video ok so we're here
at genghis grill for post-workout meal
is my first time trying this place
apparently they have like mean
bodybuilder type food
okay guys this is the post-workout meal
so I have chicken and asparagus broccoli
mushrooms and let me think cabbage rice
and tortilla chips and eat this and then
probably call it okay so the initial
rating was like the end of the sub and
there was like there's no good stuff
there but I've got since gotten into the
middle I think it brings up the grocery
store sub ratings that are Niners and
and overall rating to a seven so