I've been in the YouTube Fitness game
for a decent while now and for even
longer than that I've been watching
YouTube Fitness in this video I'll be
ranking different Fitness channels in
terms of how good the information and
entertainment they provide is all so
that you can know which channels to
watch and which channels not to watch
enjoy welcome back Dr M wolf here PhD
and sports science ready to rank some
channels as much as possible I'll avoid
letting personal feelings play into this
and literally just rate based on what
I've seen of them and how good their
information tends to be let's get into
it first up we have Jeffrey vity
scoffield or scoffield or however you
say it I'm foreign I apologize honestly
from what I've seen his information is
at least decent now is it the most
science-based thing ever no that's not
what he claims to be but the information
is typically at least good enough to
have you make games additionally Jeffrey
is a funny dude so I got give him extra
points for that off the bat with there
being five TS I'm thinking b or a tail
let's put him in high B low a h let's go
low a let's start off quite generously
low a for jeffre very sculfield
scoffield whatever you call it next up
we have Jeremy Ethier now his
demographic from what I've seen like his
content and what have you they are not
really geared towards the same audience
I try to speak to I try to speak to
someone who's been training for at least
like a year also beginners but
predominantly people who have been
training for a l while Jeremy's content
from what I've seen is geared towards
more of a general population that's
trying to lose fat get into working out
and do so effectively but despite the
difference in who we're ultimately
speaking to I found the content I've
watched of jeremus to be pretty solid he
takes scientific findings and typically
makes them as easy to adjust as possible
with that being said I have seen some
older conflict of his around EMG that
wasn't ideal but from what I've seen
he's stopped doing that entirely so
overall minus the EMG stuff I've
honestly been really impressed so I'd
give Jeremy like a high a so without
further Ado into the high a Jeremy goes
next up we have natural hypertrophy
another one of the so-called Noble nates
now I don't know his actual name so I
keep referring to him as natural
hypertrophy his advice is usually pretty
okay it's not the most evidence-based
out there but it's usually pretty
reasonable it's not going to kill your
gains by any means I think if you were
to listen to him compared to the average
influencer you probably make slightly
better gains than average so I'm going
to go ahead and give him a low a high B
just for consistency sake I do think his
information is about on par with Jeffrey
R schoolfield but from what I've seen
Jeffrey does tend to pay attention to
the science a bit more so I'm going to
give him a high B tier and again I'm
trying not to pay attention that he's a
fellow Frenchman hit although I'm not
actually French and so I'll let you keep
guessing What ethnicity are enjoy next
up we have House of hyper hypertrophy I
know the order in which I'm racking
these people makes absolutely no sense
bear with me here House of hypertrophy
stuff from what I've seen is super good
it's typically well edited I like the
graphics I like the animations the
information is typically quite good as
well and he focuses very much on the
evidence-based side of things so overall
I like his content let's put him into
low s tier i i i f with his content
quite a bit I'll say next up we have
athlex now it is no secret that Mr Jeff
Cavalier and myself have had some dis
AGS in the past I've made some reaction
videos but what do I think of him
overall honestly I don't think he has a
great channel from what I've seen I've
seen some of his best exercise videos
I've seen a lot of his stuff over the
years recently he does appear to have
gotten better where I think he's
actually reading scientific papers his
videos are becoming a bit less
fearmonger potentially but until very
recently his channel was one of the ones
I would recommend the least to anyone
and that's not me trying to be
uncharitable that is genuinely how I
recommended him to people before that is
to say I didn't so for now I'm going to
put him into C tier I think he's gotten
better recently but until recently most
of his information was wrong in some
capacity and he tended to fearmonger a
lot around injuries so overall I'm not a
huge fan next up we have Brett contras
now this man is all about the ass it is
literally in name but overall dude I
think Brett has one of the most
underrated channels out there I think
you can tell he knows about sports signs
and the way he talks about findings in
fact I recently reacted to one of his
videos about range of motion and from
that alone I was very impressed I've had
conversations with Brett he's a smart
dude his content is very good it's a bit
sporadic from what I've seen he doesn't
schedule videos super consistently he
doesn't release them super consistently
and much of his content does tend to
revolve around glute hypertrophy but
equally much of what he speaks about is
generalizable so I think if you're not
already following Brett you probably
should another cool thing about Brett is
that he actually does science and so for
example recently he funded a study on
the squat versus the hip thrust and for
that reason I'm going to put him into s
tier next up we have Greg ducet now he's
fallen from Grace a little bit from what
I can tell on YouTube and he's gone
through a lot of drama with different
creators and interestingly for those who
didn't know Greg duett actually has a
masters in sports science and as a
result most of his advice is at least
reasonable now do I think all his ideas
are spot on like main ging no not
necessarily and sometimes the way he
expresses certain Concepts can come
across as being overly confident for
instance the whole train harder than
last time as much as became a meme that
isn't really good advice should you
progressively overload and add weight
and or reps week to week absolutely but
what about today let's say you've never
trained before how hard should you be
training if I've been training with 10
reps in the tank for the past few years
it doesn't tell you a lot about exactly
how close to failure you should train
and additionally I don't think I've seen
Greg site much research or talk in very
scientific terms for a good well so
overall Greg do set he's okay he's not
my favorite by any means but he is okay
so I'm going to put Greg to set in High
beat here all right next up we have Dr
pack the fat bald man who keeps coming
to the studio and using it as his own
now I am biased on this cuz he is a
friend and lover question mark but
trying to put all my bias aside I think
his videos are solid I think they're a
good middle ground between just casual
off the cuff talking to you presenting
some science but also being sufficiently
evidence spased to tell you what matters
and what doesn't really matter and for
someone who's just trying to make gains
I think his channel is a wholehearted
endorsement his channel is kind of like
mine if I was a lot more funny so I
would say go check it out and for that
exact reason I'm going to put him in
midest tier into mid s tier he goes next
up we have Alex Leonidas AKA Alpha
Destiny as it used to be called I think
he's one of those cases where recently
like the content I've seen come out from
him over the past 2 3 years has really
gone up and quality substantially
whether it's the quality of the actual
video whether it's the quality of the
information being presented it's gone up
quite a bit overall back in the day I
used to think his channel was a bit more
average in terms of the information
being delivered but nowadays he's
definitely above average once again is
he the most evidence-based person out
there no and in fact I think he's part
of the noble Natty crew or whatever they
call it but generally his information's
pretty on point although there is
sometimes some fluff so all things
considered I'm going to put him into
high B tier next up we have Ryan human
now I've reacted to Ryan twice at this
point and both times I haven't been too
impressed Ryan is still in that era of
Big Time YouTube influencer where you're
relying upon AMG as it means to make a
lot of content and a lot of the big time
YouTubers qu quot have gone through this
era the difference is Ryan in 2024 is
still doing this even though this has
been called into question by basically
every reputable evidence-based
practitioner out there and there's
literature to back that up as well
similarly the the way he expresses
whether one ex SL is better than the
other in videos tends to be very black
and white and so because athle in X is
at least improving and I think Ryan I'm
not sure if he is I haven't actually
watched any of his older content I'm
going to put him into CER along with
apple X just because I don't think I've
seen him improve very much next up we
have meno hand I think meno is generally
pretty solid he's evidence-based he
definitely reads his papers one of the
issues I take is that his stand can
sometimes be a bit oblique essentially I
think that because his background isn't
so much in sports science or in
physiology or what have you sometimes
this takes on certain topic like the p
ratio debate around whether or not you
need to be lean in the first place to
make lean gains his stances on certain
topics tend to be a bit obscure and I
think that maybe has to do with the fact
that he doesn't have as much of a
background in physiology or Sports
Science overall and he's essentially
just reading a lot of papers trying to
understand them as best as he can can
and to his credit most of the time he is
bang on and you will be hard pressed to
find someone with more knowledge of the
literature that's coming out than him
but sometimes his interpretation can be
a bit sketchy I would say and so I'm
going to put meno into sort of high a
tier solid information by and large
sometimes a bit oblique next up we've
got Rick delti AKA boobs
AKA Eric bugenhagen I guess the most
sickening succulent specimen on this
planet if you're looking for information
I wouldn't recommend Eric as my first
choice but if you're going for
entertainment I would recommend him
highly and even his information it's
around average it's not terrible and so
all that considered I'm going to put him
as a low s tier for sickening succulent
specimen and in fact we might do a
collaboration down the road if you're
interested in that leave a comment down
below next up we have straw by Signs Now
I may or may not be contractually
obligated to say this because my own
company may or may not be working with
their company in delivering content and
so forth but I think their information
is topnotch I think if you're willing to
spend some time to sink your teeth into
what science there truly is on a topic
Strong by science is probably the
greatest in the industry for over 10
years now from what I can recall cuz I
was reading them when I first got into
lifting even they've been providing
super in-depth information on lifting
from a scientific perspective in fact if
you remember when they were called
strength Theory leave a comment down
below that's how I know you're an OG but
honestly and once again I'm biased
because I am literally on their Channel
I think their information is top- Notch
so I'm going to put them into midest
here not highest tier simply because I
don't want to be accused of playing
favorites but all that to say I think
their information is incredible and you
should go check them out next up we have
Mike Isel or in fact Dr Mike isrel my
stance on Mike is that he's an absolute
beast at putting out YouTube videos
consistently and he's very knowledgeable
he keeps up to date with the existing
evidence that's coming out reasonably
well and I think he gives out solid
advice my only gripe with Mike isrel is
that sometimes he and I differ in how
speculative we're willing to be in the
recommendations we give for instance
Mike really likes to rely upon soreness
and the pump and other experiential
variables as a means to individualize
training for me for example I'm not yet
willing to make that recommendation and
sometimes speaking as a fellow content
creator it can be difficult to
communicate when I'm saying something
that is actually evidence-based versus
when I'm saying something that is
speculative or that is merely based on
my coaching experience or what have you
but all that considered I think Mike is
incredible so I'm going to put him into
high a tier all right next next up we
have Eric Helms again Dr Eric Helms Eric
Helms is kind of The Godfather of
evidence-based Fitness it feels like
he's been around for a while he's been
doing the damn thing for a while he's
been putting out good information for a
while in fact one of the first books I
ever read about Fitness were the muscle
and strength Pyramids by him and they're
incredible resources for anyone who's
just starting out a fitness and trying
to get a rough idea of what the
landscape is like what you should be
doing training and nutrition wise and
Eric is still doing research to this day
he's someone who's got many eggs and
many baskets he's doing a lot of things
at once he's really pushing the field
forward so for that alone I need to put
him in like highest year essentially
next up we have Lane Norton and again Dr
Lane Norton why does everyone have a PhD
now Lane Norton much like Dr Eric alums
and Dr Mike Isel has been around for a
long time and he's been doing the damn
thing for a long time and he's been
super successful and from what I've seen
the information he puts out is very
solid and more importantly he helps
teach people how to think about evidence
for instance he'll consistently call out
people about their claims based often on
animal data or mechanistic data as
opposed to real world human randomized
control data on the outcomes that we
actually care about and in doing so he's
often teaching you about how hey this
study is going to be more beneficial in
terms of informing our understanding of
things than this one and so all that
considered I'm going to put Lane Norton
into like a low s tier he is solid all
right only sweey go Sean n
I believe is his name if I'm
mispronouncing it I apologize Sean I
think your content is solid he reminds
me of Jeremy e in some ways in terms of
speaking to more of a general population
but while keeping things simple but
slightly less evidence-based and
focusing a bit more on certain specific
questions like bulking versus
maintaining essentially questions about
lifting that are very very generalizable
so I think he speaks to sort of like the
new to intermediate lifter the most and
usually his opinions are pretty good so
I would put him in a similar sort of
bracket as jerem e here maybe just
slightly lower on account of being a
little bit less evidence-based next up
we have Jeff nippert I've collaborated
with Jeff before I think his channel is
potentially the gold standard for single
videos he doesn't release videos often
but when he does they're always super
solid and he's one of the sources of
information I've recommended to
beginners and P mediates the most over
the years I think his information is
always good like many influencers of top
he went through a slight Rocky patch
when he was speaking about EMG and he
will have the occasional take that is
wrong but like 99% of the time he is
right and he works on videos very
carefully before releasing them he
really tries to vet his information and
make sure it's correct so I would put
Jeff in the sort of like mid s tier and
finally we have Legends of the fitness
game the Del re Misfits no explanation
required so that is my final ran team
I've got a lot of people in s here CU I
think their information is very solid or
they're very good entertainment I've got
some people in a TI and I think their
information is typically very good and
I've got some people in B and C tier and
honestly looking at this tier list I
think it makes sense but what do you
think do you think I was too harsh on
someone too nice on someone leave a
comment down below letting me know what
you think what is your tier list like
please don't put wolf coaching inde
deder I beg you surely the links and
gangster track alone makes me yes tier
top of the yes tier the rap game better
watch out you feel me if you like the
video leave a like comment subscribe
following influencers it's a lot of work
what if a training app construct your
training plan for you instead so you
didn't have to listen to all these
videos of me rambling well we've been
working on a training app that is
designed to do exactly that and it's
called My adapt there is no other
training app out there that is as good
as my adapt having looked the
competition I can confidently see that
it is a super flexible tool that will
deliver you with an individualized
program it isn't template based it truly
individualizes training to you you want
to train 2 days a week it can do that
you want to train one day a week it can
do that too you want to follow a push
pull legs routine or an upper lower or a
full body or what have you it can do
that too your time con strained my ad up
has got you too it will give you the
best exercises in terms of bang for buck
there are so many features in my adap
that will take your training from good
to great it is genuinely like having a
coach in your pocket and it will only
get better so if you're trying to grow
muscle head to myod app.com and put in
your email to be notified when it gets
released if you sign up when it gets
released you'll be able to look in at a
fraction of the price of most coaches
out there and it be the lowest price
you'll ever get on my adapt if you like
this t-shirt oversized or I look or
whatever it is t-shirt it is very
cool did a little spin for you there if
you like it Go to Rascal apparel.com and
put in code wolf at checkout for 10% off
they've got a ton of designs and
honestly their clothing is my favorite
stuff to train in the designs look slick
I've been using their brand for a few
years now and so when my boy Omar
reached out for a sponsorship how could
I say no go check it out and now that
I've sold my soul to you have a
phenomenal day and we'll see you next
time peace