[Music]
look how empty that plate looks with no
Kiwi that's just sad
got a banana instead what's going on
everyone it is Sunday May the 12th we
got
rashon back behind the camera my foot
his back he got in Florida look at
Elena's face look that's crazy
rashon got in last night then he's ten
weeks out from the muscle mayhem which
is the show I did then pacted now rashon
is doing it so the whole crew has just
been dominating the muscle mayhem he's
been vlogging and documenting his whole
journey to the stage on his channel I'll
have that linked down below anyway
before it gets cold here I'm gonna show
you guys what I got for breakfast so
this is six egg whites with a little bit
of low-fat cheese on top we've got one
slice of turkey bacon these are just
hashbrowns nothing too special there and
then I've got half a cup of oats I like
to eat my oats just cold in water with a
little bit of Splenda and a banana and
then we also got two fish oils PD
science fish oils and the pea science a
shroom multi that's just to round up the
nutrition side if you guys weren't aware
my goal right now is body recomposition
so basically I'm gonna try to very
slowly gain maybe two or three pounds in
that process also try to lose fat so
tighten up as I gain size and I'm really
trying to optimize absolutely everything
on my new upper/lower program so when it
comes to nutrition and training the key
theme hitting these upcoming vlogs is
going to be optimization tracking my
macros more I won't do it every single
day but I'm doing it at least every
other day around 2800 to 3000 calories
per day which is a very slight surplus
for me so I will be gaining but it's
gonna be slow and it's gonna be lean
I've actually been talking quite a bit
to my buddy Chris Barakat who's a
researcher at the University of Tampa
and we've basically just been like
picking each other's brains about how to
optimize everything in regards to body
recomposition
and one thing that we both kind of
agreed upon is that
we think it is more optimal to
distribute your protein a little bit
more evenly so basically I've been
waking up having a protein shake then
I'll have this pre-workout meal then
I'll have at least another three solid
hits of protein before I go to bed and I
think that intermittent fasting
certainly can work but it may not be the
most optimal way to distribute your
protein pre-workout meal I've been kind
of optimizing my carb sources so I've
got a bit of fruit here which Chris
actually recommended that I do because
it has a combination of glucose and
fructose and those two carb sources use
different transporter systems so they're
going to be absorbed at slightly
different rates so you can I guess in
theory have a more sustained source of
energy throughout the workout and also
have switched to a low glycemic carbs
source that used to have more hashbrowns
but could totally have been in my head
but I found that my energy used to kind
of taper off throughout the workout and
sometimes I actually get kind of
lightheaded so I think that a lower
glycemic or a higher glycemic carbs
source may have been part of the reason
for that anyway since I've switched to a
lower glycemic carbs carbs source
pre-workout I haven't found that to be
initiate so that covers everything I
want to talk about there from a dig in
eat this meal and then we're gonna head
over to the gym
[Music]
love training love it shout out the corn
extreme I still got a lot of power
lifter left in here can't wait to start
lifting some weights
alright guys so here's the plan
look at this man starting to fill this
thing up I'll probably eventually do an
AK or something like that but I'm sold
all right so we've got squats walking
lunges seated leg curls I'm gonna do a
leg extension hip thrust instead of rope
pull through today hip abduction
weighted crunches and we're gonna finish
with some neck so pretty crazy workout
some people have been saying the
workouts and the programs they are a bit
long but that's probably because you're
not sticking to the rest periods I've
been timing myself and I can get in and
out in between an hour hour and a half
so you actually stick to the rest
periods you should be able to get
through it kind of quickly they are high
volume workouts they are really
challenging but it should be in the gym
for or any more than full warm-up here
so I'm gonna start with some leg lifts
each side then we're gonna do
it's kind of crazy because I'm used to
only thing like twice a week only twice
a week now that I'm doing it three times
a week is so important to get a whole
warm-up in and I foam roll before every
single training session because usually
I will be a little bit stiff not
necessarily sore but I can just feel
like my muscles need that a little bit
of extra warm-up when they would
normally so you really want to be
thorough with it when you increase the
frequency
protip always get your knees sleeves on
just before you start you just leave
them down at your ankles otherwise you
gotta take your sneakers off again and
you'll be sweaty so it's harder to
actually get belong to three sets of
feet working sets I'll probably do three
pyramid stuff working my way up and get
into the work
[Music]
you think bro that's bad that feels good
everything about that looks so good
right now just feel like the increase in
frequency is really allowed me to dial
the technique in so good can't wait to
test my maxes at the end of this block
that's something I want to talk about in
a minute where I think my 1 rep max is
are on the big three right now check out
the frigates a tripod set up bro you get
to a million subscribers this is the
kind of stuff you can afford
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
bro
[Music]
squats are feel great
oh shoot catch my breath so I was gonna
talk to you guys about what my current
matches are and what my goals are we'll
start with the squat because that's what
I just did
back to 95 two or three sets of eight
felt I'm honestly pretty freakin easy
it's the best my squat is felt in a long
time I'm currently plugging in my one
rep max on the high bar squat as 415
pounds and I feel like that's probably
about right for my one rep max even
though I haven't tested it in forever
and if I go low bar I'm usually about 10
percent stronger with that and I'm
guessing I probably oughta go 450 as a
max with the Lovera my all-time squat
carry which I'll put up here on the
screen is 501 pounds which I did five
years ago
at Canadian Nationals just before I kind
of mess my back up a bit
so I haven't fully recovered and been
able to get back to that level and it's
not necessarily a gold mine but if it
happens as a side effect then I'll be
super happy but I'd love to hit that 450
low bare squat maybe by the end of this
training cycle or maybe the next one as
for bench
the most recent bench said I did was
three sets at eight with 70% of my one
remark so what was that three sets to
eight with two 45 and that was feeling
really easy I think that I've got about
a 350 pound bench in me if I really went
for it my all-time record for a pause
rep is 365 I've done 405 for a
touch-and-go but I don't really count
I think my pet popped up at the time so
when are we going to trial like three
weeks like dude say I'm gonna do a
training collab so you guys can wait for
this I'm gonna do a training club with
alpha destiny and we've been talking
about it and I think we're gonna go for
a bench off so if I can bust out like
340 350 then I'll be super stoked and
then as for my deadlift so this actually
did test at the end of my last training
walk so after I finished my push-pull
legs program
I put 405 pounds on the bar and figured
out what I could do in terms of max reps
with that and I got six reps but if I
look if you look at the footage and I'll
have it up here you can see that I
probably could have gotten at least two
more so if I plug that into a 1 rep max
calculator I get 503 pounds and I would
say that's about right I'd say my
deadlift 1 rep max is probably somewhere
between 475 and 500 pounds I'd love to
get those up oh and my all-time one rep
max on the deadlift was 545 pounds and I
rolled out here that was back in 2014
again hoping over the next couple of
training cycles I'll get those numbers
up you guys can stay tuned strength is
number two priority for me right now
just there behind physique goals so I'm
going to talk a little bit more about
training maxes after I get into shadow
walking lunges
[Music]
we got three sets of 15 reps each leg so
that's 30 total strive so I don't know I
probably able to get all the way to the
end of this turf here but I'm just gonna
keep going 35 pound dumbbells 30 reps
[Music]
[Music]
nothing that that's gonna be harder
there's a Jack the wait up a bit but
cardio is getting better brother uh-oh I
don't know I guess it's just with the
beach question it's like right now
[Music]
we wanted to talk a little bit more
about testing Max's how frequently you
should do that in the first place
because it's not something I've done in
a while and I think that a lot of
treatment is especially newbies test
there one rep max is way too frequently
first of all I would say that unless you
have intentions to compete in a
powerlifting event or if you have a very
specific strength goals there's really
no need to ever test your one rep Max's
at all I mean you could do it maybe once
a year just for like motivational
purposes or to see where you are but if
your primary goal is to build muscle
testing your one rep max frequently
isn't gonna do much toward that goal
just think about the amount of volume
you get out of one rep max attempt and
also it's gonna set you up with a pretty
big injury risk without much potential
gain so I'm not a big play the best
thing max is if your primary goal is to
build muscle what I would instead
recommend is doing periodic amrap tests
or amrap just stands for as many reps as
possible and what you do there is you
generally pick something around 90% of
your estimated 1 rep max so something
you could you think you could do for say
3 reps load it up on the bar and then do
it for as many reps as you can they
obviously want to have a spotter handy
for that the reason why I like that
better than doing a true 1 rep max test
is that one it's more specific to
hypertrophy focused training because you
can accumulate a little bit more volume
also I think it allows you to push
yourself in a similar way to what you do
in more of like a hypertrophy rep zone
set so you might realize if you put
let's say I don't know 315 pounds on the
bench press which you could normally do
for 3 reps and you take it for as many
reps as you can do you might find that
when you actually really push yourself
you're stronger than you think you are
then once you've figured out how many
reps you can get with a given weight you
plug that into a 1 rep max calculator I
like to use the EXR x1 around the
calculator so I'll put a link to that in
the description box below basically you
just plug in the weight you get a number
of reps you got and I'll spit you out a
1 rep
result now it's usually only accurate if
you're training with relatively low reps
so if you're something below like five
or six reps they'll be pretty accurate
but if you say end up getting like 10 or
12 reps there's those calculators become
much less accurate so you need to be
careful with that you took 405 for a
speaking the deadlift and did 12 reps
with it it's not going to tell you very
much about what your 1 rep max is so the
reps do need to stay at the highest in
that like 5 to 6 reps though and that's
what I prefer to do instead of true 1
rep max tests which I would only
recommend doing very very sparingly now
if you're a power lifter and you have
very specific strength tools
I'd recommend testing your 1 rep max is
probably at the end of most training
cycles so say maybe once every 3 months
or so so as someone primarily interested
in building muscle I don't think you
really need to do that I think it's
mostly an ego thing that people do just
to be able to see how much weight they
can get up and it sets you to test
yourself up for injury if you are a
power lifter I should say at the
forefront you want to think of a 1 rep
max attempt as the maximum amount of
weight you can definitely do with proper
technique not something that you can
just throw on and get up with the help
of a spotter that's not a smart one room
access at all so anyway at the end of
this training block my plan is to do
some combination of either an AMRAP test
or a true 1 rep max test just to see
where I'm at and you guys can stay tuned
for that all these get people asking me
where I get these hats so I'll have it
linked down below nobody nobody knows
who owns it
[Music]
they're dope-ass so yeah if you want to
check another table next we're doing
three sets of 15 on a seated leg curl so
I'm gonna do three sets of 15 on this
leg extension hips trust as a superset
let's go up next we got three sets of 15
on machine hip abduction we're super set
it with three sets of 15 on the weighted
cable crunch let's get it
alright guys we're back at home having a
post-workout shake
I've actually been back for a while we
went to Chipotle after the gym but we're
about to watch the Raptors game so this
is game 7 by the time you guys are
watching this you'll probably know what
happened if you care but I've been
following the Raptors so closely this
playoffs and I'm really rooting for them
so it is down to the wire now for them
hoping that they win this game oh yeah I
forgot to say at the end of the workout
I kind of cut off the commentary there
we actually finished with some direct
net training so I did three sets of net
curls with the 45-pound plate 15 reps on
those and then I did the neck flex head
extension 3 sets of 15 to 20 on those
and that was a wrap for the workout
let's go Raptors put me macros in with a
chicken breathable
it's the simplest formula in sports
[Music]
let's go I really want them to win this
because I do want to see how they do
against the wall so it's halftime
Raptors are up by four got some sushi
got some edamame good source of protein
over here I've got a couple spicy tuna
rolls California roll some salmon to
Gary and some miso soup we're gonna dig
in and eat this he's behind the
backboard
that's the most intense ending to a game
I've seen I can't remember
Steph forgot to move to Toronto