[Music]
hi guys Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and I have a super
exciting recipe for you today you're
gonna make a protein cracker with very
few ingredients and very minimal effort
and this is gonna be the perfect thing
for you to throw in a bag or a small
container when you're on the go during
the day throw it in your gym bag I'm
always looking for stuff that I can take
with me that have protein in it and a
lot of times they have to be
refrigerated or they're hard to store
this is super easy so the star
ingredient of this is edamame spaghetti
and I found this at Costco but I've also
seen it now in my local grocery store
too so I think it's starting to become
kind of everywhere but it just has a
really good flavor to it it has like a
sweetness to it I've made pie crusts
with it you know I've cooked it and
eaten it us pasta if you follow me on
instagram you've seen that I eat it all
the time because it just has a ton of
protein in it and you can eat pasta with
a red sauce and you're basically having
protein and veggies and not very minimal
carbs so we're gonna start with that
pasta and just break it up it's gonna
get crushed but just break it up into
kind of small pieces add in some
old-fashioned oats
[Music]
and some damn sugar or that right in and
then we're just process this you don't
want it to be super super fine it
doesn't have to be but small enough you
don't want big chunks it's gonna help it
stay together as a cracker if it's
pretty uniform so you can kind of just
pulse it so it's gotten fine but it's
not a powder you don't want that but
it's sort of like a fine consistency I'm
going to use a Chia egg which is two
teaspoons of chia seeds and two
tablespoons of water just mix it up in a
small bowl and stick that in the freezer
for ten minutes and it's it's kind of
gels up a little bit and turns into
something that you can replace eggs with
in any recipe that's gonna grab that I'm
just gonna pour in that dry mix add in
our egg substitute I mix that together
with some water this is not an exact
science you just kind of want to mix it
just until it stays together like you
should be able to pinch a chunk of it
then it stays together to make a dough
keep kind of folding in the water you
want to do this slowly because you don't
want it too wet but it's got to have all
those dry chunks incorporated so just
grab a piece and kind of squeeze it and
just see if it stays together I think
this is ready so I am gonna grab a
silicone pan that is actually intended
to make peanut butter cups like
chocolate peanut butter cups so I've
used this to make casein chocolate
peanut butter cups at night for my last
meal of the day
I'm just going to go around and put a
small scoop in each of the containers
I'm not gonna spray this with anything
because the best the beauty of the
silicone is it doesn't really stick so
what you want to do is just use wet
hands and just kind of press this down
just like little presses
you just keep your fingers wet that'll
keep it from sticking to your hands
then wait I want some flaky salt on top
I'm a salt person I like a lot of salt
you can always use the fine salt and
just use a tiny bit you can use none
totally your call and then these are
ready to go and they're gonna go into a
325 oven for somewhere between like 12
and 17 minutes
these taste so good they're not like any
cracker that you've ever had or bought
that edamame spaghetti just gives this
sweetness to it
Plus that date sugar so it's like the
sweet and the salty and the protein the
best part I love stuff that I can take
with me that give me protein and so
these crackers are like my new fave so I
hope you guys like
[Music]