[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here from Renaissance
appears a ssin with Joey sat Mary of sat
strength and we are here to give you a
good message and a bad message the good
message is because you're a good person
you know how to do push-ups super well
and you never do them wrong but everyone
else almost everywhere in the whole
world does push-ups terribly
wrong
and we're here to expose those people
and show you how to fix terrible push-up
technique let's do it
[Music]
probably the biggest mistake in push-ups
is doing a partial range of motion every
 out there thinks they're
doing push-ups but they're really not
because a properly executed pushup
goes all the way to locked elbows and
your chest if you're doing them to the
ground you can go lower we'll show you
later how to do that chest touches the
ground okay a lot of people will do
push-ups in this extends even into folks
that do push-ups hypothetically to get
in really good shape folks sometimes in
the military police so on and so forth
they'll say oh I know how to do push-ups
and a lot of them do them super well on
a lot of them don't it's
embarrassing show us what a set of pump
push-ups looks like people say yeah I
can do a hundred push-ups in a minute
and they do this what the
is that what is that it's nothing good
enough sort of bad enough okay a real
push-up must lock out the elbows every
time and must go all the way down at
least to touch the chest gently to the
ground you don't have to hang out on the
ground for an hour but touch the chest
to the ground and all the way to lockout
give us a look at what that looks like
Joey all the way down and all the way up
and all the way down and all the way up
perfect and that's good enough
folks rocket science next
mistake super related to the one we just
did is not having a standard range of
motion for each rep sometimes people say
ok yeah more range of motion is better
but then they start doing push-ups one
rep is great the other reps not great
folks it's a huge downside mostly
because of tracking how do you know
you're progressing how do you know what
to add to progress you say why he did 20
push-ups last week with 10 pounds on my
back and then with 10 pounds on my back
this week I did 21 and someone could say
like yeah but the ones you did this week
like there were a lot more like
range of motions like half reps did you
actually perform better
you have no idea fundamentally so
another great thing about going all the
way to lockout and all the way chest to
the ground and push-ups is every rep is
the same it's easy to program it's easy
to track it's easy to figure out if
you're making gains or if you're
stalling and it's time for D load or
time for a change
so we show so it looks like when people
do like a bunch of different kinds of
reps like the first strap they might do
a real great first rep all the way up
and down then they're like that is
sort of and then they sort of pump and
then it's another full range of motion
rep who knows perfect how many
 push-ups was that who knows each
push-up needs to look basically the same
strict Chester ground full lockout give
us a look up with three good push-ups or
like just for a quick refresher all the
way down all the way up all the way down
all the way up all the way down and all
the way up that's perfect folks for
those of you counting at home how many
pushups was that that's not up for
debate next mistake is not controlling
the eccentric like many of our videos
that you've hopefully seen already on
other lifts control the eccentric is
essential for basically two reasons one
it slightly enhances safety and two it
lets your muscles contract eccentric ly
which is a lengthening contraction which
is hugely stimulative for hypertrophy we
are not here to do push-ups just to do
push-ups how many pushups can you do a
hundred get the out of my face with
that you do as many pushups as you
have to to get close to failure to
stimulate muscle growth the way you're
gonna do that is control the eccentric
and produce a lot of force on a
concentric Joey show us what it looks
like when people dive bomb push-ups yeah
one sort of cotton doze right that's
 a real push-up as a controlled
eccentric now before you demo that does
it have to be super slow no it has to be
under control so on the way down it
should take at least a second and then
you can come up can you do 3 & 4 second
eccentrics
you totally can that's another great way
of training it's optional but it has to
be under control on the way down and on
the way up give us a look it's just two
push-ups would look nice and good
controlled and then up and we're never
falling and then up perfect
the next is actually two mistakes for
the price of one it's really sly
 ways of cutting your rom so
that you can do more push-ups and get
less out of them the first one is not
actually locking out your elbows on
push-ups remember push-ups are designed
to target the chest front delts and
triceps and your triceps love the
lockout if you don't believe me try
Close Grip push-ups and lock every
single rep out your try so who'll be on
fire constant tensions cool and all and
you can almost maintain it but just make
sure you at least lockout and come back
down it doesn't mean you have to hang
out there for an hour but full range is
best so a lot of people what they'll do
is they'll do push-ups locked out but
they'll get to here and then they'll
come back down give us a look at what
that it looks like there so all the way
down and they come up all the way and
then come all the way down and come up
and usually they do it pretty fast so
you can't tell is he locking out I don't
know it's not super convincing right the
right way is to lock out convincingly
every single time give us a a demo here
all the way up boom perfect lockout
that's it good enough very good that's
what we want second they're related tip
so it's in the same estate category is
the t-shirt reaching the bottom
fake where if you do pull a push-up
shirtless sweet
you can't fake this one then most of us
wear t-shirts in the gym you know sort
of the gyms insist we have t-shirts on
that's I know a lot of times
your shirt will sag down and if you're
bullshitting yourself for somebody else
you can go list low enough to touch your
t-shirt to the ground but your chest
doesn't touch the ground you catch an
extra half inch or an inch of ROM or
rather give up a half inch or inch of
ROM this means you can do more push-ups
but yeah that's total because
we want maximum effect so go almost all
the way down and it you'll notice on the
camera angle it's really hard to tell
like is that a good push-up like almost
that's pretty good
but there's that one little bit down
there that he's not getting and remember
especially for the pecs in that position
tension under stretch is massively
hypertrophic stimulus you want to go
deep that's a very good idea don't cut
yourself short here's the thing real
life we've all trained hard it's super
 tempting to almost lock out and
then go back down and it's super
tempting not to touch your chest to the
ground because you can
right you're a long book 1923 push-ups
after a chest workout I'm the man forget
all that stuff do every single pushup
right
you've hit maximum benefits and minimum
costs when we do push-ups we want to
maximize the length of the moment arm to
deliver the most torque that we can to
the upper body musculature that's doing
the pushing that means we want our hips
and butt roughly in line with the rest
of our body which makes the push-ups as
hard as possible for all the right
reasons there are two ways to cheat this
which are no bueno the first one is to
move your feet arbitrarily closer
shortening the moment arm and you shoot
your butt up to compensate give us a
demo of what that looks like Joey so
you're gonna have your butt up high in
the sky and you're gonna say I'm doing
push-ups but really they're easier than
real push-ups because you've shortened a
moment arm another way to shorten the
moment arm which is even easier to do
and tons of people do is at least
keeping your butt up requires some
effort this doesn't require any effort
at all you just collapse right into
having sex with the floor push-up give
us a look at what that looks like here
so you let your hips drop and you're
sort of doing push-ups
yeah great you're getting like 2/3 of
the normal force you would be is it
tough to do push up with a very flat
plank position yes but we're here for
tough we showed up to the gym to get
tougher and be tough and to expose
ourselves to a high degree of stimulus
if we wanted to take it easy we're gonna
just stayed at home and watched endless
hours of Netflix by ourselves
because we have no friends and nobody
loves us Joey shows us a real push up
with a solid plank position super flat
everything is connected perfect
the next mistake is not so much a
mistake but kind of a myth overvaluing
head position it happens a lot in other
lifts as well people think okay when
you're doing push ups don't look down
because it's something magical
that happens and you look down
apparently it ruins your biomechanics
you're gonna die or people say look up
but then if you look up you're gonna
break your neck you're gonna be
paralyzed forever all that's
you're gonna look where you damn well
please where two things happen one
you're comfortable right your neck
doesn't feel weird and like you're
straining it a lot or just trying so
hard to keep your head in a certain
position that it's taken away from the
movement and to where you find that you
have the most strength and the most
ability to produce force same thing I
guess Joey demonstrate the two possible
sort of extreme head positions that are
fine Joey can look straight down into
the ground that's totally fine and you
can look directly ahead of themself
that's totally fine guess what else is
totally fine anything in-between
next mistake is letting fatigue in a set
breakdown your technique push-ups are
tough because they require a lot of
rigidity a lot of attention to multiple
body segments it's not just you sit in a
machine and everything else is taken
care of you just contract the one muscle
so they're challenging because as you
get closer and closer to failure which
you should be it's really really
tempting for your fatigue to break down
your technique and incrementally degrade
how well each push-up goes so people
have all the best intentions sometimes
when they start a set towards the ambu
let it go here's the thing you have two
priorities during a set of push-ups
close to failure priority one is to make
sure you were producing a ton of force
to the target muscles priority two is to
make sure your technique does not break
down it's easy to do at the beginning of
the set very difficult at the end they
never said training was gonna be a
breeze Joey show us what it looks like
when people do close to failure push-ups
and they break down so getting into
three reps in reserve looks great next
rep and then and then the hips what is
that who knows right people start
looking like like a seal out of water
after a while or like a walrus walruses
are cool because they're enormous that
pissed I've been told they smell but you
don't do you know you want to be a
walrus you chose the wrong genetics in
life you're a human being
do your push-ups proper
Joey show us what it looks like when you
get close to failure you're gonna have
to fake it
what does failure look like in a push-up
will say you'll fail after three reps
one two and then come halfway up you
can't do it anymore fall failure guess
what you can always roll out is
it embarrassing to roll out walrus style
from a failed pushup maybe if you're
like in the seventh grade and everything
embarrasses you but listen if you go to
failure and push-ups and you can't do a
push-up
there's nobody laughing at you do the
right thing fail and style preserving
good technique and then you'll know for
sure that you're doing a good job and
you'll know next time how many pushups
you have to do to beat your past
performance the next super quick mistake
in push-ups is overvaluing grip position
specifics okay a ton of people are like
okay I'm doing push-ups what kind of
hand position should I do
should it be like this should I put my
hands out should it be close should it
be wide that's all for different stuff
fundamentally you want wider hand
position if you want to target the pecs
preferentially in reference to your
triceps and your front delts if you
bring in your position closer then also
you can keep your elbows close to that
target for triceps more and the hand
stuff similar to the grips it really
comes down to where do you feel it in
what's comfortable if someone tells you
you got to keep your fingers straight
like this during the push up and it
wrenches your elbows and tears up your
shoulders stop doing it and if you feel
like wait if I do this I feel phenomenal
you're golden there is no magic answer
here put your grips where you feel the
muscles if someone says hey listen super
wide grip change your chest you try it
you're like ow ow shoulders out
weird and then you go like this and you
look holy crap I feel my pecs and
they're like no no no no no that's too
close for pecs that's because
if you feel tension through your pecs as
you get close to failure and high rep
push-ups if the metabolites are really
burning the out of your pecs and
after a couple of sets you get an
icepack pump and at the end of the
workout your pecs feel like they've been
fried it's for sure pecs there's no
debate because it's your pecs and they
tell you what's going on on the other
hand if you bring in with a really close
grip and yeah you feel a tricep someone
but your elbow is like weights you close
your elbows shoulders feel uncomfortable
maybe even a range of motion
try going out a little bit it's all for
personal adjustment which way you place
your hands your body needs to be the
guide do what it takes to actually zap
your target muscle or muscles whatever
they are and make sure that it's as easy
on the joints as it can be whatever that
grip is whatever that hand position is
that's the right answer to mistakes for
the price of one here one is doing
push-ups on a surface or with your hands
and having slipperiness going on if your
hands are moving during the push-up the
big problem with that is that when you
are unstable your body decreases
voluntary force output that means you
actually can't push your pecs and
triceps true close to their true failure
right you will feel that it's hard but
it's hard in the wrong kind of way it's
not pushing your muscles to the limit
which is where most growth happens so if
you have a situation which your hands
are sliding there are two fixes for this
one just try a different surface
carpeting a lot of times works really
well a lot of times gyms have various
surfaces try the ones that have the most
solid foundation and to be sure gym
allows it put some chalk on your hands
LeBron the and then you can do
push-ups no problem right however
there's another problem
what about sliding feet this is a real
pain in the ass because sometimes your
hands on an excellent grip but your feet
for whatever reason your shoes or even
you take your shoes off your socks
they just keep sliding that can be a
real real bummer because it again
decrease this force production and teach
you out of a technique you want there's
actually a really really easy fix for
this find a wall like Joey's doing here
and put your feet and heels all the way
up into the wall and then put your hands
wherever they're gonna lie so go ahead
and do that yep all the way into the
wall boom and then we're doing push-ups
no problem and there's absolutely no
instability to the feet this is an
awesome trick that works super well hey
 forget truth folks this is a
fitness hack we're Hawking over here I'm
actually a computer programmer bee-boop
bee-boop bee-boop
instead of a mistake this one is just an
added bonus tip folks if you've never
tried them deficit push-ups can change
your life
shit's going bad for you tax collectors
ex-wife all that wiped away with proper
refs of deficit push-ups why are they so
cool first of all they actually stress
the triceps more because they stretch
them under load and of course duh it's
unbelievable for the pecs a four inch
motion for many flexible people that
aren't muscle-bound like me is way below
the floor sometimes as many as three
inches but you heard that one before
Joey show us what that looks like proper
deficit push-ups get something solid
anything solid all the way down and all
the way up for a super deep stretch
perfect and one more excellent now
here's the deal do you have to pick the
exact height at which your chest touches
the ground with a deficit no because
you'll search for the perfect blocks
forever pick something that is at that
height or above it even if your deficit
is like five or six or eight inches off
the ground that's totally cool because
then your stretch will be what stops you
like with dumbbell presses dumbbells
just stop at some point when your body
can't move anymore that's an
unbelievable movement give it a shot
all right weighted push-ups should you
be doing them well it really depends on
the stimulus to fatigue ratio you
perceive with your own training when you
try weighted push-ups if you can do
push-ups super super high rep then
they're no longer really a hypertrophy
exercise so if you can do proper
push-ups with a deficit for 30-plus reps
man it's probably not the greatest
exercise for you because it's now too
light there are tricks around this if
you don't want to use weight if you
don't have someone to put the weight on
you or it's super awkward or you don't
like how it feels which is totally fine
if you don't want to go the weight and
push-up route what you can do is place
push-ups at the end of your program and
or do them superset style so you love
the push-ups you love the pump they give
for your triceps maybe do a set of cable
tricep extensions first and
drop right into push-ups that'll keep
your reps under 30 but it'll let you use
push-up as a great movement if you want
to do weighted push-ups give them a shot
just a couple of tips for you one keep
your solid plank position hips and
shoulders and toes in line a lot of
times with weight it's easy to collapse
you know again I do 200 pounds no you
 didn't you hump the floor or 200
pounds on your back
congratulations slow clap keep that
plank it's gonna be tough second is
remember you want most of the force to
be delivered to the upper body
don't put the weight on your ass or on
your lower back try to put it more on
your upper back as long as your elbows
don't hit the way to make you
uncomfortable the higher up the better
so Joey's gonna set up and his push-up
position a lot of times what he can do
is actually Joe drop just to one knee in
that position you drop to one knee and
that lets him set up without pissing
away a lot of energy I'm his trading
partner I'm gonna come in I'm gonna put
a weight on his back usually it's a good
idea for me to hang out and just gently
hold it and then he's gonna knock out a
set of three push-ups all the way up and
down one and two notice he's very rigid
and three and then I take the weight off
and that's how you do that folks now you
know how to do a proper push up that
means you are the standard bearer of
good technique next time someone tags
you on Instagram and a push-up challenge
you see some movie about like athletes
or people getting in shape and they're
doing the worst pushup so you've ever
seen roll your eyes do the the
right way you're in charge
folks thank you so much for tuning in
comment like whatever YouTube
and if someone has question in the
comments and you know what you're
talking about feel free to answer them
peace
[Music]
people people people