these are four underrated muscle
building exercises that most people skip
but you should definitely include if you
can first deficit push-ups a lot of
people think of push-ups as a beginner
exercise but as long as you use a
deficit you'll get an amazing PEC
stimulus to make them harder I'll pause
for 3 seconds at the bottom second the
standard overhand laat pull down a lot
of optimal lifters will skip this one in
favor of the one arm kneeling lap pull
down but despite the fact that people
call it more science-based there
actually isn't a single study on sure
it's great for isolating lats but the
standard lat pull down is better for
overloading more of the back as a whole
third the 45Â° preacher curl it locks
your elbow in which prevents cheating
and because of the dumbbells resistance
path it applies high tension in the
stretch just don't do them with a
vertical arm because you'll have zero
tension at the bottom fourth Smith
machine squats are great because there's
less skill involved so you don't need to
overthink your form or worry about
falling over you can just Hammer your
quads and get close to failure