hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I want to tell you
about how I cut my injury rate from
lifting by
tfold and I have 24 years of lifting
experience and I have learned a ton and
during that time I discovered a few tips
I want to share with you about how you
can also cut your injury rate 10
times did I sell you yet how's that for
a promo all right real talk the 10x
thing is just bullshit uh it's clickbait
thanks for clicking on the video
hopefully we use the 10x uh cut your
injury rate by 10 times in the thumbnail
Scott the video guys sounds like a good
thumbnail to me um we record these
videos long before we make the
thumbnails by the way in any case but
for real for real I cut my injury rate
by a lot a lot a lot insanely notable
night and day I used to get hurt really
regularly in the gym and then when I
started doing these things uh I started
doing them not all at once slowly but
surely I figured it out uh my injury
rate got reduced a ton and these didn't
just work for me they work for Jared
feather ifb Pro they work for tons of
other people that we worked with they're
just really fucking Sound Advice now you
don't have to do them you don't have to
use them but if you want to reduce your
injury risk and still get the same or
even better benefits from the gym
stimulus wise strengthwise give it some
thought here we go number one just
straight up better
technique there's a way to lift weights
that just kind of lifts them from to
point B like in the deadlift you just
pick it up and it works great but
there's a way to uh to lift with a bit
more Nuance where you have the kind of
technique that reduces injury Risk
probabilistically by at least a small
margin here it is when I deadlift I
started deadlifting I made sure I had a
tight lower back I never had a rounded
lower back and was ratcheting up the
Reps that took my lower back little Ding
and ping kind of injury rate and just
plummeted It To The
Ground retracted shoulders on pressing
movements for example you leave a your
shoulder flared out like that tons of
football players get tons of shoulder
injuries in the gym from bench pressing
because they don't know how to bench
press properly in powerlifting shoulder
injuries are actually very rare because
you've retracted your scapula your Glen
humor joints are deep back there and
safe away from a ton of weird
instability and all of a sudden when I
started doing that I just stopped
getting hurt in high school I would
bench like a normal person and uh I just
got like hurt shoulder several times
even it was just like a year and a half
of lifting and then I had a powerlifter
teach me how to do a proper Arch
retraction and I swear to God it never
hurt my shoulder ever again on the bench
press ever big deal highly recommend
just pay attention to technique know
what technique is more likely to be
injurious make sure it's stable and
reduce that injurious technique and
introduce the technique that gets you
hurt less we have tons of videos on what
kind of good technique does reduce
injuries so please go ahead and Google
that and uh YouTube it and maybe Scott
the video guy I'll put in a link to one
of those videos number two contr
controlling the Ecentric you want to
hurt your knees it's really hard to do
it in the gym the gym is a safe place
but you want to probabilistically
increase the potential for you hurting
your knees dive bomb your squats dive
bomb your lunges go quick into the hole
rapidly descend with the bench those
High forces in that plyometric
transition that's the highest forces
you'll ever expose yourself to and at a
stretched position it's I don't want to
say a recipe for injury but if you
really want to put a fine point on it
yeah like that's a good way to try to
get hurt so what you do instead is you
control the Centric I don't mean like
forever I mean even on a cable curl
instead of going uh like that just going
like that even a one second some
semblance of control but ideally two to
three seconds is going to get you tons
of Ecentric damage and tons of Ecentric
mediated growth which is huge by the way
and will make you huge but it also
really really really does reduce the
risk of injury so that's something I
started to doing my injury risk started
to doing
and my injury risk went down
precipitously how's that for a big fancy
big brain word number three D loading on
time you get to a point where you're
just barely matching your rep PRS your
joints are fucking hurting all over your
muscles are barely attached the bone you
have one more week that you planned to
train because like fuck that bro we got
to get after it you should Deo but your
your friends are like yeah man let's do
another hard couple sessions and you're
like yeah fellas get in there ow
something happens you get hurt
D loing on time when you're supposed to
when the logic of training progression
dictates it that is when your fatigue is
really high and you're barely hanging in
with your performance you're there in
the gym to increase your performance so
if you're barely hanging in what the
fuck are you doing anyway cut it off
deload when you're supposed to don't try
to stretch that postdo margin stretching
the the postdo margin which by by which
I mean once you fucking know you're
supposed to Deo but you're like uh
couple more sessions let's just get it
done another week or whatever of hard
training after you're supposed to have D
Lo is similar to when you're driving
through like uh you know somewhere in
the country in the United States let's
say or the countries of Europe yes
excellent and you're like at the quarter
tank or whatever sixth of a tank where
the empty light comes on in your gas
tank and you keep going now here's the
thing a lot of times you're good to go
couple extra sessions after you de lo
when you drop the weight on the bar a
ton you a ton of entric control control
super light you're Pro modify the
exercises from like squats to like leg
presses something less injurious you're
probably not going to get hurt so like
if you're in a major metropolitan area
where there's a gas station every
fucking mile you can ride with like f
that light is like for 20 or 40 miles or
some shit you're good to go you don't
have to be like the light came on go
across eight Lanes of traffic fucking
kill someone's dog and just Ram into the
gas station the gas station blows up and
the fumes of the gas go fit down and the
dead dog's body and then the devil is
clearly in that shit and then the dog's
like and then that's how Kujo was born
but in any case look yeah the fucking
light comes on don't worry about it so
in most cases if you de load a little
late adjusting a couple variables you're
good to go but how about this you're
driving through fucking Arizona or Utah
or Nevada and Europe is so welldeveloped
there may be no analogy I drove through
Switzerland once and she got a lot of
tickets because they have Auto speeder
cameras fucking assholes that's like
$600 fuck that anyway in the mountains
of Switzerland they still have fucking
gas stations I don't know how but if
you're driving through somewhere
where your sh fucking light comes on and
a a mile away there's like you know pull
away and get gas and pee and all that
stuff gets ax and you're like I feel
good but you don't read the little sign
the fine print you keep driving it's
like next gas station 50 miles and
you're like oh fuck what happens then a
very very predictable sequence of events
uh to which I will uh for which I will
now
elucidate number one you're like we're
good we're good we're good we're good
we're good we're good we can make it
number
two the car stops you pull off to the
side of the road number three tumble
weeds that' be good scene in the movie
like wind Sun you're like oh actually is
nice out here cell service zero bars
uhoh do I want to walk 25 miles that way
to that gas station or 25 miles this way
to this gas
station guess what happens next hold on
I'll stop for a second in your head
think of what I'm going to say next some
of you were at the same wavelength right
now we all know what it is a little
flickering light off in the distance
you're like is that like a town those
are people oh oh they used to be people
but the nuclear testing in the
1950s caused multigenerational genetic
deformity that Hills Have Eyes and if
you never seen that movie fucking never
do cuz it'll leave you with nightmares
that's what's going to happen to you the
DLo equiv of that shit is you fucking te
ack or your hamstring goes or your
shoulder gets out of place and it's
really
hurt don't stop in random places in Utah
and talk to fucking weird fucked up
strangers unless you have a high caliber
rifle or a sniper spotter team that'd be
a great way to redo that movie could you
guys fucking imagine like two kitted out
Maro
snipers so run out of gas and then The
Hills Have I people come out and they
just
like oh my God that movie would be 5
minutes long I pay hundreds of dollars
to watch that shit if you want to make
it I'll watch it in any case it's just
not worth it it's not worth it you're
not a Maro sniper so fucking deal it on
time I used to push it harder and I
would get fucking hurt I'd be like God
damn it why am I doing this to myself
and then I stop doing that shit and it
feels fucking lame like you don't feel
like a fucking iron brother or Warrior
or whatever you have to cut your deal it
off on time eh it's worth it I promise
because then you're fresh you're not
hurt and the next mesle cycle goes
better and better and better and you
walk in you see people to the gym that
used to be more jacked than you and
they're like yeah man fucking pep tendon
I'm nursing a fucking bicep thing and
they're just not getting any better but
you're fucking getting better because
you're a pussy and you deal it on time
by by the way you guys notice I I didn't
raise this hand because I just did a
whole lot of Jiu-Jitsu and it fucking
hurts to raise my arm I'm a fucking
moron number
four smaller load progression session to
session your body is capable of a
certain rate of gain and that rate of
gain all things adjusted is measured in
one to three pounds per
week maybe at some early phases of your
life imagine if you consistently gained
one pound of Maximum lift strength every
week for the whole
year when was the last time you put 52
lbs on your fucking bench press or squat
or deadlift in a year if you're watching
this video and you've been training for
a year 1 two three or four yeah sure
last year but past that that shit that
it's unbelievable gains so if you know
that you only get one pound half a pound
a third of a pound stronger every week
under the hood all Fitness and fatigue
Dynamics sort of peer through that shit
to the real underlying Fitness that you
have why in God's fucking name would you
add a 25 pound plate on each side of the
leg press every fucking week
people do this shit bro they go into the
gym I used to do this four plates for 15
feels good guess what I'm doing next
session four plates and fucking 25s on
each side fuck that that's pussy shit
five plates bro why the real way to get
gains safely is to do four plates one
week and guess what you slap fives or
even fucking two and a halfs on each
side right after that what but I'm a
real grown man I can't have people
seeing me leg pressing with extra little
bitty change on there my friends will
make fun of me but they'll make fun of
you with injured and smaller legs than
you I still get made fun of jokingly of
course by guys in the gym for putting
two and a halfs on the fucking shit
except I'm like hey you want to get in
this hack squat with me and they're like
I don't want to go that low with six
plates fuck you but the way I got to
hack squatting six plates for sets of 10
is precisely by those small increments I
used to try to make big jumps I fucking
stopped doing it I got better because
remember making small jumps is not
something where you're like yeah man you
fucking won't get the gains unless you
make big jumps you got to be a fucking
you got to be Braveheart in this shit
man I'm not afraid of these fucking
weights bro I put 10 more pounds on the
bar like really just bravery alone gets
you fucking jacked callor me fucking
dumb I want to try it I got all kinds of
Bravery what I don't have is an
intelligent approach to Sport Science
that keeps me both lower in injury risk
and simultaneously way more than enough
weekly overload to keep my muscles
challenged and if the 5 PBS or 10 pounds
isn't enough do a couple more reps
godamn it that shit's not going to get
you hurt but the extra weight will so
don't make crazy big jumps try to make
your jumps smaller and get a smoother
progression to your training because if
you can get a smoother progression for
one two three four mesle Cycles in a row
you're going to be really fucking big
and jacked and someone who is much
weaker is going to be like hey man like
what does it take to be as fucking big a
Jack just put more weight on the bar
just get fucking stronger and you're
going to be like well no just put a
little bit more weight on the
bar get the same reps or get one extra
rep iterate that process over with
sporadic Del loads for years and then
you'll get jacked like me and nobody
ever wants to hear that shit because
that's real real shit they know deep
down is the fucking truth
truth number five on some movements
eventually as I got bigger and stronger
pauses at the bottom in the stretched
somewhat more exposed position did
absolutely enhance uh my injury risk and
decrease it for me so things like
pull-ups I'm not bouncing out of the
bottom a pull-up fuck that I've pulled
triceps like that before nothing too big
but scary enough to be like fuck that
bench presses like don't Google bench
press spec tears because that shit is
scary as fuck but a pause it's not a
guarantee you won't tear your peack but
is sure shit a good way to start squats
when you get big and strong enough
pausing your squats both leaves you in
that semi torn quad position at the
bottom which is awesome for growth and
it makes you use less weight in the
squat and it eliminates those quick
pulse plyometric forces at the bottom
the amortization phase that result in a
slightly increased probability of injury
so just to review better technique
control Ecentric D Lo on time instead of
milking out longer small load
progression session to session add less
weight to the bar every time pauses on
at the bottom of some of the movements
in which you consider like H I'd rather
take a pause this feels a little risky
and the the results will be amazing I
almost guarantee that your injury rate
is going to go down for me personally I
just straight up almost never get hurt
in the gym I used to get hurt in the gym
like regularly before and it's almost
definitely because of these things
because at the same time I'm getting
older I'm fucking 38 I'm not supposed to
be getting hurt less I'm supposed to be
getting hurt more but as you age
hopefully you become wiser and start
doing more of this smart shit people
often ask me the question of like what
could you have told yourself back what
do you wish you knew back when you were
younger that you know now and my real
factious but totally true answer is like
B modern periodization I wish I knew all
the sports science I did but one of the
biggest things I wish I knew is that I
don't need to do egotistical stupid
bullshit to make gains I could have
always been doing this shit and getting
fucking gains without getting hurt
nearly as much because getting hurt
blows as many dicks as it takes to make
it not a fun time cuz even if you love
giving blowjobs with your boy I've I've
been taken third place at the blowjob
Olympics a few times that's is the thing
I like to brag about it's gift I barely
even train it but after about 999 dicks
I don't want to see any dicks for a
while getting hurt is like having 1,000
two dicks it's three fucking dicks too
many and you know G whiz if you've been
around dicks before even those three
dicks can make a big difference I sure
shit hope you guys aren't super young or
showing this to your class I had
actually one uh one guy hit us up on the
channel he's like hey man I'm a high
school teacher and I wanted to show one
of your videos for the kids to be
educational and well you said the things
you always say I should have known
better I'm sorry about those kids man I
hope they grew up big and strong without
any LW thoughts anyway thanks for tuning
in let me know what you guys think uh
share some of your own wisdom in the
comments if you can about the stuff you
think you wished you knew earlier and
are only now learning or only later
learned uh let's get a little wisdom
thing going in the comments I'll see you
in there I'll pop in make some dick
jokes and pop right out to go sit in a
room alone and think of Dick jokes see
you guys next
time