sometimes who are
who said deadlift I'm sure somebody oh
that's probably a lot of people want to
say deadlift
a big debate we've been having lately on
the mass Comics podcast with several of
our more recent guests if a lifter walks
into your gym you've never seen this
lifter before you have no prior
knowledge of their lifting ability
whatsoever your goal is to be able to
best gauge their overall strength by
watching them perform one lift one
exercise only you only get to watch them
do this one lift and you want to best
gauge their overall strength whatever
you consider that to be what lift would
you have them do in order for you to
take your best guess that's a really
good question we've had a lot of
different answers from some uh you know
we talked about that with Dave yesterday
there's been a really really broad way
that people analyze that and think about
the way that they would uh interpret it
the Continental clean and press
that's I think the first time we've
gotten that one yeah yeah it's like I'm
a sports scientist so your reasoning do
you know what that is so you've got a
continental clean is where your your
there's a extra step of the process
where it's uh
now all I need to say to justify my
opinion is that the person who I believe
still owns the record for that lift with
the uh axle at the Arnold is the journal
sabiscus I think he got like nine reps
with 366 pounds or something insane in
the Continental clean and press and
because adrenos a viscous is the
definition of several things a grown man
Superman and strength period I am
interested in a debate about it with no
one because it's just truth and so if
you say how do you assess General
strength what you're actually asking by
the transitive property is how do you
assess someone's proximity to journal
civicus inability and thus we leverage
it according to his essentially best
lift ever and it's his best lift ever
because he has beaten everyone and
everything in strongman at one time or
another but at several Arnolds and I'm
sure you guys have seen all these there
were several times where he just left
the entire pack behind by like a factor
of two like the next best guy got like
four reps and he got nine I remember
being at one of the Arnolds live and
everyone in the crowd it was like 90
seconds and he got like nine reps and
everyone was just like what the fuck is
going on and a lot of guys like had to
do the mixed grip load switch
um some guys were too athletic to have
guts which is nonsense and he just did
it like in such a smooth I remember one
time I think for a few of the Reps the
first few reps he loaded it onto his gut
and then the next push he just muscle
snatched it and you're just like but but
that is a Coke can sized barbell with
300 and some odd pounds on it 366 or
whatever it's just pure nonsense right
that motherfucker if you can do that
shit you're strong and if you're like
yeah but I'm not flexible I don't give a
fuck get out of my face like I'm not
flexible enough to do that lift anymore
because of bodybuilding I'm not that
strong not in the real world that's your
shit like
it's just that's it that's the lift and
from an actual answer Sport Science
perspective that lift will involve a
huge fraction of your muscle mass and
the Continental part I'm just cutting a
little slack on because some people like
a little less the less technical version
you're testing less speed less technique
because some weight lifters will be able
to clean and press more than everyone
but they're not actually like as strong
as you would expect someone that can
clean and strict press a lot you know
they're benching a fuck load you know
they're bent rowing a fuck load there's
just no way to get around that lift with
leverage because if you have short arms
the Press is easy but the pull is hard
if you have long arms the pull is easy
but the Press is hard as fuck so there's
just no way out of it because like some
guys who are
who said deadlift I'm sure somebody said
oh that's probably a lot of people want
to say dead left yeah we agree because
like some skinny motherfucker pulling
something get out of my face exactly
what do you eventually give I broke 135
last week like kilos like no pounds
that's the reason to both of us why
deadlift is not the right answer it's
actually one of the wrongest answers
because your deadlift involves the most
trickery of all the lifts
um
analyzing that exactly the easiest one
to manipulate in your favor depending on
App Store body type your different
leverages there's any type I think is
such a huge yeah I just congratulations
you have long arms yeah and a short
torso slow fucking clap uh one everyone
who deadlifts a lot is Ed Cohen but uh
anyway sorry to cut you off well one of
the answers uh that's come up that I've
started to kind of like to uh
um people like the idea of maybe like a
high handle like I liked uh someone said
High handled Farmers carry I kind of
start to get behind that they say high
handle so like maybe remove some of the
you know it's a lesser technique like we
talked about there there's like judging
maybe some grip strength but I don't
know grip strength is a weird thing too
but then people say high-handled trap
bar deadlift that's one that's come up a
decent bit too so I'll say like that
is a good answer yeah my retort to that
is it um the limiting factor of so much
grip strength okay you have like some
arm wrestler could probably do super
well at it right it's like not that
strong and all the because like your
legs exist and that lift barely tests
your legs at all there's uh you guys are
of course historians of strength Yanni
vertinen yeah two thousand the world's
strongest man in the year 2000 yeah and
of course he's the World's Strongest Man
no one can ever take that away but the
events were very favorable to him he's a
tall guy very lanky very strong it just
like Finnish people or just nonsense
strong for no discernible reason
literally because you're like but you're
not that jacked where's it coming from
but if you put him on a flat press if
you put them in a deep squat right he's
actually not that strong right and he
was just insanely athletic insanely
coordinated and could deadlift and he
had these super long arms he could do
stone loading he could do the carry he
would do amazing at that kind of thing
but
overall total body strength is a little
bit different than even winning World's
Strongest Man true um but if you think
about like what does it take to do a
continental clean and press you can just
start checking things off like week back
you're out weak legs you're out weak
pushing ability you're out that's the
three parts of your body generally
already and grip especially if you do it
with an axle holy fuck there's just no
way to get around that right so that's
that's my best answer I think well
regardless if it's the right answer or
not which you might be you might have
the right answer you have given the most
uh detailed explanation also
I liked your analysis of the deadlift
which you agreed with RSO I particularly
like yeah yes anyone who agrees with us
we tend to like we will now air this
episode
someone's like strict curly or like cut
the fucking camera that's all right