hey guys since tomorrow I start my
official contest prep for my pro debut
Robin and I are doing a barbecue today
even though I'm gonna track it so it's a
really have any significance but we
didn't whale the Grail be okay so we got
the burgers and I don't know
I've just been tracking calories and
protein up until this point but coach
Eric wants Robin eyes who
as individually so
so this will be a lot of state -
calories and protein only through
I just wanted to warm it up
alright guys so what I've got is a extra
lean ground beef burger it's a 210 grand
patty I've got about 10 grams of goat
cheese on top ketchup mustard and a Bud
Light Lime and then some watermelon to
finish it off and there's some asparagus
which is still over on the grill
alright guys so it's day one of my prep
and I'm waiting at one 63.4 with the
camera the other candidate was one 62.4
alright guys so this is breakfast
I've got scrambled egg whites with ham
mushrooms spinach onions and zucchini
two potato patties with ketchup it's
this low-calorie ketchup from PC blue
menu it's only five calories per
tablespoon and then 100 grams of
blackberries and I've got some flavored
water we've been using this these
calorie-free flavor shots my favorite is
the mio lemonade but we ran into that
one so using the orange coulis this
one's pretty good too and then these are
my supplements I take 3,000 IU's of
vitamin D take to 1200 milligram fish
oil capsules and just plain ol
multivitamin and then this is my award
from the NSP o for the best overall mail
hope and lifter at the provincials a
couple weekends ago and I probably
didn't show you guys but Robin and I
actually broke all of the provincial
records here in Nova Scotia so for the
squat bench press deadlift and total we
now have all eight records in the 52
kilo class for Robin and the 47 in a 74
kilo class for me so that was pretty
sweet so I'm just reading over my coach
Eric's plan I don't know if I have
announced that yet but both Robin and I
are working with Eric Helms of 3d muscle
journey so known as 3e MJ and we're both
super excited to be a part of that team
those guys are doing great things and I
was just reading through my initial
email again here and
I thought I'd share with you guys the
program goals achieve shredded
conditioning and have a successful
protocol meal to is gonna be chicken
fajitas this is meal - it's basically
chicken fajitas with some cheese and
mixed vegetables and some grape drink so
guys basically what coach Helms wanted
me to do this week is basically do a
amrap testing for my sort of accessory
lifts so I know my squat bench and
deadlift 1rm pretty well so what he
wanted me to do this week was going into
a three to five rep max with the CL row
with weighted Chin's the front squat
Romanian deadlift and it might be
missing another one I think that's it
overhead press
so this workout as you can see here I'm
kind of testing it what I can do for the
CRO this is an exercise I've never done
before at least not with this sort of
shady setup and then it was onto
weighted Chin's so the macros that I'm
following right now are 175 grams of
protein 275 carbs and 55 fat for six
days of the week that comes out to about
2300 calories and then for my one refeed
day I'm eating about 2,900 calories and
basically my carbs just jump up to 425
grams and this probably doesn't sound
very high for some of you guys it
probably sounds like poverty that grows
but for me as of right now I'm
comfortable on this intake and I am
losing weight I'm every other day I'm
waking up at a new low so it's a good
sign and as of now I'm not too hungry or
energy depleted or anything like that so
things are off to a good start
and I've started doing face pulls like
this where I put my leg or my foot up on
the upright and then this basically just
serves as a counterbalance for me so I
can really use as much weight as I can
safely and effectively
let me show you what I got for my
post-workout meal well first for my
post-workout meal I had a protein shake
and some chocolate-covered pretzels and
now what I've got is what I call
homemade Chipotle
it's basically rice chicken cheese sour
cream and some salsa and avocado salsa
and I just kind of mash it all up and it
sort of tastes like Chipotle which we
had when we're in New York and I really
miss it and then after that I'll have
some orange slices so here is the last
final meal of the day very nutritious
very high protein high fiber superfood
so yeah the first day I actually went
over on protein by 25 grams in under on
carbs my 25 grams just because I'm so
used to just kind of tracking calories
and having like a broad range for my
protein sort of tracking that a little
bit more loosely I was a little bit of
an adjustment today actually hitting the
specific macros again but for my first
day back I think I did pretty well and
tomorrow I'm gonna try to nail those
dead-on each or at least each of them
within 5 grams of my target so that's
that