he just had a 30-minute conversation
with a chef when he's prompting but he
doesn't even know what he's cooking and
they don't know why he's eating it no
macros no calories no goal is he in a
fat loss phase and muscle gave the
what's going on
God damn it I'm getting sick just
thinking about the shit out of my face
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I'm also an exercise and
sports science professor at Lehman
College in the Bronx and the creator of
the RP hypertrophy app and I'm here for
part two I can't believe it to appraise
Mark Wahlberg's workout a different one
this time hopefully one that's better
than last time if you missed us last
time pour acid into your eyes before you
click that link let's get started get
out what you put in and you have to be
disciplined you have to want it and you
know put in the time respect all true so
far a plus so far do you see the results
it makes perfect sense it's just what
you do
oh it's uh it's sponsored by performance
inspired excellent your body to burn fat
you definitely have to build muscle and
for that to happen you have to give
yourself some work the uh the way I kind
of break it down for people is it's what
the fuck is Marky Mark doing in there
Ultra fast focused on the concentric
reps these are not record reps folks you
want to go down slower maybe even pause
at the bottom and come up quickly D plus
so for most people they have between
three to six hours a week to actually
work out and exercise so far so good if
you only have three hours a week then
Focus only on strength training that's
really the thing you know yeah even
though I'm trying to pay attention to
this while Marky Mark Slaughters
whatever dog shit pneumatic leg thing
that is terrible technique coming down
fast going halfway down who the fuck
knows what's going on anymore a lot of
people say oh I only have time for the
elliptical machine and the one thing
you'll notice with the gym and what we
set up here with Marcus we really don't
do any of that stuff that's has by no
means clear what it is you actually do
oh look Mark is doing another circus act
bullshit exercise that trains nothing
the mouse wheel stuff isn't the the mode
of action for fat loss for that 45 year
old yeah what is trainer saying is right
spot on if you have a limited time to
training is key and then if you have
more time potentially you can do some
either more resistance training and or
more cardio so this is good stuff so far
let's not get too excited yet even for
someone a kid that's trying to get
faster in his high school stuff that the
mouse wheels don't take you there it
really is good old-fashioned strength
training that's missing I love it and I
love it if this guy actually prescribed
good old-fashioned strength training but
I bet that's not what's gonna happen
whatever world you live in strength
training is really the biggest piece
that's been missing today motherfucker
you don't live in that world because
watch what you're about to do you want
to build something that's going to last
you gotta do it the right way Marky Mark
I love that quote I also don't really
know what it means nonetheless I like
the spirit I'm just trying to stay
positive guys it's only a matter of time
until this turns negative how to go with
all the right material
all the right material Mark the material
you use is just what your body makes
protein out of it's not up to you I'm
gonna build something quick
fast over time it's going to break down
you're going to Injured her
all this that's not good for you I just
don't know what the analogy extends to
at this point
let's see you know no I don't know Mark
I want to be able to perform at this
level until I'm in my 60s
absolutely the only way to do it is
doing it all natural what oh that's
right it's also a protein add or some
shit like that do it all naturally I
like how he said that for no reason at
all totally out of context slightly
suspicious I believe he's all natural
sure hey Camp when I refer to Camp
that's the time period it takes us to
really prepare for a role and
based off of last camp taking 12 weeks
to really drop the same amount of body
fat that we've dropped this time in six
weeks definitely tells me that this
performance inspired is off the charts
better okay so this is a commercial for
performance inspired which I guess is a
protein and they're cleaning Marky Mark
was able to drop a similar amount of
body fat in six weeks that it took him
12 weeks last time to do I can almost
assure you protein supplements do not
have that much of an effect considering
that the only variable that's really
different so Marky Mark seems to like to
dump barbells on his chest no essential
control hey coach shut the fuck perform
inspired coach your athlete
is the supplementation I'm seeing the
results you know that's the thing you're
working hard
you training you're eating right taking
the right supplements and then you see
the results in the morning in the
morning
I assume this happens all in one day
mark and of course overnight instead of
feeling discouraged you feel like oh God
I want to work twice as hard the next
day twice as hard
and then twice as hard the next day and
then twice after that it's like a
fucking Moore's Law of training out here
it's easier to stay in shape than it is
to get in shape that's true good point
not exactly what I'd call inspirational
but nonetheless let's evaluate these
tricep extensions just kidding on to
more protein commercial this video sucks
our exercises are multi-planar so oh god
battle ropes multi-planer which again
means almost nothing certainly not a
concern for an actor moving on right now
Mark's doing a lunge pattern but he's
also doing the ropes at the same time
technically that's in the same plane but
at this point who's counting so a lot of
the Motions that we do in this
particular Camp hasn't been anything
about like just the normal like squat
deadlift it's not that because you're
not qualified to coach that ship it's
not that only because of the size that
we're trying to get marked to so really
a lot of the complex movements have
whittled his body size down body fat
down
folks the movements you do have zero
impact on your size your size is always
and everywhere up to your nutrition if
you train with weights and you eat a lot
you're going to gain size if you train
with weights and you eat very little
You're Gonna Lose size mostly fat size I
very highly doubt that if Mark focused
on actual compound heavy Basics like
allegedly is a good idea according to
this man except not this time he would
just be really chiseled and really lean
and it wouldn't make his waist grow at
all as this being implied here First
Rate awful intermittently we always add
jump rope always add jump rope everyone
knows that so that's kind of like how we
do all our moves two big complex moves
that jump rope and um it's it's worked
out great for us this Camp I feel just
making stuff up on the spot we didn't
want to move we do another move
uh um the jump rope which is great so
far cool is there like a principle there
or anything nothing we can learn sweet
no worries
oh there he goes walking around with a
dumbbell for no reason this was in the
last video it still doesn't do anything
it's a 70 pound suitcase right there I
mean that's a big suitcase a training to
be a fun Hotel desk clerk all right
folks if you want to see the full
uncensored version of this video much
more extra content some stuff we did not
put into this video our members area is
up for grabs give that a shot and maybe
we'll see you guys there
foreign
this is the laziest training I've ever
seen not from Mark's perspective he's
working hard the coach is just standing
around watching him walk around to do
nonsense hey coach get in there and
Coach a real Movement Like a pull-up or
a row or a bench press or a curl or a
squat actually get your client best most
efficient results stop just watching
them walk around on pointless patterns
pointlessly for no point at all
Mark is just mumbling nonsense at this
point
he's a Trippy guy
well the trainer's doing it too how nice
this comes very close to being just
random ways to do work like you ran out
of good ideas as a trainer and you just
like hey like just uh just walk around
or move around just do this it'll be
great and Mark's like sweating and tired
he's like oh this must be great
it's being ripped off so the feed behind
this one is that the offset load forces
your recording to realign itself so yes
it sure does
and how will that make me jacked how
will that make me lean how will that
make me look more like Marky Mark
and then the figure eight pattern in
underneath it really creates a dynamic
of the hips
you know it's pure very athletic it's
not very athletic athletes move a lot
faster than this sir have you ever seen
a sport being done cutting Corners there
is no sport called Figure Eight
kettlebell walking there is no sport
that looks remotely like it your whole
body has to respond to that weight I've
never seen someone over explain the fuck
out of you carry a weight around in a
random
almost centripetal force you've got a
real scientist so it's a huge coin
exercise huge core exercise the biggest
because core is really important
his reasons consistency takes you there
and I think that if you're going to be
consistent with a particular product
that product better be great aim and
this infomercial shit is getting old we
want everybody to be able to feel good
about going on a grabbing that thing off
the shelf without having to really worry
about what's in the bottle I don't ever
want to worry about what's in the
bottles of shit I'm taking in a camp
like this it is all nutrition it's all
nutrition the training has no effect as
long as the metabolism falls into the
right place the muscle will just will
melt all that fast what you guys he's
legitimately just like saying shit on
the spot it makes no sense they're like
yeah we need 30 minutes of you talking
about muscle and metabolism and melting
just start talking and we'll put it
together later boom mission accomplished
so really
for us 90 of the work is just the
nutrition correction it's not all
nutrition it's now been downgraded to
only 90 percent
much more sensible I mean there's
nothing box that we eat there's nothing
packaged you don't want to eat anything
in boxes or packages
because
I don't know I've taught nutrition at
the D1 University level and I failed to
teach that part because it's not true
even the performance inspired proteins
that we're having it's all natural this
guy just said you don't want to eat
anything out of a box or a package now
if I get my performance inspired protein
if it comes in either a box or dare I
say a package I will be very upset
you're not even good at chilling so
that's just a big piece of the puzzle is
that the body doesn't have to filter all
that crap out filtering crap the body
hates doing they've pulled the body of
the body's like
yeah filtering crap hate getting laid
love partying with my friends love
filtering I'm not big on and they're
like what about what about your kidneys
they're like oh yeah yeah either
exclusively designed to do that and
they're really good at it but whatever I
hate doing it quote body
is make believe folks all of it
what the fuck exercise is that holy shit
he's like splaying himself out the
fucking Archer pose I don't even know
what's going on anymore you know fat is
a way for the body to protect itself
protect itself from what motherfucker
you don't even train hard and then you
know making sure that he's got his rest
days lined in gotta have your rest
stains lined in you know we work out
super hard you do not work out super
hard
period
recovery is such a big topic because
people don't really recover
y
recovery is such a big topic because
people don't really recover anymore you
guys remember back in the 50s when the
cars look really cool and you count on
your old friend Cindy to serve you up a
great malt shake from the local Diner
got you guys protein shake awesome I
love protein and you looked around and
everyone was recovering and you're like
oh this paradise this Splendor it'll
never end and then the 70s and 80s came
along and everyone just stopped
recovering this is a known pandemic I
woman was asked questions on television
and was allowed to answer them let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you can choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you could just run the programs
exactly as they were written by a
personal this app programs everything
for you exercises weights sets reps
frequency the whole thing after every
single workout on every single week the
app adjusts to your unique parameters
with every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
I I worked out hard but now you walk
away and you're so sore that you can't
even work out the next day if you're so
sore that you can't work out the next
day you failed no wait wait that just
means you switch muscle groups you
recover from that soreness in that next
day and you go back again and smash the
shit again and get sore I thought this
is how people got jacked from time
immemorial what the fuck do I know I'm
just an expert and jacked you also have
to work through the pain Mark's like
shut the fuck up I'm gonna cut you off
right here you gotta work through the
pain the trainer's like motherfucker you
are putting your goddamn stick in my
spokes shut your mouth I just said a
bunch of shit you're gonna contradict it
and he did let's see how this resolves
itself if you work through the pain say
you work out you sore the next day
you're going to work out 15 20 minutes
into the workout that soreness is gone
that'll be a little bit yep so I guess
it is okay to be sore I don't understand
there's no unified message here I'm a
confused member of the audience what do
I do who knows muscle soreness is going
to happen to anybody that hasn't worked
out a long time true when you do work
out hard there's a lot of people that do
they'll be in the gym for 90 minutes two
hours and then they'll walk away from
the gym there's drift and sweat dripped
and sweat this is bad news sweat causes
soreness I think they work so hard and
then they won't eat anything they think
I'm trying to lose weight and they won't
do anything and that's probably one of
the worst things you can do because you
just expend all this sugar all this
glycogen storage and all the protein in
your own body if you don't replenish it
immediately your body will feel that
depletion in a sense of soreness Mark
Wahlberg just took out a dumbbell did
two lunge Swings with it and then put it
back
I don't have any context for this
[Music]
this is if you're ever tied up by
terrorists and they're like all right
the keys to your handcuffs are inside
this little ball in front of you but I
bet you can't use your feet to pick it
up and curl it towards yourself pussy
they lock the door and they fall off
you're like
but wait I've been training for this
these are just random movements at this
point folks oh the body bodybuilding
oh yeah Mark's Hot
will I get up at a three o'clock you
know in the morning every morning then
the first thing I do is I prepare egg
whites easy cow bread with a little bit
of almond butter this is his chef
he did say three o'clock interesting so
by the time I finish my workout I don't
know what do I do I go get the shake
yeah Arc doesn't know what his nutrition
is the chef has to remind him excellent
that's a rich dude performance inspired
with a little bit of blueberries maybe
like eight blueberries well I love the
blueberries better not have come out of
a box man this is crazy talk after that
we go for golfing worse after that golf
hard life
seven o'clock no six six yeah six is he
mocking his Chef he's like you don't
even know my schedule why do I even pay
you then 10 30 what are we 10 30 we have
a tuna salad it's made with lettuce
a spinach with a little bit of bell
peppers cucumbers Tomatoes a little
avocado why is this detail relevant I'm
like okay I'm writing this down wait a
bell peppers not red peppers erase red
peppers that's gonna hook up your fizzy
you're gonna be a fat bell peppers shred
City what did Mama said no beans right
yeah I said no beans what why I don't
know why she said why but I love it
someone named mama said no beans it is
unclear to the chef as the reasoning for
that instruction but he knows the
instructions
yeah oh Mark Wahlberg's female
significant other said that this is his
level of uh gas production was too much
the beans were cut out
that makes sense it's the first thing in
the whole video that makes sense yeah I
don't think the beans it will make you
fat a lot I think it might be the you
know what do you think that is just
eating healthy right just eat healthy
makes you fart everyone knows that when
you break down greens with bacteria in
our stomach there's all those little
it's just digest you don't want to be in
the car when that happens
[Music]
I'll see you guys next time
no I'm not gonna give a rating Scott the
video guy what the fuck am I supposed to
rate he just had a 30 minute
conversation with a chef where he's
prompting but he doesn't even know what
he's cooking and they don't know why
he's eating it no macros no calories no
goal is he in a fat loss face I'm also
gave the things going on
God damn it I'm getting sick just
thinking about the shit out of my face
I'm out of here again
[Music]