everyone say I'm going for another
workout with Josh Bogle I put up on my
Instagram asking you guys what it is
that you wanted to see us train feedback
was pretty much a mix between chest and
back but we decided me do a back workout
just because the mi40 gym has so much
sweet back equipment that's of
custom-made and unique to the gym right
now I'm just getting some breakfast too
little egg whites and then I've also got
some of this meatball or brown sugar
oatmeal so I think I have two packets of
that eleven and now we're gonna be
training at 12 so this will be my
pre-workout meal shredded cheddar cheese
on top of the egg whites and some
raspberries and this is two packets of
brown sugar cinnamon oatmeal and then I
usually have a Kiwi in the morning but
right now I don't have any Kiwis left so
I've been drinking this I know what is
this like Kiwi juice since the 10k
challenge for some reason I've just like
by the way after the 10k challenge I've
just been feeling like my appetite is
really suppressed so just a quick update
on this the first day after I weighed I
think it was up three pounds which is
way less than I expected then the day
after that I was up I think one and a
half pounds and now today is the third
day after and I'm still up a couple of
pounds even though my caloric intake has
been quite low for the last couple days
I'd say the first day after I eat under
a thousand calories the day after that I
would say I ate maybe around 2,000
calories that was yesterday now today
I'm just gonna try to eat normally
probably somewhere within like 2,500 to
3,000 range honestly the only thing that
I really noticed after the 10k challenge
was that when my appetite was really low
and to the pumps in the gym have been
really really good despite a low caloric
intake on the days that I trained which
weapon which I thought was interesting
but anyway that's enough with a
challenge I'm gonna eat my breakfast and
I've got my pre-workout it's just 200
milligrams of caffeine and then I'm also
taking the raspberry steel pumped
product it's got eat root extract in it
and egg machine which for me anyway it
has been pretty effective in terms of
increasing pump vascularity that sort of
thing we try to mix this up in the
curves a sheet of paper
oh sweet thank you
Josh's vehicle all right it's cool to be
back here if there's like I was just
here yep this is definitely to remove it
bigger now the 10k challenge like a
water balloon we start with this yeah
okay
damn you look bigger too man are you
heavier than last time I was here sure
it's smaller
especially like when he said that suck
my all the end
so now we go to work we're gonna sing
along on those responsibilities you're
not thinking about going to buy
something
yeah
and just once we get to about right here
for me
that's right I'm not going to
coming here right right exactly
I'm not trying to turn everything else
except velocity so one of the main
functions of the latus shoulder
extension so why you would do in a front
raise
raising the arm up in front of this
reflection extension is for bringing
your arm down in this point the other
thing that the last it does is shoulder
adduction so that's bringing it to the
side so it brings that arm down to the
side and it brings our arm down to the
front
so what Josh is saying is rather than
focus on coming back which is gonna
involve more traps he wants to isolate
the lats so he's thinking that they're
hiding their elbow elbow is going
through like this sort of an arc rather
than straight back which is evolving
yeah a lot about yeah and you like I
don't know it's good just to me but like
I feel a lot more of a stronger
contraction in my lower back when I
think about just simply doing that
keeping the
the elbow sort of proper like this part
of my arm up and it's squeezing in and
pressing it down rather than just coming
straight back yeah
there
we always hear about you in preventing a
full lockdown
do you think that is any merit tip
keeping the sort of trust intentionally
stopping English I depends on the
exercise when I go all the way out and
let it feel like I can't like get back
into position wrecked it it's completely
wreck you no way right but in the case
of these roads - stopping slightly short
of - I know it's just I feel for what
it's worth I feel the pump a lot more I
think without that full stretch in
closet
notice when we do partials I had just do
it as well we do a partial we're not
just going wrong
we're same thing really focusing keeping
the hub go down and as it gets harder I
don't want you to think about bringing
it back
no just start to decrease your range of
motion and train it through the four
part of charities yeah how to take our
lots of completing failure so why bring
anymore
maintain the form perhaps drop the
weight like we're so in the revolution
extend it's a barbell curl when it
starts to swing yeah there's my life no
point in doing so yeah just decrease
that their emotions this is a prime lap
pull down so the cool part about the
compliment is
this right here these different options
however you can move the way down so you
can overload it at the beginning the
meant orbit in range of motion so you
can chain through different parts of the
string curve here we're going to focus
on the stretch position so there are the
most at the beginning and as we pulled
out one skater actually get easier let
me just make sure so if you load you
love the place here it's going to be
heavier here in lighter key right
if you load them here it's going to be
light here and get heavier as nodes out
okay so I think I think this is the
smartest way yes to do it
a grip position you keep it neutral a
full-timer angle you mean back at all or
do you try to stay more attractive than
expired time and wife I love my humps go
I'm trying to keep it together and my
Mars in the way we're pulling up right
right Chuck this is amazing man like how
not used to it
typically the way the strength curve is
is that you get here and you can't write
all the down with the waist up here it's
harder at the top and it kind of
when you pull up
after bulbs we're going to go into our
final exercise sets which give me this
for metabolic work we're gonna do a
giant set we're going to go into a Mac
number of focus on
okay world hold on
don't let it drop
yeah we're gonna do a bit of posing in
here so I just finished up with a
backward
lately up you wanna take a stewardess in
the back bein power right well what's up
everyone asked we just finished up with
the workout with Josh I want to give a
shout out to Josh thank you so much for
taking me through that workout I feel
like I learned a lot and I took a lot of
things away from the training session
that I'm going to apply to my own
training josh is really good with cueing
certain movements and I found it to be
very helpful also we did a leg training
video a couple weeks ago so I'll put the
link to that right here in case you guys
haven't seen that one yet I'm just gonna
grab some I'll show you I'm just
grabbing some sushi that I had left over
from last night and so that's gonna be
my post-workout meal along with a whey
protein shake which I thank you guys
once again so much for watching don't
forget to hit the like button if you
liked the video that's very helpful
that's very helpful to me subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already I've
got a bunch of videos coming out
science-based informative videos as well
as training videos similar to this one
so make sure you subscribe to the
channel thank you guys so much again I
just gotta check so many oh she look
like a typist