partial range of motion training for
more strength gains does that sound too
good to be true well it likely is true
you may have seen people in your gym do
partial reps on the bench or on the
squat you know doing those half squats
or not going all the way down on bench
but that's not really what I'm talking
about here I'm talking about using
Porsche range of motion as a way to gain
more strength in your full range of
motion one rep max we have seven studies
looking at the idea of adding Port range
of motion training to your full range of
motion program there's been three
studies on the squad the first one by
bazzyler and colleagues compared doing
exclusively full range of motion squats
in the program versus doing full range
of motion squats and partial squats and
these partial squads participants
descended until about 100 degrees of
knee flexion the variable range of
motion group that have their training
with a 4 Ranger motion Squad and half
their training with that restricted
depth Squad what they found is that
there were greater Wonder of Max
improvements in their four Ranger motion
Squad in the variable range of motion
group so actually replacing half of
their volume with shallower squats as
opposed to just doing all of their
squats to full depth appear to result in
Greater Runner Max straight improvements