[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at in my opinion one of
the most underrated exercises out there
for developing the yoke muscles so the
traps glutes lats and even the long head
of the triceps and these four muscles
are critical for developing a big
muscular appearance especially in
clothes as the glutes are going to give
your lower body thickness from the side
big traps are gonna make you look large
up top and the lats are gonna assist
with width from the rear and the long
head of the triceps is really gonna help
you fill out a t-shirt and I don't think
many people would think of the barbell
45 degree hyperextension as a great
exercise for this but I actually think
it's one of the most underrated
exercises out there for developing the
entire posterior chain and there's much
more to it than first meets the eye so
of course you're gonna need access to a
45 degree hyperextension machine to do
these glute-ham raises train a similar
movement pattern but won't hit the upper
body at all and they tend to be more
hamstrings dominant and you could do
horizontal back extensions but they
might be harder to overload with a
barbell and as you can see in this
figure from Brett Contreras is
biomechanics book there's just something
special about the torque curve of the
45-degree back extension it's harder
than the good-morning the horizontal
back extension and the reverse hyper at
the midpoint of the lift and it has this
very unique inverted u-shaped
torque curve and even when compared to
more common hip extension exercises like
the deadlift squat in the hip thrusts
you can see that it really stands out
now so while it may look simple enough
there are in fact four biomechanical
actions were performing here first and
foremost hip extension where the hips
straighten out is gonna be handled by
the glutes and hamstrings there's also a
strong isometric thoracic extension
contraction occurring or the traps and
spinal erectors of the upper back are
forced to keep the upper back in a
neutral position under the barbells
haven't you oh it would you know the
spinal erectors at the lower back are
going to contribute to lumbar extension
and both lats and the long head of the
triceps will contract to prevent the
barbell from drifting out in front of
you similar to the deadlift here we have
a relatively simple exercise where you
basically take a barbell up off the
floor but when performed
we can target much more musculature than
meets the eye I also think this movement
is great for developing raw deadlift
strength especially if you tend to fail
the lifts at the mid portion of the lift
right around the knees and although for
whatever reason people tend to think of
this movement as a beginner exercise
when loaded with the barbell I actually
tend to reserve it for trainees who have
at least mastered proper deadlift
mechanics first and similar to most
compound movements that target a lot of
muscle mass I like to load the 45 degree
barbell hyperextension in a more
moderate rep zone around six to ten reps
well you can treat this as a more
mind-muscle connection based exercise by
holding a dumbbell rounding your upper
back and focusing on squeezing your
glutes at the top that form alteration
is gonna completely transform the
movement and I think that in that case
using higher reps it makes sense
so you want to set up the bar in front
of the machine position the device so
that the top of the pads are at the
crease of your hips right about where
you'd place a barbell for a hip thrust
position your heels firmly against the
foot pads and then keep them planted
throughout the lift grip the bar with a
roughly 1 to 1.5 times shoulder-width
griffiths or a bit wider than you go on
a deadlift this is gonna increase the
range of motion while getting your upper
back musculature much more involved and
before initiating the pull you want to
retract your shoulder blades and pack
your lats by thinking about tucking the
bar in then from here you want to lift
your chest up to extend your upper back
as you simultaneously use your glutes to
straighten out your hips for this you
want to think about driving your hips
into the pad as if doing a hip thrust as
you drive your heels down once you reach
the point where your hips are fully
extended you can reverse the motion by
lowering the barbell back down under
control now I would say the most common
error that I see on this exercise is
allowing your back to round to much like
I said earlier a rounded back is okay if
you're trying to turn the movement into
a glute only exercise however if you're
using it as a yoke builder you really
want to focus on keeping your upper and
lower back straight usually if people
load it too heavily or get lazy on
eeeek rounding will happen now the exact
opposite error happens when trainees
allow their back to hyperextend at the
top this is common in new lifters who
think of the exercise is merely a lower
back exercise because they're told to do
a full range of motion they take that
advice to the extreme and then extend as
far back as they can remember
you want to maintain a neutral back
position throughout the range of motion
and it should be your glutes and
hamstrings that drive extension at the
hips not the lower back now in a video
on developing the yoke I'd be remiss to
not mention the neck
I think the neck is possibly the most
important muscle for looking more
muscular in clothes and I have a full
video explaining neck training
techniques in this series if you'd like
to check that out and I also have a neck
and trap the science explained video
outlining more of the research on
developing the neck and the upper traps
so if you guys haven't seen those I'll
link both of them in the description box
down below and if you guys are
interested in taking your training up a
notch and you can check out my website
over at Jack nipper comm for all my
training programs including my most
popular intermediate to advanced
push-pull legs from teen and I'll have
that link down below as well now so guys
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next
[Music]
[Music]