here are my top four biceps exercises
that all emphasize a deep stretch first
the incline dumbbell curl because the
bench places your arms behind you the
biceps will get a bigger stretch this
way than by sitting upright don't let
your elbows drift forward keep them back
throughout the curl to max out the
stretch try rotating your palms out go
light your first time second the
standing beijan cable curl set up a
cable at wrist height and take two steps
forward until your bicep is fully
stretched you should feel deep tension
in your bicep right away start with your
weaker arm and then match the reps with
the other third the flat bench preacher
curl the dumbbell offers Max tension
when the bicep is fully stretched and
then descending tension throughout the
curl I do these as a finisher for 15 to
20 reps fourth seated High basion cable
curls set the cables at chest height
when you're seated and move the bench
far enough forward that you can get your
arms back as far as possible from there
do your curls