all right what's going on guys welcome
to the vlog I just wanted to give you
guys some sort of look into what it is I
would normally eat in a day while
bulking kind of show a little bit more
the detail in terms of what it is I do
in a day
so you can call it like day in the life
of me while bulking I weighed in this
morning a hundred in I think was 171
pounds I haven't really been tracking
this accurately just sort of like giving
myself some rough idea of where I am
gaining a bit of body fat but I'm still
under that 20% range according to this
scale which is good that's where I want
to be and as long as I'm you know below
that 20% or even if I like hit 20% on
that scale then I'm good I'm gonna keep
driving it up because my performance in
the gym has been really really good and
I'm just happy with how things are going
and I'm at the point now where I feel
like my metabolism is starting to adapt
so it's starting to pick up which means
I need to increase my food intake
because yeah if you know anything about
body fat setpoint are more accurately
probably settling point it does change
as you gain or lose weight or it can
change basically at this point I feel
like my body is trying to now settle
into like the low one 70s and so in
order to push it up higher I need to
increase my food intake basically right
now
rashon is on his way over he's gonna
help out with the vlog today which I'm
really excited about he's been doing a
lot of work for the channel behind the
scenes and it's allowing me to produce
more content which is great because this
is really what I love to do so yeah stay
tuned I'm gonna get some breakfast on
now or I think Stephanie's gonna get
some breakfast on for me Steph is making
its breakfast for me and yeah we'll get
started with the day so this new album
dropped today so this is futures third
project this year it's probably really
bad when I want to go to listen very
well
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
here's what I've got three whole eggs
some turkey bacon these are just like
hashbrowns they're like tater tots or
whatever you want to call them and this
is whole wheat toast or it's actually
like a ancient grains toast it's my
favorite and this is a Kiwi I'm looking
for those and then this is my true multi
multi vitamin I'm so I take three of
these every morning and that's it oh and
some orange juice so this is like my
usual bulking breakfast so I was just
reading a new study that came out
actually don't have access to the full
study I'm gonna have a read through it
but basically showed that consuming
whole eggs promote a greater stimulation
of post-exercise muscle protein
synthesis than consumption of egg whites
alone so they were icing at raja'na so
the total protein content was the same
18 grams of protein after a workout on
Twitter I was just looking at Bradshaw
infilled like really some commentary on
this and he said basically you know
don't get too hyped up about this like
this has been kind of making the rounds
on social media and everything and he
said while it's possible that there are
unique properties two whole eggs that
maximise and AB ilysm like lipids
micronutrients micro rna's
antioxidants it alternatively may be
well that these properties are
sufficiently available
and other foods we eat and so he's kind
of emphasizing that like to look at
muscle protein synthesis from one food
that one meal at one time point in the
day is kind of narrow in scope and you
need to consider muscle protein
synthesis throughout the whole day the
best way to do that is through having
several meals that are high in protein
so I like to have four or five meals
four or five meals per day that have a
high protein content a high quality
protein content but nonetheless this is
actually pretty interesting I'm thinking
yeah there may be something in whole
eggs like some other nutrient that
contributes to muscle protein synthesis
outside of the protein itself which
would be pretty interesting I don't know
if that's been shown in any other way
but that I think would be a pretty novel
finding if that were the case or it
could be the fact that there's just
maybe more calories obviously in the
whole eggs and then that could
contribute to the total anabolic milieu
in the body so yeah it could be a couple
things going on there they didn't
control for a caloric content but
nonetheless that's a pretty interesting
study so I'll link that in the
description if you guys would like to
check it out and at least read the
abstract or if you have university
access check out the whole thing also
I'm anticipating getting some comments
on whole eggs if they're bad for you if
they raise your cholesterol all that
kind of stuff so I'll just direct you
guys to this article right here so it's
called will eggs increase my cholesterol
I'll put it in the description box
cholesterol is really highly genetically
regulated and dietary cholesterol so
like the clustering you take in through
your food doesn't actually impact on
blood cholesterol all that much so yeah
just read through that article if you're
curious about it and they also have
another article called our eggs healthy
so if you come here I'll just link this
one in the description as well but our
eggs healthy I just opened a new women's
true multi and this is the most sort of
mattress in there this is the most kind
of aerozine in a pill bottle is the
extra
just gonna do a quick little physique
updated oh damn no future and young thug
yeah they just dropped it to hole
Oh rashon is from Atlanta so he like he
knows these guys personally we're
dangerous yeah there's last night I did
a call with Alex from Alpha Destiny and
we recorded it so he talked about a
bunch of stuff so first of all identify
the range to be a 15 to 20 percent body
fat so we talked a lot of it like
bulking and bear mode and his training
style man it was a really good
conversation I think you guys are really
gonna like it so I'm probably gonna
release that in like a couple weeks I
just have to make sure it makes sense
with my man schedule but yes stay tuned
for that one man how's a great column
all right right now we're gonna head out
do a bit of shopping run a few errands
and I need to get a new computer chair
not the best for lower back support grab
that and then we're gonna I think run to
the mall so I'm gonna get changed get
her this outfit quickly run you through
the outfit this is from guess these are
quite comfortable these are from top man
shoes are from Puma so they're just like
black top white bottom shoes so this
watch is from Cerro I shared this on my
snapchat like a couple days ago and I'm
just curious if like people were
familiar with the brand or like if I get
any comments on it and I did actually
get a couple comments and people
recognize it as it's been Sara watch
even though it was like the photo was
kind of like this and their whole basic
idea is to emphasize quality more of a
designer type look over that really
minimalistic simple look and one thing
that I really like in particular is that
it has a lot of weight to it so I'll
just like pull it off real quick what I
find is watches that are a little bit
thicker in the face and have a little
bit more weight to them are actually
good for bodybuilders because I find
those like really small in watches can
actually make your wrists look more
slender and so one thing I actually get
asked quite a lot is how do I
and risks with your thicker because I
actually have pretty pretty thick wrists
and pretty big forearms and one of the
things that you can do obviously is
build up your forearms but in order to
create that illusion you can wear
accessories like a thicker watch or you
could wear like a thicker bracelet with
some like bigger beads that kind of
thing I've been cero I have to thank
them for sponsoring the video showing
their support for the channel I really
appreciate it if you guys would like to
check out their watches they're very
scratch resistant so like if you want to
throw in your gym bag or whatever
they'll be okay very sturdy legit
leather band very clasp you look like
you could wear it with an outfit like
this if you're just going downtown or
the mall or whatever or I know people
wear them to like weddings you can wear
with like a suit and tie or whatever
I've got a link in the description
that'll save you 15% and if you want to
use the link again and again it's good
for ever doesn't expire anything so
thank you Vince arrow and we're gonna
get on with the rest of the vlog
[Music]
so yeah I was just looking at like my
post for Instagram today and Steph did
this photo shoot where she was like I
don't know doing her model thing and
then I and so you see the sequence here
it's like wait I went the wrong way all
right so I think I think I'm gonna post
this one right here where I just like
completely photobomb it sounds pretty
good
this one I like because the Hat is kind
of flying but she's just like completely
dead pay in the whole time because
nothing fits in a baby car this is my
favorite chair of all time a lot of this
thing it's just like it's got oh it's so
much better than the other stupid chairs
it did break though I don't know so
maybe a cart wouldn't have been the
worst idea for this man this is the new
Alfa Destiny sponsored neck massager his
thing actually looks kinda interesting
bro responsive time soon yeah man
whoever is at this company email me talk
to you it's like seven bucks and I'm
totally getting one of these this is
amazing
oh hey lately I was thinking about this
um like I see you yeah yeah yeah maybe
I'll run into your Patrick sometime oh
yeah Danny Danny competing tomorrow
that's awesome this is Stephanie and
this is Irish Sean you might just this
is my channel sick Syd for you to
embrace good luck with the cut there
this
[Music]
it's so small you're gonna get that pun
do like mad you to say so if you just
put this in even your backpack you know
what is that one this is the magic oh
the magic bro okay and that's the one
how much is that one
we'll get that before we go to Florida I
was thinking that too cuz soon as we get
that well then send it up yeah get some
beach shots
alright guys here we've got meal number
two I'm gonna do a bit of shopping after
this we were kind of hungry so just got
some chicken breast some mashed potatoes
with a bit of gravy
mac and cheese and these are just some
usually they have like broccoli and
other mixes but they've just got the
like poverty potato vegetables right now
so like baby carrots and corn but yeah
carrots are pretty nutritious corn is
not the greatest but anyway it's pretty
high calorie meal gonna eat this go do
some shopping
all right so close basically I got two
shirts from this where this is just a
local store I didn't realize that before
but they carry a lot of like pretty nice
like slightly higher end stuff but it's
kind of simple color would you call that
almost like a steel blue yeah steel blue
key with the slight just call it a
dolphin hem hex hem at the bottom I
usually don't like these because they're
like a little bit long so they usually
go down a little too far on me this one
was actually pretty good just a
long-sleeve black dress shirt it's not a
dress shirt I got this this is actually
Alex from alpha destiny told me to get
one of these because when I was doing
net curls I was just putting the plate
right on my face so he's like do you
need a hat so now I can go like this
curls and it'll be way more comfortable
are you very fast exactly toque in the
gym now got some I don't know new
accessories new bracelets whatever and
then I did get two new pair of shoes
where they didn't have my size so I bet
them coming but that's it I know what a
couple hours since my last meal I'm
gonna have a little snack this is where
all of our supplements live for my next
meal I'm gonna have kind of want the
chocolate cupcake love to stashes salted
salted pistachios they're not the
cheapest not in the world but they are
the most tasty that make you work for it
yeah
about five after six so um we'll
probably get some pre-workout and then
head to the gym in about 20 minutes and
we're actually going to a new gym today
this is a private gym that a friend of
ours owns so we're gonna go check that
out and hopefully it's a little bit
better than filming at the public gym
and rashon is gonna get into a sweet
edit for that one in a little bit first
first pre-workout you awake wake up
this is officially the prereq oatmeal we
got delayed just a little bit and going
to the gym just because there's like
some people trained in there so this is
gonna be the meal that kind of ties me
over this is turkey breast there's
actually not overly processed there's
like no nitrates and it takes absolutely
delicious so I like to put this on salad
and I use this sweet kale seven fake
superfoods solid kit and in there it has
like poppy seed dressing and like sesame
seeds and cranberries there's a half a
cup of raspberries go along with it I
have my cute I really like this flavor
yeah you too
[Music]
just got here to the gym and rashon is
gonna do a sick edit this upper-body
workout we're gonna get into that right
now
[Music]
alright soldiers can't go unavenged
man there's the kids you gotta be
clapping for you because I know classic
twist I think I'm falling for you
[Music]
[Music]
cuz we just finished up with the workout
we're here at a restaurant downtown
Kelowna it's called oaken crew and our
here with Stephanie and Sean behind the
camera and yeah we just came here to get
a little post-workout meal so started
with some edamame quick protein to start
off and then I've got a order of salmon
coming I was gonna get somebody to
estimate the macros for the whole day
actually so if someone wants to do that
if someone is bored enough to plug my
whole day into my Finnish pal I will
reward you with a pin to comment on this
video so yeah let me know so guys here's
my main horse so I've got peach and
bourbon salmon it smells really good it
looks delicious I'm really hungry some
potatoes in here some beans not sure
what this is
theme that vegetable
those parents there's actually a weird
biscarrat yeah anyway I'm gonna dig into
this alright guys thanks so much for
watching the video that's going to
conclude this one Steph and I are
actually gonna head home I'm actually
still a little bit hungry that final
meal is kind of a smaller portion even
though it was really really good like I
think I would give that meal at nine old
actually not give it a 8.5 just because
it's not enough food volume but the
flavor of it was definitely a nine so
yeah thank you guys so much for watching
like the video if you liked it subscribe
to the channel if you happen to be new
and I'll see you guys next time