slow digesting carbohydrate supplements
one of the most popular ones I don't
know if it's popular now but it exists
is called waxy Maze and it is a
carbohydrate people used to recommend it
take in the workout window and those
people were wrong why were they wrong
because waxy maze is insanely slow
digesting and dig just slower than
oatmeal but it comes in a powder it
doesn't mix so well with water but you
shake it enough and after you shake it
before you drink it again you reshake it
then you're good to go the really cool
thing is that you can store this as a
powder so you can take waxy maze which
is pure white powder dump it into little
baggies all the same size you take Each
baggie and you layer it carefully on top
of other baggies in a large metallic
suitcase and it's a good idea to leave
an unregistered firearm in there as well
and you just go to the airport and just
push it right through the TSA screener
you're going to have an amazing time