what's up everybody so I wanted to show
you all my little snack here you can see
it's whey protein sludge I use the quest
protein and I just mix that up with a
little bit of almond milk add some
sprinkles and a couple semi-sweet
chocolate chips on top and make it nice
and cold and then I just eat it like
that and it's surprisingly good this is
something I haven't done since 2010 when
I was prepping is make protein sludge
but I find the quest pretty good so I'm
going to eat this and then go for a leg
workout Robin is going to look at ice
cream and then I'm recording the podcast
with Peter fiction about natural
bodybuilding contest prep so should be
good
baby brother let go the drugs are you
taking again
I just don't get
Oh
English don't mean uh Trish don't get it
I don't get a it should be like me
I just don't get it
I don't get
so guys is gonna do it we're about to do
a podcast and Robin is so pumped so yeah
stay tuned for that and I'll keep you
guys posted I'll put a tortoise here
somewhere of where you can find the show
couple questions from Instagram I posted
right before we started recording that
we were going to be doing this so I'll
just hit you with a couple questions the
first question here is can you define
adrenal fatigue or an intra adrenal
reset in its relation to hormonal
imbalances
here is the breakfast for this morning
typical eggs slice of turkey bacon this
is something new Robin and I went to the
grocery store late last night and
discovered that finally they had
southern style white car it's this is
something I've never ever seen at the
grocery store here in Canada so I got
myself some grits this morning which I'm
super excited about a little bit of
brown sugar on top and then I've also
got some berries with a low-calorie
yogurt two grams of this butternut
squash and a serving of green parmesan
and herb on top of the green beans and
weigh out some chicken there we go 100
grams of chicken squash and green beans
opens getting her free workout Froyo oh
man
they always have the best flavors you
can check my fitness pal see if I have
enough rows for this guy's good thanks
definitely confusing the proximate cause
and the ultimate cause we're listening
to a podcast is called Sigma nutrition
radio or Sigma nutrition podcast so the
truth Danny Lennon it's one of my new
favorite things to listen to in terms of
nutrition science and yeah recommend
checking out ease along with ours it's
coming from here so the same thing that
so what role refers your calories in and
what determines your calories out that's
really what's important so that's the
first thing is that the cost of it
versus ultimate cause I think that's
completely right the mechanism could be
this here listen it'll be same great one
more time I can't be [ __ ] oh my goodness
that have antagonized is I think God's
the effect of insulin no it is not
looking back I just want to hear what
Danny said insulin is a causing weight
gain then the solution is quite simple
decrease insulin right and when you do
that people lose weight
for
walk in a nun
baby brother let go the drugs are you
taking a goon
Wolffe English doors Mina Trish don't
get it I don't get it
that's right you knock me
new variation on the gliding leg curl
that Robin and I have been trying you
just set it up on the concept we're over
here and if you want to add resistance I
would recommend just doing them one leg
at a time and that makes it much more
difficult so I'm doing three sets of
eight the idea is to keep your hips
extended and just flex your knee they're
good try now let me know what you think
we demolished one eye snap it's [ __ ]