power building gaining muscle and
getting stronger at the same time in
this video I'll show you how to do just
that using science
welcome back soon to be Dr Milo welfare
courtesy of wolf coaching first off
gaining muscle absolutely helps you get
stronger in the long term so these two
things gaining muscle and getting
stronger can absolutely go hand in hand
in a power building program to
understand how to best gain muscle and
gain strength at the same time we first
need to understand how to do both of
these optimally independently first
muscle growth for exercise selection we
generally want to pick exercises that
both lengthen the target muscle and
challenge that muscle in that
lengthening position for more
information check out this video here we
want to perform sets of five repetitions
all the way to 30 reps and include a
variety of rep ranges in the program as
this likely leads to more hypertrophy
overall than just doing one we want to
rest for long enough between sets to
enable good performance generally this
will wind up being about 2-6 minutes
check out this video here for more
information we probably want to be doing
between 5 and 15 sets per week per
muscle group for beginners and closer to
10 to 20 sets per week for muscle group
for anyone who's been trading for a good
while we'll also want to train pretty
close to failure as that can roughly
double muscle growth as you can see in
this video here we want to make sure we
target all the muscles of your body
pretty effectively a squat for example
doesn't do a good job of targeting the
rectus femoris as the rectus femoris
will shorten at the knee while it
lengthens at the hip so some isolation
exercises and some compound exercises
will be included and in fact isolation
exercises are better suited to lighter
rep ranges say above 10 or 15 reps and
compounds are better suited to heavier
rep ranges say between 5 and 15 reps we
want to train each muscle group at least
twice a week so body part splits
throughout the question but we want to
probably train them a bit more often as
you do see a slight benefit of training
a muscle group more than twice a week
all the way up to four to six times a
week so that was the two long bin watch
version of how to get jacked but what
about strength how do we get stronger
strength is specific I'll assume you're
powerful thing but the following applies
regardless of what exercise you want to
get better at regarding your exercise
selection with a few exceptions most of
the exercises we do should be very
similar to the exercise where trying to
improve it we want to train in a similar
repetition range as the repetition range
we're trying to get stronger at try to
improve your owner of Max in that case
most of your training should take place
around one to five reps maybe all the
way up to 10 but rarely above 10 reps
getting sufficient rest between sets is
even more important for strength than it
is for hypertrophy getting more weight
on the bar will directly cause more
strength improvements so making sure
that you're sufficiently rested after
each set before you go into that Max set
is actually quite important for strength
gains so for strength we'll generally
rest between 2 and 8 minutes between
sets we typically want to do 5 to 15
sets per week per lift when training for
string the reason for this is that as
you do more volume or more sets per week
you do see greater strength gains but
doing more volume also causes greater
fatigue and this can interfere with
lifting enough weight on the bar to get
maximally stronger so there's a
trade-off that but generally between 5
and 15 sets per week per lift will get
you in red ballpark we generally want to
avoid going to failure as you go closer
to failure each set will become a lot
more fatiguing but there's actually no
benefit to do doing so from a strength
gains perspective however when you're
approaching a max out you may want to go
a bit heavier and a bit closer to
failure in order to really practice
grinding out a heavy lift conversely
when you're far from a max out and the
emphasis is a bit more on gaining muscle
to help out strength in the long term
that's when you may find that going
closer to failure on your accessories is
going to help you with gaining muscle as
I mentioned earlier as far as exercise
selection goes we want to focus on the
muscles that directly contribute to the
lifts that we care about for power of
this this means for the bench the chest
triceps and shoulders for the squat the
quads adductors and glutes for the
deadlift the quads hamstrings glutes
adductors other muscle groups like The
Back the ABS the calves the forearms
stuff like that they don't directly
contribute to strengthen those lifts and
by doing more work for them and
selecting more exercises targeting those
muscle groups we cause additional
fatigue which takes away from how much
training we can do for those muscle
groups that actually matter for strength
finally more frequent practice is
generally better for strength but the
more technical lift is and the less
fatiguing it is the more consistently it
should be trained for maximum strength
improvements for the deadlift that
generally means once to twice a week for
the squat that generally means twice to
four times a week for the bench that
generally means three to five times a
week these figures include accessory
work like close variations like the
close grip bench for the competition
bench press so that's how you trade for
strength you'll have noticed some key
differences between trading for
hypertrophy and trading for strength
specifically I think there are four
differences worth paying attention to
number one how close to failure you
train number two how heavy you lift
number three what exercises you select
and finally number four how many sets
you do per week these four factors is
where power building exists you need to
strike a compromise within these four
factors the two main factors influencing
what compromise should be struck are
number one how important is Aesthetics
versus strength to you and number two
what's your timeline are you maxing out
soon or are you still quite fall around
for maxing out and care hearing about
your strength if you have no plans of
maxing out soon all else being equal
stick closer to the muscle growth
guidelines on the other hand if you are
in Mexico very soon all else being equal
stick very closely to the strength
guidelines if one goal for example
Aesthetics is more important than the
other to you for example strength stick
closer to the guidelines associated with
Aesthetics I'll now give examples of how
to apply this stuff assuming that a both
strengths and Aesthetics are reasonably
important to you and B that you are
neither particularly close or
particularly far away from max out if
one of these two things doesn't apply to
you make sure to adjust accordingly
entering closer to the guidelines for
strength over hypertrophy finally as a
quick note if you don't have one of Max
goals adjust the target rep range to
correspond to whatever your target rep
range is if you want to get better at 5
rep Maxes stick mostly around five reps
how heavy should you lift well for
powerlifting muscles mostly stick to
sets of three to eight repetitions you
can also do singles on the competition
lifts or the lips that you really care
about before doing that back off work
between three and eight reps but this
isn't as essential and maybe more
beneficial as you get closer and closer
to competition or to maxing out for
non-strength muscles like for power
opting the back the biceps the ABS Etc
mostly stick to doing sets of between 5
and 20 reps how many sets should you do
well for strength muscles like the chest
triceps quads etc for power after
generally stick between 10 and 15 sets
per week per muscle group or per lift
for other muscle groups like the back
biceps Etc these muscles can generally
handle a slightly higher volume so you
also want to stick between 10 and 15
sets typically for those muscle groups
what exercises should you pick well for
the strength muscles like for a power of
the the chest quads adapters you mostly
want to select close variations and the
actual exercise that you're trying to
get stronger at so bench variations
squatting variations and deadlift
variations will be the vast majority of
your work for those muscle groups in
addition to close variations of the main
lift and the main lift itself you can
also allocate up to 25 to 50 percent of
your overall set per week to
non-specific variations more so
targeting certain areas of the muscle
that may otherwise go untrained for
example the rectus femoris doesn't
really get trained by well during the
squad so doing something like a reverse
Nordic curl can really complement your
Physique in terms of hypertrophy
likewise a light curl can Target the
short head of the biceps femoris which
otherwise doesn't really get trained
during power lifts or during close
variations of the power lifts for muscle
groups that aren't involved in your
strength lifts you may want to focus
mostly on exercises that lengthen the
target muscle and challenge it heavily
in that position specifically you may
also want to avoid exercises that
involve the lower back too much for
example so When selecting exercises for
your back which isn't really involved in
the deadlift in the squat or in the
bench you may still want to avoid
exercises that have you bend over a lot
and recruit your lower back a lot and
potentially fatigue it and interfere
with your power offering or strength
training for power building should you
train to failure or not failure training
or training very close to failure should
be used very sparingly when it comes to
muscle groups involved in the powerlifts
when the lifts that you're trying to get
stronger with generally most of your
training for those muscle groups should
take place between two and five reps in
reserve or rpes of about five to eight
two cases where you may want to go
closer to failure than this is one when
further away from a competition where
the focus is mostly on gaining muscle
and going closer to failure can help you
gain muscle number two is When
approaching your competition and you
want to practice the skill of maxing out
and grinding out a heavy lift in this
case going a bit closer to failure for
your top sets of one to three reps can
help you practice the skill and make
sure you're prepared for when you're
maxing out for muscle groups that aren't
involved in the main lifts that you're
trying to get stronger in you can go
closer to failure training on average
between zero and three reps in reserve
I'm gonna give you a break from all the
information now this is all pretty
complicated and that's part of the art
of program design the good news is I
have put together 15 free programs that
do all this for you you can get these
sent to you for free by email if you
sign up to the email newsletter Below in
the description alternatively if you
want an X able to take care of all your
training and nutrition for you check out
thewolfcoaching.com website and apply
for coaching in the shop final note I
will actually be making a video very
soon breaking down my own power building
training split so stay tuned for that
that's the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe I need to
pay my bills and I will see you guys in
that next video peace
let me uh take off my pants you feel me
because uh it is warm in here
off camera you'll have to pay the
additional only fans fee to get access
to the uh below the Beltline shot sorry