you guys saw Dorian had helped from his
training partner to do that full range
of motion every single time what we're
learning recently in science uh in the
science of of lifting and getting jacked
is maybe if Dorian wanted to go beyond
failure another interesting thing for
him to try in a time machine I'll take
that back for you guys to try in the gym
is instead of having someone help you
lock that full out when you can no
longer lock it out go as much as you can
and when you can barely move at all then
the set is over super failure integrated
with lengthened partials partials at the
lengthened muscle position at the
stretched muscle position those seem to
be superior for hypertrophy they're
going to be really fatiguing but they
might be worth it in your case
especially if you're small you have
trouble really training supering hard
and feeling the muscle you got to go to
town on this kind of