[Music]
[Music]
folks weekly webinar we're back hoping
that you're keeping spirits high and
staying safe and healthy dr. James dr.
Mike here to answer your questions dr.
Mike how's it going good how are you
James I'm good and actually uh real
quick before we start I'm just gonna
make a note and I probably should have
talked to you about this ahead of time
but whatever we'll just deal with it now
so folks as some of you might know I'm
moving tomorrow so that's why we did the
webinar a day earlier this week and so
I'm gonna have some limitations on my
internet situation coming up I have we
do have internet at the house but it's
like a whopping one megabit per second
until they install the fiber-optic in
July and the cell phone situation out
there is a little dismal but I did get a
range extender so I'm gonna try and work
with dr. Mike we'll figure something out
I might be able to do it on my phone I
might be limited for the next week or
two in terms of how weekly webinar goes
so I'm not really sure just gonna play
it by ear and work with dr. Mike on it
so we're gonna get this one done today
for sure and then next week we're gonna
kind of figure out as we go and we'll
keep you posted
boom boom all right let's get started
yeah okeydoke so Sega sang Gary's been a
while what up Doc's I'm back just for
this week I just got back to my world
trip with your highness augustine valdez
on the infamous dirigible was directly
from the dirigible to Augustine's I need
that ethernet cable fly over my house in
Montana so I can do this webinar
Whittaker what is it like a it's a
nuclear-powered dirigible
no it's an oil powered dirigible that
has uranium lining so it's gonna take a
while for him to get there oh that's
okay
he says the cigars are also great and I
just I have these stupid questions to
ask you guys this time question number
one why are there so many nut huggers
the bodybuilding and fitness industry
it's true there are a lot a lot of not
huggers I think that there's a lot about
huggers in every industry which has a
social media presence so it's not unique
to fitness not hugging is easy because
it comes from our natural drive to when
we like people we really really tend to
like them and we want to promote them a
lot
and also there's the male dominance
dynamic where males perceive each other
as threatening and if they detect an
alpha male one of your good strategies
can be to not hug him to make sure that
he doesn't think of you as a threat so
that you can maintain an even one-way
alliance where that your scene is on
equal footing
yeah an equal footing or at least you're
seen as a non threat so he doesn't beat
the shit out of you
and that tends to happen a lot so that's
probably we're not hugging occurs from
from the basis of like if you have no
really jacked strong lifter you're like
he's so cool like he's amazing like yeah
okay you just miss misrepresenting him
as a member of your immediate tribe
mammalian brain is malfunctioning you
don't actually know how cool he is
and because you know you tend to one
really easy way to test about hugging is
how much not hugging do people do as
they send themselves and strength and an
importance and the answer is less and
less right so stuff that they less oh
not like they like less and less people
or fear of your people it's just their
own dominance becomes greater so they
have to not hug less because they
perceive fewer people as threats and
yeah that's basically why not hugging
happens there's probably a few few other
reasons and that's uh I think Mike gets
this a lot worse than I do it one of the
other things I see with the nut hugging
is because of the social media presence
in terms of getting you know activity
engagements whatever so you get a lot of
people who are trying to start their own
fitness thing or their own business talk
about that a lot yeah thank you and
everything hag you have every right
exactly so I get tagged in countless
things every day ahead have nothing to
do with me whatsoever and it's really
just that person just you know they they
know me or dr. Mike or whomever and
they're just trying to expand their own
social media reach and every now and
again they'll comment on something you
know and it's just one of those like I
don't blame people for doing I'm not
trying to sound indignant about it but I
think that's part of it too is it does
have a self-serving purpose of expanding
your own demise yeah at times yeah it
not always some people not hug with no
self-serving interest whatsoever it just
feels right um you know I and I think
there's nothing super wrong with not
hugging as long as you remain skeptical
about what a person
human being and what he says is a
fitness professional you know like I am
I not how'd you know meadow Hensel means
all the time but I actually think he's a
good person and I've met him and in
addition to that I think he's write a
lot and when I when I think he's wrong
I'm very clear about it and we've
actually had multiple debates to the
death about very many points when I
think he's wrong the nut hugging gets
bad when you know someone turns out to
be a piece of shit as far as a human
being well you know it's difficult to
judge all of a person as a piece of shit
someone does some shitty things and
you're like shocked like I can't believe
this professional athlete beat his wife
like really a man who gets paid to exert
violence his entire life beat somebody
up else and like let's surprise right
and then people are like have this
immoral kind underwear they looked up to
this individual immoral fuck would you
ever look up to someone morally anyway
unless it was a moral philosopher or
something like that or your dad you know
I don't know like you don't even know
this person and then another thing is
when someone is incorrect about
something it's good to put them out
hugging aside and say well you know I
I'm really big fan of air columns I
don't think he's completely correct on
this point though he may be a highly
respect his opinion as opposed to being
like a fair excited it's true and the
worst to me is when people not hug me
I'm like the last guy you want to not
hug my nuts are disgusting but it's
strange too because they're like dr.
Mike says these ideas come up from my
head James you usually went to hear him
first James and Jared and they usually
come out like you know a bunch of
garbage and I think you need to think
this through a little bit more oh my god
okay and I write it down to clarify and
look okay now that's better
you know they have very little respect
from my intellectual produce because
they get to see it it's like James works
and the mic is repelled idea hot dog
Factory so he's like you don't wanna see
that shit there's no that's nothing to
respect from there
that's a funny phrase right but I like
at the end of the day you know no one is
deserving of not hugging that gives them
complete swath to say whatever they want
you're like what's-his-name said it's
right for me and just be like I think
this person is super valuable and
potentially super cool and to be a
scientist about it in the literal sense
of like and you know the summation of
the evidence on that balance seems to
think seems to leave me to conclude that
this person's somebody I should take
opinion very seriously and as they make
more and more ridiculous statements that
are wrong you just you grade them down
like
Donnelly's to be somebody that he said
stuff he brought las probably right
nowadays he's like I met like batting
five out of ten where he's like half of
its right and very insightful and half
that's completely insane so you know
that doesn't mean Laos a piece of shit
it he also is unrelated but it doesn't
mean he's worthless it means that
whenever you see his work here like on
that's interesting boat I know he's kind
of crazy you might be wrong about this
versus someone like you know era Commons
you're like always
almost certainly correct but he could be
wrong so let me look versus someone like
I don't know
is example of first example I got is
like Saddam Hussein posting about
Fitness probably wrong probably wrong so
Kim Jong on about fitness like that's
really wrong cuz he's good god he's the
out of shape doctor Mike's had it out
for Eric the last couple webinars I
don't know if you guys noticed keeps
name-dropping air calms and they hate
that guy this is a known thing all right
good alright so next question will you
guys live to see the end of his training
to failure Oh as I've been going on for
at least thirty plus years well that's a
good question
it's gonna be us versus reps and reserve
guy that's right that's like German or
something shit isn't German I think you
think I just really just doesn't like
jaan fries at the end of the day I know
he'd come my only jealous that Yan has a
bunch of clients and you know yog could
be more jacked sees like oh this guy's
small but people listen to him and say
yeah beer an insole with no actual name
so fuck you supposed to listen to you
for rir I don't you know I don't agree
with everything he posts but I I admit
it's hilarious my favourites are the
ones that are he does like a series of
like memes where it's like deal owed
after a maintenance phase and like
something like jerking off like oh yeah
for sure that is funny yeah it's just
like for our training than maintenance
the DLO than below again active risk
yeah so so any case I think that guy
probably likes to go to train of failure
but like so Jared and I had a long
conversation about this a little while
ago there's two groups of people I think
two big groups of people on debate as
far as I see it now there may be another
group which is a little bit more silent
matter Hanselman seems to think this
third group
so Meadows third group which he's not a
part of just his observation is people
who over thinkers over analyzers and are
actually straight up fucking pussies and
don't want that exists that group one
person ago
so that's Group one or group three
rather which is called a group one and
they like would prefer that failure
training wasn't an optimality because
then they would just have to not do it
they also are Pro low volume and pro low
everything and sometimes depending on
how lazy they are they / low frequency
or high frequency depending on if they
want to train a bunch of chest or spread
chest out who knows these people a lot
of times are also program hoppers
they'll be like what do you think of
Jeff Edwards five-day split like what do
you think about it they're like I think
it's I think it's great like why because
I don't have the train legs all in one
workout like because I wrote it down and
I didn't okay that's the worst reason
ever you should be interested in it
because it's very effective which it is
and very elegant which it is but you
know like they're like just trying to
get away from working hard apparently
that's group 1 group 2 is a group I sell
from James and most evidence based
people belong to is a group that is
looks at the evidence and looks at our
own training experience and tries to
come up with a sort of integrated
approach to thinking about failure in
relative terms
failures upsides that it's probably the
best way to train for hypertrophy if
aliens had a gun to your head you're
like trigger as much hypertrophy right
now in this session as your body's
capable none of us would go ar-ar-ar
anything we would go to failure I would
almost certainly have a training partner
alien go beyond failure like four straps
and everything not an example of an
upside downside example is the fatigue
that that session causes is massive and
since you don't ever train once the
kneeling so I actually put a gun to your
head due to gross much loss you can once
you have to train every week multiple
times a week usually over the course of
months and that's a grow the the
outlandish fatigue accumulation the
stimulus of fatigue ratio of being low
is a problem with train to failure so
some way to contextualize that's
probably good idea try to find you know
where from failures were too far like
three or four or anything below maybe
too far and then what happens is you go
to three you know two one zero or IR etc
and trying to integrate a plan based on
that I think though that's the group we
belong in and that group you know always
seems to make some sense and then
there's the last group of people how do
I say this politely there
really big fans of thinking and they
like to pat themselves on the back for
going to failure exists the only
hardship they do in their life and they
like to pretend that they train hard by
doing one or two sets of failure per
muscle group or workout and it's mostly
an emotional expression thing for them
like they really need to fucking rage
out on something and some of them are
also lazy because if you really want
failure training you have to do multiple
sets to failure and nobody really wants
to do that so these guys just you know
like listen to a lot of metal or some
shit like that and slap themselves on
the ass in the locker room is shit and
they're like yeah you fucking pussy if
you don't fuck and go to Felix shut the
fuck up like you wouldn't know failure
if it hit you in the face half the time
and second of all you know you're not in
the gym to prove your manhood you're in
the gym to grow muscle and it's a recent
interview that Jay Cutler's was asked by
Fouad ah be odd off and he trained of
failure during his career he was like
never really he's like no and we've
never gone they don't train to fail you
never have and it's like okay tell Jay
Cutler he's a pussy you know what I mean
like maybe he is sure you're right so
it's one of these things where like yeah
like not avoiding failure because your
pussy does make you a pussy but
preferring failure because you need to
prove your manhood doesn't mean you're
training for optimality look if all
these webinars and all of the YouTube
content we have an RPE was about like
how to become a man like that we would
say like train to failure pour bleach on
your face cut you dick off shit like
giant mustache
ironic way to become a man prove you're
mad by cutting pieces off your dick off
because your dicks so big that you don't
even need the predictive spare you know
I'm saying shit grows back
I think Iguana dick or some shit but
like it's not it's about optimizing
hypertrophy and from that perspective we
take a very emotionless approach to it
like look somewhere between 3 & 0 RR is
probably best than starting a mesocycle
close to 3 and inching your way up and
then delivering after going a failure is
probably good idea so so sorry so to ask
the question of when that debate is
going to be concluded you need two other
two people to drop off or be converted
and you know like the research on it is
pretty clear now that you know that we
have described the evidence based
commune is almost certainly what's
happening the debate could be over any
time we need a little bit more research
on the difference in failure training
responses between beginners
intermediates and advanced especially
beginners in advanced because it may be
training to failure and beyonds maybe a
little bit better for advanced than
other folks who just might have to
squeeze that extra bit of toothpaste out
of muscle growth or their fatigue costs
could be so high and their growth could
just you still be linear then it's even
worse for them and they can even go
further away from than at least one
study that shows that folks that are
stronger and in compound movements don't
need to go as close to failure to get
full motor unit activation who the fuck
knew so couldn't go the other way we
just don't really know there's right now
the only real leg to stand on that you
have to consider for the go to failure
all the time crowd is while I'm advanced
that that's why I do it
never mind the fact that all here nut
huggers ah tying the two in are not
advanced these motherfuckers would be
training for a year they're like good I
follow what's his name he goes to
failure I'm gonna be a man like him I'm
gonna suck his dick one day it's gonna
feel great I'm gonna get his failure in
my face or whatever yeah shit like that
so you know when those that's the only
leg they have to stand I'm currently is
potentially advanced training
application and maybe that's correct and
they have a point and maybe it's not we
don't know but for almost everyone
somewhere between three RER and zero is
great with no particular affinity any
one of those but in a progressive system
there's a lot of good reasoning to go
from the 3rr area to zero REO yeah and
so the the thing is the debate is
largely over there's definitely some
more fine points that are worth you know
investigating but you know what we found
years ago was absolute loading operates
in a spectrum per any given fitness goal
meaning if you want to be stronger you
have to be you can get stronger so long
as you are using loads in a certain
range and if you want to get more
muscular we have that same idea if you
want to be more endurance or more
explosive like same idea you have to be
using a spectrum of intensities that are
appropriate that are some that are maybe
too much and there are some that are
maybe too little and then it turns out
the relative scaling of that is also
very much the same and from what we can
tell like as long as you're between 0 &
5 or IR you're probably doing a pretty
good job there might be some finer
points and some more interesting things
to talk about like training age or more
specific cutoff points but anyone who's
not kind of in that discussion is it's
kind of a waste of time because there's
no point in picking one side or the
other it's definitely a middle ground
where we say there's a spectrum of
operational intensity ranges both
absolute and relative and you can have
good good success and all and within
those ranges yeah what's really funny is
that
failure discussion actually mirrors the
one about volume progressions and the
volume progressions one not even close
to resolve within the evidence-based
community just so happens that games and
Jared and I think we're correct and
everyone else is some some degree close
to correct or off but it's funny because
when I first we first started talking
about MRV we were on the wrong side of
the debate I think because we were
saying like you should I was saying at
least you should train to MRV all the
time just think it through
I thought that was the conservative
position and it was because a lot of
people were saying there's no such thing
as I Marvy just train as much as you can
so let's just train to MRV and then the
other crowd of sort of minimalists
evidence-base men unless said you know
what if minimum factor volume is
actually what you want to train to and
that's like saying that's like a debate
between going to failure versus going
always two three or four or are it's
nonsense because going through the whole
range is probably the best and you know
we've maintained since then that going
from mev to MRV in some capacity over
most of us the cycles probably the best
idea dude or a lot of reasons and i
still has yet to catch on and a lot of
evidence-based folks understandings and
a lot of the reason i think it has to
catch on yet is because of dogma they
just haven't been conceiving of things
that way into and things that way so
we'll see how that progresses as well
yeah and this applies to hypertrophy to
a lesser degree but and one of the
things that i was working on in the the
sports book that i've been trying to
work on is um when you're looking at
like MRV versus like just training to an
MA v what you see is kind of a
plateauing effect in terms of dose right
so you keep adding dose and you're gonna
keep getting more response more spots
but then it kind of plateaus off and so
one thing that you could say right where
it's like okay you did some amount of
training back out you an MA v value
which means it wasn't that like the peak
height it wasn't the best growth or best
fitness stimulus that you could have
gotten but it was pretty damn good the
difference between that and the amount
of effort it takes to get to the MRV
might be massive in some cases and this
is probably more of a sporting issue
rather than a hypertrophy issue but if
you're working on something to actually
get to like the peak magnitude of game
like the MRV it might cost you an
incredible amount more effort than
taking a slightly less rigorous approach
and just going to NAV
and then freeing up a whole bunch of
training resources to do something else
right and so in this case you might
think like
I want to train my quads to MRV you
might actually just train your quads
close to MRV so that you don't
systemically over reach all the time
depending on what you're doing right so
you could make those kind of cases I
still think and like Mike Artie said if
you want to be as Jack as possible you
want to go from mev to MRV but there's
definitely some wiggle room for
discussion within some of those points
all right next up is Harry small it says
hey docks your smallest hairiest fan my
first question is how would you
structure a mess I go for someone who is
two foot tall and for your hair Jacob a
few questions regarding the recent
ization phase after I cut before a mess
okay number one should the intensity
through the meso stay the same as any
other mezzo in terms of working from
three four-hour one or an hour by the
end better stay clear failure and end
the mezzo to ensure fatigue is fully
cleared up going into the first of a
cycle of my mass so actually they don't
we don't actually advocate that you
necessarily recess the ties after a cut
before a mass but but we'll answer so
just to be clear there's other ways of
doing this you can do a little mass
first and then a recent citizen and then
another mass but let's just sort of
answer this example no you can still go
close to failure you just have to
modulate your volume remember that
volume is a much better contributor to
fatigue than intensity or loading for
that matter and that means how much
weight you're using and how close to
failure you get it
and people say going to failure is hard
we should do one set to failure per week
for a muscle group you can do that in
your sleep and your drop a shitload of
fatigue the entire time so if you keep
your volume as low as it's supposed to
be then going from three or four er to
one or IR is totally fine is that if you
want a more nuanced discussion is one RI
are probably a little bit better than
going to sear our IR in a recessive
ization man so probably you know I'll
leave everything you can with blood
sweat and tears on a platform but you
can train pretty fucking hard you just
have to keep the number of sets low
that's the real kicker if you train
three rir the entire time but in a
number of sets is high you're gonna do a
whole lot of not great
yeah and so yeah I mean that's
essentially what you're you're making a
volume intensity trade-off there right
so by increasing the intensity you're
actually reducing the amount of volume
you need to get the actual stimulus that
you want in some cases so it's probably
a good idea to keep the volumes low and
progress in the intensity so that you
actually can maintain those low volumes
before you go into the mass phase
otherwise you start getting you know of
course things like adaptive resistance
and whatnot so they kind of they are
there's always an intersectionality
between the volume intensity and
frequency and the one the vault when the
intensity goes up generally the volume
needed per any given goal will go down
yeah number two would you specifically
avoid highly fatiguing movement such as
Devils in recent citizen phase more so
than you would an amassing or cutting
mezzo ask this because I wanted to use
resources addition for use in my cycle
to bring back in big lifts such as
dellons I'll be undergoing recess
physician phases Jim's roping back up I
would like to pie my body feels lives Oh
a period of time without doing them
before yeah going into my mass so
actually I've recently on YouTube and
the upcoming book cleared out this issue
I think we sensitization phases for a
beginner or so beginners don't really
need them recesses elation phases for
intermediates are a good time to also
increase strength and a good time to
increase in intramuscular coordination
that is lower rep strength that will
make you even better at the lifts for
higher reps more technically proficient
and get more out of them when you're
more advanced we sensitization phases
start to look more and more and more
like active breast phases because you're
so beat up you can't go heavy if you're
gonna recover because a lot of it is
joining connective tissue disruption
that he's just not conducive to
continuing to deadlift or even
reintroducing deadlifts so if you feel
that your intermediate more or less your
joints never really bother you and you
love doing deadlifts and squats and you
can keep the volume low and so get a lot
out if I'm when you're out like dude if
I keep dad lifting my back is gonna fall
apart then absolutely is a great time to
do things like that but if you finish a
huge cut and you're like dude but I need
to do is just not be in the gym for two
weeks but it's time to do more of an
active rest style and in between those
two his arrest recent sodas ation phase
that can be three or four weeks long but
really avoids the lifts that really
irritate your your axial fatigue and
your conjoined connective tissue
fatigue so maybe then that's the time to
get away from squatting and uplifting
and just use like easier lifts to really
really like let your body heal yeah so I
like the way that you can have this
question in terms of like introducing
the deadlift during your you know
lighter training so that when you get to
the harder training you're already kind
of prepped in you got some momentum
going on there so you can kind of go
about it that way and that would be a
good way of like kind of potentiating
your deadlift for hard training though
at the same time since you're going into
the mass what you can do is keep the
exercise variations that you had been
doing the same during your recent
Siddhas asian phase and then when you
actually do your mask swap exercises if
you're doing that you benefit from a
super super low MeV and then you get to
ride out the easy gains for a really
long time so if you I think it's kind of
a wash so I would say like if you
introduce deadlifts early you gain
momentum and you lose some of that easy
training but it's probably like
equivalent long-term equivalent value so
you could go about it two different ways
like if you want to have a really great
mess sorry block of dead lifting you can
introduce it early if you want to really
ride out some easy gains in the
beginning of your mass which is of there
that makes it so making it sound like
it's um a negative thing it's it's
perfectly okay to ride those easy gains
and mass I would conserve the variation
for when you when you switch over and
then you have time to build up and both
of both options are okay in my opinion
spends on which way you want to go yeah
it should last one is one mesocycle
enough for this tree sensitization phase
possibly longer Mezo approximately six
weeks I mean I think like 3 to 4 weeks
is more than enough for most true
sensitization phases James I think it's
plenty you know I think both Mike and my
opinions have changed on this over the
last couple years I think from a diet
perspective it's worth taking time in
some of these maintenance phases but
from a pure training perspective and
especially this situation where just
going from cut to mass this is one where
I think IRA sensitize you don't need to
diet resent citize you just need to
training resent citize which is really
kind of like a two-week thing for most
people so I would be in favor of taking
us two weeks active rests and then just
getting right to it if it was like a
post you know post mass maintenance
phase or something there there might be
some incentive to hold out
that maintenance phase for a little
while but in this case there's not a
huge incentive to do it yeah
all right next up is HOF il and I ran
ahead sword sword so I don't know he
says it's like dr. Dre
but acute something you guys don't have
in your language fear hard to explain if
anyone of you speaks a little French you
will know what I'm talking about soda
I don't know us Raphael sword that's my
that's my guess
Brad Salado is it okay so he goes hello
muscle masters in the fitness universe
he-man joke balm that how faiello tells
us what the joke is it's amazing so many
Brazilians just look like he-man for no
reason yeah well when you move into Luke
lately he may do you know how Acosta UFC
fighter no I don't he man like just yet
legit he man that's awesome
alright he goes is the one and only RP +
OG addressing some things first in order
your Brazilian guy impression is very
accurate but is only from one city of
Brazil which is the most rich your
Brazilian guy is not the generic
Brazilian person but the specific one is
a Brazilian person who has the sound
follow capital ass you guys are nailing
it cadence and style however you only
talk that way and sound follow for the
most part sorry what oh you saw some
Paulo is Brazil yes okay heavy half way
I want you to talk to us about the copy
bar situation next time I want to know
more about these country but the
capybaras like if we were in the Central
Intelligence Agency and we need you to
give us a briefing about the capybaras
situation in Brazil that's your next job
why is why are they friends with
everyone they're friends with alligators
they're friends with everything yeah or
whatever it's whatever alligator
crocodile know which ones are was
everybody caiman all right now the
promotion vulture is asking I thought
you like now we do is you now those
sheets as I said I do not get sore and
my wear and tear is almost the same I
have been doing
one exercise per muscle I used to do all
of them but the Russian sapiens taught
me better I went to the other extreme I
have been doing one exercise per muscle
wear and tear is not something that I
feel now okay just quick before we get
to the rest of it because you don't feel
it now doesn't mean you might not feel
it later so be on the lookout okay a lot
of times things can go well in the short
term and then they start feeling wacky
in the longer term and then because
you've been doing something from the
short term for long enough you kind of
like oh well it can't be this I've been
doing it for years and maybe that's
what's fucking you up like in the first
two mesocycles Smith squats don't hurt
my knees but after three they start to
really hurt my knees and after four I
can't do them anymore so that's
something I had to deal with and that's
why I take breaks from her so something
in the first mezzo I'd be like oh my god
these are great I could do these forever
it's just not true
something I feel normally make eight
week progression deal or go to another
exercise but what is optimal the
exercises are hand pick they are the
best most gains most pump my muscle SFR
but what is optimal ten sets of
something like dips if you can get to it
or five dips five or something else that
is not that great or a compound that for
exercises that are good and mashing
together let's suppose I'm Superman and
don't feel a thing not leprosy what is
the optimal for muscle growth if you
guys can illustrate what in your opinion
is the best thing for you guys having in
mind the high capability of volume it
not much structural damage what exercise
two exercises pick the for better
exercise and compound 2x2 and other
month change to two please don't hold
yourself drop that knowledge well so
here's the deal I've actually just
recorded a video that'll be out in the
next few months um literally answering
this question of how many exercises
should I do if the entire video is about
it's like thirty minutes long and I
can't I don't want to rant too much
about it now because it wouldn't do the
video justice but just a quick preview
you have to look at it from Q James
Hoffman needs analysis perspective and
something else is just an analysis of
constraints so what you need is to
stimulate hypertrophy what constrains
you is snail us and another constraint
that you have to keep in mind is
variation and rotation you don't want to
use all your exercises that
because then you use all them it wants
then they all get stale at once and you
have nothing to do because you just have
to stop training and let the recess the
ties so there's an inherent bias towards
using as few exercises is you need to
get the job done
that being said muscles have multiple
different functions so you need to like
for example you can't just do rows for
the lats because the last work it a
little bit differently when you're doing
you know straight arm pull downs and a
little bit differently when doing
vertical pull downs the fibers get hit
differently something like you know if
you want to train your lats you probably
do at least two or three different
exercises probably good idea your packs
haven't list sort of three different
functions or ways of getting stimulated
one is big stretch at the bottom
another is big contraction peak
contraction at the top like bench
presses don't do both of those just one
cable flyes don't do both just one and
then you have another one of incline
versus journal or clavicular versus
journal packs so like someone says you
know can I get optimal chest hypertrophy
from just the benchpress
no cuz you won't get the best upper
packs and say what about can I get the
optimal chest aperture if you from
inclines no because you won't hit the
lower middle pecs right so there's some
exercise of most muscle groups require
at least two exercises per week right to
get done and then lastly and there's a
much more detailed behind this
discussion which is going to be up in
the video is the stimulus to fatigue
ratio specifically with a mind muscle
connection as it relates to intra intra
workout into recession after how many
sets of a given exercise are you really
just not exerting yourself as optimally
and your mind muscle connection kind of
sucks and what we'll say is like James
and I should I think last times webinar
down sets do mitigate that to some
extent so you may only be able to do
five sets of squats until anymore
squatting just feels like shit this is
not doing anything I think you may be
able to get to seven sets of squats
feeling pretty good if you do two down
sets after five working sets at the
regular weight straight sets
but like fundamentally James and I this
is coming up in the book that were
writing our advice is like if anything
is going to be done for more than five
to seven sets it's probably a to
exercise job because we found through
almost a unanimous feedback among
clients that if you stop if you let's
say only let people do two sets on an
exercise and switch exercises for a
number of reasons it's way too much
exercise switching people are just
getting
after two sets you're like yes I want
that third after four or five sets
people have done about as much quality
work on them exercises they will get
done and every other set just feels like
them my tension in the muscle is not
being perceived anymore your ability to
really contract on also hard goes to
share it's time to do something new that
can even if the muscle as a whole isn't
beat up that new exercise can make it
feel like wow it's super super refreshed
so if you're doing like 15 sets per
session it's probably a three exercise
job if you're doing 10 sets per session
that's a to exercise job if you're doing
less than five it's definitely one
exercise can do it when you start a
mesoamerica exercises during a mezzo if
you start a mezzo for something like
let's say chest on Monday and you know
you're eventually gonna get to like 13
or 14 sets of chest on that Monday then
start with two to three chest exercises
because you know you're gonna need that
many and just add a couple sets to each
one as they go so so the real answer is
you know SFR is everything but for most
people that SFR drop off occurs after we
can say very generally four to seven
sets of an exercise later i've made
almost no one they can do ten sets of
squats and be like this is amazing I'm
getting incredible contraction usually
they're just like what the fuck am I
even doing
but like five sets of squats and five
light presses man that's a great fucking
workout you don't need any more
exercises for that you can do three sets
of squats four sets of leg presses and
three sets of lunges that's good you
could argue that it's a little bit too
much exercise Jim it's fine but if you
like take the same ten sets and you're
not doing five exercises like two sets
per exercise they're just the SFR is
actually poorer because at least one of
those sets the first set of each one is
a set of what you don't get the best
results because you're still adjusting
to the exercise it's almost like
designing a program where you never find
your groove it's like you guys know I
made this analogy I think I'm the video
- that's coming out when you have a
really tasty meal
like you want to like dig in - and I
really appreciate the fuck out of it if
you went to a restaurant where they only
gave you one spoonful of each food it
would be even difficult to appreciate
you believe that this is like lobster
mac and cheese oh my god that's so good
like you like it you're like yeah like
okay here's ice cream
I wanted more this and of course after a
certain amount of lobster mac and cheese
you would prefer to eat something else
there's an optimality there that we
think occurs in the four to 77 range
James yeah I totally agree and you know
not all but a large chunk of this can be
explained by training age the simple
fact the matter is as you train more you
get adaptive resistance and you have to
keep increasing the amount of volume
that you're doing the funny area where I
think that's worth talking about is as
you're transitioning kind of from
beginner to intermediate right so we
start to see pretty large doses our
excuse me increases in dose needed to
continue driving gains but at the same
time the intermediate lifter is either
by choice or accidentally capable of
increasing their SF ours either through
technique modifications or just exercise
selection so you see the need of volume
going up but you see the ability to
execute that same volume going up in
quality so you kind of get this like
gray zone as an intermediate where it's
like you're getting better as a lifter
so it's kind of mitigating the amount of
volume that you need but you're still
accruing adaptive resistance and then
once you get to that point where your SF
RS are largely in check in terms of
individualizing your exercise technique
and you just have a good idea of which
exercises work for you now you start to
hit those constraining walls much harder
where it's like okay well I can't just
do you five sets anymore I need to do 10
sets right and now I have to think about
okay within 10 sets how do I break that
down and as you become an advanced it's
like I'll go knock now I might need 15
sets can I even do that in one session
the answer is probably no I might
actually have to do instead of one
session like maybe three sessions of
this kwatak you know activity so the the
needs analysis can includes that idea of
training age and there's a couple big
milestones along the ways in terms of
how many exercises you need to
incorporate in your program all of which
dr. Mike Hardy explained very well yeah
almost always the people that are like
you just have to squat and bench for
growth our beginner intermediate
transitions they just caught the little
sail their little wind in their sails
and they just learned how good they are
at squatting and how off they like it
and they're excellent gains and they're
like I'm just gonna squat for legs and
then when you get to be an advanced
intermediate you're like that's a
stupidest idea I've ever had yeah
exactly so it's one of those things like
again it you don't you don't choose
based on what dr. Mike and I said is the
optimal number of exercises you choose
based on your own into the
we'll constraints how many sets do you
need to get done how good is the SFR of
the movements that you've chosen and you
kind of go from there at that point yeah
number two in case of a drop of
performance I usually use the first two
sets only as a proxy is that wrong like
if I'm doing in the first week ten reps
in the last I have to do at least ten
reps or more but as the RIR gap closes
to zero because of fatigue accumulation
so I'm pushing myself more in the last
week as fatigue cumulates yeah that's
fine we James and I don't use to the
first two sets but we use only the first
exercise in a group so if you change if
you train chest on Monday and you're
doing incline bench press and then
you're doing a cable flyes after we only
measure performance on the incline and
we only compare comparable sets so let's
say week five he did success and week
four you did five sets well we don't
care what you did in set number six of
week five we just care what you did in
the first four set so we can interpolate
those numbers and say oh okay like you
clearly you just have less reps between
those five sets that means it's a drop
in performance or it's just as many
you're fine or it's an increase in
you're doing better we also like to
average the reps so for example in week
four you could have done eight then 10
then you know six set our reps in the
first three sets and then in the second
week after that but we got really only
five you could have done twelve then six
then eight maybe like which one's better
cuz the second set you sort of suck the
first one was way better the third was
de the same well if you just average the
reps then you really get a good picture
of what's going on because some sense
and that's a really cool thing is some
sets just go better than others but look
if you had four sets to really show your
stuff and across all four sets you
sucked more than last time
you suck it's not like you could you
couldn't have a bad first set and be
like oh man but I made it up on the
second set like well then you're really
at your MRV you remember V when there's
no making it up when trying to make it
up gives you a deeper hole and then the
third set like you have you knew you're
supposed to hit ten ten ten I mean
you're MRV you hit you hit nine and
you're like I got a hit ten in the
stacks one and you do heaven and earth
wind and fire you get ten on the second
set that third set is going to be like
three clearly I'm not getting 30 total
reps in the first so that's how we would
do it first two sets is fine but I think
our methods may be a little bit more
integrated but definitely use the first
exercise my first exercise why not
second because the first exercise
measures your muscles when they're fresh
ready to work out and really tells you
how they're doing because you're adding
you know sets to your first exercise
anyway you don't get a good comparison
for what you did in cable flyes the
second exercise this week versus last
week because there's more more sets of
inclines leading up to it of course
you're gonna have underperform so first
exercises only and make sure you're
comparing only like versus like sets and
the more sets you have to compare the
better it just has to compare the same
number of sense yeah I think that's a
really important distinction because if
you're if your numbers don't match on
the first sets of your first exercise
that is indicative of either local or
systemic overreaching right so if you
were supposed to get 10 and you get 6 on
that first one yeah something's wrong
right if you get wrong if you get 9 it's
like meds it's kind of there may be some
not but if it's like like two-thirds to
half of what you normally would get it's
very clear that something is wrong right
whereas on the latter sets or different
exercises if you did six sets of incline
bench like anything downstream of that
if it's PEC or tricep related it's going
to take a natural fatigue related hit
yes it's hard to measure
MRV between sessions measures between
session recovery not within so people
think like well my reps are dropping off
a lot that doesn't matter your up
drop-off good you're tired but we're
talking about between sessions and what
James here's another way to
contextualize what James just said like
if it's 6:00 and supposed to be 10
you're probably fucked how does that
jive with the integrated approach where
you can't let's say all three sets of
comparison well think of it this way
you're supposed to do 10 10 10 let's
just say and the first that you did six
that means if you're gonna get 10 on
your third which is curious if you've
got 6 on your first how the fucking is
that work but here's what you'll also
need to do you need to get 14 on your
second all-time mega ultra PR and you
just never gonna hit it so that's why
the average that's why when James says
we give your first set of six you really
fucked you can interpret that to be like
well I thought you guys were saying
averages once that doesn't say anything
like no it doesn't but like it we don't
go
with our three total quizzes you're not
getting an eighth and MRV means you need
an a every time so re yeah exactly yeah
that's and that's when like training
wisdom takes over training practice like
if James and I are training together
we're trying to hit you know PRS and
someone gets six out of ten in a first
set we look at each other like that's
time to shut it down to like one type of
seat on the couch over there aren't you
relaxed for me yeah eight or nine yeah
you can make that up maybe six you're
not making up chair so alright number
two in case of a drop performance I
usually sorry number three in the
overreaching phase can I do the same
training two times a day if I can handle
with it be beneficial I would take a
deal at after without any training bad
you know actually just don't know James
but this one does he saying do the same
session to same the same session let's
let's expand this a little bit until I
truly say same muscle group so chest am
chest p.m. I don't think from an
economists mechanistic perspective that
makes a ton of sense I would prefer you
rested longer and just did more set
chest sessions that week and I think if
you're a training frequency is
appropriately high anyway like just have
this super high quality mondo for chest
workouts that week rather than having
like eight chest workouts but all of
them incrementally stock more and more
and then you die yeah it also begs the
question of like were you actually under
training that entire time like if you
can actually train chest again later
that day I would suspect that you under
did it the first time right and so I
would agree with dr. Mike it might just
be worth spending more time taking a
longer session and then maybe adding
your accessory work to a PM session if
training is training your legs or your
chest or whatever your back just takes
so fucking long because you have so many
sets to get through and then doing like
your arms or shoulders whatever later
that's perfectly fine no one would judge
that but if you can I've experimented
with this before like when we were in
the lab because I was trying to do some
of the same shit that weight lifters
were doing when they would squat back
squat a.m. front squat p.m. I tried that
folks it's it's it causes all the wrong
pain right not the good pain not their
like I fucked my quads up it's like I
just fucked my body up I don't know why
I did that yeah tons of joint discomfort
I was not a big fan I tried that shit it
didn't do me a lot of good I would
rather less to look rest a little bit
longer come back at two or three days
and do another great workout where they
have a soup
work out an am the dog should work out
on the PM and then have to rest twice as
long between and I can't help but think
that I don't I don't I want to use
choose my words carefully here cuz I
don't know if interfere is the right
word but it definitely would be a
disruption in the SRA process for that
muscle group because you know within two
to three hours we're already seeing like
transcription translation and then
protein synthesis starts happening for
the next however long it takes based on
the muscles and how hard you trained so
I can only imagine that if you train
that muscle again if you can even
present an overload stimulus again and
if you again if you can that seems odd
being that seems like you're gonna have
this kind of downward debt she just oh
man this is brilliant so if you can it's
odd and if you can't why the fuck are
you training right that's it yeah so I
think that basically nails that one so
it would seem suspicious on numerous
levels my friend yeah alright he says
like if I want to increase my upper
chest area I can do like forty six sets
of incline Smith Machine benchpress I
have done it it was amazing great gains
would I'd put another chest on top of us
from here if I can recover as fine -
yeah same question as last time I
wouldn't do that yeah I live guys I must
be doing something wrong if it is crazy
for you guys reading imagine for me
doing it I have done in caloric deficit
for resets a week for triceps 60 for
side laterals it's probably fiber
conversion can't be that far but I grew
plenty in that last part that fucks the
puzzle in my mind that I grew a lot I
don't know is if anything is real
anymore matrix joke this point I'm
rambling on paper lol listen just if
something is working you don't have to
look at gift horse in the mouth there's
an American expression for you just keep
doing it and you're totally fine and as
you realize that you know you doing
super high volumes if you're a gain and
start to become less than impressive
then you know the correct answer is
probably reducing your volumes and try
that and then if your games become
really unimpressive that I guess to just
go increase volume again but it's
totally failing look if it's working
here here would be what's-his-name
Rafael he would be a real puzzle for us
if you were doing that much and it
wasn't working then when we have some
things to tell you but if you're doing
that much and it's working and you're
not having joy connective tissue stress
you don't
ton of systemic fatigue lock it up some
people just do meh no pencil means as a
client who does regularly 70 sets of
back per week it's a female client and
she's just like just her back just does
not take a shitload of damage and she
gets her best results from ultra high
volumes people are different genetic
variation individuals is massive I have
no doubt in my mind if there are people
on this earth whew but there are for
whom one to two sets per week close to
failure is their MRV or close that
absolutely exists and they might be so
fast which and so big that they actually
grow the best like that that's actually
possible all the way up to people from
anything under 60 cents per week is not
even above maintenance falling that's
absolutely possible those are incredibly
rare people that they do happen remember
that the tales of distributions are
incredibly long so that does happen so
if you find yourself one of those tails
it's okay as long as you're getting good
results you're good to go
if you're not getting good results then
it's time to change but you're kind of
saying like I'm doing a lot of training
but what's happening like you're growing
motherfuckers stop asking what's
happening when you're not growing - time
to stop start asking what's happening
yeah stop whining already you want
squit rubbing it in our faces okay wrong
with you you're a little bitch you need
to train twice as hard 50 times as hard
107 yes I think it'll be sorry cut your
Arnold impression up but I was gonna say
like in the other direction it would be
easier to explain right and that's
admittedly true so if you were saying
I'm doing like 60 cents of this and that
per week and I'm not seeing any
performance gains i mike and i would
look at each other go yeah either your
your exercise technique is garbage your
SFR is garbage or you're just training
too much at that point right one or a
combination of those things that would
be really easy very logical in this case
you're making gains so just keep doing
what you're doing you won it'll slow
down eventually this is the thing that
you're gonna run into is at some point
that will stop so for now you can keep
doing it until you can't do it anymore
yeah how do percent alpha L is just a
fucking comedian he goes how to know if
I have outlier genetics is that a metric
it's not F F mi I have black eye
genetics obviously I
okay I have no idea what fuck you look
like hell up let's look up what how file
looks like no good this has to happen I
do follow him so it should be a quick
let's find out how Instagram search
algorithm works ha file ah ha file hope
he does have black eye genetics hold up
should I I'm gonna share my screen okay
let me share mine first there go okay I
think this is him yes it's him okay so
boom oh yeah yeah right on I mean
clearly your black eye so you must have
black action triceps on oh fuck this
motherfucker talking about some problem
it is no problem alright enough of that
anyway alright so is it still shared or
no I think you've shared it yeah okay so
let me go back here is that a real thing
how to know how do I know if I'm
black-haired feather but the trained
wrong for all those years time will tell
anyway haha yeah look the thing about
genetics is that you know they don't
require your consent either have
whatever generously have you have so all
you can ever do is do your best and at
the end of the day listen how file you
might be the next guy green or you might
be the next guy who trained and got 20
kilos of muscle and got 21 years later
so you never can tell just just keep
going and doing your best but yeah I
think the evidence is clear at this
point right like we saw your Instagram
yeah you do it you're jacked or what I
do anything it's making you jacked keep
getting jacked a says thanks guys
translate the fucking RP book for us
morons don't let motherfuckers take it
Oh mad shit haha
by the way the Denisova knows okay so
it's the Denisovans that's a human
branch of evolution our human slash
ape-like creatures before Homo sapiens
basically I was trying to do another
caveman joke
Ethiopia ouch Jesus today we do a meal
prepping now meal prep okay have it the
Grammy Grammy carbohydrate go barrage
okay Ally ha Alejandra cries another
Brazilian I think I'm telling you we're
blowing up and for you right now I'm
telling you we should read her question
in Brazilian accent I'm just gonna be
like I'm from Arizona you dickheads
she's a keeper
assholes we're like but how file said I
mean come on he's like mother right
that's how you sound she's like fuck
hello there doctors hope you can help on
this woman topic slash issue I get
stress incontinence whenever I do
high-intensity workouts and or lifts
also when I sneeze stress incontinence
it's all peeing okay oh yeah
likely I'm not sure how to explain it
further but it it bothers me to the
point that it either distracts or
discourages me from working out that
happens mostly on burpees mainly on
conditioning workouts but occasionally
on strength lifts as well as goblet
squats I've searched online about it and
the consensus is that it's common and
just to wear dark pants and pants oh and
just in case I'm a twenty year old one
and haven't been pregnant what are your
opinions let me know if more info is
needed for me so I can post it on the
next Q&A man I know nothing about it I
just know it's completely benign so
something to worry about and I know it
happens to a ton more people than talk
about it so I wouldn't worry about it
much and if your doctor says you're
healthy P it up girl yeah that's what I
say I don't know much about this at all
I've heard some things about it in post
pregnant women that strengthening the
pelvic floor can help with incontinence
issues that's at I'm assuming that's
like a totally different issue
altogether but that seems to be a common
theme I would maybe look into that or
ask a doctor I don't even know it will
be ob/gyn at that point that's all I got
yeah I'm sorry that's just not our area
of expertise it does happen though it
means like it's not a weird question I
mean people do it all the time
yeah it's just ly nothing to worry about
you speak to your doctor about it and if
anyone else has any insights about how
to potentially decrease it that would be
us yeah thanks for asking I like when
people are doing a snatch and they drop
a big deuce in
singlet that's a big difference
still gotta stand up with it man you
know why use the shoe to wipe off the
platform real quick hope nobody notices
they're like syrup
you just put shit everywhere on the
platform with your shoe I was trying to
help no you weren't
people should have head up late all the
time yeah it's fucked up man it's a it's
it happens oh well next a coach
mentioned that German volume training is
one of the best methods to roll your
legs what are your thoughts on German
volume training because I've seen all
the gbt is not recommended but I want to
grow my legs and glutes I was thinking
of doing squats and hip thrust with gbt
programming
moreover should we care when a matter as
the fitness community when the
aforementioned coach claimed to have
lifted a heavy weight but then it was
found out to be fake plates okay let's
do what that one will steel with that
one separately okay even if the coach is
highly praised influential and gives
lots of advice albeit suboptimal in many
cases so my German volume training is
not a good idea because for most people
it falls somewhere between the top end
of maximum adaptive volume to MRV but
it's just not something you want to
start with because it's way too much
volume at the front end so you can
eventually so you just start with normal
sets and reps and slowly add sets as
you're able to recover and your strength
is stable or increasing until you get to
potentially if your body can recover
from adjourned volume training volumes
with just 10 sets of 10 you know your
reps always we mentioned on our P should
be in anywhere in the 5 to 30 rep range
sets of 10 is a great you know the
average that's totally fine how many
sets though is a matter of starting at
your close to your minimum effective
volume which is some where you get a
little bit slower and get a little bit
of a pub get a little bit of a
perception that you did some work and
then slowly go on from there as your
body is able to recover and you recover
on time that's it so it's it's it's kind
of like you know journal volume training
may be something that you pass on your
way from low volume training all the way
up to ultra high volume training so it's
all of its good it's just it depends on
what kind of shape you're in it's almost
like asking like you know K is a medium
drink a good drink to have like well it
depends on a thirst you are right like
if you're not very thirsty it's a stupid
drink to have cuz you're gonna throw out
half of it so extra small is great if
you're ultra super mega fucking thirsty
then it's stupid order because you
much large so you got a tailor it and
all of us sort of need an extra small
drink when we start a training mesocycle
so we start with fewer sets and then we
get bigger drinks as we go that's yeah
so the main as dr. Mike already said the
main limitation to GPT is it's not
individualized to your needs it's just a
brute-force approach which for some
people is great especially if they're
not used to training in high volumes and
they never actually worked up to their
MRV the problem is it's just it's not
met for your individual needs so we have
a completely different position stance
and if this is the first time hearing it
welcome we have a system we call the
volume landmarks and there's a number of
resources that we have on our website we
have books and stuff but basically we we
look at how do we have us a good
productive beginning of a mesocycle in
terms of where do you start in terms of
sets and where you end and how much
should I train the hypertrophy hub all
sorts of things on our PE have all sorts
of information on that that's something
that Mike and I have been very vocal
about and has talked about endlessly so
check those check those resources out
and then if you want to come back next
time and write us a question about how
you know gvt compared to training
between MeV and MRV we'd be glad to
break that down even further but the
blanket kind of statement is just that
it's just not individualized to your to
your needs it's just here's here's an
arbitrary number of a lot of things to
do do it so yeah yeah exactly it's like
when on every problem we have a hammer
for problems and they all kind of
approach exactly address the fake plates
yeah so I personally I have mixed
feelings about this because a good coach
is somebody who doesn't necessarily have
to be a high performer somebody who
should be knowledgeable should be
personable and can help walk you through
everything you need for all of your
goals right so whether or not they are
the best rugby player the best power
lifter or the best body builder to me
it's largely irrelevant I do like when
people have experience and those things
so that they can coach you through all
the things that you need to know they're
gonna be able to tell you hey here's
something that comes up that you need to
be aware about if you have a power
lifting coach or weightlifting coach
they're gonna help you run your numbers
at the table it's something that you've
probably never done they're gonna help
you through your warm-ups which is
something you've never done for
competition there's all sorts of little
just minut things that somebody with
experience can walk you through and
that's what being a good coach is all
about in many ways however I think it's
also
it also is indication of like a history
of lying in sincerity and just a lot of
other when somebody is the fake plates
thing when they're posting videos that
shows that they have like a very weak
ego they're not they're perfectly okay
with lying and putting it out there so
there's just a lot of like personal
traits there that I don't think are
things that I would want to be
affiliated with now that's not to say
that that person might still not be a
good coach but to me it would be
indicative that they have some issues
that they're dealing with and that their
moral compass is not in line with my own
and so maybe we're not going to get
along great toys I've been using the RP
diet to fill my weightlifting
performance for years and our piece
simple science-based approach has been
instrumental to my success with the new
RP diet app following our P's principles
is as easy as entering my goals and
schedule in choosing my favorite foods
the app builds a diet to my exact needs
reminds me to eat my meals and adapts to
my body's changes every single day and
week the RP diet app is a huge help in
my quest to become the best athlete I
can be and if your goal is to be your
best it will help you lastly how could I
better gauge reps and Reserve
specifically so I highlighted this way
because I and I don't want to be
dismissive
but super we do beat this one to death
and she does acknowledge it in her post
so I'm super yeah yeah you're gonna go
is our dressing of it was basically like
just do your best guess of what that
starts to get hard the lift and then
just analyze later because every
mesocycle you're gonna be getting close
to feeling you could see how far off you
were that's a totally as long as you
make a decent guess progression takes
care of the rest
Daniel hacker a man who spends almost
all of his time infiltrating computer
systems around the world hacks or can
you guys list some of your favorite quad
exercises to do on Later quad session in
the week in the context of having the
fully stocked weight room usually on my
letter quad sessions variants I toggle
between our high rep leg extensions
walking lunges walking lunge to squat
superset haha and lastly Smith Machine
fronts front foot elevated split squat
goddamn
10 to 15 reps range can you guys give me
some other ideas that I can use for
future mezzos thinks I like leg presses
that's my idea I like high rep leg
presses are great especially with the
rest
she do a set of 15 rest for three
seconds set of six rest for three
seconds set of five etc right here oh my
god you get to about 30 total reps and
rack you only need two or three sets
like that per workout and then be like
that's the equivalent of like ten
approaches to failure so it's gnarly as
fuck and it's super great names yeah so
I'm with you on the knee extension
that's always a hit for me but again
Mike and I we've talked about this
probably anthropometry related SFR issue
I really like belt squats that's one
that for me is homerun in terms of light
quad day like ain't hard to beat that
and I actually hack squats and for me
it's light because I'm not very strong
but it does reduce quite a bit of the
like systemic fatigue of regular
squatting so I've had good luck with
hack squats inant I don't it doesn't
crush me like during a barbell squat
would for for higher reps like 10 to 15
that's always a good one and one that
I've been doing lately which is
irrelevant about the weight room but
sissy squats which fuck you are knees up
it's not easy on the knees but when you
kind of are taxing some of your quad
variations I've been using that one
lately and for me it's great for other
people like for dr. Mike I would imagine
it's probably not very good at all
I think it also depends like on how long
your tibia and femur are and how much
benefit you get from the movement cuz to
really get a lot of benefit of it you've
got a fucking limbo you got to be way
back there to get a lot of good stretch
and a good like amount of ROM so that's
one that I've been using with success so
far but it does it is hard on the knees
undoubtedly next question for Daniel do
you both have exercises that gets
tailing you much quicker than others how
do you fix it or do you even fix it if
it's a new variation of a dumbbell
lateral raises get old so quick for me
and I have a human as to why I can't
progress some weight on them very
quickly I can't add reps on them very
quickly and I can't use much weight on
them we'll see who's meat-headed but I
think this is definitely a thing do you
think it might be a good idea on them to
not train as close to failure and do
more sets or maybe not feel as though
I'm pushing them to the limit all the
time let's still pound the volume
usually stop my laterals around five
sets but more so because I'm just over
it rather than my lateral delts your
trash pull so down sets are really good
idea there all right that's something
you could say check out if I stayed a
bit farther away from failure I'm sure I
could push to seven sets and still stay
within the desired rep range I mean I
think down sets are better because
staying far away from failure and doing
more sets doesn't actually give you any
more advantages I don't think I'm with
you on that
yeah it just gets too demoralizing and
frankly aggravating to do the same sets
and raps mezzo after mezzo with the same
weight and largely the same reps and I
need to fix it I just haven't progressed
on them in a long time and it sucks the
last fact means nothing but current PRS
top pause laterals for 13 with 30s so I
think that like you couldn't transition
to different styles of them you could do
them slightly leaning over like burro
style you can do them with a pause then
you could do them without a pause and
you could do them superset to upright
rows or something and that gives you
like four variants right there that you
can only have to do the regular non
paused laterals once every six months or
something like that and keep your
training really fresh so so that's the
thing that maybe you want to consider
there's a little is also like thumbs
down there is cable bears there's a ton
or you can just switch to like upright
row variations the thing with like the
lateral raises is it's such a small it's
such a lightweight exercise to begin
with and there's just there's small
muscles there's just not a huge room for
improvement unless you're using like one
pound increment type weights so you mean
going from even 27.5 to 30 that's a big
jump I mean even fir if you're somebody
like myself or Mike sighs I mean Mike
does a lot more weight than that but
that's still like a substantial jump
even for intermediate male I think it's
just one of those exercises where like
unless you could work in like half pound
increments
there's just not a lot of huge room for
improvement or increases in intensity
week to week and so you shouldn't feel
so down about it yep Matthew van shellin
back it's the fucking the name award for
this this week I mean that he's like a
royalty who's the coolest who's the
actor who played Khan in the Star Wars
Star Trek excuse me well Cumberbatch
Benedict Cumberbatch that's that Nate
his name reminded me of that man my name
Evancho's
he was great why did he move his mouth
and face so much when he talked because
he's amazing they need that I can
yeah don't you don'tyou besmirches
acting man okay he says I love the Q&A
with Mike and meadow Mike being as you
have trained and hung out with meadow
what changes would you make just program
/ trainee if you were coaching him what
changes do you trying to get touch it to
make for you during the pot I've asked
that a QA but I missed it thank you
well I think you can answer your own
question Matthew by knowing what it is
that we approach training as and there's
probably my training would for him would
look more like what I would do for
myself and vice versa well I will say
that two things one is the answer your
question I would probably have him do a
slightly lower frequency in period Isis
frequency and he would probably have any
slightly higher frequency it's probably
the biggest changes but fundamentally I
think meadow and I would both agree that
we're not qualified to coach each other
because our expertise is so high
generally and we know our own body so
well that it's really really difficult
for us to to coach each other because
it's a matter of telling someone
something they know better about
themselves like Jared feather and I help
each other with our programs but mostly
just general theoretical suggestions and
skeptical questions about why are you
doing this versus to that rather than
writing a program if I write Jared
feather an exact program you'd be like
actually don't like this exercise I
prefer to do this after that my
frequency for chest is better off to
than three and I'm like okay I didn't
know I'm doing this and I don't do it he
writes his own programs and I critique
them or I write him a template program
and he critiques it or vice versa and
when he talks to me about diet you know
he doesn't say do this he's like what
would you think about increasing your
carbs a bit from where they are now to
here or decreasing for there or do the
mistral fats and I go man you know
that's a good idea and then I can
textual eyes it so the only thing I
would ever be able to do for Meno is act
as like a consultant and then him for me
as well so I think that that's probably
the most yeah I think people tend to
think for some reason that like Meno RP
you know 3d MJ like we have these like
vastly different ideologies and training
methods and I mean the difference is
they're small guys they're talking like
maybe I got two percent or less type
difference right and those two things
look that small difference those small
differences seem to be like
highlighted to such a degree that people
tend to blow them out of proportion like
if you look at anything that I've seen
some of the programs that menos done
I've seen some of the stuff that 3d MJ
does it's a lot of the same stuff it's a
lot of rinse and repeat we largely all
do a lot of the same things when we
change frequency that's a little bit
different when we decide to do fatigue
management sometimes that's a little bit
different but we all do fatigue
management we all change frequency at
some point it's just how we implement it
they're just slightly different
strategies they overlap more than
they're different and I don't know why
people seem to think like we're just
diverge at these huge intersections
really don't do it all right
Harrison hi dr. Mike dr. James thanks
for your pleasure last week you ripped
me a new one deservedly with the second
max snatch day was totally ego and the
max front squat was also ego / boredom
that's for our surgery was go I'm not
major thank God and everything is
feeling normal and healthy one nice
benefit to this break is that low back
tightness which i've asked about it in
past webinars from tweak I got a week or
two before my last comp has gone away
and healed up that's really good and
some wrist discomfort has also gone away
this is the we were talking about like
training brakes last time and how to
hook with the arm this is it's exactly a
list of luster over fat you measure that
I should really ease into training it's
my bad that I didn't clarify what I'm
doing I'm back into a workout routine
that I'm consistently and I'm
consistently dieting the next four weeks
of training is a bridge block its main
goal is to reactivate me slowly into
volume training by building up work
capacity my case return to fitness
that's great great he starts off with a
small amount of sets and a lot of
accessories I don't understand how those
two are mutually compatible yeah yeah I
think I think what he's trying to say is
like a lot of main work sets for
compounds money compound work sets and
lots of accessories well I think it's
meant to just say like I'm not doing a
ton of the really hard stuff but I'm
doing enough of the easy stuff to kind
of build myself up which I don't okay
don't totally care or agree but we gotta
do sure any competition movements are
done with low volume and intensity more
for technique with an emphasis on
specific rest time between sets develops
that work capacity return to fitness
rest time between sets does not build
more capacity it builds
that's unless you're like completely out
of shape decondition - right at that
point putting any kind of restriction on
rest is cardiovascular intensive but
right but we're assuming that your
wavenet yeah the bridge block Harrison
should be just mostly sticking to the
competition compounds and doing them
very easily and doing more and more of
them each week not smashing a ton of
volume on the accessories while building
up your compounds think about your
compound specifically that makes them
more fatiguing or injurious when you're
so unused to other stuff it's the total
amount of volume always makes the
biggest difference so take that before
you well um let's see I do have a
question I do have a question I do have
about how I started I chose the snatch
because it's so technique driven for me
aka I suck at it I also know not to do a
maximal force exercise or alphabet there
I definitely know now to give it more
than a few days before chewing that
front squat shenanigan last time I had a
stash BR was August of 2018 so
psychologically as soon as I hit a small
PR it sparked with me the desire to
train again your experience when if ever
is it a good idea for a client or
athlete to do something off program for
fun to refire them to Train so what
would you have them do yeah I may be the
most wrong person in the world to ask
that I think if you need fire to train
go fuck yourself
but you know what this is the exact
purpose of what an active rest phase is
for yes it's not trained to refire for
crisis so you you if you're coaching
them and they are exhibiting symptoms of
staleness plateau and stuff like that
the active rest phase is the time where
you give the autonomy back to the
athlete you say like you know what you
can just go fuck off for a couple weeks
do what you want to do I'm not gonna
write your program you can do as little
or as much as you want all you have to
do is not get super fat not lose muscle
and not decondition but anything else is
up to you and that's usually the time
where this kind of stuff works itself
out that's exactly what it's meant for
us for them to go and fuck around and
have some fun and then after a couple
weeks of that they'll be like are this
is stupid I need to get back to regular
training yeah
when if ever is it a good idea for
kleiner I think you something out
program yeah during active rest I would
same with a caveat to James a statement
of don't do too much
yes too much of their suckering right
like don't just smash yourself but do a
little bullshit here and there
generally speaking doing things off
program is by definition doing things
you are not structurally prepared to do
it necessarily carries a higher injury
risk yeah it stress it so if you want to
do high rep like drops that type shit
that you can do at the end of a program
in the last week before D loading that's
the greatest time to do that as far as
hitting small PRS on big compound lifts
randomly may be the worst idea if I was
trying to get someone hurt that's how I
would program their training yeah and
the thing is like what is the
cost-benefit ratio like do we really
think that giving them the opportunity
to do a clean and jerk is going to
completely reinvigoration to train right
probably not right more issue the more
the issue is more that they probably are
having staleness overreaching stuff like
that where they just need a break from
the rigidity of the program and they
need some autonomy back in their life
that's probably the issue it's not that
it's not that they need to do something
off program it's this they just need to
get off program for a little bit to
regain some semblance of control in
their life all right
then he says per your advice I'll be
swapping around the longer 15 week mass
with the 11 week mass very cool joining
you and doing my mini cup I'm clear I'm
in clear as if your advice is to add a
mini cut or swap out my strength block
for mini cut swap out strength block for
mini cuts there's best the best advice
there I also choose an 11 week a mass at
the start because it ends right around
when the holiday start okay then after
the holidays are over do a mini cut and
then do a 10 week mass okay don't just
do a 15 week max because after the
holidays you be a fat fuck 50 be fast
after that fuck that book yeah you drop
another mass through the holidays or
maintain through the holidays a new mini
cut after either way to a mini cut after
the past years I found that I actually
have a hard time eating enough to
maintain my rate of progress while
massing I'm usually able to hold my body
weight but often I go down some
than becoming a fat piece of crap now
that I'm going to train through holidays
oh he's gonna treat throughout it who
drew by his different split between
masses lengths no same splits are fine
but eat for the love of God it's the
fucking holidays bad piece of crap if
you Harrison if you can't eat up during
the holidays good god
challenge issue you're getting on dr.
Mike's nerves over here Harrison what
are you doing not eating on the holidays
you're doing one hour ABS what is wrong
with the ear some Harrison get in my
office
oh the only thing I think about high
school principals at this point is Chris
my wife and I watch a whole lot of
Special Victims Unit
SVU Law & Order it's like their one
percent rate of child molestation like
Bar None so any time I do a principal
impression of my list
I feel eerie about it my good god yeah
tequila I couldn't think of a worse job
for me than high school principal oh no
yelling at kids all day fucking kidding
me I the least authoritarian person ever
I can't hurt cats I guess nobody can
I can't herd sheep I'm terrible at
telling people what to do I don't give a
shit I'm fucking libertarian to the max
and also like dealing with high
schoolers I would straight-up out just
rocks the run it's the worst of both
worlds because you have like a huge
level of bureaucracy that you have to do
all the time and you just have to deal
with all these fucking problems when
kids are acting up the worst thank god
someone does that job
continuing on the topic of having uh
taking a break from training do two at
home stress one thing the Chad Wesley
Smith and I have emailed about has been
my mindset about training the break
offered a lot of time for introspection
about my life in general one of the
things I realized is that before the
break I was obsessed with numbers and
the weights and wanted to hit in
competition instead of being processed
oriented I was cool and ego-oriented
your experience of coaching even your
pursuit of personal fitness goals can
you define what as a healthy mindset
toward progress and goal setting and
what signs you look at for an athlete
where you would be a bit worried that
it's not a healthy mindset thanks as
always Harrison
you know um we did touch on this one
like a couple webinars ago I don't want
to like dismiss be dismissive we did
touch on this super quick
okay reaction I'll try and then you can
clean up as usual so I think one of the
big things you the number one is a
couple ingredients of healthy relation
to sport one is do you typically enjoy
more than hate the day to day if the
answer is no you have a problem it
doesn't even matter what your goal
setting is if you don't like the
day-to-day fundamentally like someone
asked me do you like to do Brazilian
jiu-jitsu yes then everything else is
icing on the cake
right if you like to practice you're
good to go if you don't like practice no
number of goals in the world can save
you from fucking hating we've got their
support secondly as far as setting your
goals you can have a very serious
mindset of like I have to hit these I
have to hit these as long as it doesn't
lead you to what lose sleep or you can
have a pretty relaxed mindset of like
you know these would be really great
things to hit as long as you're training
hard and objectively and loving training
day to day on average you're good to go
so those are my thoughts on goal setting
and happiness goals don't really
determine a ton of what you've been
happy about or not it's really the David
Day you fucking love training you don't
even need goals now not having goals can
lead you astray into not focusing your
efforts like you should be you should
have some goals you can approach them
from anything from a relaxed idea that
they're there all the way to like an
obsession or like if you're obsessed
with your goals if you love training
you're living in paradise if you love
training and you're out obsessed with
your goals you're living in paradise if
you're if you are obsessed about your
goals and you hate training you're
living in hell if you're obsessed I'm
sorry if you're not obsessed about your
goals you don't care about them and you
hate training you're gonna quit like
tomorrow so loving the day to day more
than you hate it right but doesn't mean
loving it all the time is is though
absolutely the huge piece in the puzzle
that I have to contribute to this
conversation James yeah and sometimes I
think more recently there's been a lot
of focus on like focus a lot of focus
and glorification of like the process
which of course is well warranted but
having a good goal gives you the
opportunity to structure the things that
you love to do in a productive way so I
still think it's important to have some
end game that you're working towards at
least because at least out lies the
framework for why you are doing what
you're doing at all and gives you a
chance to seek different milestones
along the way it organizes your training
because it can see you fundamentally
lays out what to do and I super think
it's um it's really important to have
real
yeah the worst thing in the world when
people have unrealistic goals they just
literally set themselves up for
disappointment I can't believe I didn't
total a thousand kilos it was your best
total eight hundred what the fuck is
wrong with you
whatever happened to eight fifty like
well I don't know I don't want to under
she shut the fuck up
undershoot do a real great job overshoot
your goals total 875 of your need
instead of 800 and then next week you
could say I want a total nine ten or
something and eventually and get where
you're going anyway yeah so I mean like
your goal is kind of like the most
superficial layer of specificity in your
program it's like why am i doing any of
this what what constraints do I have
well I have some limited constraints
that I'm at least considering which is
driving the rest of my training and I
think that's really important now I
think there's also something to be said
that this we're talking about for
training for recreational purposes if
you're training for professional
purposes at some point this becomes your
job and it doesn't really matter whether
or not you love it anymore if you do
love it great if you don't love it you
be disciplined and you keep fucking
doing it anyway because you have lofty
goals to achieve because your life is
dependent on it in some way shape or
form right so I think that from a
recreational perspective this is great I
think you do have to shift your mindset
a little bit when you're doing it from a
professional perspective because it
doesn't matter if you're motivated or if
you're loving it anymore you've got to
show up and go to work at that point all
right there are some great questions as
always all right silver Garza says just
wanted to say thank you for the answer
last week's I missed it on the podcast
we've just got to hear it's super
helpful
awesome awesome all right Arina salaam
says hey doctors the nuts or muscles
like abs and forums growth like is there
max potential based on their size yeah
for all muscles actually and if you want
to clue on what your max potential is on
an average estimate I would Google
meadow hence lemons muscle growth
calculator and meadow has a thing where
you can type in a bunch of shit and it
tells you how big you're gonna get so
enjoy
number two can you generally critique my
next mesocycles program the goal is to
get as much size as I can on my delts
and chest and lats the secondary goal is
arms and upper traps maintain your
growing the rest a little bit so this is
so the top half of your body top half
got it it's the B taper program
I guess he missed the they are
secondary Golda's arms and upper traps
right so more v-taper I'm considering
maybe even starting on lower on chest
alright so I think these 333 these are
sets sets yeah three sets of barbell
rows three sets of pull-ups two left
full overs for reverse capable fly three
bicep curls three hammer curls bench
press inclines skull crushers tricep
pushdowns noises cable laterals so that
squats leg extensions like curls seated
shrugs up railroads neck this will be
two times a week I haven't included rep
ranges yet okay thank God okay I thought
he was just doing this once wait this is
two times per week so I think he like
it's day one day two day three and then
they for me back again that way so I you
know right off the bat if I could just
throw out a critique ISM you're already
kind of on the bro split kind of routine
here I think you could definitely
benefit from splitting up the frequency
a little bit rather than just doing like
chest back like there's I'm guessing if
you're if you're doing this as like a
mass phase like how many days per week
Eirene do you think you can do arms
every day very feasible same thing with
like some other movements like some
medium back movements easily could do
lats like four times a week yeah yeah so
so such games last let's quickly like
consider this so I think I mean I think
you can do chest and back four times a
week okay and legs twice a week and then
you can do shoulders some kind of side
or rear lateral on every single one of
those Henry donating legs the legs
volume you should keep lower because you
said you wanted to have maintenance for
your legs so I would just take like
extensions out completely get those
seated calves out of here too
yeah see the calf's out just do Smith
squats and hip hinges of some kind
forget about leg curls and then do you
know so for example Monday he would do
lots of rowing a little bit of incline
pushing Tuesday you would be tons of
sort of decline and spent and flat
pushing and a little bit of vertical
pulling work then you do legs then you
do a Thursday a ton of vertical pulling
work
and a little bit of decline pushing and
then you do a shitload of incline
pushing the next day coupled with a
little bit of a rolling work and then
every one of those days you do some arms
and you do some shoulders and then the
arms you only do four days a week and
the shoulders you do six days a week
that would be a program that would look
pretty cool yeah I totally agree I'm not
a huge fan of the like the same workouts
twice per week but it's at the same time
that's just me being Nikki totally I
just replace some of the movements and
rep ranges and stuff like yeah but
otherwise yeah yeah and then he says
this will be twice a week I haven't
include a rep range just yet plus how
would I include some ab work spaced out
oh you know whatever your abs a recovery
to train them again you could add I mean
it depends on how much is prioritized
abs no you know abs and I need to train
them twice a week on leg day or
something it depends - like I've gotten
really creative with some of my clients
in their app work like you can you can
do almost every day if you separate out
to like I kind of the trunk flexion or
the hip flexion or like some of the
other movements like you can get
creative with that and abs is another
one that's pretty resilient to high
frequencies so yeah we could do ABS
almost every day he just say that his
legs will be a lower volume sets won't
increase so that's good okay cool
let's go yeah all right George Peter
says hi doctors Mike and James my ex
coach labeled me a hardgainer
as they only put on 11 pounds of scale
weight in two years of bulking he also
suggested that maybe I may be advanced
and too old to put on muscle I've been
waiting for four years I'm 47 I'm
questioning the conclusions he's reached
my four years of training doesn't make
me advanced I've seen the contents of my
weight that's the first problem
lack of muscle I was a very lean 137 at
the beginning of my cut and 148 at the
end of bulk and 5/6 but I know the good
doctor mike is around the same height
and he's jacked so I know that shouldn't
be a limiting factor well you're not me
you don't have my genetics you don't
take the supplements I do so you have
actually no idea there's people at my
height that are 50 pounds heavier than
me but I will never be that big so
careful yeah it heights just not a thing
it's not necessarily indicative of
either yeah
look at NBA players they're fucking like
seven feet tall right right
also although I'm no spring chicken at
47 I do believe I don't believe that's
too old to put on muscle I'm aware that
I could be a hardgainer or unlucky
genetically but I don't think labeling
me as a hard gainer is helpful
conclusion to draw without exploring
other explanations
what's definitely true I know that I
contributed to the unsuccessful ball
because I was initially reluctant to
increase calories okay so that doesn't
count
I just finished a 35 we cut lost 28
pounds and was very lean thought my life
had been we'll focused on losing weight
then actively trying to gain weight as a
consequence I was cautious about weight
gain it was important for me to know our
approach was working and that there was
some muscle gain I also changed to a
stressful job that affected my sleep and
unfortunately picked up a couple of
injuries a two-eleven impact on my
ability gained muscle the only
noticeable change in my physique was
that my waist measurements increased I
do accept understandably an element of
fat gain of muscle gain my coaches
answer was to eat more gained weight
faster it's unlikely to be correct
however I was reluctant to do this
without any indication that the training
was working when some muscle was being
built in my upper body which was my main
objective I did get stronger my lower
body but not in my upper body that's not
a good time so I have three questions
and look forward to hearing your
thoughts number one I felt I was patient
and stuck with the training plan and I'm
aware that sometimes you have to trust
the process I'm wondering at what point
it's time to not trust the process
prescribed and try something different
well if someone coaches you for a year
you don't get stronger in the upper body
try to fix the obvious things that
you're doing wrong increase your sleep
make your stress better gain the weight
he tells you to gain and if you still
make very few gains at all in the upper
body I would get a different coach yeah
it sounds like you weren't completely
compliant on the diet side of things
which in terms of gaining muscle is I
mean you shot yourself in the foot on
that one but I agree with dr. Mike if
give it a year or so it sounds like I
don't know not gaining strength in the
upper body seems a bit odd it sounds
like you just trained your legs less
than they were maybe just in a higher
state of preparedness and they were just
really fresh all the time so maybe
that's why you got so much yeah who
knows there's a ton we don't know here
about your training
real quick sorry what I have found a lot
of the times too is this idea of hard
gainers is just an easy out it's a
scapegoat for either the individual or
the coach in this case where it's an
easy way to pass the buck and just say
like oh well you're not getting the
results you
want because you're a hardgainer maybe
maybe you're a little responder or maybe
both of you need to take the
responsibility and say like what are
some things that I maybe I'm not doing
so good on so you already and you were
already candid about it he said my
lifestyle was was stressful I'm maybe
wasn't doing this good of job on the
diet and maybe on the training side of
things maybe your trainings just not
that that good right if he's got you on
a bro split as a beginner that might
just be a complete waste of time for you
right you you as a you know relative
beginner maybe early intermediate at
this point at four years in you should
be doing a lot of the compound lifts not
using a ton of excess exercise
variations and focusing on just on
getting stronger and most of the main
lifts if he's got you doing a bunch of
like single leg s LDLs and a bunch of
stupid cable curls and stuff like that
all the time then I would be very
suspicious of the training program but
like if he's been having you do bench
presses deadlifts squats rows all those
things and putting a good forth putting
a good effort on those those areas of
your training then I would say okay yeah
that that is evidence that maybe you're
a bit on the lower responder side of
things but I think this this idea of
being a a hard gainer is often just used
to pass the buck and just be like I'm
deferring responsibility either as the
coach or as the athlete so that's my
skeptical James crimini take on that
it's right on it goes number two how do
you assess success in this case ensuring
that there are some muscle gain in the
weight gain the repetition of strength
across a wide variety of exercises in
them that tax the muscle groups you know
you put on muscle but every single
pushing exercise you do is like fucking
five reps or 20 pounds ahead of where it
was you're more jacked and the mirror
like mirror doesn't hurt either right
like you're sure I mean like if you gain
muscle your training partners and stuff
should be like oh holy shit dude and you
should be like oh holy shit dude so if
you know that's happening then by no
means clear you getting muscle yeah
number three at what point would you
feel you've exhausted all the tools you
have an attach the label hardgainer well
not to belabor a point James already
beats death act quite quite well there
is no reason to ever attach the label
hard gainer there's no reason to attach
any labels you always do your best and
if your best isn't working you try to
reassess reintegrate and then do your
best again that's all you ever have
um I have a hardgainer cuz I'm 36 years
old and I'm you know in order for me to
gain muscle I just have to train just as
well as that anywhere I ever did and eat
it in a surplus and take plenty of
special sports supplements and I used to
be able to gain muscle taking zero
sports supplements and just eating high
wanted back when I was you know 15 that
I'm hard gainer right when you would
look at me and say oh he's a hard gainer
well I am almost every IV Pro and
everyone that the high level is a hard
gainer even more than me
so that you wouldn't like attach that
special oh yeah you know Phil Heath is a
hard gainer who he is now so what's the
point of that there's no point you just
gotta do your best that's it and and so
like what's the end game to right where
it's like okay I've identified that I'm
a low responder let's use that term I
like that one a little bit better what
next do you just give up you just say
like well fuck this I'm not doing this
anything all right like if you want yeah
so what's the other option to it's like
all you can do is Mike said is do your
best and part of doing your best is
always just refining your training
nutrition and lifestyle practices to
orient towards your goals and that's
just the best that you can do yeah we've
got a video coming out at some point on
our P it's already been recorded it's
gonna be on our P plus quite soon
actually it's in the hypertrophy
concepts and tools videos that are
coming out and it's literally an entire
video on troubleshooting troubleshooting
lack of gains and it's got like I think
nine step process to troubleshoot your
lack of games so look for that and once
you've done all those things that takes
like a few years to get through all of
them if you really are getting shitty
gains at the end of that then I think
it's just probably time to be like these
are the games I'm gonna be getting and
this is the rate of progress I'm gonna
be seeing and if you think it's a waste
of time for you to continue to train
hard and hypertrophy for these source of
gains then you can do anything else you
want with your life yeah all right
the LP says I'm Mike and James first I
want to say thank you for putting all
this billion amazing content poops all
this amazing content the lectures
articles technique videos cetera just
brilliant thank you so much awesome glad
you enjoy please explain the difference
in regards to which muscles are
primarily targeted elbows out rose
versus example middle high low bent rose
thank you in advance so generally
speaking elbows out rows that go to the
middle of your body or high to your body
generally
tax the rear delts a little bit more the
text the rhomboids a little bit more
maybe the teres major a little bit more
and the middle tracks a little bit more
and that as the elbows come down and lo
and as you pull lower it targets the
lacks a little bit more and those
muscles a little bit less so don't even
like to think of the back as composed of
individual muscles we just think of
areas like was sort of like last nish
area lower middle area and upper middle
area and I just pull from a variety of
angles and fuck all that shit oh yeah
and so you could think of it like um if
you guys are familiar with kind of like
the reverse fly or like the reverse PEC
deck I mean the high elbow row is
virtually all those same muscles just
done in a compound weds and it's you're
just breaking at the elbow it's the same
shoulder movement for the most part now
we're just adding that compound elbow
yep thank you in advance
all right you smart anyway dr. James
thank you very answer the last webinar
just a quick appreciation for all the
other great questions by the art
applause community there's so many
nuances through the detail answers to
learn a solidify oh thank you so much as
mom thanks my man yes I am from Bosnia
Herzegovina
yes I'm six-two I need all motherfuckers
are Tom my question is maybe outside of
your lane but perhaps you have
experience with this since I played a
lot of guitar my left wrist was any flex
position for longer periods of time with
fingers moving went on racks the bench
was slightly higher weights I feel a
stinging in my left breast is something
that I avoid by getting a lift from a
buddy and it doesn't hurt that bad could
form training reduce the pain I actually
played the guitar for a very long time
but I don't think that that's related I
think you just have to play with your
your grip with and find a comfortable
position on the bench so you might just
be using a fixed position that this is
just the bench press positions that
you've always done and it's always been
fine and you're having some pain I think
at some point you just have to play
around with it and say like okay if I go
out or in a little bit is it any better
if I use the football bar you like the
ones with the different grips is that
any better like I don't think that any
specific forearm training unless you
have the world's most lopsided forearm
is
any good so if you're like if you're all
here on the flexors and none of the
extensors maybe and that's a still like
a big maybe I don't think that's the
issue you know with the guitar you're
using a lot of the flexors but it
doesn't necessarily mean that you're
having like reciprocal inhibition
problems on the extensor side so I I
would say it's probably more of a grip
thing than it is a form training thing
yeah all right oh I lost my place okay
yeah uh Daniel blank blah blah blah
hi docks you said it's fine to straight
go straight to question one Oh any
advice on how to feel hip hinge movement
more enhanced than glutes on our deals
on two inches away from touching the
ground using 20 pound plates strip form
great tension through the hams
rom is limited by the hams but they
never get sore occasionally in minor
stiffness the next morning but glutes do
man if you were a girl you'd be the
happiest girl in the world
um so honest is not correct as if for
growth but I can't help think by missing
missing something yeah no you're totally
right if something is getting sorted
something else is not that something is
probably getting stimulated more so I
think that making your knee bend a
little bit less almost straight knees is
probably gonna go well on your way and
also sometimes some exercises just
people just fucking oh here's no one um
try to put your feet onto a little two
and a half pound plates your your toes
so you he'll stay on the ground it's
almost the opposite of an Olympic
weightlifting shoe that can really put
some tension in your hands and keep your
knees very very close to a straight so
really fucks your hams up that probably
helped but if it doesn't you know some
people should see more isolation because
some exercises just tax some muscles a
lot for some people and more than others
that's just the way it goes
I found that yes so I found that there's
three major points on the technique here
especially when people are not feeling
it in their hamstrings so Mike already
hit the first one which is keep your
knee a little straighter and make sure
that you are not squatting down so a lot
of people will start with a straight
knee or pretty close and then they'll
kind of ease themselves down and their
knee angles you can lift more weight
like that yeah and it puts me just put
it just displaces the tension more onto
the glutes that way so it feels better
for you because it's just a stronger
general a stronger so keep your knee
angle
higher or more straight and keep it
fixed the whole time point to a lot of
times people aren't doing the anterior
pelvic tilt and that makes a huge
difference in putting the tension on
your hamstrings so anterior pelvic tilt
all the way down all the way up and then
the other one is keeping the barbell
close to your body so what I usually
tell people is to just let it kind of
graze up and down your legs now don't
don't scrape it up like a deadlift where
you're gonna be bleeding but I find that
it's natural for people to let it drift
out in front of them which is back
rounding starts and also exactly so keep
the barbell basically grazing up and
down your legs throughout the entirety
and that what that's gonna do is you're
gonna feel that in your lats when you're
not used to that technique so you're
gonna do stiff legged deadlifts in the
next day you're gonna be like why the
fuck are my lats so source because you
were actively keeping it in position
that way but that will work itself out
over time all right number two is it a
common experience if it is what's the
mechanism for it the doms comes abruptly
train a muscle group Monday morning woke
up Tuesday morning feeling fine few
hours later Dom's no clue but sometimes
I think Dom's is nutritionally mediated
if you don't eat a lot after training
Dom's doesn't happen because your body
doesn't think it's gonna recover itself
so it doesn't even bother boning you eat
your body's like haha we have free
sources fucking flood the immune system
into the muscle so I think a lot of
times if you train in the donee for a
while you don't get so we just kind of
get diffusely tired and if you have a
big ass meal go to sleep you'll wake up
the next day like oh my fuck I'm super
sore it's actually fundamentally a good
thing if you never ever get sore from
any amount of training you almost
certainly a very low responder but in
your particular case I'm not sure what
the mechanism was yeah same here
not sure number three when cutting how
much sense is in correcting for lost
weight in exercises for which load
includes body weight push-ups dips
squats etc over four weeks period for a
200 person can lose eight pounds with
weight on the bar progression plans
between five to ten pounds which
possibly can decrease load throughout
the Mezo my guess would be it's taken
care of my rep progression are a are
your guess is exactly correct if you're
not losing muscle you're just gonna gain
reps
holy fuck like I'm just gaining reps
pull-ups get way easier sometimes your
technique gets better on pull-ups to get
lighter that all works so I would just
you let those factors take care if you
really want to keep your reps very very
tight then you can add more weight
weight more aggressively but I wouldn't
do some people do crazy shit like Auto
regulating the pull-up weight like
whatever they weigh that day they add on
about
in addition like you can it's just a
little nuts so yeah I think that's
largely a waste of time especially for
some of those more like the more
compound movements like the squat like
don't even bother it could be worth your
time on the dips and pull-ups I don't
personally think it is but if I mean the
real answer is like look on a cut if
dipping gets way easier faster than you
thought next time you cut just add
weight more aggressively on dips instead
of adding two and a half pounds to the
to the dip belt every week at five and
all of a sudden you've gained 20 pounds
on your dips and lost no reps and you're
like oh this is great yeah same applies
to dips when you're mass gaining
sometimes when you're massing you take a
much less aggressive increase in weight
in dips and pull-ups and sometimes and
things like pull up so you don't
actually increase weight at all you just
try to keep the reps stable while
gaining weight and if you succeed you're
like holy fuck I'm just getting ton of
muscle on my back
yeah totally agreed number four exercise
selection is about individual students
fatigue ratios and if something works
for someone that's what matters that
being said as an argument for heavy
isolation exercises to be done with free
weights over machines for example
barbell curl or survice occur with a
barbell versus cable thank you
that's the same argument essentially it
safar issues so those those are all
things where you might it's just again
it's just it's a it's an
individualization thing where you might
find that like doing eight sees me five
to ten reps with the cable curl for some
reason feels better than doing it with
the barbell I don't know it doesn't mean
that one's necessarily better than the
other all right I shouldn't have used
that rep range actually I regret doing
that don't do curls for five to ten very
often yeah probably not
not a good way to keep arms on
all right here we go
YouTube time YouTube
how would you train Eddie hall for
boxing if neither of us are boxers yeah
I would get him in touch with a very
good striking coach and manage his
volumes and intensities appropriately an
ease in huge deal okay
Pico Rodriguez says is variation
necessary for a bodybuilder or someone
for bodybuilding or someone who wants to
look good I have a home gym so I can
only do one exercise for muscle will it
matter if I do enough volume with it not
in the short term it long in about a
course of four to eight weeks you can
get a close to optimal muscle game with
just one exercise the thing is the next
four to eight weeks you could have had
similar gains if you had traded out of
another exercise four weeks after that
you could have a better gains a fuse
another exercise 48 weeks after that you
might start to have joint and connective
tissue pain and start to have to do more
often reductions in volume in intensity
which is an opportunity cost so
variation is not necessary in the short
term but it is necessary to get often
horizon's' in long term that's something
that I see coming up in questions a lot
is people have something they want to do
and they say do I have to do something
more complex the cost more money or cost
more effort or so on and so forth you
don't have to do a fucking thing if you
want the best possible results you'll do
what it takes and it takes everything to
get the optimal results but decent
results and even a great results doing
only pull-ups for your back if you do
only pull-ups you're intelligent about
your programming you can have a ball or
fucking looking back is it going to be
your best back no of course not not even
close but it's gonna look good you get a
nice big chance to and only push ups of
different kinds well if you have a
trouble gaining in your chest and it's
not working you're gonna have to expand
your or your ship and also you know even
though you have a home gym limitation I
doubt that you only can do one exercise
per muscle group you might just be
constraining your use of variation at
that point right like if you if you only
have if you can only do push-ups while
you can do narrow push-ups regular
push-ups elbows out wide push-ups you
could do feet elevated push-ups you can
do deficit push-ups like you might not
be thinking outside the box here if
you're doing legs like you might be like
okay well I can only do you know this
one squat thing we can do lunges you
could do like a stiff legged deadlifts
or good mornings or you know I mean
there's plenty of options you just might
have to think outside the box a little
bit and if you are using an at-home gym
dr. Mike and my and dr. wife actually
published an article on the RP website
for some suggestions there so check that
out James right for you thoughts on
using ice baths to recover from non
training stimulus like manual labor or
even if just non hypertrophy stimulus
cardio oh yeah I think that's I think
that's perfectly fine just know that if
you are somebody who is hypertrophy
training every day or very you know as
much as you can um there's gonna be a
little cost-benefit analysis so if
you're like really fucked up from work
and you're like dude I need to get in
that ice bath where I'm not gonna be
able to get on the job site tomorrow
yeah that's perfectly fine and you're
just making a trade-off at that point
where you say like my fitness goals take
a backseat to my professional goals and
that's totally fine I think it would
just be naive to think that it still was
not some of the same principles we're
not applying in terms of the trade-off
between recovery and adaptation so
that's still still at play just how much
of that you want to deal with is a
balance of your fitness and professional
goals at that point it would make sense
to me honestly because you know your
professional goals would put money on
the table and gives you the opportunity
to have fitness goals so it would seem
logical if it helps you a lot to do it
oh I'm torn on which question to answer
we'll just answer for this time because
this one's easy
darren hawkins says jason Blaha said
reverse pyramid training is marketing
hype and garbage marketed towards lazy
has no place for bodybuilding or
building strength do you agree no
absolutely not reverse your training is
great in other words a starting heavy
and then going okra mentally lighter
that's just intelligent training yeah
and I mean I don't know why we call it I
mean I understand why they call it
reverse pyramid but I mean it's that's
really not even what it is it's not it's
it's it's it's literally just trying to
get the best stimulus that you can
when you're the most fresh and working
your way down into the things that are
more resilient to fatigue as you go I
mean that's really what the issue is all
right
moonlight shadow X it's a hell of a name
for someone who started their fitness
journey fat then spent the first five
years of training in a deficit cutting
for the majority of that time if I fuck
myself in terms of not being able to
achieve the most muscle like genetics we
could have I wasted two the gains your
beard if I had spent most of time in a
surplus and what should I do now
currently fifteen to twenty percent body
fat feel as if I'm extremely undeveloped
for someone to fibers of training
furthermore if I start doing everything
optimally now how would I be able to
gain muscle but I'd be a believ muscle
at a faster rate than me in an alternate
universe way it's about those five years
on a surplus I hate this rate of maximum
possible muscle gain decrease in a
function of training age time spent
training or function of current muscle
size on your genetic limit it's great
question so I would start the answer of
the following as so long as you are
young enough and healthy enough to train
hard which means you are aged 15 to 40
mmm the vast majority of your gains is
just a matter of opening up your genetic
limit that by training hard for long
enough for example if you train at a
deficit for the first five years and
gain very little muscle but you're
genetically really really adapt as soon
as you open up the floodgates of food
you're gonna get fucking jacked fast
liquors five through eight you're gonna
put on like forty fucking pounds if you
never had it coming genetically you're
gonna gain no muscle during the first
five years and then we start to do a
surplus your bi-xenon and it's not
because of what you did early now in an
ideal sense you're younger and have less
injuries and a little bit less anabolic
resistance when you are if you start
bulking from the time you start to try
to get big that's more optimal but to be
honest it doesn't amount to much
so no being that you spent your first
five years of training in deficit means
you can't get as big as you would have
been able to get but you can get pretty
damn close assuming you are still
between the ages of 2040 you don't have
any major debilitating injuries you're
gonna get what you're gonna get and like
I think you're also under the false
impression that you somehow missed your
beginner gains just because you were in
a deficit you probably recount
least to some degree during that time
and that's the beginner gains you get
and that's a huge benefit like you get
to lose fat and gain muscle at the same
time that's that's as good as beginner
gains is anyone can ask for it is would
it be marginally better if you if you
were massive yeah probably a little bit
but who knows it might be one of those
things to where again it might manifest
itself later on like Mike said like you
know once you start massing later on
five years down the road all of a sudden
you're fucking huge and it doesn't it
seems just your response is
disproportionate well maybe it had
something to do with the beginner gains
that you were reaping earlier on which
now are able to manifest under better
energy conditions
yeah and better energy conditions is a
really word of a because you you missed
your beginner gains from training so to
speak but you've missed nothing on
beginner nutritional gains your first
time massing oh my god your body said
what the fuck is all this so a lot of
the games really are a matter of filling
in your genetic potential and how you go
about that it's not super super
pertinent it doesn't make a difference
but a very small difference so I
wouldn't sweat it and it's too late
right so also it's like what's the
actionable item it's like well tell
others not to repeat your mistake but
also tell them it's not a very big
mistake yeah alright folks that was a
excellent Q&A we did it a date earlier
this week to accommodate my goofy ass
schedule I'm going to work with dr. Mike
and we'll figure out what we're going to
do my internet situation again if you
missed the beginning is gonna be a
little bit wonky for the next couple
weeks so I'm gonna see what I can do I'm
working on it I'm getting a cell phone
and a range extender and we're gonna
have some some limited internet at the
house and then hopefully in July we'll
have fiber optic and we'll be back to
complete normal so thanks for tuning in
and appreciate you guys being patient
with me and my bullshit for the next
couple weeks dr. Mike you got anything
for we sign off I got nothing folks my
more videos to come pretty much four or
five days of the week we got any YouTube
videos coming up so we're rocking it
alright guys well thanks for engaging
with us keep subscribing to the RP
YouTube channel and keep sending those
questions we will talk to you next time
peace