it's important to keep the stimuli broad
with variations of reps sets loads and
different tempos false JK that's totally
fine except the Swiss bar press is a
great movement but the floor press is
aing dog exercise if you want to
get good at being sort of a combat
athlete you have to be strong in every
range of motion you can think of because
if you put yourself into that range of
motion in movement you have to be safe
and strong there that is what we mean by
Mobility strength through a really high
degree of range of motion and if you're
fighting a real person in real life they
may put you into positions in which you
do not want to feel uncomfortable or not
super strong so for example if someone
is on top of you and you always stop
your Skull Crushers here and they push
your hands down and they're on top of
you to here you may be
uncharacteristically weak here so if you
do full range of motion Skull Crushers
when you get here you could hit bump
push them out take the top side and
start hurting them in a way that's
legally defensible in your context