the hypertrophy wrap range is a myth or
is it
what one we back straight from the man
cave soon to be Dr Milo Warfare with
wolf coaching and today we're talking
about the hypertrophy wrap range and
whether or not it actually holds true
traditionally it was advocated that for
strength you should do sets of one to
five Reps for muscle endurance you
should do sets of about 15 or more reps
and finally for muscle growth you should
do sets of about 6 to 12 reps this was
referred to as the repetition range
Continuum now let me touch on some
positive aspects of this traditional
recommendation first first it is
definitely true that for maximal
strength lifting in the low rep range of
about one to five reps is productive in
fact the heavier you go and thus the
lower reps you use in your training the
more of an improvement in one repetition
maximum or absolute strength you see so
absolutely if you want to maximize
strength gains lifting in a pretty low
rep range is the way to go now let's
move on to a bit of a controversy in
fact the notion that lifting with at
least 15 reps per set leads to Greater
muscle endurance adaptations or in other
words how many reps can you do with a
given percentage of what you want or Max
the SE been challenged recently in fact
it's been argued that most of those
adaptations being able to do more reps
at for example 50 of your max that is a
result not so much of increased muscle
endurance but an increased Max overall
so if your max goes up from say 200
pounds to 300 pounds you might be able
to do more reps with 100 pounds which
used to be your 50 of your 100 Max but
that's not really because you gained
muscle endurance adaptations but rather
because you just got stronger overall
and 100 pounds went from being 50 of
your max to about a third of your max so
the jury is still out whether or not
High Reps say above 15 is best for
muscle endurance but what about
hypertrophy broadly speaking the idea
that you need to train in the 6-12 rep
range of approach fee yeah it's a myth
there's three studies I want to discuss
on this topic today the first is a
mechanalysis by gergic specifically he
looked at five studies comparing higher
load or lower wrap to lower load or
higher rep training on hypertrophy and
essentially here's what they found When
comparing lifting with on average 3-10
Reps versus on average 15 to 50 reps you
saw the same hypertrophy whether you
were looking at whole muscle hypertrophy
whether you're looking at specifically
slow twitch fiber hypertrophy or whether
you're looking specifically at fast with
fiber hypertrophy it just didn't seem to
play a role so is that case closed does
that mean we can do any amount of wraps
per set and still see ideal or optimal
growth well maybe not so fast it turns
out there is actually some truth to that
6 to 12 hypertrophy wrap range and
here's why a study by schoenfelling
colleagues a few years back compared
true protocols in the first protocol
participants performed three sets of 10
repetitions with 90 seconds rest between
sets and the other protocol participants
performed seven sets of three
repetitions with three minutes rest
between sets all sets were taken to
momentary muscular failure before we go
into the results there is one slide
confounded in the higher up group
participants trained with a split
routine so they have three training days
a week on one day they would do all
their pushing exercises on another day
they would do all their pulling
exercises and finally on the last day
they would do all their quad or
squatting exercises meanwhile in the
heavier group the lower rep group they
trained a mix of all body parts on each
day so in reality there was also a
difference in the frequency being used
by The Tubes so while we can make some
inferences as to whether or not the
results were purely due to differences
in rep range we also need to take
consideration that more stats were being
performed by the heavier group and the
heavier group on average used a
frequency of three times a week versus
once a week now on to the results bicep
growth was similar between groups
meanwhile improvements in strength
specifically in Squat and bench press
one or Max tended to be better in the
group training heavier those seven sets
of three however that difference was
only significant when it came to the
bench press here's the kicker however
they saw the same growth but one of the
groups spent a lot more time training if
you do the math you'll realize that the
group training with sets of three spent
a lot more time in the gym just to get
the same bicep growth so clearly when
your reps per set go too low say below
about five you see that your time
efficiency goes way down and the
effectiveness of each set on muscle
growth really diminishes so going below
five reps or thereabouts is not a good
idea for hypertrophy but can we go too
high the answer is maybe as I mentioned
earlier in the Met analysis by gergic
you did see that training with loads as
low as about 30 percent of your max or
the equivalent of about 50 reps per set
still resulted in great growth however
potentially maybe there's a load that's
just too light a load so light that even
if you do 100 reps or more reps than
that you just don't see the same growth
per set as you would if you train with
an adequate load this is where a study
by Las Vegas and colleagues comes in in
this study they randomized participants
limbs to one of four conditions in one
condition they train with 20 of their
Max in another condition with 40 and the
third condition was 60 percent and
finally in the fourth condition they
train with 80 percent of the 100 Max
these participants were untrained and
they performed both elbow flexor or
essentially bicep training and knee
extensor training so essentially quad
training for 12 weeks the results are
not super clear but it does seem like
there was less growth at least when you
compared the 20 group to the 80 group so
the really light group to the relatively
heavy group this was consistent across
both the biceps and the quads therefore
there might be a bottom floor to how low
you can go while still maximizing growth
if you go too light you may just not get
the same growth as if you went a little
bit heavier with that being said it
seems like the floor is somewhere around
30 of your max what's worth keeping in
mind is that 30 of your max if you go to
failure with 30 that will be a ton of
reps in fact based on the most recent
mechanalysis looking at the relationship
between load and how many reps you can
do before reach failure with 30 you can
do about 50 reps that's right five zero
meanwhile at the top end you can get
about five reps with anywhere between 85
and 90 percent of your owner of Max So
based on these three studies it seems
that you can do about 5 to 50 reps per
set and still optimize growth on a set
per set basis provided you're training
close enough to failure and
unfortunately this is where a slight
caveat comes in training close to
failure or all the way to failure with
reps much past 20 or 30 percent becomes
very challenging you get a lot of burn
and for compound exercises you can get
very out of breath it's a very
situation to be in to be honest and so
taking it all the way to failure with
very light loads can be very challenging
and so while in these studies when
participants are essentially forced or
really encouraged to go to failure you
see that even with light loads you can
see really robust growth in the gym on
your own it might be a bit more
challenging to go that close to failure
and so practically speaking you might
prefer on average training a bit heavier
maybe keeping most of your training
between say 5 and 30 reps here's a
caveat that caveat though because recent
analyzes have shown that you grow more
when including a variety of rep ranges
versus just one it is likely worth
including a variety of rep ranges within
your program if your goal is to optimize
growth what I would personally recommend
for the most part is doing some work in
your program between 5 and 30 reps most
of that training should probably come
from the 5 to 15 rep range but some in
those higher rep ranges is likely
beneficial for muscle growth as well
importantly if you're on vacation or you
don't have access to sufficiently heavy
resistance or you're injured and you
don't really enjoy training with low
reps all of those reasons can be solid
rationales for using higher reps per set
and still optimize muscle growth
provided you find you can push yourself
close enough to failure while doing so
so the hypertroph range is kind of a
myth you can do anywhere between 5 and
50 reps and still optimize growth per
set but it might be a bit more
challenging to push quite as close to
failure with those higher reps however
they can be really useful when trying to
round out your program when trading
around an injury when training when you
have enough resistance available or when
you just don't feel like training is
heavy that's the video if you like the
video please comment like subscribe a
lot of research on this one I appreciate
your support and I will see you guys my
viewers in that next one peace