Conor McGregor's head is roughly twice
the size of Jake Gyllenhaal's head even
though he's a little bit shorter when
you fight Pro fighter sometimes you
realize they're as the colloquial
statement goes built different you don't
want to hit Conor McGregor in the face
that's going to break youring hand
that's scary
as I like how the next clip they go to
he's like telling the cameraman to go Fu
himself oh you fucking Fu fuing drunk AR
I by I got a tip for you don't let no
one get this close Okay so I tell you
real talk the fight would be over right
there that's a broken nose probably a
concussion and Jake Gyllenhaal would
fall and get beat to death but because
he in this movie is a UFC champion maybe
that was not the case but it was nice
for Mr Conor McGregor to render such
excellent life advice he's full of that
kind of shit in the movie by the way