the wrist curl and the wrist extension
performed on a bench are the two best
forearm exercises out there while your
forearm has a variety of muscle groups
with different functions the biggest
ones by and large have the following
functions wrist flexion finger flexion
and wrist extension the wrist flexors
are about twice as large as the wrist
extensors to train the wrist flexors who
also happen to be finger flexors the
single best exercise in my opinion is
the dumbbell wrist curl performed on a
bench at the bottom of each rep let your
fingers extend fully let your wrist
extend fully which allows you to get a
loaded stretch with more research coming
out that the length and position is
important for hypertrophy it is worth
picking exercises that include this
position the standing M on the other
hand doesn't include this position I
personally also find rist CS more
comfortable than the barbell variation
and they're a bit more time efficient on
account of not needing to load up a
barbell similar benefits apply to the
dumbbell wrist extension you don't need
to load up a barbell and I personally
find them more comfortable than barbell
wrist extensions they also work as a
super easy super set so try super
setting them to get a good overall
forarm stimulus in and that's why I
think