free smoke no free Cloud doctor back
here with a research update on rest
periods and people at least some people
seem to be losing their minds in one way
or another but before we say anything
else let me know that I have officially
sold out and as you can see the
overlords at Rascal apparel have forced
me to wear their clothes which I was
totally not wearing for 4 years
now but you can now get a 10% discount
with code DRP AKA doctor pack make sure
you had real doctor after that that the
code won't work but it will be funny as
an inside joke between us send me a
screenshot I'll see it and say haha very
funny but do use the code if you want
10% off my favorite clothing Brad No Cap
no joke actually if you're a personal
friend of mine you know I've been
wearing this for a while very much deser
I'm essentially paid for the code myself
paid for my own sponsorship we are
sponsored athletes Now ladies and
gentlemen Usain bald who is that guy
LeBron
James nice try but here with our
recently pre-printed not peer- reviewed
yet meta analysis on rest intervals and
muscle grow now the results of this rest
meta pretty much confirm the good old
doctor pack trusted H nothing means
anything you're going to be fine
regardless because we did find that
somewhat contrary to previous data about
1 and 1/2 minutes of rest seems to be
enough for you to potentially maximize
musle grow now that's not to say rest
for 1 and A2 minutes and don't dare rest
longer or that's going to be appropriate
for all people and all exercises even if
look at the sa analysis four legs in
particular 2 minutes maybe preferable to
1 and 1/2 minutes a few things that I
want to address on the back of this meta
some people complained and said well
well that doesn't show us anything new
complaining that a new meta showed that
okay more research came out things
haven't changed that much but you may be
a bit more flexible with your rest times
because resting less than 1 minute sure
wasn't as good for hyper Fe but we're
not talking about leaving a ton of gains
on the table so for me personally that
was a nice takeaway I was like oh people
are going to love that people are going
to be like Mar we can be even more
flexible want to rest less rest less
sure may not be ideal if you are a
bodybuilder and you want to absolutely
feel like you're maximizing gains but it
was a slight hypertrophy benefit to
longer rest Spirits people though seemed
to not like that um I'm not sure if it's
because they felt like they were wasting
time but at the same time there are
cases where resting for longer may allow
you to make more gains although I put a
question mark on that and here's why for
strength you need to take your time let
ADP plish and let yourself be mentally
and physically ready to handle heavy
loads and so on and so forth resting as
a powerlifter for 5 minutes between sets
totally fine and probably much better to
limiting your rest to a minute and a
half or even 2 minutes in some cases
however for I pery specifically given
the literature
on rep ranges loads and overall volume
as long as you're making load
adjustments if you're not able to hit a
specific amount of reps as long as
you're keeping rest periods consistent
from week to week the idea that if you
rest less you're going to do less weight
therefore that will lead to less
hypertrophy is is not true especially if
you're working with higher rep ranges
and your rep drop off is not even that
crazy let's say you do your first set
and you do eight reps you rest for a
minute and a half and your second set
you get six reps you do your uh next set
and you get five reps is that really a
big deal as far as hypertrophy goes I
don't think so um if though discomfort
is so high where you're feeling nauseous
and you're not really enjoy or looking
forward to that set or those extra 30
seconds will allow you feel much better
take those extra 30 seconds need an
extra minute take ant EX for minute it's
not really a big deal people also
criticize the fact that oh some of these
studies were in untrained individuals a
common criticism that you see uh sort of
thrown as a knee-jerk reaction without
much thinking sure there are some things
for example cardio uh aerobic training
that may lead to some muscle growth to
untrained individuals that we won't see
in train individuals but when it comes
to most things unless you have a solid
physiological rational to why things
would be different for trained
individuals obviously the magnitude so
you could see in untrained individuals
they get much more muscle growth from a
specific intervention and then in
trained individuals they get less muscle
growth but still the idea that just
because some of these studies were in
non-trained individuals those do not
apply to us whatsoever that's s somewhat
false idea and if you ask many of the
top scientists in the field and this is
something we often disc discuss between
ourselves this is a limitation that is a
bit of a cold in most
cases however overall the current
scientific literature just tells you hey
want to rest a bit less feeling good to
go you're not going to leave gains on
the table 1 and 1/2 minutes seems to be
okay want to rest a bit more that's fine
too but don't force the extra minute of
rest on tricep extensions or lat pul
Downs if it's been a minute minute and a
half and you're feeling good to go there
are some cases where if you rest too
little you may need to perform an
additional set or two but other than
that things seem to be very flexible at
the same time it's important to note as
highlighted on the post but more
research is needed this is not a
definitive answer and we are trying to
get closer to the truth based on the
current scientific evidence this is what
we're
seeing it may be that after 10 years of
more research where we do another meta
things do change but as it stands it
seems that a minute and a half
approximately seems to be fine it's not
the best way to rest for everybody part
or every exercise or whatever but as a
good sort of rough starting point it
seems to be
okay the next time your friend tells you
you should be resting for 3 minutes
otherwise you leaving at cor of games on
the table ask him for exitation paying
him the
pre-print dab because we're back in 2015
or whatever slap him challenge him to 1
V one outside get beaten up sue him take
his money enjoy your life don't forget
to like subscribe and all the All That
Jazz use code for amazing t-shirts like
this one from rasal of power which again
been rocking for a while don't accuse me
of sending out because I would never
sell out unless there's a lot of money
involved want me to sell out and promote
your [ __ ] give me a lot of money
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]