[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm gonna demo
a recipe from big flavor zero fact one
of my 50 recipe cookbooks and you're
looking at a ton of flavor here with
zero fat so I this was one of these
clean out my pantry type of recipes and
for the me this is crave-worthy and I
know that sounds like a complete lie and
completely made up and I swear it's not
it's like one of my favorite things now
so I encourage you to try it if none of
these ingredients really turn you off I
encourage you to try it because it just
works together there's a lot of
freshness in it and so it's not a
fishing kind of tasting dish at all so
alright let's get started with this so
I'm gonna turn on my stovetop to like a
medium medium heat I don't have any
oiler in here or anything cuz this is a
really good nonstick skillet so I'm
gonna have enough liquids in here I'm
not gonna have to worry about anything
sticking or burning so I'm not worried
about it so I'm gonna put this this is
my canned salmon and let me just give
you a little tip with that when you open
up the can it's gonna look you know
pretty off-putting there's some big
chunks of salmon in there what I like to
do is take off the skin like the skins
not gonna hurt you some people really
like the skin you can see a little bit
of the skin that I left in here but I'm
not a big skin person so I will usually
take that off and get rid of it
and then just run I usually run a spoon
down the spine because you can see all
those bones and I really usually just
run a spoon down the spine and get rid
of those bones before I make this and
then I'm gonna stir in lentils and you
guys kind of went crazy when you saw
that there were lentils oh my god I love
lentils so much and they're not on the
RP templates and so I never eat them
anymore don't do that
you can totally still eat them and then
cooked rice so again this isn't this is
like all my recipes is a pretty quick to
come together you're not gonna spend a
whole lot of time in here stir in this
is cooked jasmine rice this is just like
one of those microwaved bowls that takes
90 seconds and again check the
labels on those most of them have added
oil and you don't need that there are
some out there I'll actually let you
know which brand this is a little bit
later but this this is a brand I love
and I find it at my local store so it's
not a gourmet store it's not anything
special but it's there among the rice
packages and it's the only one I found
that does not include added oil so we're
just going to heat this up stir it
together I'll let it cook for a few
minutes it's heated throughout so I'm
going to add some tomato paste a little
bit of lime juice and some salt and
pepper and then just stir this around
until that tomato paste gets
incorporated we're gonna add the salsa
verde next and so that's cold and so if
you add that you know it's a lot of
volume you can see so if you add that in
at the same time that tomato paste will
never get a chance to kind of distribute
it'll kind of stay in a chunk and the
flavor won't get around so now I'm gonna
go ahead and add in salsa verde you can
make this but you could also buy it at
the grocery store without any added
stuff just veggies and then some fresh
tarragon fresh chopped tarragon you know
I'm always harping on you guys about
herbs but herbs just had so much free I
always say free flavor to your food so
try it try them out and that's it you're
just gonna again just let this heat
through because that salsa verde was
cold or room temperature you're just
going to let this hang out in here until
everything heats through and then you
can put some fresh tarragon on the top
and you can just eat this out of a bowl
I just kind of dollop mine into some
wraps that's how I had it when I made it
and I really liked it rolled up in a
wrap
can't wait for you guys to try this
at home and then tell me what you think
of it there's a great way to use canned
salmon if any of you were like me and
have one lurking staring at you in the
pantry every time you walk in there it's
a great way to use up and I think you'll
like it that's it
[Music]