number two once you're on track to get
big delts the next most important muscle
to be jacked in Clos or without is arms
and I will not debate you on this why
because you may have a lot of debating
and you may be intelligent and you may
even be correct do you know my Conor
argument back to you is big fucking arms
fuck you big arms win every debate a
debate club like w the the Taiwan grain
deal does it make sense in light of
China's new don't care big arms I won
that shit give me the fucking debate
trophy big arms are never the wrong
answer to anything in this world I can
close my eyes and all the people that
have big arms in the history of the
Universe I can see them all they're
still in The Ether they never went
anywhere Rich Piana the king you never
look at Rich piana's arms and go ah
whatever you're like holy fucking
shit