I would never think a 3x6 with one plate
on each side would make me feel this way
I feel like a little bit my god dude are
you sure natural you have vascularity
through your pants sir y vascularity
confirmed not
[Music]
Natty folks welcome to renissance
periodization YouTube channel I'm Dr
Mike iSell this is Jared fer ifb Pro and
my
100% biological son in real life I made
him with my own seed think about how
that
works however as you may well know Jared
and I were generally good people but we
went astray because we have tried but we
didn't inhale sport performance
enhancing
substances however this is Brian aosta
he is the current greatest natural
bodybuilder on the entire planet Earth
sir it is a humongous honor to have you
on the channel Eric Helms quite
literally wouldn't shut the up about you
Eric we love the out of you check out 3D
MJ's Channel Mr Brian deosta you run a
gym in Denver Colorado yes transform gym
transform gym if you're ever in the
Denver area hit up he's there 24/7 he
literally never leaves the desk except
he teleported here right now to train
legs with us do you have anything to
plug about your gym so it's actually my
girlfriend's gym Aaron clean however my
bad I'm there no I'm there all the time
and uh yeah if you're ever the Denver
area hit up transform gym I actually
hear we we rented out this space and
these are all your Butlers oh excellent
absolutely yes the Butlers always go
with me you'll never see them because
they're too fucking stealthy but what
you will see shortly is Brian entering
the dark side he's going to do his first
a injection on camera no wait sorry
that's video number two number one is
he's going to train legs with us super
hardcore let's cook his ass this is like
exactly a stiff leg a deadlift okay but
the bars up here and so are your hands
okay so what you want to do is knock as
much shit over as you can first movement
is your butt moves back and as your butt
moves back your chest comes up so you're
not bracing at all you're opening up
your abdominal segment there so you push
your butt back keeping your chest up
keeping your knees back and you're going
to feel a lot of tension in the
hamstrings you're going to come up big
chest come back slow butt back up
towards the ceiling and then just like
that makes sense Roger that
[Music]
super a big issue with this movement is
that people try to shift out of the hole
really fast yeah so if there's no
nothing to touch as you reach back yeah
you tend to like do that little jerking
motion if you in so it's going to help
protect your lower back a lot that's why
I like doing it depends way more but way
back butt back butt back butt back try
to nice Gentle Touch and then up yeah
good these back a little more chest make
sure you lightly tap lightly tap lightly
tap and then up yeah man good shit
almost like you're trying to hold the
deepest part there you go nice and deep
nice hold it rack when you push your
knees back did you feel that shit dude
insanely awesome yeah awesome huge chest
knees and butt back are the only two
cues you need to concern yourself with
okay Jared will give you some Advanced
bullshit every now and again cuz he's
all smart or whatever okay but I like to
keep it simple God damn it my daddy was
a farmer my granddaddy was sorry I
thought I was some what do you think
about that weight how' it feel on your
back well with the cues that you guys
are providing and the tempo it's it's
plenty I could probably go up a little
bit maybe maybe stay here let's do a up
here and see how you feel yeah yeah I'll
bite my tongue you probably get the
shakes end there I'm sure what is your
ancestry if you don't mind me asking uh
my dad side's Portuguese my mom said
Italian a so a lot of this going
on why you know eat food yeah but Mama
I'm a prepping for a buy building show
oh man my mom gets so bothered when she
sees me lean they give you the cha yeah
oh yeah dude my mom when we have family
over like we'll have like 10 family
members over she makes a meal for 30
it's like 3x no no matter what your mom
diing for a bodybuilding show is kind of
a big deal yeah she's like is eggplant
Parmesan fine I'm like literally no I
can't eat anything here yeah for real
yeah all righty let's get a work set
going yeah Ryan is going to be doing
probably two to three sets doesn't take
much this exercise is almost exactly
like a stiff legged deadlift except
instead of your arm is being down there
God knows what you're doing down there
oh holding a bar that's right they're
going to be up here so instead of
whacking it you're doing double
dildos in any case big chest up the
whole time but as far back as you can
push it push your whole body weight back
your knees are going to try to travel
forward make sure they stay nice and
steady if you're doing the movement
correctly as you go deeper keeping your
chest up P you butt back your hamstrings
are going to start to really feel that
singing pain that's what you want pick a
range of motion we've got pins in today
we're going to get to the pins to where
Brian is getting an awesome stretch at
the bottom that way we standardize every
single repetition we make sure there
always going low enough the rest of the
Technique we don't have to worry about
depth that handles itself as soon as you
touch the pins gently come up for the
rest of it we're going to be concerned
about positioning scooting the hips back
keeping the chest up Etc try these with
pins try them without pins either way
it's a r
exercise let's go hurt some natties that
came out wrong let's go train big chest
up lead with the chest on the way up
slow slow big chest right here big chest
yeah man another one Brian let's go big
chest
control control up up yeah man gorgeous
Jesus still love squatting four place
and five place and I watch you guys
videos and I'm
like I know I know I need to do it this
way but I don't want to that yeah there
was a very attractive girl coming up to
talk to you she saw you using a plan on
good morning she just turned around and
right off like I need a real man like ah
we should have told you to use worse
technique put more weight on you would I
think my girl would leave here oh that's
right if I train this way yeah look
let's be honest though best natural
bodybuilder in the world can you be
limited to one woman I mean that's
unfair Aaron the these are his
words Aaron it's all jokes I think Doug
Miller um is a Renown like very popular
very I know exactly who Doug Miller is
yeah so I'm sponsored by core I take a
lot of my training pointers and
inspiration from Doug um and I think
Doug's training style is great it works
for him it's high intensity high volume
yeah he goes hard for sure goes super
hard but I know for me personally cuz
I've been operating with this belief
like compounds compounds free weights
but dude over time man like if I train
that way it's like I need to de lo every
three or four freaking weeks yes so like
simple stuff replacing the bar ball back
squat with the hack squat or putting the
back barbell back squat as a third or
fourth movement has been pivotal the
last year I love it absolutely I love it
yeah man love it two more chest up ice
forward give me to the bottom ice
forward ice for oh fuck yeah up one
more chest up chest up chest
up up come on one more last one big
chest the whole time look up and forward
it won't make it easier this advice
won't make it easy it'll make it harder
Expos the hamstrings big chest slow
control up R good job rack rack rack
rack
it is hard that so hard at the bottom
keep your chest up yeah ah it's a extra
spinal erector work too yeah you'll get
a more Jack back to next year feel like
I'm deadlifting yeah yeah if you can
isometrically contract your back in this
position and then tilt your hips that's
it you 6 in later it lights out yeah
which is what I tell the
ladies it's not 6 in really not even
close likes being modest it's true it's
2 in oh shit modest it's eight it's
eight it's eight hello darkness my old
friend question have I ever been a bro
lifter yes my mom went to my sophomore
year parent teacher conference
everything was a plus a plus A+ the only
negative feedback I got my mom came back
and told me so we weight training
teacher says you you should take a break
because you're training the bench press
every day in class and you should try to
train it every other day and I was like
kind of devastated I was like yeah but
what does he
know cuz I was yeah total dumb shit I
didn't even train legs for the first two
years of my career same it didn't exist
only a body I started training legs I
was like how much weight can I
hypothetically contort my body into on a
leg press so that bitches finally notice
me no bitches noticed me but I could leg
press a lot let my leg hypertrophy also
didn't notice me so it was all dog shit
all the way halfway through college was
aing bro lifter yeah and they had one
eye opening moment I had like decently
sized legs and I was doing like 315 in
the squat for like you know Arnold style
reps where you like like this yeah and
then I saw with a voice and everything
and I saw an Olympic weightlifter I
didn't know what that was or who he was
he started warming up and he took 135
outside of the rack and he sunk it
deeper than I could imagine and I was
like what the and for some reason his
triceps are really big too and I was
like okay okay what the is that I
started looking into it and I was like
I've been an idiot my whole life
straight up science technique all that
shit that's how I was when I saw like
purus deas and La Hoy P yes just sinking
in front squats to the bottom and you're
like know better than these people what
am I going to do lie to people that I'm
strong P steam is stronger than every I
remember goog like why are Olympic
weightlifter quads so big yeah yeah
mystery solved they go to depth God damn
one more set here good story do it let's
go back back phenomenal keep the knees a
little straighter just like that come
[Music]
on one last one chest
up slow there you go control up R good
shit
dude dude that's
mindblowing I would never think a
3x6 with one plate on each side would
make me feel this way feel like a little
bitch welcome to RP style training where
you can be a bitch for just $29.99 a
month that's what G I do think there's
something to be said like in the name of
like enrolling a young lifter into
enjoying the gym you have to have that
phase as a young man of like proving to
yourself like I can bench two plates and
just kind of being a dumbass but it's
some point okay you get up to squatting
four plates or five plates like you
start by that age you're what mid 20s or
maybe late 20s you start thinking about
longetivity in your joints and then yes
I feel like there's an arc you can
follow it's like I'm kind of a dumbass
just figuring it out in the gym bro
split all that shit and I get to this
point where like I've built sufficient
confidence and I believe in myself I can
show up at the gym and like impress some
people whatever and then it's like okay
but am I doing it the right way and like
that's when you guys come in yeah it's
like no you're not right let me teach
you yes uh that's a big deal another
thing is like to what you do when you're
the best in the world or you're
struggling to be the best you have to
ask yourself the question of like what's
more important my ego or getting put in
the center stage at the Big Show because
nobody gives a you ever has a real real
talk has a bodybuilding judge ever asked
you how much you squat hell the they
don't even talk to you bro it's all
about do you show up looking your best
and if you're fatigued like shit your
knees hurt your hips are got from
squatting way too heavy high ass Reps
versus you could be sinking him to the
ground doing proper fatigue management
getting big bigger quads a fucking
no-brainer you fucking results Nothing
Else Matters it's like you're asking a
Formula 1 race car driver like hey how
loud is your car he's going to be like
the I don't know I don't care I do this
like they pay me to win not to resev my
engine same idea in the heavyweight
division before the finals there were
like 10 or 11 dudes on stage and I know
for a fact as I follow all of them on
Instagram some of the dudes on the
outside that were never getting moved to
Center I follow them
and they're squatting six plates they're
benching the 150s the 160s and it's like
but on stage like that didn't get slow
clap exactly yeah exactly all right
let's go do quads and really start
suffering try to push your knees really
far forward as just SP down knees
forward knees forward knees forward
knees forward knees forward yeah there
you go Brian all right folks hamstrings
are cooked next up is quads we have two
exercises for quads the first is the
belt squat the second is the high bar
squat probably two to three sets on both
or like three uh Brian's uh been
training a long time highly trained very
much in the mix used to high volume
training typically trains with something
like 15 sets of quads per workout we're
going to see if we'll be able to cut
that down with some myette bullshit like
we usually do about squats we're going
to have the heel lift he has a Versa
Lift heel in his shoe as well super
upright posture it doesn't technically
matter what you do with your upper body
just make sure you control and get that
crazy knee flexion deep as forget about
how much weight you're using as long as
it's challenging anywhere between 5 and
30 reps technique is preeminent we're
going to sink it in he's going to hold
it for a second at the bottom he's going
to athletically explode up we're going
to do my reps which means he's going to
get a chance to lean into the machine
lock out and rest take a few breaths
crank out a couple more reps every
single set if you like Brian wish him
luck right now let's just rest
breathe three more
begin good
one more let's go slow no rush spend
some time at the bottom
too yeah stand up Brian rest don't go
anywhere breathe keep your legs locked
out let your quads wash out a little bit
two more and we're done with the
set beautiful
control one more
control stand up stand up
W Jesus I like your method you like
dangle the carrot that's it I'm like I'm
almost done almost done JK that the
amount of blood before and after is
baffling baffling hey we have two more
sets
[Music]
here SS chest squats stand up rest
breathe breathe
watch yes Flawless
again yeah rest two singles treat each
one separately rest a little bit between
each watch SC yourself in yes yes yeah
everything you have on this one great
technique ran let's
go perfect Big Move stand up oh there we
go H yeah ready one two three
up that really was everything my
man good shit sent a voicemail on that
one honey I'm going to be late yeah for
real has it bothered you at all the
prevalence of like I see teenagers
online just saying like fa failure
everything it's like new Mike mener Rave
coming up and it's like feel like so
many guys don't know the definition of
like what failure is yeah I I actually
just uh this one gentleman he's a nice
guy he's comment on my Instagram you
know politely disagreeing and he's like
yeah I just like really prefer to train
to failure and I was like I don't
usually do this I looked at his
Instagram and I looked at his last St
that he did he was like this is my
hardest set of day and I was like no no
no that's three R you have no idea what
the you're saying yeah so yeah and some
some people do all the way like they
grind a failure but um if you can
recover from it like listen my man do
what you want but after a while you tend
to realize like if I crank it all theing
time it just beats my ass and I'm not
any much more jacked all the research
now says that like anywhere around one
or two R is basically the same as
failure so it's like why the would I
grind my ass down with super psychotic
fail out time now once every few months
like we do fu yeah fail away you got to
test your limits but like every session
must be to failure you can try training
like that for a while but then try
training with one or two reps on the
tank for a while see which one you like
better most people end up later in their
careers when they get a little smarter
when the ego leaves a little bit they go
start leaving a few reps
all right folks Brian got a my rep total
of 15 reps on his first set of belt
squats he got 11 reps on his second well
10 and a half but who's cting and now we
have the weight lowered from 245 lbs in
our RPI pery app we hit Downs set we're
going to go to 155 that means Brian's
probably going to do something like he's
watching me over here hello uh 20 reps
or so don't tell
them way to
control hey come on
Brian rest
breathe five begin into the
pain rest
breathe 17 Again all right speed 18 two
more left yeah 19 my man one more let's
go slow
control take that pause at the bottom
too up finish my man
R
huge love
it are you sure natural you have
vascularity through your pants sir y
vascularity confirm not Natty RP SI Fant
you guys that have been around for more
a couple
years who is one of the only people to
ever beat you on a natural bodybuilding
stage shout out to Marvin Marvin fuck
broke my heart thanks to you in 2019
well you and Marvin did the work uh you
got yours the next year right yeah that
prompted me to take a four-year off
season oh that's right and I didn't
compete until this year and then you
just swept the everything I went from
amateur amateur to World Champ within
two weeks crazy so now Marvin that's a
challenge to you time to get back out to
the United States he he's he's gunning
for it he's ready yeah I'm going to
defend
baby last exercise coming up probably
two or three sets for Mr bran here the
high bar squat he's squatted before a
ton he's used four and five plates on
the squat before we're going to retool
his technique obviously he's tired as
from all the other shit he's been doing
but we're going to see if something like
one plate to two plates doesn't fit the
bill sets a five to 10 reps here make
sure it's all in the quads not in the
back anything much higher rep in the
squat just tends to fatigue your back a
lot this second thing is if you are ever
in Columbus Ohio there are many amazing
gyms to train at but the Armory where
we're here right now ising enormous this
is a factory I think it used to be maybe
an actual Armory it's wild amazing new
equipment and I think everyone's really
goodl looking which is strange cuz I'm
really out of place let's go do spots
chest up one second pause so your knees
track
out oh beautiful one excellent lead with
the chest
[Music]
one last
rep chest up come on big man let's go
strong yes another one another one
another one we got you SL go stand up
right stand up another one chest
chest yes stand go one last one 10 we
got to get 10 that was nine take a
couple breaths whenever you're ready
keep those knees forward man chest no
stripper pull shit stripper pull shit
big chest big chest stand up chest
chest holy shit that last one was like
getting born again dude oh my
God D I cannot keep my chest up can not
last that's what last reps are
for breathe breathe
breathe control big chest
look
up
R God that'll work man that will work
three more come on Brian we're right
here with you
Brian big chest man big chest big chest
two more sh good
sh stand up
straight to yes one last one it's the
last round Brian all in the quads even
if it's grinder on the way up we're
right here worse comes worse we catch
this shit grinder go up yes
exactly all right good you're still in
the same spot don't youing move hands
right in front
begin up
2/3 down little more a little more up
down now down yeah every rep
up down
slow
up
up
down up a little higher let's go Brian
finish up strong up up up up up down
slow control control control up up come
on up
up
go and then down slow oh that's
[Music]
it good
shit oh my god dude and that's how it's
done
there was no shot I was standing up
right
there that's good
Stu feel like a little bitch that was a
drunk mistake yeah that you're paying
for it today absolutely folks that's all
we have for legs today for Brian aosta
the world's best natural bodybuilder sir
humongous honor humongous honor likewise
and um folks if your drugs free stay
drug free if you're on drugs consider
stopping to take them or you can end up
pathetic and pointless and useless and
your dick doesn't work like Jared and I
yeah uh Brian's an amazing follow on
social media give him a follow and if
you're ever in the Denver area his gym
is the best so give it a visit he never
walks again and then we're good to go
all right hell yeah catch you guys next
time
[Music]