so another one is pump how much after
several sets of the workout or of the
exercise how filled with fluid is your
target muscle so if you're doing peack
flies and after a couple of sets you
know a girl walks by and you like and
she's like oh my God and she runs away
uh I guess that's good even though she
ran away but she ran away in a way that
she obviously respected your PEC size
which is the whole point of the gym but
if you do a bunch of sets of something
let's say you're doing Peck flies your
shoulders are pumped your biceps are
pumped even your forearms look more
veiny but we can honestly say your chest
has changed than visible or palpable way
no doubt still train your pecs but maybe
not that great another one is is that
Target muscle feeling really weak and a
really good example is if you're trying
to walk downstairs after you hit quads
if you think you hit quads but you
really hit glutes and adductors you can
hop skip down the stairs no problem
whereas if you're doing this on the
handrail yes like desperately cleaning
you for dear life and and your legs are
shaky another thing with perturbation is
crampy none of this is required but if
your chest cramps hard when you're
trying to pose after a few sets of
whatever you're doing that whatever
you're doing absolutely hit your chest