I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
folks welcome back weekly webinar dr.
Mike dr. James here to answer questions
as always Mike how you doin booyakasha
respect that was pretty good that was
pretty good man
I'm just trying my ollie he always try
to be best of that all right well we've
got a pretty long lengthy list of
questions this week so I figure we might
as well just jump right into it for you
guys who are watching as we kind of get
set up here next week
Mike and I are actually gonna be on
vacation so I'm giving you a heads up
now at the beginning of the webinar I'll
remind you at the end we may be either
off schedule or we might just kind of
have a week off for this upcoming week
depending on what we end up doing
sometimes we get ambitious to say oh
yeah we'll do a webinar and then we just
end up not doing it because we're doing
something else I sorry
exactly so for now we'll say plan on
probably missing an episode this
upcoming week and then we'll be back on
a normal schedule after that yeah okay
first up is we're ready to go James
ready to go Shawn moral carbon says I
think this question will get bundled
with my question for last week since I
ended up being the cutoff point I don't
I guess he wasn't right so I won't
repeat hello guys the second time since
there's probably already right a few
minutes ago but hi again number two for
late beginners early intermediates who
may just be on the cusp of slash worth
still being able to put on a little bit
of muscle while cutting should be
actually trying to do that or would
almost be better to save the anabolic
miss for the subsequent bulk so possibly
sacrificing a small amount of potential
muscle in short run to get a recent
ization effect and maybe get a sort of
two phone benefit of the cut do you
think one might net slightly more muscle
overall or would it be pretty much a
wash and long run not really matter
which one you choose thank you to is
always so give an answer that I think
make some sense the first thing I have
to say is this when you're on a cut you
move from mev to MRV anyway it just so
happens that your mev like you're mr via
and he climbs and your MRV comes down to
you does that move isn't very long and
you know that moving are gonna be very
long maybe if you traditionally
progressed like are you doing a bulk it
might be two weeks instead of four for
each mesocycles so you know
which is why you reduced the volume and
intensity progressions in magnitude on a
cups he still progressed but it's more
slowly and if you realize you're really
really fatigued when cutting you can
progress them almost not at all so you
just essentially hang in there and maybe
progress just by just loading and don't
even progress set numbers and just
progress rir but maybe like an ax wrap
here and there so because you're still
making progressions as much as you can
to fit a certain mesocycle link like at
least a four to one for example and
because you would do that anyway in a
muscle gain phase you would just be able
to progress longer and bigger and
actually gain muscle and you're already
doing everything and training that you
would anyway to gain muscle the only
thing you could do differently is
prioritize a muscle group during a cut
that's not a good idea because then you
end up saying okay well the other ones
have to go to maintenance volume which
really is equivalent to me know
effective volume written in our cut and
this prioritize muscle we're gonna start
up an effective volume so an assembly
just being the same thing
so I would say that you end up running
outside of the prioritisation which you
shouldn't be doing but that's a soft
cracking problem because if you try it
it won't work it's really like you just
train the same and to whether or not you
gain muscle is a result of the process
not something you sort of plan in
advance people who move from mev to MRV
and actually get quite a bit of volume
in and actually progress that why again
muscle like sweet but sometimes that
just doesn't happen so you essentially
sort of design your program in very much
the same way but the result of the
progression may be different on cutting
and then so you'd of first cut you could
gain a lot of muscle fourth cut you
could gain very little and tenth cut you
could gain nothing and fifteen thought
you could lose a little bit but that
just tends to happen sort of naturally
just with normal training design and
there's not really a flip the switch of
let's bulk and cut up a saint or let's
gain muscle during a cut so I don't
think you're gonna be doing a lot of
stuff differently um if there are some
levers to pull differently which maybe
not think you know maybe James will
think of some but maybe you will Sean
then I would actually say it's probably
not a good idea to pull those levers
during a cut for someone a late beginner
or late yeah late begin early
intermediate because you do get your
best results momentum wise tissue eyes
etc when your muscle gain phase and I
would
do the cuts shorter with less volume
less a Juris less fatigue finish cutting
in six weeks instead of age because
you're not pushing it as hard and don't
have to take as many weird d loads and
stuff get over the cut just use the cut
for pure body fat loss and then get back
to the real good old days when your
muscle gaining and everything is so
super ideal you'll tend to notice that
with a lot of sports specificity ends up
becoming more and more important as the
athlete progresses and a part of
specificity we can I guess you could say
it's phase potentiation becomes more
important in a sense that you're doing
something really really well or and not
doing a whole lot of anything else or
you're doing something else really well
along not a whole lot of anything else
so I would say that that's probably with
the direction you want to hit into if
you have levers to pull I just don't to
give them in your levels opponents
itself solving problem James yeah I
think you nailed it pretty pretty well
they're so kind of just reiterate what
Mike said usually we don't really think
about gaining muscle during a cut even
if that is something that does happen so
it's more of like a bonus like alright
cool like that works out great I think
what is kind of an interesting point is
like you might do things in cutting like
the really really hard training that you
do even within the the smaller mev de
MRV window if you do really really hard
training you might be setting yourself
up for muscle gains that actually
express later on I don't know this to be
true yeah but I suspect right so you
might have something later our next
question actually
yeah so you might have like satellite
cell proliferation occurring from a
really hard training stimulus that
cannot phenotypic ly Express until
energy conditions are in a better spot
right and so later on like you did this
hard training you have like a a G note a
G no typical change that hasn't been
able to manifest in Tofino typical
changes later on that is a that is
something that's possible I don't really
know a ton about that but that would be
an instance where it's it's might be in
your interest to train hard during cuts
- like the mini cut examples that we
give where we say back off a little bit
but training hard trigger cuts probably
a good idea it probably helps net you
more muscle in the long term anyway but
you don't really change what you're
doing you just still do the same stuff
yeah great great great
related question sort of from fictional
funkiness thanks for trying to answer my
question last week I either use the
wrong terminology or had a mistaken
premise so please allow me to try again
oh good the lectures on nutrition for
muscle gain dr. mike says that too short
of mass phase risk generating only
preparatory gains not contractile tissue
and that the cut right after massing can
interfere with leggy hypertrophy later
he suggests that a month or two of
maintenance can help
allow the body to adjusted settling
point but although he mentions
preparatory growth and light chakra
growth at the same time Stockley of the
same one or two months suggestion
applies finally in the post show
appeared ization example there are
maintenance phases of two or four weeks
after gain phases but also many cuts
that last four weeks I'm not sure how
should apply that advice as I plan my
diet from the coming year and which I'd
like to spend as much time possible
massing but still leave time to
comfortably come back into my weight
class so he has another question there
but I will address that in a second so
here's the the best answer I can give is
it's all a matter of duration and
magnitude if you gain a lot of muscle
over a long muscle gain phase you
probably can benefit from a longer
maintenance phase and a shorter cutting
phase at the end or a less extreme
cutting phase at the end and you'll keep
more of that muscle if you on the other
hand you know if you have a short muscle
gain phase and a very long very nasty
very go down to low body weight and body
fat cut after that really highly risks
you so you'll notice that in our mini
cut manual sample periodization you'll
have mass phases and then just really
really short maintenance phases in mini
cuts the thing is many cuts that they
really don't risk muscle loss much
because they're so short and because
they're not taking you to super lean
body fat levels and they're not
extremely fatiguing before you do one of
those cuts you have better settle
everything in after a long massing phase
with a nice long one to two month
maintenance phase or some other phase in
which you don't lose a ton of body
weight so we're really really warned
against this doing a huge mass we're
actually the worst possible thing
superfast super short mass and then a
super crazy cut you'll they be like oh
yeah that's it right yeah because people
will say that right there'll be like I'm
dieting for six months and then I want
to mass for like three weeks and then I
want to die for another four months so
we're like you might as well just not
mass like what's better like just
maintain and relax and they're like why
not mass should I keep any of that shit
alright and you're stressing your body
with more training volume and more
psychological you know sort of pressure
than you need to be
just just chill on the other hand you
know the best way to do it is till mass
for a long time and then do little tiny
mini cuts with and then you need very
little maintaining because you get right
back to mass thing after and everything
goes well of course ever now to get many
cuts don't work you have to do a regular
cut but that regular card should come
after a more extended maintenance fees
which is or motifs in the mini cot
manual absolutely does and then even
after that cutting phase you might take
another maintenance fees just to get
your body prop from asking again drop
James sorry the audio cut off on that
last part just a little you can you just
reiterate like the last 15 seconds yeah
my back your back so yeah so if you in
the mini cut manual you see that before
a longer cutting phase we do have
programmed longer maintenance phase
which you should take and then you might
even take a meanness phase after that or
shortly after that long arc ought to
really drop the fatigue from the content
or really let you do a good job muscle
gaining again yeah that sounds great I
actually don't have any additions you
nailed it cool next question from
fictional funkiness is have you ever
heard of someone getting acne because of
cutting no do you have any strategies
today no I'm sorry I honestly can't
think I mean I know some people are
prone to acne like when they're stressed
right and that could be something
related but wait a minute I to answer
this fictional fuckness which you want
to do is go follow Stephen DeVos the
lifting dermatologist on oh yeah not on
a jury if that's a real person yeah and
tell him you are an rp+ member and you
Mike and James sent us over he may be
able to answer your question in a Q&A he
has he need be able to answer a youtube
comment he might even message you
literally his career he is a
board-certified dermatologist I believe
in the Belgium of Switzerland is
somewhere over there super sharp guy and
he is super jab super lean and in
training for 20-plus years and has a
YouTube channel about gaining muscle
losing fat and he's a dermatologist if
he doesn't know this nobody does yeah
that's the guy
def PI's that was a good remember on
your part yeah second day they do a lot
of cool stimmy talks about like TR
and some other stuff totally yep the
lifting dermatologist Stephen DeVos on
YouTube Shan Shan some and I every time
I read that I'm like Shanna see Samson
I'm sayin shit hi Doc's I have been
recently running a fat loss phase and I
found myself needing to cut my vows a
little shorter than expected three four
weeks but mostly due to joy too
connected to your pain in the upper
limbs I suspected after two mezzos and
fat loss I've probably tried to push my
body too many body parts from immediate
MOV at the same time from his o2 I had a
pretty good groove on my hamstrings and
quadratic so for my last week those are
two before I decided to ease back on the
upper body intensities and push my leg
training hard for one more week
curious if this approach of backing off
on some body parts made Mezo in order to
push extend ms or other body parts makes
sense for more context I've been trying
to push quads hamstrings biceps triceps
chest and back from Eminem review all
cutting I've been a me for about two
sets shy of reference for MRV for my
overview of fat loss abs front delts
inside and rear delts have been about M
bmed
I do not I do no direct loot straps or
calves but it's another us a week it's a
lot of dead lifting I was gonna say
thank you definitely do do glutes and
traps dead lifting twice a week yeah for
sure I aim to get two bouts a week of
light sled push for cardio but it's
usually a pain in the ass to set up a
barbell gate so I'm just trying to walk
or hike more if I can
it's good walking eyes to do a better
balance anyway my third and final
measure of fat loss I'm gonna take a
more consumer approach him for triceps
on the back burner as well any general
thoughts on this you may change I don't
say first part yeah I got a lot on there
the first part is asking about backing
off of some stuff well play mid mezzo
basically like I don't think that's the
best idea because it introduces a level
of complexity to your training that was
thing it makes things difficult to track
also when you're a fat loss phase you
don't have to worry about pushing
anything because per the earlier
question for Sean or okawa I think that
pushing things out of cut is not the
best time to push them it's better to
push them out of mass so I would say
that
you should take all of your body parts
and put them between a Medina Murphy and
very slowly at it the volume and if you
know that your connective tissue pain is
going to be a problem at certain volumes
for your upper limbs or your upper body
then I would just stay away from that
and sort of push until it gets close to
that and then don't push anymore and if
you still pushing your legs as part of
them the normal plan they can still sort
of gold' yeah just add you know loading
and produce RER through your upper body
so to basically just have two
independent of our bees and that's
totally fine but I wouldn't artificially
extend or artificially pull back on
anything and make a very very disparate
push yeah so I think instead of trying
to adjust your mesocycle length or
anything along those lines I think what
you might consider doing is changing the
exercises obviously that are seems to be
exacerbating the pain and then also
consider using a lower frequency of
training it sounds like you maybe are
just having too many overlapping
sessions if you're consistently getting
like joint pain that's holding you back
from doing mesos so if you're training
triceps you know three times a week get
it down to two with your training biceps
you know four times get it down to two
or three see if that helps you know if
you don't member if you said elbow
specifically butt joint and connective
tissue pain in the upper limbs yeah so I
would say maybe dial down your frequency
a little bit see if that helps that
might be also giving you some problems
yeah and then he says you may recall
asked a question of all back about leg
size strength discrepancies interesting
that knows my leg straightens he is
almost entirely disappeared on the cut
all the discrepancy has not changed size
discrepancies not change did you I was
gonna say did you have one really fat
leg and one leg to be clear I haven't
yet altered elect reining to correct a
discrepancy would you expect straight
discrepancies to be minimized on a cut
any physiological rationale you could
think for this um my physiological
rationale for this is that on a cut you
do potentially more cardio and the leg
that does in the increased cardio in
both legs and the cardio might have
become more fatiguing than that good leg
is used to and it had a fiber type
conversion more than the other leg which
you might use more but that's a very
speculative thing no clue about what we
really
expect and I wouldn't worry about any of
this stuff man if you want to fix it you
know how to fix it and usually these
strength and size discrepancies are
wholly irrelevant anyway you know I
would also say it could be you know of
course it could it could be a thousand
different things but you know sometimes
like for example if you pick a movement
and you start noticing like you see pick
a movement and you're gonna use it for
the next several mesocycles like a squat
for example and you're like ah man I'm
really leaning on one side or I could
feel like there's like a definite
discrepancy in my technique or in my
strength on you know one side sometimes
just doing it for three mesos in a row
slowly but surely starts correcting
itself into a more symmetrical kind of
configuration while you're doing the
exercise so I would also just posit that
it might not be the cut itself but just
like sticking with an exercise long
enough to make a long term either a
muscular strength and or technique
adjustments to the movements and just
kind of balancing out a little bit that
is feasible yeah Declan Ward says hello
hello first off a question of
weightlifting programming allow
variations power snatch less cleaner
staples nutritionally lifts programs are
lighter on fatigue than full lift while
still providing stimulus if you were to
put a percent on how you would how do
you think they would compare to the full
of terms of stimulus and fatigue a lift
over the high strength reserve by
cleaning jerky to squat ratio would
receive less of a stick well that was
like a high strength reserve is actually
a low cleaning jerk to squat ratio isn't
that true James that's what I was
thinking X I was I was reading yes reads
I was like wait a minute watch of
clean-and-jerk ratio a strength reserve
I think strength reserve means like if
you just Colossians we strongly yeah if
you squat four kilos but you clean 100
kilos you have big strength reserve it's
the other way around and say that we
were out so I think it's the squat clean
jerk ratio but then we sorta yeah lifter
with a high strength reserve would
receive less of a stimulus with
traditional lifts than someone with all
mm-hmm yes I think he had the right idea
just put it backwards but yeah
then with a lower strength reserve so
lessons stimulus yeah so would power
variations even be worthwhile in the
program until their classic lifts have
improved certainly less worthwhile but
generally speaking so it also so so some
people you get some lifters who have a
really gnarly strength reserve but they
actually aren't that good at the power
moves and some people have a gnarly
strength reserve that are good at the
power moves some people just like the
power they just better at the power
moves and some people are better at full
lifts if I was to put a percent on how
they would compare a stimulus and
fatigue I have absolutely no idea James
do you know I mean it would just totally
be bullshit on my part it's it's clear
to me that yeah the power movements
because you don't have to go through the
full ROM you don't have to absorb the
full impact of the lift just doing the
lift itself it's definitely less
fatiguing than the eye opens himself we
can all agree on that how much I'm not
sure what's interesting though is
there's this is this is like classic
sports science stuff the Mike and I had
just shoved down our throats at nauseam
when we were in school the matter if you
do the full movement the power movement
or even a derivative movement what we
find is that the actual second pull
movement tends to generate pretty damn
near the same power outputs and that's
the really the the trainable portion of
that lift is that second pull derivative
right so if you put somebody on a force
plate and say do a full clean do a power
clean do a you know a clean from hang do
just a clean pull from pins right the
power output from the second pull ends
up being sometimes not even
statistically different in many cases
across that whole spectrum so you could
definitely make a case and say it's a
better SFR at least in terms of like
power production in many cases not all
cases but definitely definitely a case
could be made there quantifying that man
I have no idea it really depends on to
like the anthropometry of the lifter you
know the impacts that they have to
absorb stuff like that like if you have
like a really short and stocky guy
versus like a guy with really long arms
and legs it's gonna be completely
different it's really hard to say you
should be very attune in your own
training of what for you the SFR will be
compared to full lifts because it should
be pretty obvious
after a couple weeks a train so I think
what we could say I think what a
reasonable point to leave off on there
is to say like if you're just looking
for the power stimulus literally like
you're training the power portion of
that not emphasizing like the technique
requirement necessarily that would maybe
be a better SFR choice than dual lifts
right but if technique is something that
continues to be a ongoing refinement or
struggle then you're actually making a
trade-off in terms of power output at
the cost of you know maintaining perfect
technique under close to maximal loading
which in weightlifting is arguably more
important in many cases so you could go
either direction so I think having like
that needs analysis idea of like where
as my guy really lacking is he just not
explosive or does he suck at the lift
that might help you make those decisions
yeah XANA of deal at week following a
week of overreaching our energy demands
raised in order fuels for compensation
should just be a mean again in the same
amount of calories as you would on a day
with a similar workout and when we
turned the mezzo so if there is some
reason to think that there are elevated
Broderick Chavez would say that for the
first two or three days of a deal oh you
shitty little bit more than usual
because you're still fucked up the way I
would do it is the the the average
answer is no just keep it simple in the
same you're gonna lose not on almost
nothing if you want the bonus points of
being super attentive a theory what I
would do is while you're still sore from
the last week's overreaching and still
super notably fatigued energy wise eat
more and then you know half way through
G load or a third through G load you'll
know when you're no longer sore like man
I can't wait to eat these three double
cheeseburgers are gonna go to my muscles
and your body's like really to your
muscles and you're like okay just
kidding then I'm done recovering so you
could scale it to that so I'm gonna I'm
gonna throw something in there and I
feel like you're gonna jump on this and
be all over it but I think during a cut
there is there are some psychological
downsides to potentially using that
strategy I think during like a mass or
maintenance phase it's gonna be fine but
during a cut you might actually f pr8
yourself back into rebound weight
gaining too much if you just are not
careful and you say like oh I'm gonna
eat more cuz it's DLO time it's like
well yeah
and really kind of leveled out yet from
your cut scenario look I'm gonna eat ah
because I need to recover more and it's
like yeah but I just took off and gained
a bunch of rebound weight for no reason
so and also like the fpr h part of it to
works like now you're actually just
inciting these like ravenous cravings in
yourself then for the next two weeks you
might just be like oh I can't take it
anymore pizza buffet you know like so I
think cutting is a unique in that regard
whereas I don't think that problem is
quite as evident on massing or
maintenance but just just something to
think about
yeah all right Jason Kochi says high
jump guy here so I have so many nuggets
of wisdom one of the valuable things
about this forum is that you don't just
answer my questions you challenge my
assumptions that helps quite a bit in
optimizing my approach well we can't
very well answer your questions
correctly if you don't challenge any
assumptions we don't think are right on
the questions number one thank you for
clarifying that 3 B 3 is not the same as
three armed four triples my jaw mask
will try to hit the three around the
power phase I didn't type the question
correctly which led to confusion seconds
Oh sex versus sets oh my gosh it is
while in a power phase I'm maintaining
strength how many times a week should I
be doing through there three assuming
once but I would like to clarify and
perhaps here two principles to consider
also through with you have your squats
are three by three heavier squats
sufficient for total leg m/v we'll be
doing a sprinting and jumping as well in
a context sorting and jumping almost
certainly yeah and if you're maintaining
I'm not gonna worry about and yeah I
would say once a week is fine in many
cases James
yeah I'm just assuming he means doing
three by three like heavy squats not
three by three like other stuff right
that's yes well okay that's correct
totally yeah so that that's good in
terms of frequency and that's good very
likely good in terms of maintenance
volume I have a really hard time
imagining that you'd have any
maintenance we had issues at that point
number two you had a good discussion
last week regarding three key training
modalities along the force velocity
curve high force strength power variant
jumping is it appropriate that as I
program along the force velocity curve a
simple approach would be to hit high
force power jumping in each motorcycle
but shifting the priority depending
where I am the force velocity curve yes
they have a blow of what I'm thinking
oh look take a look at your example the
answer is yes but let's see if your
example fits three that's that's phase
potentiation really literally three-day
training strength
focus on strength to pursue days power
weight of us jumping in the leader in
the week power block earlier in the week
power ballistic squats midweek jumping
we did vest later week strength triples
here continue progressively overload
well you would still progressively
overload of triples as an adaptation
sounds fine
jump block earlier in the week jumping
jump ball unit dunk technique midweek
hour later week strength nails it yeah
that's really good I mean it's basically
like I know we tend to talk more about
physique stuff so like you guys have
heard doctor might talk about using a
blend of the the generalized repetition
ranges it's basically that same idea
right applied to a sporting context
where you have different loading zones
it's not that you only do one loading
zone it's that one is generally
prioritized over the others now that
kind of sprit speed and power stuff are
kind of unique in that you you you
literally can't train them all the time
but you can keep kind of like a
maintenance volume of just familiarity
with the technique in the proprioception
and the feel for the movements in in the
mix but you don't necessarily train them
all year but you kind of keep them fresh
so yeah you nailed it those really good
but just one last thing to add you know
you can also modulate it should volume
modulate volume and intensity within
each session so such as they could have
the different sessions it's also that
you have you know like on your strengths
in the first two days strength block you
might do quite a bit of strength volume
and then your weighted vest jumping
later in the week could just be very
very low volume ping so you can save
yourself your strength in your power
block you might do less even in your
strength work you might do a few less
sets per session and you might do more
jumping when you do the jumping and so
on and so forth so it's not just the
frequency that is altered it is the per
session volume in procession intensity
knowledge as well yeah absolutely agree
I'm gonna reach down and grab low it's
this there's like madness going on in
the house
every girl he's like flipping out so I'm
just grabbing all right point number
three while James are your screen
sharing so he can't say hi oh crap
alright real quick so lazy looking he's
the laziest man ever okay got that out
of the way
sorry it was like everyone was yelling
and screaming and lo was panicking yep I
was panicked pretty well all right
number three really interesting points
in the evidence regarding transfer of
weighted jumps an optimal weight range
10% most couch experts say up to 30% of
1rm squat for weighted jumping uh they
mistook that because it was 30% of loads
but your body weight if you're a
two-time body weight squat or your body
weights 30% easy mistake to make for
sure you know however context is king in
is fair to say that this is appropriate
if you're in the middle portion of the
first velocity curve transitioning
period from strength to speed and is it
fair to say this is the appropriate if
you're in the middle portion of the
force velocity curve transition from
strange speed so is he asking is using
30% appropriate when making that
transition is that the question or Magus
is 10% appropriate so weighted jumps
with 10% unless is I would say training
for both power and speed but if you're
doing a lick Olympic weightlifting
derivatives then it is 30% of your you
know your full ability to do that lift
so you know we need a little bit more
context on what you're asking is it for
power enhancement or is it for optimal
jumping it's yeah so like you know this
is where it kind of gets nitpicky
between like are you training for power
or speed like in many cases you know
jumping and sprinting can kind of be
synonymous with both you know in many
instances so in this case like the
loaded jump would be more of a power
type activity and the unloaded jump
would be more of like this
etai yeah though yeah you could
definitely use the loaded jump like
during a transition period where you're
kind of like emphasizing power before
you're moving into like you're unloaded
just pure fast explosive movement block
and that would be fine yeah I'm gonna
I'm gonna mute myself I have to ask now
something sorry can I keep going or
please do tapir versus d load what are
the differences for instance if before
my final dunk week and in addy load is
there any real difference between this
and a tapir so um addi loads job is to
drop fatigue while conserving
adaptations which means it can be very
general and it could be a lot of a drop
if the tapir is something that drops
fatigue plenty but really seeks to keep
the very specific adaptations so in a
tapir you would do a lot more of a
competitive activity during the tapir on
a d load you might do very little or
none of the competitive activity also d
loading is long enough to buy you
another mesocycle or enough fatigue
reduction tapering is enough fatigue
reduction to maximize performance in
beginning lifters and athletes the DLO
to taper might be the same thing in even
for power on speed and beginning
athletes the taper might last only two
or three days and the d load might last
longer actually
but in advanced athletes usually the
tapers start to get longer than the d
bones in order to absolutely yeah sounds
like he got that covered pretty good
number 5 thanks for a recommendation
regarding using a temper some body
weight versus for jumping I'll
incorporate that when I start on
practice
I always new anime Goku and roughly
weighted correct
clowning was rooted in deep science or
as a deep science route in the anime aha
the ultimate question mm-hmm chicken I
like what piccolo would take off his
armor and I would like break a rock yeah
people would be like whatever and he
drop it at Billa crunch oh shit
well that's how I felt taking the
weighted vest off at the end of the day
just like uh so much lighter
it's tempting I might have to start
using a weighted
could I go digits and a weighted mass
that'll be real good I'll be awful be so
awful because people would get you
stacked up and you could just never
recover because all the weights number
six is strength sufficiently realized in
a three rep range versus twos versus
ones lifting sub maximally with drug
around method outside of powerlifting in
the context of jumping was there any
benefit to actually going heavy for a
week or two does it scream more ability
generate more force for jumping does
difficult to communicate I know exactly
what you're asking by the way
essentially where is the best core
strength best expressed and realized for
sports athleticism afraid to express to
five reps than further more than three
reps then why would an aqua heavier well
so strength that is explosively
transferred and jumping and things like
that is probably best tool up in a three
rep range and remember not three RM but
three rep range heavy sets of three that
are also very fast moving going into
twos and ones probably reaches into the
heavy and slow sure velocity it makes
the moving less specific probably
doesn't generate any higher amount of
force for repetition it just lowers the
velocity um so I would say that threes
are about as good as it gets for sport
transfer when James and I were sport
coaches strength conditioning coaches we
would sometimes practie you know was a
colleagues of ours who would go down to
twos in a power or block we almost never
would we would stop at threes because
like you know might as well do two sets
of three than three sets of two just get
the fuck out of the gym faster and go
play rugby
so singles is I've never programmed
singles for any sport and athletes ever
and I think they're gigantic fucking
waste of time and well yeah and there
are waste of time because the risk to
reward is so shitty it's shitty from a
physical standpoint because every time
you get closer to the two and to the one
mark the absolute load on the bar is
actually destroying you more and more
and more and that's when you typically
see like even when we got to freeze we
would very commonly start to see people
getting injured not injured in like the
sense like they were doing something
horrible or you know outrageous but just
the heaviness of the load tends to bring
out injuries or exacerbate old injuries
yeah like little tiny kind of hurt on
that ones yeah
and so like going heavier than threes is
just like in terms of like the amount of
psychological preparation that you need
to do those lifts in terms of the amount
of physical strain and like the key at
the SRA curve of doing those types of
lists man it's just so shitty in terms
of SFR so I think Mike nailed it like
threes is really good
you get virtually the same fitness
payout significantly less fatigue and
like you can modulate the force velocity
characteristics a little bit better the
other thing too is like how often in
sports do you truly make a maximal
dynamic effort in terms of like slow
moving high force output really the only
thing one I can think of is rugby and
that's when you do the scrum but even
that's not done maximally because you
have to play for 80 minutes so it's
always it's a high forceful slow moving
thing but it's never truly a maximal
effort because of self-preservation and
pacing strategy so never happen you
don't cover exactly number seven I have
a friend who is an engineer who works
for a consulting firm he creates
robotics surgical instrumentation is
able to code as a personal
business-building drones he and I have
been chatting about how to make vertical
jump training smarter using force plates
etc he is willing to build me to help me
on the jumping journey he has access to
3d printers two kind of materials all
types of sensors would love your
creative Solid box think you know what
if anything you'd ask him to build to
what end some ideas IQ some type of
sensor technology and math measure
standing vert I use it to auto regulate
jumps perhaps when power goes down or a
significant way stop activity for a set
or day etc identify where a lot of the
force velocity of I am which could have
optimized training close to peaking how
many of you my opinion that James give
you his my opinion all shadows fucking
dogshit doesn't do anything although
Intel you ever need about your how your
power shade is going it's like a like a
like over tech like literally just like
a high can you reach for your dunking
specifically that's very instructive
because it's a it's a jump reach test
which is exactly what a dunk is did you
get a vertex I don't even know how much
they cost like a hundred dollars get
this fucking just hike with fucking
little things and you can touch and jump
if you use that several times a week to
either modulate how high you're jumping
like do reps to a certain height and hit
the height every time or
maximum jumping and track yourself that
way I think that anything else is just
almost pointless to have because if you
so for example identify where along the
first velocity curve I am you already
know that my are strong you aren't how
he can jump I'll regulate jumps perhaps
when power goes down how do you know
cows grow zombies your attack numbers go
down and you know your body would see
can calculate power using an online
calculator on sensor technology to
measure standing Burt guess what else
measure standing more specifically a
vertex which actually incorporates where
your hand those two so it's one of these
things and James might have a different
opinion this but he might go on as he
likes to go on a mini rant of collecting
more data and technology than you need
to get the job done it's cool and all
but sometimes the you know you know get
eighty years of engineering and barbells
to look like barbells because they work
so well so it's one of those they're
maybe it's just haven't built your drone
but does auto programmed 360 around you
and then when you jump at 360 cameras so
you have the most ball or dunk video of
all the GoPro on that drone that's what
you got to do yeah I tend to agree with
Mike on this one so there's really
nothing there that like um there's also
like a lot of really easy readily
available stuff like a just jump mat
cost like I think like 200 or 300 bucks
I mean that's great
it's basically a force plate that you
can like that's readily available
jumping force plate it's not very
expensive so there's that you can get
the push band which is something that
can get you a lot of data for a jumping
velocity power output you can get
there's another one called I think it's
called the beast sensor which is like a
little Bluetooth magnet you can put on
stuff does the same thing that the push
band does it's just an accelerometer man
you don't really don't need you don't
need to build a force plate just for
like a dunk thing like how do you know
if you're getting better I like are you
closer to dunking okay good I saw your
pictures I know that you have documented
your hand height on the fucking
basketball hoop what more do you need
than that which it was really cool
Instagram post by the way you can see
his hand like getting higher and higher
and higher
the thing with Auto regulating jumps is
this is where you run into a problem
where you can have measurement devices
that look at your jump height or the
velocity of your jump and really the
auto regulation portion comes in
situations where it only tells you not
to jump right so you
I did you a jump but it's like I can't
produce that much power or speed today
so like what's the answer it's like okay
well don't do your jump training today
because you are not in a good state of
preparedness to train for jumping well
you can't generate an overload because
you're so you're like below 80 percent
of your best in these parameters right
so okay that's great but then it doesn't
tell you what to do later right it only
will just reaffirm like either today's a
good jumping day or maybe we shouldn't
be jumping today that's kind of the
problem so you can do that man I just
don't think it's like a really great use
of your time that's all it's like okay
now what do I jump tomorrow I don't know
what am I gonna be ready like yep yep
man with one of the greatest names ever
this name is real by the way Zack drawl
I was thinking draw like oh you're so
draw my chol sacs name is a nickname for
benadryl cuz a hell of a metabolic okay
I want Zack to do like a us a double
unique and like the people are there
picking people to drug test they're
getting does my back crawl get in line
god dammit
all right he says how do you I recently
had to switch to am training to
facilitate a new business but also to
exudate raining on a few days I wake an
hour and a half before training and
instantly eat a meal focused on carbs
and protein and then on the way to the
gym I also have a fun snack for the day
usually sour candy my performance is the
same in the a.m. as it wasn't a PM with
the cabinet that I have not gotten sore
in the way I usually do for my auto
rating I do for my auto regulated volume
jumps thoughts total sleep wasn't change
I have no idea there could be tons of
other variables yeah it would even
performance is good man I wouldn't worry
about somewhere knows too much yeah and
I wonder too if it's related to like
when you ate your meals like if you tend
to be like a heavy eater in the evening
because that's when you would train and
get home from work and then you'd be
like okay now I have like you know I
still got 300 grams of carbs to get down
by the end of the day that might be kind
of influencing that worse like now you
train in the morning and maybe your
eating habits are still similar and you
might just be a little off schedule in
terms of like your timing stuff although
I really don't think that's a big deal
either yeah I don't know I'm just I'm
just spitballing ideas I have no clue
also in regards to James stance on
firearms per our conversation last time
as a lifelong CCL and competitive
shooter that's very sweet
um I also recommend practicing with your
carry weapon as if it were martial art
oh fuck yeah it's completely agree
completely agree and for those of you I
know this is like a contentious topic
for people so I understand if you if you
don't agree with but I I agree with that
position where you take it very
seriously and there's some cool
organizations like IDP a is an
organization where you can do like
testing practice stuff and have like
kind of they do little like kind of
little scenarios that you can compete in
there's all sorts of really cool stuff
so I mean like being a firearms owner is
a really big deal and if you're not
willing to take the responsibility to
practice and be proficient then it's not
worth your time same thing like with
jiu-jitsu like you don't take one
jiu-jitsu match and think that you can
go and choke somebody out necessarily
though there's a very real possibility
that you could kill somebody trying to
do that yeah and so I think people who
try and understand that risk knowing
that like okay you know I thought it was
just like a little bit of this kind of
stuff and then you realize that when
you're training getting into a fight and
getting into a self-defense situation
some serious business and you want to
make sure that you know what you're
doing yeah charles victor says hey ducks
hope you're well today a couple of
questions for you number one i'm about
to start nursing school from talking to
older more experienced nurses i've been
told that some relatively tall and
philippi dude I'm very likely to get
assigned one of my fair share of very
large patients to care for I go they
talk about the case that Eiling was my
wife is the doctor she's neither she's
she's tall and while she looks jacked so
but but she's tiny but she's super thick
and jacked so they asked her to move
people all the time but she's like okay
yes I'm doing this I've been told this
may take a toll on my back yeah but
you've been told us by weak people
so don't remember that so I wanted to
see if you guys any ideas and ways I
could tweak my training to optimally
prepare for this it'll be two years
before I'm out of school and working
sort of plenty of time to train to
currently do the following there just
has for my back Barma bent over rows
pull-ups chin on chest supporter rows
neutral grip lat pulldown sumo DLR
Thiel's
and you seal already else my leg days so
I end up at 14 week frequency my back
I'm a pretty especially over back on the
racing is rather high so remember your
upper back has very little to do with
you picking people up it's mostly
hamstring glute and director
strength and actually some ice of
strength I do bodyweight free weight
exercises 510 rep rage and machine
exercise in the 10 20 rep range how
would you recommend altering my back
training to target the goal of being
able to bear part all the weight very
large people and minimizing risk for
injury obviously I don't expect you to
start an entire training program for me
about some pointers we appreciate it I
think they may behoove me to add in some
heavy holds and carries along with
perhaps back extensions don't do it so
here's the deal
you can lift yeah if you can deadlift
and RDL a trillion pounds E and go pick
up a real person that's not heavy and
certainly remember they're never gonna
ask you to do anything a human being
can't do so if someone 600 pounds you
know it takes like eight people to move
from one bed to another you're not gonna
be doing a shift by yourself always at
work just say hey guys I can't pick this
person up like can I get some help here
listen to the entire hospital system
entire sort of ethics situation in
hospital systems is like if you need
help people show up to help you there
are always other nurses and doctors so
one big piece of advice I can tell you
is don't bite off more than you can chew
don't get a ton of pride and don't be
like yeah I can do everything myself
because if you demonstrate yourself to
be willing to lift you and round people
by yourself into beds then she could
give you more Turner problem people lift
don't fuck yourself over like that ask
somebody to help you and then you'll
bear it with two people they'll always
be thankful that you're helping out you
may be more often asked to help out but
don't use your physical strength a ton
to be the sole proprietor physical
strength there's tons of people around
do your fair share do more than your
fair share but don't fucking Superman
the shit and just try to do it all by
yourself first of all second of all if
you developed a ton and been Rohit on
your well anyway I would add relatively
heavy curls into the masks mix and if
you are in any capacity if access strong
made equipment specifically loading
implements stones
bags are really good odd objects I would
work on high loading and low loading and
work on heavy loading and then once
you've loaded you know a 250 pound stone
man regular people just don't fucking
weigh that much so I would do some of
that if I could but if not heavy stiffly
enough heavy regular to those heavy
barbell rows and heavy dumbbell and
barbell curls in the 5 to 10 rep range
controlled of course and you'll be well
on your way to have it all straight yeah
so I think like I
I agree with what Mike said I think what
I would recommend is just focus on the
barbells like your normal training stuff
for now because you're gonna get
basically that training stimulus while
you're at work it's one of those things
that's like you might not have to train
it very much at all because you're gonna
be doing it so you could also learn how
to operate like a medical forklift
that'd be pretty cool right just like
just pick somebody up
no but just kidding but yeah I think
like just focusing on getting strong and
all the compound movements is something
that you people tend to do anyway like
keep doing that and then it just becomes
a matter of Auto regulating your back
training from that point on if you have
a particularly rough night
yeah at the office and then you gotta go
train the next day in here like fuck I
can't I'm not doing deadlift today then
don't you know what take a light day
move on do something else find a
workaround maybe do some hamstring curls
or some 45 degree back arrays sometimes
you get something and go on and move on
to the next one you know what I mean so
I think autoregulation really is going
to be the key at that point and just
keep doing what you're currently do it
what your your training seems to be fine
to me so
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
all right along lines of question one of
it told that the same traits that make
me likely end up carry very large
patients also increase the chances of
them carrying hot for hostile and
aggressive patients such as people come
to be are intoxicated super I did a few
years of Judo back in high school but
that was well over a decade ago and I'm
quite rusty I did a bit of research in
seems they feed your day is probably one
of the better choices for martial art to
learn to minimize my chance of being
seriously injured if I get tackled by
someone who's higher math correct me if
I'm wrong it's actually the best martial
art to learn that's cuz jiu-jitsu tons
of that starts on your back anyway um
there are about two dozen be Judy James
on 20 minute driving distance I mean
what do you think I should look for when
it comes to picking out a good one well
you might like beat your day for ton of
other reasons rather than just working
patience so I would pick a school in
which the instructor is not a cocksucker
but the training partners are cool
people so you might go to a couple
schools and see if you fit in and also
one in which a lot of the people compete
and one of the ways you can tell is they
sign up for competitions and another way
is more ranked belts so like purple
brown black and then you also tell if
people have a bunch of tape on their
hands that's usually a good sign that
they're a real serious shit you don't
want to go to a jujitsu gym and learn
like some mystified version of sport
which is relatively rare but can still
occur and you want a lot of good people
trained again I will tell you right now
huge huge thing that you need to keep in
mind when you're engaging physically
with patients it doesn't really matter
if they started it and it doesn't matter
how much they are you cannot exert
almost any offense and the way you exert
defense has to be incredibly measured
because you can get straight fired
forever from the medical profession by
laying a single fucking hand on a
patient even if they started at first
usually you just secure yourself you
probably don't even secure them and you
call security the security's job you
know shit not yours yes so the one thing
you could do is a meth addict tackles
you you can loop him into closed barred
pull his head down had an arm down into
you and yell for security and when they
come to get him you let him go okay you
don't even want to sweep him and get on
top you get on top that's all security
camera you just executed a martial arts
move on a man and Alyssa's heart could
explode using fucking meth I almost had
you kill the guy quote-unquote and then
you're gonna be in our situation you
don't want to be in jiu-jitsu is the
best art for a plane like a victim but
you're really not you're really in full
control so I would definitely did you to
be sweet if you do kickboxing someone
fuck so you just keep them into a
fucking
yeah hey for your career I'm sure for
sure so James anything to add there I
would just say like I I i know several
you know obviously Mike's wife is a
doctor I've had like plenty of family
members who are nurses we have close
friends who are nurses we actually have
a close friend who's a nurse who's also
a black belt and Brazilian jiu-jitsu and
the thing is it's like it's very rare if
seldom that you even ever make any type
of hostile contact with the patient it's
almost always an issue where you call
security and there's probably multiple
people I mean like it's very rare
something like there's a situation that
goes unnoticed for more than like a
minute right or even I'd say less than
that where other guests are getting
involved so really like going back to a
doctor Mike was saying more often than
not you're gonna maybe find yourself in
a situation where you might just be bear
hugging a guy just yeah positional
control right positional control exactly
you're not really thinking about like
okay I'm gonna we're gonna go down I'm
gonna I'm gonna sweep and then move to
mound and then I'm gonna you know it's
like that's just not gonna happen
somebody else is gonna jump in there
Security's gonna get involved like it's
very I would say probably a very rare
scenario where you're gonna move into
like full combat scenario the only
reason I bring this up is because if
you're thinking about taking martial
arts for this explicit purpose I don't
think it's a good use of your time if
you want to learn how to do jujitsu for
your own enjoyment your own betterment
for other reasons maybe a little bit of
this included I totally support that
don't get me wrong but I think like if
you're doing this feel like I need to I
need the skill for my job no you don't
you'll probably be okay yeah yeah I do
know one really good sneaky sneaky knee
bar from bottom so if your meth head is
really whaling on you and you're like
man no one's gonna notice this you can
straight Jack his shit like alright you
just earned yourself an MRI now - yeah
Matthew probably won't even notice until
he tried to walk it just like broke
under him and he'd be like shit then you
can be like oh you know and I didn't do
anything well I know yeah
alright number three at what point
should a beginner lifter start
considering taking active rest phase I
have a really great answer for us
actually I'm coming up on one year of
consistent structured resistant training
I find to get some minor aches and pains
in my joints while lifting mostly elbows
hips and knees after six weeks of
actively progressing well that happens I
take what we hear that's not that's a
loggers you get it in your elbows hips
and knees
after six weeks like yikes but he does
say that it goes away completely after a
deal owed which is very good that's good
is there any reason for me to consider
taking a classmate in his phase or would
it be smart to just keep doing what I'm
doing until it stops working
I assume that later is probably a better
option the latter is probably our option
what I wanted to find some confirmation
my advice would be twofold one I think a
two-week active rest is something
someone can do every year if they're
training and it'll only make you better
never make you poor so I would just
start programming that active rest every
year sometime you might need more active
rest on that and that's on a need needs
basis right if you do a six-month
Crazies training cycle super-competitive
and then you're like I literally could
just die in place and then I was like oh
like you're four weeks or four days into
your deal oh do you feel like you're
still super fucked up yeah it's time for
an active rest right and you'll know
when that that is but I honestly I would
just take this is something like I don't
like to get back trionic I don't like to
in particular it's all relative but I
will say that a very good piece of sort
of real-world simple advice is every
year I think everyone - a very strange
case you should take one extra week of
active rest after so you you do the last
deal out of your macro cycle and then
you just take one week either completely
off of weights and just be active or
just completely off of everything you
just watch Netflix for a week I think
that does some really really really
awesome things to you and it has zero
fucking downside on the net house
literally zero you're not gonna miss any
muscle gain I'm gonna do anything you're
gonna say you're gonna crush fatigue so
much there's gonna be only ever good for
you yeah you know a great time to think
about that is like when you take
vacations or trips stuff like that
that's a really easy perfect time to
integrate that I think the big did so it
aside for I'm just saying like okay I
have like one to two weeks every year
that I'm gonna take and that's like part
of my normal plan I think after that
really a good determinant of when you
need active rest is what's going on up
here so if you are showing up to the gym
and you're just like the thought of
doing squats or thought of like trying
to do this deadlift or anything is like
making you sick anxious or you're just
reading it it's causing you like anxiety
that's a really great time to take
active rest if you never get there just
keep doing what you're doing and like so
there's nothing saying that you have to
take active rest like if you don't
necessarily need it it's probably a good
idea to take some like Mike already said
throughout the year but that doesn't
that's like
one to two weeks a year that's
represents a very small amount of time
like if you don't really need to take
the extra rest for your mind or your
body to heal keep doing what you're
doing until it becomes a problem khalid
b says hello doctors have you questions
for you number one following up a last
week's question where i mentioned i kept
one rating concisely throughout the math
cycle
okay kept reading one cuz it's the other
motorcycle on the male physique template
I did so because I wanted to ensure that
each microcycle is overloading uh please
don't do that cleave got damaged oh yeah
micro-cycles are overloading even if you
reduce the volume if another variable
goes up even if you're justifying that
other variables not go up the overload
is arranged it is not point you're still
there well within the range you can do a
mess cycle of eight cents or a micro
cycle of eight seven six cents and four
sets if you're any he is two cents
you're overloading every single time
even though it's declining is that's not
optimal but it's way way good enough so
when you do things that you want to
ensure that each breakers of those
overloading every one hour percent here
you but you've got to think about
fatigue as well
overload is never a training principle
by itself yeah so this is like a common
mistake and something that I think we've
been trying to address lately so it's
worth repeating you know something is
overloading in the context of the
combination of the volumes intensities
and frequencies at which it's trained
it's not one of those things right it's
all of them kind of put together so it's
it's very hard to really fall out of an
overloading range so long as you are not
just doing like really easy maintenance
volume active rest style training right
so it doesn't have to be like a linear
increase in any one of those things
right the combination of the volume
which is the sets and reps that you're
doing or the duration the intensity is
both the absolute and relative
intensities and the frequency whether
it's per day per week per mesocycle
whatever all those things contribute to
generating an overload over time and it
operates on a very large spectrum of
achievable overloads yeah he says I did
so because I wanted to ensure that each
microcycle is overloaded or do more
volume in the last session hence
progressive overload because sometimes
if I kept the same sets I ended up with
doing the same weights for the same reps
for two straight sessions that is still
okay yeah would you say that this
approach rating one consistently through
the men cycle while keeping performance
relative esteem is effective maybe maybe
not and here's why not
if you radically soar that entire time
because you
always adding volume you may have an
entire mess of who we grow zero muscle
because you're just healing damage and
if you don't rate one all the time if
you rage honestly based on your soreness
and performance then you wouldn't have
that problem so I could be effective but
there's no guarantee if you rate
honestly there's pretty much a guarantee
it will be effective yeah thank you
number two tying this back to question
one how performance be typically
affected as volume rises is it expected
rep strength remain relatively the same
as volume rises throughout the mass
cycle for example on week one another
cycle my first iron Clem bench was at
twelve reps or three hour it was for two
sets total by week five I did five sets
of a climb edge five session with the
first one of thirteen reps of to RIR and
what's the load fair we have to note
Lord I can't tell you about the
performance if the logs not included if
I kept this it's the same at two or even
three by root 5 I'm sure my reps redford
go up but since volume is the main
driver of hypertrophy is it fine to keep
increasing the volume or maintain your
upstream
it is absolutely fine to keep increasing
volume while maintaining rupturing
that's probably the way you grow the
most possible it's also fine if your
performance goes up a little bit you
just don't want to be having performance
skyrocket while you know you're
literally just dropping fatigue because
you could just be doing or volume
growing but the huge thing is the number
one rating on the npt is an integrative
rating of both performance and soreness
if you're super fucking sore and you
mentioned earlier you was super fucked
up overlapping so as far as I can
remember then it is not fine to continue
to increase volume while maintaining
rupturing because rupturing can be
coming from purely neurological
adaptations while you gain zero muscle
so make sure your rating honestly don't
do feed for ratings do feedback ratings
autoregulation
is the way to rate that so don't say ok
I need an overload next week so I should
do more No
how did you respond was your soreness
healed relatively quickly
yes or is your performance still normal
yes then you go up but if your sirness a
super fucked up which your performance
is fine don't be like while I should go
up anyway no done because you'll be sore
sore you will be having a chance to make
any adaptations you'll just be healing
down yeah no I totally agree so I
appreciate your thought process and like
trying to maintain a progressive
overload but just keep in mind that does
not necessarily mean it has to
tangibly go up in one of those metrics
every single time it very well just
might maintain for a couple weeks in a
row and then maybe goes up a little bit
in volume or it goes up a little bit in
relative intensity or absolute intensity
that is perfectly fine so don't just
just keep pushing forward because you
think you're doing something wrong by
not increasingly to week yep number
three from a cycle demel cycle is the
goal to keep volume trending upwards
meaning I say I did a total 100 fear
sets in the last week ml cycle 1 the
next amount of cycle for growth should I
aim to at least match the number of
sessom as a 1 if I did let's say hundred
20 but the weight is a bit higher would
that be hyper so hypo trophic it could
be - would that be hypertrophic the goal
is absolutely not
to increase sets from Maseo to mezzo to
mezzo as you get stronger you may
actually have the decrease sets we're
gonna say is a huge huge statement
volume for hypertrophy should almost
everywhere be auto-regulatory in nature
you do what you need and what your body
can recover from not a feed-forward goal
by the way the same is true for weight
on the bar when people like I'm gonna
squat 315 for 10 then my legs will be
big it's nice to keep in the back of
your head to keep yourself honest that
you're trying but how much you squat
today and tomorrow the day after and
then this week next week week after it
depends on what your arms are like if
you it's quite a 300 for them re are 4
and next week you squat 305 for the same
reps on our six you're like fuck I got
way stronger I need to go to 315 to get
an iron great but if you're pushing and
altering your technique in your rars are
super fucking low just to get some
arbitrary numbers there's no amount of
willpower you don't get strong by
willpower you get stronger by mechanical
alterations and cellular alterations
which just express themselves with heart
training so it's long as you're training
hard autoregulation should take care of
all the rest of that stuff volume is no
exception
yeah so I think when you're just looking
at at sets alone it's easy to say like
no you don't want to think about that
what doing it that way if you're looking
at something like sets and reps like a
kind of a volume load kind of proxy
which you might find across mesocycles
is something like this where they kind
of overlap quite a bit and maybe start
to spread out and that's more of a
product of maybe just using higher rep
ranges to conserve like fatigue and
stuff later on right so you might be
like okay here's my six to ten mezzo
here's my like 10 to 20 mezzo it's like
yeah there
pretty close maybe the 10 to 21 starts a
little bit higher maybe ends a little
bit higher but they're mostly
overlapping and really that's just a
product of doing more reps right the
thing is what the strategy that you're
trying to adopt in terms of just moving
the DeVault the volume upward is great
once you figure out what your MRV is
right so that strategy is the right idea
to figure out your MRV but once you
figure that out then it becomes an issue
of autoregulation over time like Mike
said so I think for somebody who's maybe
more novice or early intermediate you do
generally want to try and push the
volume up but the purpose of doing that
is not to be more hyper hypertrophic per
se it's to figure out where your MRV is
and then training within the MeV teairra
Marie that's the idea and once you
figure out your MRV pushing any further
than that will be stupid and the whole
point figuring out your memory is to
learn when that becomes stupid it's very
clear time limit though number four
Khalid last question these are great
questions by the way Khalid on the last
week of a mesocycle aside from compound
movements can I go to failure and all
those exercises for all sense and that's
it since that's an owl since I will be D
loading the weekend that'd be rough
though cuz if you do it for all sets the
problem is is like can you actually get
as a good hyper trophic stimulus in
terms of like
the rest of the session though right so
it's like it for me at least like if I
want to feel your first set of squats
I'm like done yeah I would say that to
get through your volume as a hypertrophy
training what you should do is go to
failure but without a shitload of
psychological arousal yeah the next
thing you should also go to failure with
a little bit more psychological arousal
towards the end of your workouts you
should be screaming and yelling in your
last week but make sure that you don't
do so much of that but you toast
yourself to the point where you can't
even do your last half of the week so if
I would say go to our IR one or IR and
then see how you feel and the next
motorcycle one hour are some 0rc how you
feel and then eventually if you handle
zero hour for everything well rock out
just don't like you're stopping at one
hour or two or an hour and then go zero
psycho are everything and then halfway
through your last week you can't even
come back to work so yeah and if you're
not really training at zero area or a
lot what you might do is kind of a
couple preparatory ones where like you
pick the last set on each exercise you
go to zero R and see how that goes right
and play around with it and see like
okay well I want to zero on the last set
and that meant the
first four sets I did were great then
the last one was like really fucking
hard but then I noticed when I got to my
second quad exercise or my second chest
exercise
I was completely done and I wasn't able
to match reps and all these other things
and it really kind of fell apart so I
know okay for that movement maybe going
to Zr I wasn't great but if I do it on
some of these other ones which I've just
traveled and aired a little bit it
doesn't seem to be as negative of an
impact right so play around with it see
how it goes I would say start by doing
the last sets feeling out those and then
you can always think about moving up to
the middle or front sets later on as you
get more experienced with it yeah okay
so this next question for Mike Rossi is
an excellent excellent question and it's
illustrating a really really really more
point
I hope folks listen to this answer
because it's something that's commonly
asked by more advanced thinking folks
and it has a very very clear answer then
I don't think James and I have ever
articulated if we particularly parts of
it for sure many times but James and I
are gonna try to really sort of knock
this one out of the park for you guys in
a very simple manner so that you know
what's going on because it is quite a
mystery is getting so much anticipated
and today I know I know I know he's like
how big are your cocks okay Mike Rossi
says hey Doc have a new rp+
subscriber I do a whole column I have to
do those genes because you and I are
best friends have to do stupid show like
this okay you imagine if like you know
like you were like tinder in girls like
hey send me your dick pic and you just
didn't know that you were supposed to
get hard before and you send her like a
totally flaccid patient she's totally
flaccid like out of the pool like up
everything just she's like you know what
do you think it's just like wow I
thought you said you were like like
normal-sized and you're like yeah I mean
like that's how dicks look but she's
like are you hard like no why the fuck
would I send your heart back oh cool
sighs like it's like a Seinfeld episode
where George gets caught in eighths
right right and you know that's what
you're gonna get most times right it's
on you to make it hard goddamn yeah yeah
dick pics is a complicated issue very
complicated all right glad I'm married
now well you're married too Oh God we're
here you have to deal with that anymore
right
luckily okay this is the last aside I'll
make last point on dick pics when I was
doing hookups and sending dick pics
which I never sent unrequested by the
way I only ever requested I'm just glad
it wasn't make a fitness celebrity back
then because like bro I was on the
dating scene now holy fuck
I guess my shit will end up on Instagram
immediately in a mirror or Twitter um
that's right Mike Rossi says hey Docs
I'm a new IP Plus subscriber look
forward to accumulators every week
thanks in advance I'm interested in
finding how I evaluate wall and
progression for exercise system the
later in a long workout I use the volume
algorithm to determine said additions
based on previous week's performance
lectures and I feel I have a solid
understanding in Miami that I might be
using for supplemental cycles however I
feel there's too much noise on track in
progression and exercises done later to
work out because so much intercession
fatigue has been accumulated and from
the compound movements done earlier in
the workout especially when I've added
load and recessed in those movements and
I'm pushing them closer to failure their
previous week by the final week of the
mezzo it's often difficult to maintain
performance on the exercises later due
to the additional intersession fatigue
even if I'm more recovered and coming
into a workout as a result I'm left
unsure whether I'm actually hitting my
MRV for so the muscle groups such as
triceps aside dolls in this example or a
minced and entering jump falling
territory due to the total volume for a
single session do you have any
alternatives to addressing this concern
other than splitting the work on into
two separate AM and PM sessions first
point that is absolutely the best way to
do it but not everyone can do it ok
because with a certain length of workout
just gonna get shitty towards the end it
just has to rhyme or is it a legitimate
concern at all it is and it is how it's
resolved maybe the very fact that so
much addition of volume has been done
coming into these later sessions in
ensures overload in and of itself and if
I'm able to maintain the previous week's
performance in many cases that is
absolutely case so basically we're
saying is like systemic fatigue has gone
up before I even do these muscle groups
if I can match with that elevated
fatigue certainly performance underlying
is good that is actually true
I'm willing to break up the workout into
two sessions but when I first determine
if it's more optimal in any meaningful
sense I'm hesitant of reducing the total
volume I had in order to preserve myself
for exercises later the workout because
I do feel that adding sets where I did
was necessary to guarantee oh yeah don't
do that for sure you don't want to be
like oh I would squat for 4 cents but I
should squat for 3 because then
I won't be able to do my dildo curls
later or I get my setup exercise and you
don't really want much care about that
day and that's a big hint just that the
real answer here I provided my week 3
and week 4 performances with my
currently 4 monocycle for more context
book feel free to ignore if you're more
comfortable addressing the question more
generally we are you'll see that my
performance dropped off a bit your
tricep movements and was roughly
maintained on the side jump movements so
little words just formatting stuff guys
I I can appreciate when you want to post
like specific workout stuff in this but
in the forum like it comes out so shitty
when I try to like do this so just do me
a favor and if when you post stuff like
this don't like tab it out really crazy
because then it just means I have to
like untap it out later so just keep
them as simple as you can just for
future quite I don't we don't mind
seeing this kind of stuff but sometimes
it's a pain in the ass in the forum so
yeah ok here is the answer to how to
deal with this because this is something
everyone deals with when you have longer
workouts the latter half of latter third
especially of workouts tend to suffer
from this problem of you basically would
have to essentially say ok I'm reaching
an RV because I'm I can't possibly match
performance clearly my triceps or
whatever I'm doing Laster overreached
but are they the answer is they might
not be and here's why your intra session
MRV might have been exceeded before your
weekly MRV has that's a big deal because
it's recession number V we don't so much
care about a ton it doesn't you know
yeah you go over a ton you just have
higher lower quality training but
because you've put a muscle group at the
tail end of a workout you've already
accepted lower quality training you're
trying to do easier training so point
number one is make sure you're not doing
four muscle groups in one day and you're
pushing all of them super hard that's
fucking stupid because it's basically
impossible so the last muscle groups you
should be the ones that you're less
prioritizing and thus don't super care
about losing performance on and don't
super care about progressing in volume a
ton but how do you answer the question
given that your triceps let's say our
fifth exercise and given that there's
falling and performance or lagging how
do you know if they're over their memory
or if it's just a stem a fatigue there's
a very good way to tell when you do your
triceps later in the week another time
of the week and they're early are they
suffering in performance you basically
have exercises that are early for a
muscle group
other parts of your week and some other
parts they're not fresh the fresh ones
are your Canaries in the coal mine for
MRV because if your triceps suck fresh
your MRV is fucked if your triceps are
amazing fresh but after 16 sets of
Cheston vac they suck they're fine are
you just looking to get the grades
training in the world from triceps nor
should you be trying I can understand us
four sets of cable push down superset
two push-ups at the end of a big day of
everything else but you know don't do a
whole tricep workout at the end of a
whole chest and back and leg workout
because it's it's gonna be dog shit
anyway so you want to know that you want
to have times when your triceps get
trained early so for example like in my
training we have a chest tricep day and
another push day we have three days but
the other ones super easy so I'll just
to get rid of that one we have a chest
tricep day and we're a tricep chest day
so how do we know our chests when chests
stuff is second in the day how do we
know if we hit our chest at Murphy we
don't but we have that first chest day
to tell us and remember when you exceed
your V it's on a weekly basis you'll
know when you're fucked up so a lot of
exercises you know sometimes I travel a
lot and I use different leg press and
different hack squat machine so the fuck
knows what a Murphy is but I always
barbell squad my squats are always the
same
well my barbell squat starts to tank I
know for sure it doesn't fucking matter
if I eat a PRN some dildo leg press
machine might just be the machine so you
want or most cases to have muscles
trained fresh okay you want to train
fresh at least sometimes or fresh earth
first second and then you want to
maintain really maintain your eyes on
those and if those performances are good
you're fine no matter how dogs show your
performances on the workouts in which
their last if those go down doesn't
matter how good you perform some of the
other workouts you're really a really
bad place and you can respond with the
final you could say well look sometimes
I mean motorcycles is not prioritizing
these certain muscles and they're never
on the front burner they're never one or
two they're always in the back well then
you should be training close to mV or
anything anyway and you don't give a
shit about your armor because you'll
never hit it for those muscle groups so
if you rolling mev to MRV and any
muscles at some points of the week they
should be up in the first couple of
exercises those are the ones you look at
the ones they're programming later just
keep them to a real minimal amount don't
worry about the progression just try
hard get closer to failure and you'll do
a good job James
yeah that was really good I'm just
reading through some of his examples and
I had a couple points here so the first
is like yeah it's like you're Jay
empress you know in terms of like rir
and some of the reps went down I
honestly would I mean like on paper
because the reps are similar and they're
done at a lower are like yeah it's you
know you could call that a performance
decrease but I mean it's so close the
tricep press down one is a little more
evident in terms of reps but even then
like it's still pretty close I mean the
first two sets clearly there's a little
bit of a difference there but I don't
know so I think what dr. Mike's kind of
getting out there too is like
autoregulation is still king even for
some of these latter exercises and then
at that point you just know like okay
well I'm just gonna do what I can in
some of these so we already mentioned
like the AM and PM is probably a good
solution to this problem when you find
that you are maybe kind of getting into
that that session-level systemic MRV
another option that you can play around
with is just increasing the muscle
frequency per week maybe not necessarily
increasing the number of days but just
shortening up each one of those sessions
and then just training like if your
chest de drains you so much that you
can't do triceps just do more frequent
chest and have each one of those
sessions be a little bit less so that by
the time you get to triceps you're not
as drained right and that might be that
also allows one of the sessions to have
triceps first to do coal mine in the
canary amore detection exactly so you
know splitting up either in terms of
more sessions per day or a higher
frequency per week within the same
sessions per week is probably a really
good way to work around the kind of a
systemic MRV limitation but I'm looking
at your numbers and like I see where I
see what you're saying but you know if
that was me I wouldn't be like overly
concerned about that I'd be like yeah
it's a little bit less that's there it's
like what's on the noise that I would
expect like like it's noisy and yeah
that's another thing is this if you get
to your tricep extensions late in your
workout and you feel like dogshit from
the other stuff that you're already
trembling and you underperform okay look
that's fucking systemic forty if you
feel great and you still underperform
it's just a triceps right but again we
don't know so we have to try to try some
fresh to find out that's where it really
comes and I will say sorry real quick
James oh uh you got bench press that
incline dumbbell
press as the first and third exercise on
both little stays look if your triceps
are really actually over reached those
numbers are going down
CPR with a fucking over each tricep so
um and also too I think sometimes using
kind of some of not the ghetto I may be
indicators in the sense of detecting mev
but using things like mind muscle
connection pumps things like that like
if you like if you go through this whole
day and you get to you did your jam
press and you feel good and you get to
push downs and your triceps are feeling
kind of flat and blah like just don't do
the push downs just add another day of
triceps later on in the week right
because you probably maybe tapping out
what you can get out of your triceps at
that point from that day so not a big
deal excellent question and hopefully
the answer makes sense
Daniel hacker is back
if one man's 100 mediate back to hack if
one is an intermediate or advanced
lifter going from a physique focus to a
sport does the sport activity assuming
his physical nature affect their
individual muscular mvs
and so if how the individual would be
isocaloric lee basically lard I guess
because depending on the sport you could
have less or more stimulus to the muscle
than I used to
so for example like if you're training
mech for hypertrophy just make a little
simple example you have a certain MV for
neck and then if you switch to your
support being wrestling all of a sudden
your sport practices probably meed +4
neck so it can definitely affect your of
the it really just depends on the sport
involvement same for legs and arms and
so on and so forth so absolutely they
can affect the individual muscle stuff
you know how much they work it's so like
just to give kind of a slightly
different example from what dr. Mike
gave so if you went from like training
for you know physique related outcomes
and then you switch to something like
volleyball
well volleyball actually doing
volleyball will definitely hit an MD
might actually be MRV for a little while
on your legs but then maybe not nearly
enough for the rest of your upper body
at all right so there's there's gonna be
some big differences in a lot of
different sporting activities something
like like jiu-jitsu like you get so much
like bicep and grip and like back and
stuff like that like you can imagine how
those muscles would be affected but it
might not be great for something like
your legs you know so there's but
definitely all those things definitely
could contribute to hitting an MD
yep all right as I move through my
massing macrocycle after startup mezzo 3
I'm curious if introducing a bit too
much exercise variation for certain body
parts I'm curious if I'm introducing too
much reservation please shit just
following chest mezzo one two variants
flat incline dumbbell press four three
so that's each as a two three variants
more flat incline double pressing volume
ourselves each hit a bit of flies mezzo
3 5 variants less flat incline dumbbell
press bench pressing three to four sets
each some flat incline barbell pressing
three or five sets each who you've
introduced barbell pressing on mezzo
three and that you know higher rep range
in Daniel's us I'm in his defense I
think I think this came up a long time
ago but I think he mentioned that
barbell pressing just wasn't a great ah
that's right and it's not super
fatiguing for him a couple of sets of
flies but more reps and weight than the
previous mezzo aiming to follow the
variation adjustment RP video my
rationale is that the dumbbell presses
are still working according back up to
six or seven sets was too much for me
for a third consecutive accumulation in
rows so why not introduce a bit more
pressing duration and further set the
table for succeeding muscles of higher
volume barbell pressing mean that I
haven't done this move in a few months
and probably need another anyway to get
back into the groove we'll have a mini
cut to follow with two more mass muscles
after that I think it's totally fine
yeah a variation is really good for when
you have volume to fill and you just
don't want to do the same movements
anymore to film that greater volume
that's it so like if you're like eh
sometimes like hey why are you adding
leg presses and your answer is because
they don't want to do eight sets of
squats twice a week I just want to do
eight sets of squats at once a week
that's totally fine reason so if you
feel that otherwise if you kept the
variation lower your set numbers for
other stuff would be way too high for
your liking variants are totally cool
and you know I think one of the problems
that you get with a lot of advanced
athletes is the reason why they're
advanced is because they built up so
much adaptive resistance over time and
what you end up finding is that they're
like intra session ma v for any given
movement ends up just getting kind of
small where it's like okay they got
their best pumps and my muscle
connections everything from three or
four sets and then everything after that
kind of falls flat so then the need for
having some other movements in there to
get that same level of stimulus of pump
my muscle connection and all that stuff
you just need to do something else right
because you've already done every
thing for so long that it's very
difficult to kind of keep things novel
and unique so yeah I would say like
again that's more of a needs basis like
you don't have to increase up to like
that level of five variants unless
there's kind of a dictate for it
but if it's something that you're
playing around with and you're having a
good success with I don't I don't see a
problem with it either I think that's
fine yeah the probably I take that back
there is a problem in the in conserving
long term variation from using more
variants than necessary but you know you
can you don't do a needlessly
yeah yeah and you can work around that
but what we don't like to see is like I
do two sets of flies than two sets of
bench there to assess if it's induce yes
that's right why don't you just do three
sets of all those like well I don't know
yeah Steve Blair says he docks a few
miscellaneous quickfire questions number
one for very good time and then we're
like z55 Madeline all right okay we're
done battle of the buldge for a to Dax
just watched another episode of one of
the two World War Two in color series
and Netflix to demand a little knowledge
was doomed from the beginning man like
they were always gonna lose that shit
Hitler is just completely fucking insane
at that point and he like just ignored
all those generals dude I keep I don't
know what it is I haven't started that
one I always see it and I always
download a bunch of episodes and then
he's never watch them and then I was
going in a long flight I went down well
the fuck out of those episodes that's
what I'm saying I always do that and
then when I'm on the flight I'm like
I'll just watch something dumb like I'm
gonna watch that new Aladdin movie
that's so James I know why'd I do that
James G under phone next to you yeah
can you June you have fucking rock solid
like the biggest solid answer sure can
you send me a text real quick and say
download ww2 color because I'm gonna
fucking do that now that I have that
great idea you really I just watch the
movies that they give you on the TV but
like I'm an African I love that show and
I watch it like once every three months
a half an episode at a time I'm tired of
that shit yeah yeah Netflix is great
because they allow you to download
offline on your devices man it's so cool
I'm gonna do season two of altered
carpet I
the first one is weird or good things
yeah that's out there it's kind of like
if you took like what's it like Total
Recall Blade Runner and then like mash
it up with Johnny mnemonic yeah baby
it's very soft by its very kind of like
I would say it like looks like Blade
Runner it's plots kind of similar to
Total Recall it's cool alright for Kate
number one for mr. Steve Blair for
variation I'm thinking of trying very
close grip parallel pull downs as lap
movement bro talk has it the closer
grips emphasize the arms more than the
last
I love not necessarily true because the
laughs get a bigger stretch from the
close grip than my grip so that's cool
they get less of a peak attraction so
there's that but it's not there's no oh
sorry he said Close Grip parallel yeah
oh I was thinking just let's grip
underhand but yeah okay yeah yeah since
the goal will be to target my last would
this be an effective lap movement or I
we better stick in a wider grip Subarus
the chances my arms becoming a limiting
factor listen Steve you never have to
ask us a question like this and I'm not
trying to bully you or saying that we're
not going to ask your questions we're
absolutely are you follow your stimulus
to fatigue ratio man you should always
try stuff always give sweet James and I
can never ever fucking tell it look if
you ask like hey should I do curls for
that so black holdouts real Urkel plugs
are already of course I point out but
like different James and I would almost
never say like don't do this machine or
that grip because people feel
differently man like what Charlie and
Charlie's my training partner and
Charlie like him and I will literally
use different grips when doing the same
exercise because he feels some better
than others and I feel some better than
others there's so that's how specific it
is and it's a little it matters too it's
all about comfort and engagement and
what you're resting most of fatigue
ratio is absolutely try it okay you'll
know within two sets if your arms are
the limiting factor versus your lats so
and yes the paranoia grips an
interesting one too because it tends to
be a very strong grip for a lot of
people so you can eat like a very good
movement in terms of like force output
but for me personally parallel grips
fuck my elbows up so I do I use them
very seldomly because they tend to
exacerbate like elbow joint stuff and
that could be just because I have
freakishly long arms or whatever but
everybody's a little bit different I do
like the close script lat variations
personally and then
again it could be because I have long
arms but that for me seems to engage my
lats a little bit better than the Y
grips but the Y grips work okay - yeah
number two I'm just finishing up my mini
cuttin they've been able to more or less
maintain rest for all body parts except
triceps the shoes have tanked the past
two weeks
everything else is okay I'm guessing
system of the tee isn't an issue correct
and they've never felt particularly sore
knee points I'm wondering if it's local
fatigue thing too much volume or if I'm
losing muscle too little volume I know
it's not much information to go on but
if you had to guess would you suggest
trying more or less following the next
time I cut or maybe suggest other
indicators I could check to try to make
small to try to make a call now at the
SFR or proxies on the amount of a pump
you get the amount of soreness you get
the amount of time you know attention
detect and the amount of your metabolite
summation you get or how much for any
different high reps if your tricep
training seems effective for that and
you know it's above maintenance volume
then you should probably get to go and
some muscles just genetically have a
tendency to sloth off more when you cut
I've known folks that just lose one or
two body parts more than others every
time they caught and it just mean me
something you have to deal with yeah it
might be similar to the previous
question where we had where the person
might just like it for the session level
like doing the cut might just put you
into that systemic the session level
systemic MRV whereas like on maintenance
calories it really what it wasn't so it
could be just enough to kind of squish
your systemic and then those latter
exercises are just not doing so hot
doesn't matter if it's triceps or biceps
or anything else it's just the ones at
the end are just not gonna be as good
yeah number three I typically work out
quite late in the evening and that have
a very large meal plus programs or go to
bed I know there's no rush for super
fast digesting protein post-workout but
presumably a huge meal will take a long
time to adjust but this delayed protein
absorption a bit too much almost
certainly out of eating whole food
protein will see like a hundred grams of
fat with your meal you're gonna be just
fine so I'm just doing normal protein
yeah especially like it's gonna be one
of the last meals you have anyway
because they're just going to bed and
whatever number four I'm allergic to
dairy so I've been using egg white
powder as a delicious albeit frothy
replacement for way just out of
curiosity do you know if egg white
powder is fast or slow digesting I think
it's somewhere between but I think it's
faster that
slower don't quote me on that I've seen
conflicting information fuck I don't
know man I'd ever roll it off that I
like that but they just res - too little
yeah that justice needs a minimal factor
outside of like you know school
performance in recession and egg white
protein is super super high quality so
it sounds great
either way I don't think it's a huge
fuss so if it's something that's working
for you you keep doing it
alright ah says I really used to like to
say aunt Renaud radhakrishnan well hey
you know I just get I it's a long name
to type and there's always prone to
typos so I'm you know I see okay so you
just shorten it for them we all know who
launches hey docks hope you're doing
well fat loss diet is officially halfway
over 5% body weight down 5% to go that's
weird awesome it's been really soon so
far hunger as when we started to creep
in during the last week or so and I've
only needed to make one calorie cut so
far it's training for the most part is
going amazing maintaining or gaining
strength on all lifts except for bench
which brings me to one of my questions
for the week
kollene just this week I'm inclined haha
I'm inclined to suspect that I reliably
can't maintain my bench press straight
from the 5 to 10 rep range one cutting
Jordan club uh pretty much every time I
come for an extended period of time
bench goes to shit pretty quickly other
chest movements including the more
isolated move it's like machine flies
will generally be going much smoother
and a higher rep ranges I have been to
program the 5 to 10 range on one day and
10 to 20 another I maintain strength
well would you guys agree that this is
likely just a local issue and the
benchpress and unlikely to be indicative
of any chest muscle mass decrease yeah
look if yeah yeah you lose muscle mass
you lose in every single rep range ok
it's just most unequivocal thing ever
someone's like hey you hit any PR joke
no I'm weaker right so is just the
shells common - it's so even yeah it's
super common I would say do very little
or no 5 to 10 rep range training when
you're cutting yeah or the bench is just
when you take a hit on when you lose
weight and it's hard because like
sometimes we'll have people who are like
oh I need to like do my powerlifting me
and I don't wanna you know I got like 30
pounds to lose
Wow bad news for you my second question
is about the utility of bodybuilding
peaking methods when not at Ultra levels
of body fat at the end of my
that is going to coincide nicely with
the end of our semester or Spring Fling
girl or boy outdoor concert where
everyone gets wasted in parties
something you want a peek for huh I'm
thinking of using this as a good time to
show off some shreds my dog man will be
spring flinging it around yep
I'm definitely going to be half an
all-time leanest I thinking hopefully at
times a 12% body fat range I think yeah
I'm sure sorry I forgot were you I think
I'm course the school Yale or something
like my fucking of me the most jack due
to Yale for sure so motherfucking Harry
Potter's run around and shit I would
benefit what I benefited all from trying
to speaking strategies or there's
basically wasted since I may be too fat
for any noticeable effect I also figured
that I might yield some data that could
be useful down the line if I ever
complete audio leak thanks you know I'm
sure here's the deal I what I think
would be cooled as a few employees of
peeking strategies to do a cool peak the
morning of that event and take some
awesome pictures then you could look
noticeably better so yeah all the
mineral peaking strategies work pretty
well I just wouldn't do a lot of them
just just keep them you know raise your
carbs a little bit in the last couple of
days lower your salt and water a little
bit and then you'll wake up that morning
it looks you've lost basically for the
and then just have some good meals don't
eat anything that'll blow you to crazy
but just have good meals relax and then
later that night go to Spring Fling take
a shirt off whatever fuck and you know
get the orgy um don't expect to look
your best at the Spring Fling but who
gives us just first of all people it's
so drunk if we can see anything and if
you look remotely Jack they're not going
to be able to tack on one or two percent
reference
second of all you're gonna be fucking
drinking and having fun and so your peak
is over as soon as you fucking start
drinking cuz god knows what happens we
from Zeke at that point and also lets me
have outdoor concert wherever gets
wasted and parties I don't know what
time that is but it's in the middle of
the day or at night like at night nobody
can see her body anyway but I would
absolutely do a peaking plan and and and
very gentle one and take some pictures
in the gym earlier that day and after
you hit the gym go have a meal and then
get with your friends and start drinking
like you just want to end it all drink
offering and one-to-one correlation
between drinking and partying fun so
there's no such thing as too much
alcohol that was all a joke by the way
folks but yeah have fun with your
friends and just don't stab anybody in
the throat like you did at the last a
turtle
party yeah I think I'm all for doing
trial runs for things that you might
want to do serious runs of later so if
you are thinking about ever competing in
bodybuilding or any physique sports and
you want to practice doing some of these
peeking protocols it's a perfect
opportunity to do that so I would I
would say like if you're not thinking
about competing that it might just be
like an over overly complicated use of
your time but if you are it's definitely
a great time to trial and error a few
things and see how it goes
or at least gain what we would call
competitive experience like say you're
at least like kind of in the game you
know what it feels like to do some of
these things even if it doesn't go great
like yeah just know it feels like cold a
know says hey my non-medical doctor
friends a couple of strengths related
questions noise my understanding with
strength training is that you want to
leave a little overhead and not actually
reach MRA MRV say after am a cycle you
found you can do ten sets of chest
before hitting MRV is there a rule of
thumb you can use to translate to
strength training in other words if I
had in ten sets of chest and mass cycle
with five cents bigger amount of
strength work you really can't tell
until you try but you usually think
something like two thirds is usually set
percent with your strength amor vias
versus your yeah and so just to kind of
tidy that up it's not so much that you
don't reach an MRV it's just that your
strength MRV is significantly less than
your a hypertrophy so I would say for
kind of general strength like you know
roughly four to eight reps two-thirds is
probably a good starting place and then
adjust from there for maximal strength
it's probably more like 50% maybe even
less yeah
if so how dependent is a rep range arm
so five to seven reps versus three to
five verses one to three yeah just a
basically five to seven reps it's going
to be very similar
MRV maybe 90% of what you usually do
three to five reps it's gonna be like 66
percent and then one two three it's
gonna be like fifty percent as far as
sets are concerned maybe even lower yeah
and those are just guests Tim it's based
on our experience and it's not like a
hard hard rule yeah Chad Wesley Smith is
something you might want to look into
for more particular answer so that he's
kept track a lot of that for a lot of
athletes and then he says drop sets for
strength were question mark say you're
doing five sets in the five to seven rep
range but set for you only hit
raps is taking weight off the bar for
the next set and effective strategies
you know because you know in horse
production you don't want to reproduce
for us you're not missing a saying I'm
still gonna train the same volume but
reduce for us that's literally backwards
ah identify hypertrophy not for strength
where's it better to just stop training
for the day and plan on only doing four
sets next week yeah probably more we
evaluate your fatigue or like it's not a
terrible idea to just add a set and even
if it's you know a little bit outside of
the rep range like only yeah it's not in
the end of the world especially if you
do know like you have a definite have
like a volume quota for your strength
work that you're trying to hit then what
I would do is if that's the case then
just you would use if you wanted to be
in the five to seven rep range and you
got like six five four that just means
you started looking too heavy you know
and then you would adjust yeah a quick
progress report I took your advice and
started a maintenance strengths lock
early last December a strength cycle
like you say it took the first measure
to get the feel back but the pauli
muscles weren't great and even after
losing 12 kilograms in a previous
country it has actually gone off
Wow and I had some great PR yes after
the diet I've only put on 1.5 kilos and
eating a maintenance at this weight
feels just right my original plan was to
do another cut starting about now but
due to some knee issues I don't think
cut is a good idea so go into a mass
phase work on getting some more muscle
on my legs I couldn't be happier with
the progress though Oh big thanks to you
guys thank you so much by the way here
James is working on something related
volume landmarks or sport this is
awesome really color to it I got a
little look at that rough draft and I
thought James James told me he was a
playing around some ideas turns out
motherfucker at like 60 pages already so
the holy shit it's a hell of a rough
draft um it's gonna be a fucking awesome
book and I will be the core editor for
it James gotta be the lead author and
we've got some other fine folks working
on it it's gonna be an awesome book if I
may say so myself
thank you very much I'm excited yes so
we're gonna tackle all sorts of issues
like that super alright a very unusual
but very fun question from koli-shakya
on and then we get to our YouTube
content
real quick so Cole says hey Doc's not a
training question but what is the proper
gym etiquette while waiting for a piece
of equipment should I stand really close
ask how many sets left
try to work in try not to be dick but
also try not to wait while bro does five
exercise super sense
yeah the superset is is definitely bad
etiquette when it's clear that the gym
is relatively Africa or like the five
superset bullshit and then he says would
get the joke out of the weight now also
reverse pretty good training thoughts
I'm kidding thanks as always all right
so there's a I have a modus operandi
I'll share mine and James will share his
and we'll see where we stand
James is like I just punch to do the
throat watch so what I do is I never
talk to anyone during their set I had a
gentleman asked me if I was using a
certain piece of code while I was
curling so just didn't say anything back
because I was curling and he was like he
was like losing buta or something like
that and then he like walked off with a
with a bench and you know since I'm like
geared up to shit I've hadn't done juice
in a few days I was like God please help
me not fucking and this motherfuckers
career but like I didn't do anything and
I just things whatever people are crazy
so so first of all don't ask people
anything during the set okay
only after the set man if they really
look like they're resting is good like
right after the stuff which is like how
many sets do you have you know people
the breathing room right and just be
like hey um how many sets do you have
okay if they say one or two sets just
wait okay if they say like five sets
that you say hey you mind if I work in
okay now they could say I'd rather you
didn't and then is then you know then
you're not working in because you know
civility is number one in modern society
but if they almost always say like yeah
totally you know cuz if even if they're
doing a super set there's good well I'm
doing a super set be like well let me
hit it when you're not hitting it you
let me know when you need it I'll just
jump the fuck off right let's let's work
in um if it's somebody if so this
Kendall's 99% of all cases sometimes
somebody will say hey listen like doing
a super set and there's clearly just not
using it and then they tell you every
time they don't want to work in and
something you'd be like hey man like I
noticed you usually just not using this
man like I really I'll move right out of
your way when you need it but okay if I
working with you if they still say no
I'm just going to the gym staff and just
before the fuck out of them and then
somebody's gonna let me talk to them and
they might get pissed at you and say
what the fuck bro
you say hey listen I'm just trying to
try and work out like everybody else and
this is kind of cool that packing a gun
and or knowing martial arts is sweet
because if they blow up to you you'd be
like get the fuck out of my face
otherwise we're gonna take us to the
police
as soon as you mention the police most
tough guys are like all Jesus Christ
fuck that what do they say old police
really pussy maybe I got a sweet come to
balance sign a waiver and I'll fucking
rock you into a wall or in James's case
just shoot him in the kneecap 60 times
we're just joking by the way two people
get bent out of shape about the gun
stuff but uh yeah III agree with Mike
that's really good I do a slight a
modified version of that approach were
like if I go and I see that there's a
piece of equipment that is being used in
it there's no other alternatives
immediately available I will kind of go
and hover but not in a way where I'm
staring at the person like you know I
just staring them down like I want to
use this I'll go make it clear that like
I'm in the area and then I'll go maybe
sit off to the side and I'll let them do
like two or three sets and you know at
that point it's been like maybe like
five minutes so if they're still going
or they're kind of lollygagging then
I'll do what dr. Mike said just okay are
you still working here something like
that but usually I found the kind of
passive aggressive hovering where you
like come to the area make it known like
oh you're here but okay I'm gonna go sit
over there but you're done right I'm not
like looking at you I'm not like
posturing on you I just like it was
clear that I wanted that but I'm gonna
I'm willing to wait and if they don't
say something to you cuz most people
will be like oh did you want to like
work in or something like that you go
yeah great okay sweet
so I'll set off to the side wait for a
couple sets in a first if they're just
doing the all day thing or they're just
texting on their phone then I'll do the
same procedure that dr. Mike did just so
I think you mind if I work in and almost
every time they'll say either I got one
set left you mind waiting or yeah come
on what's working yet all right to
youtube shall I throw this on go for it
cool got it
god I'm good okay sweetie yeah just just
one thing
so SSD able that's able sigh by I fuckin
idea uh Sables name last name sorry you
know he says is talked about regular set
stuff when I went in a mini ranch he
said I think Mike saw at the wrong stuff
from Greg do such sure he's not Eric
Alex but he but he talks about him as if
he was Satan himself he actually has
four to get advice usually he totally
does man Greg you said has mostly very
good advice very sound advice
um he definitely knows what he's doing
unfortunately he often has advice that's
so Panama's so terribly reasons if you
don't really know what you're talking
about this are able you're real smart
then you certainly know more than Gregg
do said on almost everything training
related you can actually parse apart
what is good advice and what is bad
because you know what that what's good
I just alone slide the neg in there just
like sure I eat it right so you know for
people who already know stuff he's first
of all you're really entertaining and
second of all has plenty of good nuggets
only says really dumb shit you like Isis
Gregg um most people have known that so
they'll just learn stuff for him that's
fuckin wrong and they just don't know
because they think he's right about
everything so you could have said the
same thing about like somebody like uh
Charles Poole quit he's full of really
great stuff he was and he was full of
tons of bullshit too so I would
recommend him yeah nobody's air comes
you know so if you have a choice err
accountants were Gregg descent air comes
to somebody I would watch all the time
and because you have like five hundred
other youtubers that are super good you
know yeah you can watch Gregor set but I
would keep it mostly for entertainment
not for a ton of insight because again
you don't know what the insight is cuz
he's wrong
so grandiosely too many times and then a
couple people just say bad things about
Gregg and defend me thank you so much
folks
I honestly it wouldn't be so so butthurt
about the great thing if he didn't
willfully misrepresent me and then the
debate I'm totally out of contact so I
look like the mean guy even though who's
talk shit and also because he literally
admitted that he just does YouTube for
money and he doesn't care that he
misrepresents anything or says the wrong
thing because his followers are idiots
and easily give a shit um for the love
of God that's a bad faith actor so
definitely a charlatan super fucked up
so anyway you just do stuff for for
clickbait like yeah it's like with
literally like he has a video now it's
like I just popped up on my feet it's
like is Jeff side like Maddie or not
it's got like 300,000 views or some shit
yeah and it's just like it's just the
bottom of the fucking barrel it's just
pure speculation it's there culeros
mister smearing - yeah it's like it's
like saying like is so-and-so onazi like
well you've already like painted a
picture without even like you know just
with the title alone yep
all right first real question from Pico
Rodriguez says I'm pretty jacked but not
fit how do I get above decent cardio
without losing my gains or do I have to
pick I want to play soccer with my son
and his team um Patrick party already
took a shot at the title here James what
do you think super quick answer here for
people you don't have to pick like the
thing is like if you are already jacked
like you can just keep doing mostly what
you're doing and adding a little bit of
cardio like two times a week it's not
gonna impact your gains in any like
tangible way unless your goal is to have
like the biggest legs and calves on the
planet so yeah man you can just pick up
a little bit of cardio it might make you
a little more tired so maybe scale down
some of your weight training stuff but
most people can tolerate adding like two
days of cardio 20 to 30 minutes a pop
like mostly no big deal so you probably
don't have to pick one of the other you
know I'll also say lose some fat you'll
get fit real fast and you'll sacrifice
nothing a lot of times people carrying
1015 pounds extra fat if they dump it
they can play soccer way way better
totally true oh he jokey ooh this is a
good question Matthew Piersall says I am
unsure how to track foods where the
macros and calories don't align due to
fiber sugar alcohols the net carb
problem so I caught all the carbs just
some of them thanks for your help love
the web there's actually a very simple
answer for this this is the most like
straightforward way to do it rather than
straightforward this is the most close
to accurate way to do it there's a
couple other ways when you talk about
the first way is you count fiber as zero
carbs and you got your alcohols as half
the carbs that they're listed at because
that's very close to how much they
actually end up costing your mother now
there's two other options one you can
count all of them for zero possible or
you can count all of them for full
possible whichever method you pick for
whatever mesocycle or macro cycle or
really diet phase like your entire cut
use the same method okay because if you
ultra methods you don't know what
flexaway in your body so I would say
count five or zero and count your now
calls for half and what they are like if
it's four grams sugar alcohols you have
two grams of carbs
but whatever cheap method you choose
stick to that one James yeah absolutely
so in the in the counting macros for
diet situation consistency is greater
than accuracy it doesn't have to be
perfect as long as you do the same stuff
it's a wash over
so you'll change if you're not losing
weight you'd bring stuff down if you're
not gaining weight you bring stuff up it
doesn't matter how you did it as long as
you do it consistently yeah okay this is
this is cool
well there's super off-topic but we'll
take a shit let's uh make this out let's
let's just let's skip that one
are you sure yeah let's just it's full
of so much wrong shit though I know
let's just leave it alone like we can I
know let's you know I've had enough I'm
sure you already saw I had enough social
media drama this week can I give like a
super super quick and then we'll just
drop it super gross just if you don't
mind I'd like to just let this one go
sorry I know you feel passionate about
me I do too but let's just let it go
nice still there yes oh sorry just like
we're perfectly still I was like Jesus
it is the ultimate way to get killed and
this is extreme I gotta confess even a
lot righteousness okay do it for me I've
had enough I will show media okay
you're welcome Lorenzo you're welcome
here we go let's pick a good one oh can
I just tackle real quick go back up a
little higher please
Roman Meyer I think this is a response
to things that like why are you wearing
a backpack I said oh I'm waving away
weighted vest
James Krieger actually just posted his
like whole research on the weighted vest
stuff it's really really interesting I
think it's just on either his his social
media or his website but he posted it
for free which is like really cool and
really awesome with him so check it out
I really encourage you guys to take a
look I had I had a positive experience
with the weighted vest stuff not saying
it's the end all be all but it's
definitely something worth explored
yeah let's do one more because that was
really short yeah okay
Caio Louie arrow was saying I was the
same to one of our PE pastor P what
webinars and I think one of you guys
said that it was possible to get strong
and improve spending while focusing on
strength training for the lower body
let's definitely improve it gets strong
also possible to prove sprinting my goal
is try to improve sprinting for soccer
and strength mainly on squats and
deadlifts so I guess it would be able to
train with low rep ranges and low
relative intensities besides that what
would you guys recommend for exercise
variation what type of cardio would be
ideal so the cardio question is
difficult to answer because if you're if
you're improving sprinting for soccer I
would just say playing soccer like games
and/or soccer itself is the best cardio
and then the cardio question is also
super expand because we don't really
know what other factors you're trying to
push a hard time also increase cardio
but the sprinting should be I guess you
have your sprinting figured out but
exercise variations I mean yeah you
could try some power movements and some
loaded jumping as well but generally
speaking you know high bar squats front
squats on leg presses where you
dynamically move and then various pulls
stiff legged that lifts
goodmorning stuff like that to train the
hamstrings even more so than regular
deadlifts are really good options for
increasing sprint speed that's where I
would start jeans
yeah so on the the running stuff when in
terms of cardio this is something I was
just working on with it's no secret that
I'm working on this another book and
this came up and a lot of the different
sections that I was working on so one I
think it's worth noting forcefield
sports in particular as people say like
oh it's really aerobic oh it's really
anaerobic it's actually a hybrid of both
it's a high-intensity intermittent
activity where most of the time you're
doing like bursts breast bursts rest
bursts rest type stuff and so this is
what causes a lot of confusion for
strength conditioning coaches where
they're like well there's a burst so you
got to train to sprint right like yeah
but but then there's a you have to keep
doing it so then you have to be like
really aerobic leafit right yeah so like
those the problem is that they tend to
merge those two things together really
what you want to do is separate those
two energy systems in terms of like how
you approach that type of training so
for example when you do sprint training
at least some if not a large portion of
it is actually to get really fast at
accelerating or changing direction right
so for soccer your average kind of
sprint distance is going to be probably
around 20 meters I know rugby is 20
meters more often than not so I'm
guessing soccers it's pretty similar
prop maybe 30 meters 20 meters something
in there it's not going to be like 60
meters right so it's gonna be mostly
stop and go type stuff so you have to
get really good at accelerating and
decelerating on the other hand then you
train the energy systems involved which
is kind of the more cardio component
we're
you're doing high-intensity intermittent
stuff so you have like bursts short rest
bursts so some people will do like
repeated sprint ability stuff where
they'll do Sprint's with like 30-second
rest and they look at the drop off in
terms of time stuff like that that works
really good you can do high-intensity
interval training stuff with kind of
similar work to rest ratios that you see
in soccer any of those things would be
great people just tend to conflate like
the anaerobic running component and the
more like high-intensity intermittent
running component so you would want to
treat those two things separately is
what I'm saying
and I think that's where a lot of people
get messed up where they're like which
one do I pick it's like well you have a
distinct day that you mentioned be fast
and a distinct day where you're meant to
try and go as hard as you can from as
long as you can yeah yeah big big big
part is the distinction mix it all up
James fuck it the salad will approach
your training shits to get a whole lot
of nothing just get a bit ma'am on two
hours today that was pretty good out as
a doozy Oh Ren's over odjick I know I
don't you know what respectfully
disagree all good my man no worries oh
yeah so that's it that's it for this
week guys next week Mike and I are gonna
be on vacation and normally when we
travel we're working this is like one of
the few times we get to travel and be on
vacation we might try and do a webinar
while we're gone but we also might try
and just do the occasion so we probably
are gonna have a week off and then we'll
get it back in the following week on to
our normal weekly schedule so please
keep posting questions in the forms
we'll keep we'll keep doing the most
amount YouTube - when this comes out
post all your questions and we'll answer
next time yep so this was actually been
some really good again or good foster
provoking questions if you guys enjoy
our stuff don't be afraid to give it a
like I like we're pretty consistent on
the YouTube videos where it's like we'll
have like 60 likes and like 1 thumbs
down I'm like who is somebody is
subscribing and thumbs down so I've been
told that Lau McDonald comes down every
video that his various enemies are in a
thumbs down every revive stronger video
ever except come on man oh he actually
called Steven Pascal like cocksuckers
and retards in an email like yeah Steve
Hall what a cocksucker is the nicest
person of all time well you know lies
one of the good yeah well if you
subscribe and give us the thumbs down I
understand but I would prefer that you
subscribe and give us thumbs up right if
we didn't earn the thumbs up that's on
us and we'll try and do better yeah just
be honest for now I think we're gonna
wrap this one up talk to you guys till
next time peace