what makes you sore low R going closer
to failure makes you significantly more
sore than stopping very shy of failure
novelty you do an exercise you haven't
done before train a muscle group you
haven't trained you're likely to get
sore Ecentric Focus if you normally drop
your curls like this but you learn to
control the weight not super slow just
control it all you get more sore higher
volumes adding more volume generally
makes you more sore huge pumps maybe
don't make you sore but they sure as
hell correlate like if you train your
chest and your chest just like pumped
out of world you're probably
going to get sore deep stretch under
tension is very likely to make you more
sore than not and a greater range of
motion now here's the thing that list is
like a list from the scientific
literature of what actually makes you
grow or highly correlates to
growth