you say pause at the most stressed
position of the muscle most people will
will follow the tempo you recommend
right slow and InCentric but what I see
is the pause at the top of the
concentric you're talking about pausing
whenever the muscle's fully stretched if
you pause here it's cool it's a good
training variation on some machines it
works get that crunch but a lot of times
it's just spending a lot of effort in a
position that's not as likely to lead
muscle growth as much as pausing here if
you pause at the bottom it's pausing at
that stretch your muscles are all up mhm
and that makes it perceptively pretty
tough but more importantly actually
probably leads to more muscle got yeah
nobody's trying to pause at the bottom
that hurts right and yes it does
yes but I have been doing it whenever
I'm fully Contracting so I'll be
switching that up to where I'm fully
stretched pausing right there give that
a shot so I think today that's that's
why I'm getting a sck pump because that
just that's it that's it that's a part
of it