hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization a question for
today's video is do steroids make you
dumber now I'll give you a following
couple of seconds to make any and all
jokes in my clearly abusing ass go
all right and I earned them here we go
do steroids make you dumber
um how would we begin to illustrate
something like this how do we answer
this question as evidence-based folks
well one is through theoretical
mechanisms specifically you know is
there anything in the literature that
shows that steroids might cause some
kind of harm to the nervous systems and
uh neurons and stuff like that
if it says like oh Trend seems to be or
testosterone seems to be poisonous to
neurons in some context it's kind of
like oh shit maybe it actually does hurt
the nervous system and by that method
because the nervous system is the seed
of all intelligence uh maybe it hurts
that as well okay possible number two is
actual experimental illustrations of
those mechanisms like it's it's fun it's
totally fine to posit that oh I think
androgens and high doses would be uh
neurodegenerative that if you actually
test that and androgens and high doses
are neurodegenerative at least in cell
culture then you can say wow okay like
this harm actually occurs in some
contexts not sure that it actually
decreases intelligence in users in the
real world but at least some mounting
insight into that
number three is this is a very big one
is a direct observation of cognitive
differences between users and non-users
um because if we you know say steroids
make you dumber but you compare stereo
users non-sterile users and non-steroid
users are no smarter than steroid
usually like well I guess all the
theoretical stuff just kind of goes out
the window mind you there's uh you know
here's a perfect example of how that
breaks down alcohol absolutely is
neurodegenerative and if you bathe cells
and Pete tradition alcohol it fucking
kills all of them if their nervous
system sells it really does a whole lot
of damage we know that alcohol causes
you know they kills your brain cells
that's actually a true thing that
they're very made very popular
um but when you look at people who drink
your two glasses of wine versus
non-drinkers versus people who drink 10
drinks a night the two La you know
tendrix night yeah clearly they're gonna
have lower intelligence not that much
lower as you would expect it takes a
significant amount of alcoholism to
really do damage to your brain in that
capacity but you know two drinks a day
two glasses of wine versus zero there's
actually no evidence at all to suggest
that that much alcohol reduces your
intelligence
so it's not quite clear uh right off
hand that we you know could say oh
because you know with a seed like 10
articles ways in which testosterone and
other androgens are bad for nerves in
general or bad for enrolled structures
uh that's not immediately clear that
some kind of steroid use would have to
make you dumber because with alcohol the
relationship doesn't seem to be like
that up to pretty high levels of
drinking right so we would like to see
direct observation of cognitive
differences if you could have some
research that says look any more than
one and then two and then three and then
plus drinks it just lowers your IQ the
entire time over across large samples of
population be like oh holy fuck um maybe
that's because of the alcohol maybe not
it could be correlation not causation
but we sure at least would like to see
correlation here right
um number four uh a sort of on uh trying
to unweave that
um mystery between correlation and
causation at least a little bit is
potentially linking the the degree of
intellectual decline with um or
cognitive differences put more
specifically with dose and duration like
if you have from some research that
people who used very small amounts of
androgens for a very short time had very
small or unnotable decrements in ability
or or they're just score I'd averages
about as high as you would expect on IQ
testing versus if people ran 10 years of
gear at three grams on average per week
they're the ones that are like the most
cognitively deficient like that's a bit
more evidence to the fact that maybe
something there is going on but hold on
the last thing is an obviation of
potential errors and to all of the stuff
I just said there's lots of ways in
which even if the relationship seemed
very clear it turns out it might not be
the reality that steroids and androgens
actually do make you dumber for example
if you have really good research that
says okay the more gear someone takes
and for the longer they took it the
Dumber they are you say Okay fucking
clearly the gear makes you dumber maybe
maybe but maybe it's uh actually is that
dumb ass motherfuckers stupid people to
begin with
make the choice to take five grams of
gear for 10 years straight and smart
people just don't do things like that on
average so you're actually getting a
selection effect and no direct effect
maybe it's a combination of the two
maybe dumbass people start taking way
more gear and take it for longer anyway
and making their stupidity problem even
worse and smart people if they do take
gear they do get less smart but they're
usually more responsible with it usually
more moderate and thus they don't see as
big of a hit so that that window between
the two groups can really open up and
also is it the drugs themselves or is it
something else you know
um every time you take gear lots of
other stuff happens that's not the gear
itself that you could maybe control for
for example steroid users have on
average much higher blood pressure
than uh non-steroid users and most
people is fucking insane as this is who
use gear do not control their blood
pressure and they don't even make an
attempt to do it we've had lots of
videos on this channel where we're
saying to people new blood pressure is
really bad don't let it get out of hand
so maybe it's the thing that actually
high blood pressure chronically is
neurodegenerative we actually know
already that that's the case so that's
definitely a part of the puzzle and
maybe that accounts for a hundred
percent of the variance we don't know so
we have to make sure before we say yes
it's for sure the androgens we have to
make sure to at least try to get obviate
out some of the obvious errors so this
is kind of the task that is in front of
us and now we I think yep go directly to
the literature which I'll have if you
guys pause this at any time you can get
the um
uh though you can copy the link or
whatever directly on your shit
um I will say a trick to this I don't
know if Android does this because I'm an
apple man and I don't stoop down these
Android filth but if you take a
screenshot of this on your phone and you
zoom in you just open the screenshot in
your photos on your iPhone you can
actually text select all the stuff and
you can just go right to the article uh
we may be able to dump some of these
links into the description but if don't
get to that then uh for sure just click
through here but here we go each one of
these points that I just described
points one through five we are going to
take a look at the state of the evidence
for them so first is theoretical
mechanisms is the is there any evidence
in literature that steroids might cause
neural harm the answer is absolutely yes
uh androgens may cause neural
degradation via apoptotic and necrotic
Pathways which means apoptosis is when
the steroids basically tell the style
like hey you should kill yourself and
sounds like see ya then it just degrades
its structure but in a cleanway necrosis
is the cell kind of dies a more natural
death it's not programmed cell death it
just falls apart and can't do its job
anymore androgens might have a role in
that as well so okay all right that's
definitely not good news for me so okay
this is uh definitely a thing number two
do we have experimentally Illustrated
mechanisms so if any studies actually
Illustrated that this occurs the answer
is yes there's a bunch of studies there
seems to be a potentially similar way in
which Androgen exposure uh occurs or
affects the brain maybe to something
like Parkinson's uh you know man do are
affected more by Parkinson's and men do
have way more of a lifetime exposure to
testosterone which is the original
Androgen and so there's some decent
evidence here and there's a lot of
studies you can look at potentially to
see if you can unweave the Rainbow on
that but okay so we have theoretical
mechanisms check we have experimentally
Illustrated mechanisms check okay not
not great news so far let's see where
this goes
next we need direct observation of
cognitive differences do we actually
have evidence to stare at users Dumber
the answer is yes okay there's a few
studies that have looked at this in a
couple of different ways
I'll quote one really quick long-term
anabolic Androgen exteriorate users
showed no significant differences from
non-users on measures of response speed
sustained attention and verbal memory
but on visual spatial memory however AAS
users performed significantly more
poorly than non-users within the user
group visual spatial performance showed
a significant negative correlation with
total lifetime AAS dose
okay
the real bad news of that is maybe
something going on especially with
visual spatial performance
the not so bad news potential glimmer of
hope is that generally when you have a
single substance that's um very general
mechanism of action degrading
the brain in a way that like it kills
off the nerve cells
um you just generally tend to see a
decline in global ability so for example
you have like lead poisoning and your IQ
is reduced like that it basically hits
every part of your intelligence that
you'll be worse at everything that
requires intellect with Android exposure
maybe this is just very very preliminary
work not a ton of evidence it seems that
it leaves a lot of your intelligence
alone but only hits you in a specific
place and remember that males and
females are actually considerably
different in uh in visual spatial
performance and maybe there's some
interaction of brain and hormone there
that specifically toggles that switch
right maybe in a sense the brain makes
you the steroids make you more
androgenized or feminized in that part
of your brain there's more responsible
for visual spatial but but this at the
best cases this is not ideal news the
worst case is that like a couple studies
in the future will show that you for
sure get summer this way and maybe other
ways too so okay yes direct observation
of cognitive differences we have them we
have them not ideal
next
is there a link between cognitive
differences and the dose and duration of
Androgen application the people who take
steroids for longer do they have worse
performance in their cognition some
research suggests no some research
suggests yes I would say it's very mixed
in this regard
um
sometimes you know there are some
analyzes they do where they kind of do a
brain aging index to see how old your
brain is and they sort of found out that
longitude and Analysis revealed no
evidence of increased brain aging
overall in the anabolic androgenic
steroid User Group
but accelerated brain aging was seen
with longer AAS exposure that doesn't
mean they gave people AAS or animals AAS
anabolic energy steroids and just like
measured the shit that's a self-report
so there's a big confounder there uh
there's it's it's not explained by other
substance use but they only ask certain
things
um and it's not explained by General
cognitive abilities which is interesting
it is kind of good news because while
steroid users
uh some of the probably most uh High
steroid users there is some research to
show or some insight to show that they
may have more aged brains that the
brains have been aged faster and you can
see some guys uh very offhand remark
here by me that don't take this too
seriously but guys that run a shitload
of gear you can look at their face face
and you're like what the fuck how old
are you like I don't know I probably
don't look all that young uh and so gear
seems to kind of maybe Aid you a little
faster but it said that there's actually
no connection here with General
cognitive decline so while brain aging
index goes up it doesn't actually seem
to drag down your IQ uh which is mixed
mixed and there's other studies that uh
do say Yes actually uh there is a link
of cognitive differences between uh dose
and duration and and how bad the
intellectual deficit becomes so I would
say this is mostly not so great news but
with maybe a couple of little silver
linings
now
sort of lastly how do we know guys
taking uh grams of gear for decades
um aren't just dumb as fuck to begin
with right and here we have a quote from
one of these studies the typical
anabolic androgenic steroid abuser is a
male poly substance abuser which means
here's not the only thing they're doing
who has poor self-esteem that's you baby
everybody laughing at you now dog
JK maybe it's me
pour some shut up Scott the video guy
laughing back there uh poor self-esteem
poor school performance and cluster B
personality disorder or trades look that
up it's fun to look up who may or may
not participate in organized sport so
it's it's actually the people using
steroids more uh are not necessarily the
jock people they're people who like
maybe on average more have like a chip
on their shoulder and aren't so smart to
begin with
and
um so no study convincingly rules out
the fact that it could all be selection
bias
it is possible I'll get to this later I
considered it unlikely but possible that
steroids have no negative effect on your
cognition as far as general intelligence
is concerned that it's just like you're
dumb as shit you'll take a lot of gear
which is at least partially true right
so it's certainly a factor
that people who are stupid or decide to
do stupider shit with steroids and
usually take more of them and for longer
and don't take as many of the uh risk
preserving mechanisms as they can that's
for sure true the real question is how
much of the difference in intelligence
between users and non-users does that
explain is it all of it is a part of it
is definitely part we're not really sure
how much of a part uh the thing is is
that uh we know that people who use
anabolics for a long time especially
recklessly have a higher long-term
exposure to oxidative stress
um they generally take anti-estrogens
sometimes a lot and there's a lot of
chronic high blood pressure involved and
we know that each one of these three can
have very profound neurodegenerative
effects most of these three have much
more intense neurodegenerative effects
than any Androgen has so there's
definitely other stuff involved and
almost certainly some anabolic
androgenic steroids are much more uh
neurodegenerative uh neurotoxic whatever
word you want to use than others so for
example you know if you're like hey I
want to protect my brain but I'm going
to take only Trend and Trend all the
time there are direct studies that shows
compared to most of the drugs they
studied against Trent is the worst for
your brain so there's definitely some
Nuance here and we haven't obviated all
the potential errors so
what are some implications here this is
my reading of the literature as it
stands at the time this video was
released as always as good scientists we
have to be ready to modify our positions
with incoming evidence okay so my
position is tentative very tentative and
also it's my reading so it may be in an
accurate reading and if I get this wrong
we're just I can unsubscribe from this
channel so you never I'll just stop post
JK so
first
I got point a through Point C Point e
Five Points point eight
there is no body of very strong evidence
that shows that steroid use makes you
dumber so that it's not like oh for sure
it's not bad I got it all right
but there sure are lots of candidate
mechanisms for such a thing happening
and we can't just rule it all out like I
don't worry brother just watch your
cholesterol and you'll be okay nah
and there's plenty of decently
controlled correlative literature which
should at least make us like do the the
people's eyebrow at it and be like oh no
weird that's not good you know that's
not good the evidence isn't convincing
but there sure are a lot of hints
if I had to bet on it I had to bet money
on it I would say my best guess is that
long-term Androgen use does reduce some
factors of intelligence some of your sub
abilities of your general intelligence
if not the underlying general
intelligence Factor itself though that
is also possible and I wouldn't rule
that out either so I'm saying some kinds
of intelligence I think it's probable
that androgens do degrade and it's
possible they degrade by some small but
notable margin your overall general
intelligence
they may not do this directly
so indirect mechanisms like oxidative
stress aromatase inhibition and chronic
high blood pressure are likely involved
I would bet they're involved to a pretty
high extent
which brings us to the last point point
e of what I think your Best Bets are in
this situation clearly hands down best
bet number one is just don't use
steroids don't use androgens if you
really need to be sharp for work and you
love being of whatever intelligence you
are and you don't want to get any Dumber
uh just don't use Andrews right getting
Dumber makes everything you can imagine
worse everything you can imagine feel
free to debate me in the comments below
I may we may find one or two exceptions
but generally I think being smarter is
better for almost every outcome
if you do choose to use antigens or
you're currently using Android version
you're like holy shit I'm a competitive
bodybuilder the fuck am I supposed to do
just quit my sport you may be able to do
some things that guard against this or
minimize this effect to some extent here
they are first use the smallest dose as
you can to get the result that you need
don't over blast gear that is also a
good idea for 50 trillion other reasons
mostly your health but in this case it
may come in handy as well
next is use drugs that are the least
likely to do neurodegenerative harm use
more primobolin and less Trenbolone I
know crazy the more you know right
next is do not use aromatase Inhibitors
at all preferably or use them for as
little as possible if you use them to
get dialed in for a show they probably
are neurodegenerative probably much more
than steroids so they're not a good idea
in many cycles of pros and National
competitors with a year-round smash
anti-estrogens that's the fucking worst
idea you could have stop doing it next
is take Metformin and otherwise reduce
overall oxidative stress that means
eating healthy that means experiencing
less life stress everything you have to
do to bring your oxidative stress down
get as much sleep as possible sleep
seems to be super protective against a
lot of the stuff and very uh
neurogenerative and if you degrade your
quality of sleep bad things can happen
and all these things can become worse
measure and control your blood pressure
via any means necessary including blood
pressure drugs the amount of research
that shows blood pressure drugs reduce
your intelligence is zero the amount of
inference for that is also zero so
having a low blood pressure makes you
better often every single fucking way
you can imagine and potentially keeps
you smarter for longer so kind of a
no-brainer there and then wait as long
as possible to use drugs so if you're
you know you're 20 years old and you're
getting really good and really Jack and
you want to start competing in
bodybuilding go man I just want to jump
in and start using gear don't wait till
you're like 25 or 27 or something really
tap out your natural gains go as long as
you can without drugs and then when you
use them use them with a buff
recommendations which is like use less
of them and use the safer substances and
take care of the rest of your stuff and
watch your health your blood pressure
Etc and then on the tail end
get the fuck out as soon as you can so
I'll end this on a personal anecdote I'm
38 years old I gave myself more or less
hard-ish cut off of like age 42 to try
to do whatever it is I'm going to do in
bodybuilding I have a couple goals I'll
keep them to myself the big one is just
show up on stage looking like yeah like
last time I competed I get real close I
just need maybe a few more shows where
I'm like oh yeah man those are real
Walnut glutes you know I really fucking
peaked I really did it as soon as I'm
done with that and or age roughly 42
hits
as I understand things to be now I'm
getting off all the gear that isn't trt
and I'm fucking dropping body weight
from like 245 right now I'm gonna go
down to like 190 within a few months if
I make it this far you guys will see
that happen in real life and there's no
you not see me at age 51 red in the face
from running grams of trend that won't
happen so not only should you start
drugs late if you're ever going to do
them don't do them if you're gonna do
them start them late take as few as you
can watch your health and when you're
done doing your bodybuilding thing
generally people in their early 40s can
no longer match the peak of their
um their physiques that they achieved in
their right around age 40 late 30s to
age 40s when most people mature
um once you're done especially in your
mid to late 40s get that just stop
taking gear and get the fuck out
that's my plan hopefully it's your plan
too
um yeah serious shit we'll see how this
happens and maybe in a couple of years
we'll see some updated literature and
I'll make another one of these videos
uh yeah consider this my McGruff the the
crime dog moment folks don't do drugs
next time