fck
yeah I like how he kind of flips over
the table at some point there this is a
glute ham raay um without any load but
uh definitely high enough to make him
almost flip over he looks like um like a
sea mamal of some sort that's been sort
of thrown by a wave onto the beach and
it's kind of just like hey I love it
ladies take a glimpse that's the fucking
tool set you're working with right there
there's some shit in there you don't
want to know about some shit in there
you will be finding about and some shit
in there that years later when you have
your husband and your family and your
single Days Are Over the kids are out
playing you know a couple couple dozen
feet away that way and your husband's
like am I your best and you're like of
course honey you're my man yeah but I
mean like best ever in the sack that's
when you lie because you've had it with
Mr Grizzly and you're like of course
honey of course he's like great he
stares off into the sunset and you're
like you just turn you're like K he's
like
what craving Greek food