what is going on everyone so Stephanie
and I are here at sparkling he'll spawn
Resort in Vernon British Columbia and
this is where we spent my 27th birthday
that was an absolutely awesome day and I
just want to give you guys a quick
glimpse into what it was that Stephanie
and I did so we rolled up got to a
sparkling he'll spawn resort I the day
before my birthday and we kind of just
chilled sort of checked out the resort
and some of the scenery here we have
been here one time before you guys
remember the crazy German Machines vlog
came here for kind of like a winter
getaway it was a lot of fun so we
decided to come back for my birthday the
morning we woke up had a beautiful
breakfast overlooking some of the rocky
mountains and a lake which I don't know
what it is it might actually be Okanagan
but it's absolutely beautiful just a
stunning view and the breakfast itself
was delicious so after breakfast came
back to the room and I opened some of my
gifts I think probably my favorite gift
was I think over 400 developed photos or
something like that of our first year
together so we've actually only been
together a little bit more than a year
so it's almost like a year in a month
all of like the photos from all the
stuff we've done over the last year she
went and got them developed and we're
gonna put them together in a photo album
two books sapiens and the other one was
Neil deGrasse Tyson's new book and I'm
really looking forward to reading both
of those that's the kind of stuff that I
really enjoy outside of exercise science
and nutrition yeah Stephanie the gifts
were absolutely wonderful after that we
went to the pool and hot tub area and
one of the really cool things about this
resort is just the layout of everything
and the views that you get from
everywhere the hot tub overlooks this is
just like beautiful landscape if you go
outside there's actually an outdoor
heated pool on a Ledge almost so the
view from the pool is absolutely amazing
we did what is called I think I'm
pronouncing this right it's called a
neat walk or a nip walk and this was
something we did the last time we were
here it's supposed to like improve
circulation I think like reduce
inflammation I have never looked into
the science behind this so the water
basically starts out as being hot and
then it alternates with freezing cold
warm and then cold going through the
cold parts is always difficult
especially for Stephanie I did a little
bit more relaxing and what they call the
tea room this is basically just like a
quiet room full
recliner chairs or you can like read and
drink tea or whatever so after that I
went for a massage and I obviously
wasn't allowed to film in there I will
say I really liked the massages that are
really deep with a lot of pressure this
was more so more of just like a relaxing
type massage but it was it was pretty
good and then after that we actually
went for a quick workout and we used the
German pressurized machines but Kaiser
brand I don't know if you guys have ever
used them but they have a really
interesting resistance curve and I find
I like training on them occasionally
because it is a very different type of
stimulus and so I find after training
here I usually am pretty sore which
isn't the number one thing that you're
aiming for when it comes to your
training but it is a good indication
that you've at least done something new
or novel or stimulated the muscle in a
different kind of way so I do like using
these machines when we are here and it's
honestly the only place I've I've ever
seen them I don't know if they're
popular in Germany or elsewhere but I'd
never see them at the the commercial
gyms here so basically you press in on
this button and it pressurizes the
system do you can like increase the
resistance and decrease the resistance
using these little buttons and then you
have like a display that shows the
number of reps that you got and the
pressure in the system we kicked off the
workout with leg press and here I wasn't
like tracking reps or trying to follow a
set routine or anything like that we
just took a couple sets to failure if I
am training on the road and just going
through like kind of a freestyle type
workout one thing that I will do is try
to take at least one of my sets to
failure so at the very least I'm
activating a full spectrum of motor
units and I think that that's the most
efficient and effective way to train
when you have access to these machines
where you can go to failure or at least
pretty close to a failure without having
to worry about injury or form breakdown
or anything like that I think 2 or 3
sets on the leg press and then we moved
on to a leg curl the seated leg curl
machine Stephanie absolutely roasts me
on these every single time I don't know
how her hamstrings are so strong but I
think it's just that the way that they
insert on her leg
they probably like insert half the way
down our tibia so she just has crazy
leverages for hamstring work but yeah we
did two or three sets on the hamstring
curl and then I did two or three sets on
the leg extension and again here working
in a slightly higher rep range but
taking at least one set to concentric
failure so basically to that point where
I probably couldn't get another rep
after that did a couple light sets of
dumbbell Romanian deadlifts just to get
a little bit more of a stretch based
movement again here the dumbbells don't
go to that heavy so I was doing
something like 20 to 25 reps with a
focus on the mind muscle connection here
and that is one thing that I feel like a
lot of people miss with the Romanian
deadlift is they're not focusing on
actually feeling their hamstrings do the
movement and their lower back glutes can
take over and so sometimes just using
lighter dumbbells to reestablish that
sort of mind muscle connection with the
movement pattern I think can be helpful
so if nothing else we at least did that
so after the workout we quickly came
back to the room had a quick change and
then went out for some all-you-can-eat
sushi in a nearby town so it's called
Vernon a 20-minute drive from here we
actually got a good chunk of sushi even
though the place was about to close and
even though the portions were pretty
small it was still really really
delicious tasty sushi we didn't want to
stay there for dessert so we actually
went to a grocery store grabbed a couple
containers of ice cream I got some Ben
and Jerry's Stephanie got like a saw
like a fruity sorbet ice cream of some
kind
we took that back to the room and we
flicked on some lost which is a show
that I'm rewatching for the first time
and it's actually Stephanie's first wash
through but this is probably my favorite
show of all time I love the office and I
love lost she just tries to predict
everything that's going on
if you botched lost that's like kind of
impossible to do because I'm pretty sure
the writers didn't even know where they
were going with the show until like
season four or five anyway now we're
gonna head back to Kelowna I'm gonna go
for a quick workout today we're gonna go
for a real leg workout today we've got a
few people coming over to the
just for a little get-together we're
gonna go out for dinner and then maybe
have a few drinks after before we go I
was gonna give you a quick live tour of
the room this is the view from the room
tub yes she didn't end up using that we
have a mirror that we can't figure out
what that's for
it would make sense maybe like if you
can see yourself in the bed but I'm
lying in the bed right now and literally
all I see is the ceilings as the
bathrooms continue out here and then
that repeats indefinitely that's a quick
tour of the room now for real I'll check
in with you guys back in kelowna what's
up everyone so we're back here in
Kelowna and we're just going out for
dinner now with a few friends I just
finished up a really quick leg workout I
did some hack squats leg curls and then
I just finished off with some neck stuff
another really quick workout but between
today and yesterday I feel like I got
one solid luck work I didn't feel like
the clouds have been looking especially
aesthetically most my channel probably
doesn't know but Dania I did
right after I started to like really
take off if you saw my body composition
video is dandy that actually
Wow everyone hated your edit that [ __ ]
was horrible
you're only officially an old man
[Laughter]
chicken cages
avocado added mushrooms some cheese and
this is the hot potato salad
settings right
[Music]
just got back from the restaurant I
definitely recommend the cajun chicken
and the hot potato salad i give them
both a seven out of ten probably give
him like a seven out of ten probably
like a seven out of ten so i'm gonna
start a drinking game we have to pick a
youtuber a minute every time he says
fast
alright every time he says fad or bulk
don't let me down Alex pretty much
getting too fat straight up put your
belly count do pad yo what up guys were
in the gym working out and we just went
shopping a bit ago it was pretty fun why
now we gotta kill this workout I got
some crazy announcement coming yeah
[Music]
[Music]