the squat might just be one of the worst
hamstring exercises out there by the end
of this video you'll know why and you'll
know what to do instead to grow your
hamstrings
welcome folks we back soon to be doctor
metal Warfare with wolf coaching today
we're talking about the squat and why it
really doesn't train your hamstrings
very well but before we do that let's
talk about some anatomy of the
hamstrings the hamstrings colloquially
referred to as the biceps of the leg
have four heads specifically there is
the semimembranosus the semitendinosus
and there's a long and short head of the
biceps femoris all four of those muscles
are involved in knee flexion like during
a seated or lying leg curl however only
three of those muscles are involved in
hip extension like during an ordeal the
only muscle in the hamstrings that
doesn't contribute towards hip extension
is the biceps femoris short head now
that we know that the hamstrings mostly
act as a knee flexor and as a hip
extensor let's talk about the squat and
how that plays into the squat exercise
during the squat exercise motion comes
primarily from two joints and two joint
functions on the way up number one is
extension of the hips and number two is
extension of the knees now dear viewer
if you've been listening something you
might say well the hamstring should be
helping out with hip extension in that
case and you would technically be right
if not for one thing if you were to use
your hamstrings in the squat you would
also be flexing your knee and that's the
opposite of what we want to do after all
without also extending the knee you
wouldn't be able to complete a squat
successfully if you're getting confused
at this point just know you're not alone
in fact there was a man called Lombard
back in the day who had this exact same
confusion and this resulted in something
called longboards Paradox longboards
Paradox describes paradoxical human musk
contraction for example when you're
getting up in the squat both the
quadriceps and the hamstrings are
activated and contracted in spite being
antagonists how can this be surely when
you're Contracting the hamstrings that
then resist the quads which should make
standing up from a Squad Impossible well
that's the Paradox you can contract your
hamstrings and your quads at the same
time during the squat and still complete
a rep successfully but if that's the
case why don't we see hamstring growth
from squats well it's like has to do
with the fact that if the hamstrings
were to contract too forcefully and
really play a big role during the squat
they would strongly resist the quads as
I mentioned earlier in the squat there
are two things you have to achieve knee
extension and hip extension if we use
the hamstrings to extend the hips they
will also be trying to flex the knee
because the muscle always contracts at
both joints or all joints that it
inserts in so if we use the hamstrings
during the squat we're making the job of
the quads harder the quads are now no
longer have to overcome just the force
applied by the weight and the gravity
they also now have to overcome the force
being produced by the hamstrings that is
trying to get the knee to flex and so
the body doesn't actually use the
hamstrings very much for hip extension
instead it looks to muscle groups that
still do hip extension but that don't
have this action at the knee they look
for the actors and the glutes the
attitudes on the glutes don't do knee
flexion they don't resist the quads but
they do do hip extension and so they can
help you out during the squat without
making the roll of the quadriceps any
harder it's basically just like the path
of least resistance your body is trying
to use the muscle groups that will make
the movement as easy as possible so
because the body can use the glutes and
the outers instead of the hamstrings
from hip extension the hamstrings
shouldn't get much stimulus or shouldn't
grow much from the squat but what does
the evidence say about this well I think
there are two studies that illustrate
this concept beautifully we have a study
by Kubo and colleagues on the squad and
we have a study by Plotkin colleagues
comparing the hip thrust to the squat
the study by Kubo and colleagues
compared to shallower squats to deeper
squats I actually discussed the study in
the context of my glute video so you can
check that out but that's not really
what we're interested in here what's
interesting about this study is they
actually measured growth of the quads
the glutes the actors and the hamstrings
let's focus on the Deep squat condition
here as it is the most relevant to our
discussion what did they find well when
squatting deep participants saw really
robust growth of the quads the glutes
and the adapters however when it came to
the hamstrings there was essentially no
growth scene so this study's findings
definitely seem to reinforce my point
about co-contraction and your body just
trying to find the path of Ace
resistance essentially what about the
study by Plotkin colleagues in this
study a they compare two groups one
group performed all of their training
using squats and one group performed all
of their training using hip thrusts
again they measured growth of the actors
quads hamstrings and glutes again
similar to the Kubo study squatting grew
the quads adulterers and glutes pretty
well equally hip thrusts did a pretty
good job of growing the glutes not so
much the adductors what about the
hamstrings well neither group really saw
much hamstring growth so this actually
suggests that neither did hit thrust nor
the squad is very good at growing the
hamstrings so squats and potentially
even hip thrusts seem pretty bad at
growing the hamstrings what should we do
instead to grow those hamstrings if you
remember the anatomy I mentioned earlier
in the video you'll remember that the
hamstrings have two functions one is hip
extension and the other is knee flexion
importantly you can't just get away with
doing only hit extension work like a
deadlift because one of the four heads
of the hamstrings is only involved in
knee flexion so if all you did was
deadlift audios that one-fourth of the
hamstrings wouldn't really ever get any
growth so let's talk about these two
categories for hip extension work you
are best doing a variation that keeps
your knees relatively extended by
keeping your knees relatively extended
during the whole movement you're able to
lengthen the hamstrings fully so in this
category things like good mornings or
audios or stiffly a deadlifts do a
really good job alternatively if you're
looking for a hip extension variation
that more so trains the glutes or
adductors you may actually be better off
doing a hip extension variation that
allows the knees to bend a little bit
like a conventional deadlift versus an
RDL that's performed more so for the
hamstrings the second category is knee
flexion work ideally for the hamstrings
you would perform seated like curls for
the same reasons as why you do a hip
extension exercise with your knees
relatively straight because by sitting
down and flexing your hip you're
actually lengthening the hamstrings more
with that being said you don't want to
do to adjust your Like rules every now
and then maybe about 20 percent of the
time within your program it is probably
worth doing some lying like Crow work as
well the reason for this is that while
the hamstrings are super important there
are also other knee flexor muscle groups
like The gracilis and the Sartorius
muscle both of these also act as knee
flexors but they are actually also hip
flexors which means that during the
seated lycro they are quite shortened
whereas during the line like curl when
your hips are more extended they are
quite lengthened why is this important
and why had I in general made
recommendations about training the
hamstrings at long muscle lengths well
if you look at this video here you'll
see that there's been some recent
research into longer muscle length
training or training a muscle group when
it's stretched showing that actually
that's quite beneficial for hypertrophy
so in general pick exercises that
lengthen the hamstrings well and load
them heavily in that position that's the
video on hamstrings if you like the
video please comment like subscribe
leave a comment down below letting me
know what else you want to see and I'll
see you guys my viewers in that next one
peace
only off ambulance people are
making videos here while you're trying
to save lives and if you only
oh damn it