[Music]
[Applause]
I'm dr. Mike from Renaissance Fairs
ation here with my Korean brother from a
wholly different mother and father
actually Charlie Jung we're gonna be
teaching you how to not do barbell
shrugs for your traps and how to do them
properly remember the target for the
barbell shrug is the upper trap let's
get to work and see how badly people
fuck this up
all right folks first mistake is when
people do the trap circle bullshit when
they think it's part of the shrug to
move the shoulder joint around for no
good goddamn reason
the funny thing is is that the traps
don't really do that also gravity only
points down so focus on moving the bar
up and down and not around like a crazy
person charlie I have no idea where this
came from
people do that shit so legit shrugs and
they'll do that yep what is that thing
you know and sometimes they'll do it
slower with a pull up and then they'll
do that who the hell knows looks like
the funky chicken dance what you want to
do is do it the right way which is
getting a good grip and pulling the bar
up and then pulling the bar back down
and up and down and that's it it's that
simple next mistake is an uncontrolled
eccentric the eccentric phase the
controlled ascent is a very hypertrophic
especially further traps because in the
human body one of the main functions of
the traps is to control your shoulder
descent so people will do it with as
much weight as they can and not control
the center because it's easier that way
and they'll do this they'll do a good
con centric and then they'll drop and
concentric and they'll drop and
concentric and they'll drop what you
want to do is do a good con centric just
like he's doing and then control and
then up and then control now there's two
options really you can do one second
eccentric like he's doing or you can do
a length in eccentric something like
three seconds so he's gonna slow and
then up and then slow both are totally
fine it's just variations you can do one
or you can do the other just don't do
the thing where you left the bar go
completely next mistake is not doing a
standard range of motion for every
single rep this is bad for programming
because you don't know how much actual
imposition of stimulus you're creating
or fatigue and is bad for tracking so
you don't know if you're getting
stronger over time some people start
shrugging and then are
kind of looks different so go ahead
charlie you know the some reps are good
and then some reps are sort of halfway
there and then some reps are really good
maybe hey how many reps is that who the
hell knows every single reps you look
the same which means every rep you
should be trying to bring your shoulders
into your ears pause for a split second
at the top of every rep and then at the
bottom control the eccentric full
stretch at the bottom and come all the
way back up go ahead and demonstrate
boom and then down and then up and then
down notice the same shoulder movement
every time here technical failure is
when you can no longer go all the way up
and control all the way down you have to
know in your heart of hearts so to speak
when that's occurred because with trap
training with shrugs unlike with squats
or something we're bench presses where
you know you fail because you physically
can't move the bar you can always sort
of shrug the bar until you're doing
almost nothing and it looks like you're
being electrocuted
as soon as you can't confidently boom do
another full range rep stop folks
there's always the next set to do more
reps you don't have to degrade your
technique getting closer and closer to
failure next you've probably seen this
mistake done hundreds of times at your
local gym is not using good technique
and trying to get other muscles involved
in weird head movements that are
essentially ways of cheating all right
we call this body English shrugs are
meant for your traps to be moving and
not a whole lot else now sometimes your
arms can bend a little as a byproduct
and as long as you're not pulling with
them on purpose that's fine but
everything else is usually garbage a lot
of people will do shrugs like this where
they do the hip involvement and the
funky chicken dance Bob that head
Charlie remember the the most you can
push your head through that just really
causes trap growth wait a minute that's
backwards all right good technique
Charlie go ahead and hit it means you're
doing things strict notice the rest of
his body really isn't moving it's more
or less just his shoulders elevating and
then depressing like the traps are
supposed to be helping with
[Music]
some folks when you correct their bad
technique and they're swinging will say
well aren't high centric forces good for
traps they're correct they are what if I
want to really overload my traps of a
crapload of tension can't I help with my
lower body to get the concentric and
then let the e centric be something I
really try hard on for essentially an
accentuated
overloaded eccentric totally but shady
techniques not how you do it a lot of
people do it like this they try to
bullshit garbage way and they end up
just doing dogshit rugs they're like I'm
doing something and you're sort of maybe
kind of partial dead lifting and
shrugging you don't even know anymore
there are other exercises you can do
which are not the barbell shrug which
should always be strict these exercises
variations of high poles and the mid
thigh poles specifically allow a dynamic
concentric and allow you to get a full
range of motion and you control the
eccentric with the technique a standard
every single time Charlie Guinness oh
look at what a mid thigh pole might look
like essentially you're using a dynamic
deadlift a pole from weightlifting and
in real life this is about as fast as it
would look with heavy weight with light
weight you can do it way faster it's
almost like a jump shrug using your
entire lower body to propel up but then
notice when Charlie does it Charlie is
show us again a couple min type oles
notice the bar comes up quick but he's
controlling the eccentric a ton on the
way down that literally lets you train
at a hundred percent plus of your actual
concentric strict strong max so if you
want to do some shrugs with a bit more
oomph to them nothing wrong with that
but that's now a mid thigh pole learn
how to do it properly YouTube that shit
and then do it right
strictness is a really really good thing
but sometimes you can get so strict and
be such a stickler you end up
sacrificing stimulus and even some range
of motion for example folks will say you
can't bend your arms when you're doing
shrugs what they mean is you shouldn't
be actively bending your arms to try to
lift the weight you should let the traps
to the work but sometimes by keeping the
arms completely strict you actually
limit range of motion if the arms don't
come out a little bit sometimes the
glenohumeral joint won't move anymore
in your trap shrugs actually end up
being partials go ahead and Charlie show
us a super-strict he's going
not Bend his shit at all and then it
ends up being that that's as high as he
can physically pull without his upper
arm coming out but if he lets it come
out he's still focusing on his traps go
ahead and hit it it's okay that it bends
a little bit he's not trying to pull it
but notice the huge increase in range of
motion it's okay to bend your elbows on
shrugs as long as you're not wilfully
bending your elbows to try to use more
weight and produce forces with your
actual forearm flexors you bend your
elbows to allow yourself to get a super
big range of motion in the traps next
mistake is to let your hand grip limit
you on shrugs this is huge
properly done shrugs have the kind of
weight and the kind of reps even if
you're not cheating them and for sure if
you're cheating them that your forearms
really can't keep up with usually your
traps are leverage to do a tiny range of
motion they're incredibly well level of
leverage to produce a ton of force so
what ends up happening is if you just
grab the bar normally and do shrugs for
a lot of people he'll get up to a point
where the trap growth will be really
limited by their ability to grip you
don't want that to happen you have three
options like we said in a bunch of other
videos you can use chalk which is a
great start
you can get straps which is even better
and ideally you get something like versa
grips and then you grip is just not a
factor at all this has actually two
benefits one you could finally do the
amount of weight interrupts that
actually is limiting by your traps and
not limited by your forearms and
secondly you can develop a better mind
muscle connection and focus better on
trap technique on the technique that
hits your traps in the shrug versus
having to think about two things
your grip being like almost going and
also about activating the traps so not
only can you do more with your grip no
longer as a limiting factor if you use
something like versa grips but you can
do better technique that hits the traps
and a better mind muscle connection that
ends up hitting our traps more next
mistake is thinking that you have to do
shrugs in a very particular style with
particular grips super common question
that we get all the time is what do you
think about wide grip shrugs I think
they're great snatch grip shrugs are
great if you feel it in your traps in
it's okay on your joints that's a great
exercise what about narrow grip shrugs
if you feel it in your traps you're
getting a good range motion and your
joints feel good
it's a great exercise right what we mean
by feel it just a quick reminder it's if
it's heavy shrugs a high degree of
tension if it's lighter shrugs an actual
burn in your shrugs or sorry in your
traps right and then if you are getting
a good pump in your traps that's a good
sign and if your traps feel really tired
and really weak and really weird after
multiple sets that's good so if you do
like 10 sets of wide-grip shrugs but you
don't feel shit afterwards maybe it's
not the best you do three sets of
clothes script shrugs and it blows your
traps up that's a good sign it's super
personal people are built differently
here are some other variations you can
try forget about the barbell try
dumbbells
forget about dumbbells try cable shrugs
forget about shrugging and standing
upright try a slight Bend because not
only does that hit your upper traps it
hits your mid traps a little bit more
there are no right answers here as long
as it's good technique you can use any
hand positions you want neutral works -
dumbbells
cables and a little bit of lean versus
straight up are all awesome if it hits
your target muscle well and it's good
for your joints last mistake for barbell
shrugs is going too heavy too light can
be an issue if you don't have a good
stimulus to fatigue ratio in sets of Oh
20 to 30 you might just not feel a whole
lot your forms might get tired first
even with straps biceps might get tired
even with straps but a lot of folks get
a ton out of shrugs in the 23rd rep
range especially because the time spent
exerting tension isn't very high because
a lot of times it's such a slow
amplitude movement the rep doesn't take
a whole lot of time something like
squats you know the whole rap takes a
shitload of time so set of eight takes
like 35 or 40 seconds with shrugs you
know 35 or 40 seconds can be 20 to 30
reps so no big deal there a lot of folks
get a great response in the 10 to 20 rev
range from their shrugs totally fine
however sets of 5 to 10 probably not the
best for your shrugs because that weight
is so heavy the mind muscle connection
and the technique really starts to
suffer for many people so what the hell
we're just not supposed to train our
haps in sets of 5 to 10 well first of
all do dead lifting and stiff like a
deadlifts and heavy rows York
perhaps get tun a very beneficial
ancillary super-heavy work anyway but if
you really want to blast your traps with
ultra heavy weights which actually does
work really well for aperture fee you
can use mid thigh poles remember that
exercise we demonstrated earlier where
we have a powerful concentric phase peak
at the top and then control the
eccentric not only our 5 to 10 reps
that's best there but you can use a
weight you would never be able to use 4
sets of 5 to 10 from shrugs so you get
both benefits careful because it's a
really fatiguing exercise but boy will
it fuck your traps up folks that's it
for shrug training the traps just a
quick side note there are lots of other
ways to train traps I know some people
are gonna talk about why raises and
single arm cable stuff great trap
training comes in many different forms
and shrugs are not the only thing to do
for your traps but nonetheless they are
a fine option so keep an open mind if
you have any questions about this video
shoot them into the comments hopefully
some of you folks watching can help out
people that have questions and if you
have any suggestions about what other
exercises you want us to break down
shoot them in the comments as well folks
thank you so much for following all our
stuff our audience has grown a ton
recently apparently people don't hate
these videos too much keep the
suggestions coming thanks for
subscribing catch you next time
[Music]