what are the best and worst back
exercises for muscle growth well in this
video I'll be ranking 20 of the most
popular movements on a tier list from s
for super to F for fail and at the end
I'll Crown one exercise as the best of
the best raising it to S tier plus and
one as the worst of the worst demoting
it to F tier hell and to make sure your
favorite back exercise doesn't end up in
F tier it'll need to take three boxes
one it needs to give a big stretch with
high tension if it doesn't give me a
good stretch or provide high tension
it's going an F tier no exceptions two
it needs to feel good this means it
doesn't cause pain and it has a smooth
resistance profile giving a good pump
and a nice mind muscle connection
wouldn't hurt either three it must have
a simple progression if you can't easily
add weight or reps over time it's
getting knocked down all right let's get
the worst out of the way Renegade rows
these are not good for building muscle
first they don't provide a good stretch
because you'll come up solid against the
floor they don't offer maximum tension
to your back because other muscles have
to work so hard just to keep your
balance which makes it hard to get a
good back pump sorry Renegade rows are
going in F tier this is because the
Renegade row is trying to combine two
exercises into one a plank and a
dumbbell row planks are good for your
core and rows are great for your back
when you put them together you end up
watering down the amount of tension that
your back receives and the same goes for
other twoin one combination exercises
like the dumbbell row plus curl or the
dumbbell row plus press or the dumbbell
row plus Kickback this is because the
smaller muscle in the pair will always
be so much weaker than your back so
it'll always give out first this leaves
your back totally UND stimulated these
exercises will burn some calories and
they will grow the weaker muscle in the
pair but they aren't good back Builders
they're all going in F tier okay what
about the deadlift well I am a big fan
of the deadlift I think it's one of the
best exercises for building total body
strength however when we look at the
criteria for S tier back Builder it
doesn't score too well it doesn't
stretch your lats or midback much at all
it also doesn't take your lats or traps
through an active range of motion so any
tension they do receive is isometric and
I don't know about you but deadlifts
don't give me a great back pump and
while they are easy to overload you can
always add some weight or some reps
that's usually because your hamstrings
and glutes are getting stronger not
necessarily your back as a back Builder
the deadlift is going in C tier I'm not
putting it in D or F tier just because
it will beef up your spinal Erectors and
thicken up that lower part of your back
but as a pure back hypertrophy exercise
I do think there are far better options
now if this were a lower body day I'd
probably put the deadlift in A or B tier
especially if it's done with a
well-controlled negative and since the
above theee rack pull is basically just
a deadlift with less range of motion
it's going in D tier except since it
often damages gym equipment Hogs plates
and unless your name is bro feels pretty
terrible I'm going to go ahead and move
it to F tier okay you're probably ready
for some better exercises so let's start
with the wide grip pull-up it offers
high tension throughout the range of
motion and a deep stretch at the bottom
it feels good and you should get a nice
back pump however pull-ups do have a
tricky resistance profile they feel very
easy at the bottom and very hard at the
top this makes for not the smoothest
feel that said they are very good for
progression as you can easily add one
rep each workout or add some load with a
weight belt they also look cool and I
really respect pull-up strength wide
grip pull-ups are going in a tier
neutral grip pull-ups have all the
upsides of wide grip pull-ups with
slightly more lat emphasis they're also
going in a tier chinups with a Palms up
grip shift some back tension to your
biceps so while they are still a great
upper body exercise I'm putting them in
B tier for the back specifically next
pull Downs we've got wide grip laat pull
Downs neutral grip laap pull downs and
half kneeling one arm lap pull Downs
wide grip lat pull Downs offer a big
stretch on your lats they provide smooth
even tension throughout the range of
motion they feel great plus you get to
sit down which is nice and stable and
you get a fantastic combination of both
lat and mid trap activation and you can
easily overload them by increasing the
pin weight the wide grip pull down is
our first exercise being awarded to S
tier neutral grip pull Downs have all
the same upsides of wide grip pull Downs
except they emphasize your lats over the
mid traps especially if you think about
driving your elbows down so they're also
going in s here half kneeling one arm
lap pull Downs are heralded as being oh
so optimal online so let's see how they
do high stretch check high tension check
good feel at least for me check and
they're easy to overload you can easily
add a rep each week and then some weight
as you get stronger there is a little
less stability here than on a pull down
machine however you can overcome that by
bracing against your knee or against an
in bench plus being able to focus on one
lad at a time is great for preventing
asymmetries so while I'm tempted to put
them in a tier I'm going to be lenient
and put them in s tier as well now the
cross body lat pull around is a spin on
the same movement where you twist your
torso by 90Â° so that you're pulling the
cable across your body this will
increase the stretch on your lats even
further however I find that despite the
amazing Stretch A lot of people find the
movement a bit awkward especially at
first so I'm going to leave these in a
tier okay let's cover some of the most
popular row variations up first the
barbell row it stretches your back quite
well and it offers high tension however
because it's not the most stable
exercise that tension will be dispersed
to other stabilizing muscles like your
calves glutes and low back just to keep
balance this isn't a huge deal your back
will still get hammered and you can
still overload this movement from week
to week but I don't think it's the best
row variation and I don't even think
it's the best barbell row variation so
the standard barbell row is going in B
tier the Yates row is basically just a
barbell row with a more upright posture
and with looser technique of course it's
named after bodybuilding Legend and
six-time Mr Olympia Dorian Yates while
the looser form will help you load more
weight it doesn't actually guarantee
more tension to your back muscles
because of momentum coming from your
hips and the more upright posture
actually reduces the stretch on your
lats and mid traps sorry Dorian the
eight row is going in C tier the penl
row is essentially the opposite of the
eight row instead of going more upright
you go more bent over this is good
because it places your lats under a
higher degree of stretch and tension it
also allows for more consistent
progression since your form is tighter
so assuming you do them with a
controlled negative I think they belong
in B tier although I could easily nudge
them into a tier if we factor in
strength development they're just not
quite stable enough as a pure
hypertrophy exercise for my taste so
they're going to stay in B tier the
deficit penl row is a penl row where you
stand on something like a bumper plate
this allows you to go deeper on the
negative meaning more stretch on your
lats I'm going to put these in a tier
all right The Meadows row named after
the late great John Meadows who is
someone who taught me so much so let's
see it stretches your back a ton it
absolutely smashes your midback with
super high tension and as long as you
brace against your knee you'll be nice
and stable the midback pump you'll get
from these is unmatched and as a bonus
you get to work on each side
individually this is definitely a
personal favorite and easily belongs in
s tier for me the inverted row is
basically an upside down row where you
pull your own body instead of pulling
some weight they offer a pretty amazing
stretch at the bottom and I can't lie
they feel pretty great too if you set it
up right you should feel nice and locked
in and you should be able to feel a
strong mind muscle connection with your
back however they're getting knocked
down for progression while you can have
a training partner load some weight in
your lap this also makes the movement
feel really awkward for me at least and
then without the weight you're stuck
with doing Super High Reps which is fine
but it is suboptimal once you go above
30 or 40 reps so despite some positive
aspects I'm going to put inverted rows
in C tier one arm dumbbell rows the
zombie corpse of athleen x's X exercise
graveyard obviously this exercise gets a
bad rap online but other than athleen x
I've actually never heard another
physiotherapist or exercise scientist
Express concerns about it I've been
doing them myself and with clients for
more than a decade without a single
issue so let's see they offer a big
stretch on your lats at the bottom and
they feel nice smooth and stable the
main issue is once your back gets
decently strong you may max out the
dumbbell rack at your gym which usually
stops at 100 lb so they're getting
knocked down slightly for progression
but I'm still going to put them in a
tier The Croc row is basically just a
dumbbell row with looser form so you use
some leg drive and some momentum on the
positive now I'm normally not a fan of
loose technique however where you're
braced against the bench the momentum
here is actually more controlled and
consistent than it normally is also the
momentum leans into the natural strength
curve of the back quite well it gives
you some assistance and getting through
the harder top half of the range while
still offering a nice stretch at the
bottom I may get some Flack for this
from the technique junkies but I'm
putting Croc rows in a tier okay
freestanding tear rows probably the most
epic looking exercise especially if you
look like Ronnie Coleman but the problem
is I just don't love them they do give a
nice stretch on your lats and the
tension that your back gets will be high
I just find them to be annoying balance
can be an issue once you get decently
strong and the other end of the bar will
often pop up if you don't have a land
mine attachment you can progress on them
well by adding reps or load but they're
getting knocked down in the feels good
department for me I'm thinking C tier
but I'll go ahead and put them in B tier
for Ronnie now chess supported rows give
you all the positives of the
freestanding tar row but with a much
more stable and secure feel feel having
your chest supported allows you to focus
all the tension to your back these are
an absolute staple and should 100% be
included in your bodybuilding routine if
you don't have a chest supported machine
you can do dumbbell Helm's rows where
you brace your chest against the back of
an incline bench you can do these as
tear rows or whatever machine helps you
engage your back the best either way
chest supported rows are going in s tier
for sure cable rows are another personal
favorite they may actually be the single
best exercise that I know of for feeling
a deep stretch on my lats especially
when when I lean forward on the negative
they also give me a crazy laat pump and
you can always increase the Reps or
weight from week to week these are going
in s tier as well switching to a wide
grip will shift some emphasis to the mid
traps especially if you squeeze your
shoulder blades together but that's not
a bad thing if that's what you're trying
to Target and wide grip cable rows have
all the same benefits of close grip
cable rows so they also belong in s tier
speaking of your midback the Rope face
pull is a very popular option it does
stretch your midback well as long as you
pull your shoulder blades apart on the
negative and you should be able to feel
a strong mind muscle connection
connection with your entire midback the
issue is they're a bit unstable when
done the conventional way because the
cable is always trying to pull your body
forward and so a lot of that tension is
simply lost trying to keep your balance
for this reason the standard rope face
pull is going in B tier however if you
modify the exercise to do it either
lying on the floor or by doing them
seated you eliminate that balancing
requirement and you'll be able to
overload them with much more tension
being applied directly to your back so
I'm going to go ahead and put both of
these variations in a tier they're close
to being an S tier
but just looking at the other exercises
in s tier so far I don't think face
pulls are quite as amazing definitely
still an exercise worth including though
for sure the cable lat pullover or the
lat prayer offers a huge stretch on your
lats as long as you bend forward on the
negative and you should be able to feel
a strong mind muscle connection with
your lats these are better done for
higher reps so they aren't as easily
overloaded as some of the compound
exercises we've covered but you can
always add a rep here and there and the
incredible mind muscle connection and
the Deep stretch make up for it in my
opinion that said it's fairly common for
people people to feel their triceps
taking over on this exercise but once
you get the hang of the movement and
learn how to engage your lats by simply
driving your elbows down I do think
they're a great way to get some extra
lat isolation volume without causing any
total body fatigue and so I'm going to
put cable lat prayers in a tier now the
dumbbell LP pullover is the same basic
movement except with the dumbbell you
have much more tension on your lats at
the bottom and very little tension at
the top now this isn't such a bad thing
though because the stretch is most
likely the most anabolic part of the
range of motion anyway so as long as you
cut out the very top end of the range of
motion I'd also put these in a tier so
out of the S tier list if I had to Crown
just one exercise as the best of the
best I think I'd go with a chest
supported row it's just so good for
smashing both the lats and the midback
and there are so many effective ways to
do it and if I had to pick one exercise
as the worst of the worst it' probably
be the Renegade row as a hypertrophy
exercise there's just not enough
stability to maximize tension and if
you're looking to put all this
information to use with a science-based
program that you can just go to the gym
and execute I'd strongly recommend
picking up my 10-week pure bodybuilding
program the program got extremely high
praise from other experts in the field
and it's easily my most highly rated
program ever so I'll put a link to that
over here next to my head and don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one