Jeff Cavalier AKA athletx has launched a
full-on attack on Lenn partials in
defense of face PS now as Dr Link and
partials himself right here I'm going to
react to this is Jeff Cavalier wrong
about Lincoln partials okay I got a quiz
for you here today it involves this
first clip Jesse go ahead and show
them okay I want you to compare this
exercise and what you're being done here
we know it's a lap pull down but what
specifically is being done here if you
watch any kind of YouTube Fitness likely
it's jumping out to you you know exactly
what I'm talking about but if not watch
the exercise and evaluate now if that
wasn't helpful enough I will give you a
hint go ahead and show this one now okay
do you recognize what's happening now
when he's doing it okay again it's not
necessarily the lap pull down but it's
actually maybe how it's being performed
okay great now the next part of this
test is I want you to compare that and
the muscle building benefits
specifically of what you just saw to
this next exercise Jesse go ahead and
cue that up you got it now watch this
exercise again compare it musil the
benefits to what you just saw now if you
don't recognize what this is then it
means that you're not only not watching
enough YouTube Fitness but you're
certainly not watching enough athle X it
kind of breaks my heart actually it's
going to be okay Jeff don't worry about
it I'm just saying it it does so this is
a face pull I'll give that part hard
away and it's not just my favorite
exercise it's not going to win just
because I like it again we're going to
pair these things objectively head
to-head actually you can see Jesse's use
the exercise too to build up quite a
nice upper back which one do you think
builds more muscle all right now the
reason for this question and why we're
pitting them head to-head it's actually
something I never thought I'd have to do
except we get comments and questions and
we got one from who for what it's worth
the face pull and the l pull down are
not interchangeable they are not even
the same movement pattern bit of we
comparison I know athleen X has a uh
certain fetish for face PES which is
fine we all have a quirks but face PES
won't magically prevent injury I'm s to
tell you if perform the right way they
can be a decent rear Del exercise and
even upper back but they fall more so in
the rowing category of things and then
doing the pull down so it's a bit of an
OD comparison to draw but without
further Ado I see what he's doing here
with length and partials like uh I saw
him in the first 30 seconds he was
showing length and partials I've got my
eye on you pal let's uh let's see what
happens okay what did he say he said
Jeff I've been seeing so many videos
about long length partials and how much
more effective they are even when
compared to full range of motion reps
which brings me to your beloved face
poles I know they are safe and
everything but they don't meet the
criteria for an effective long length
partial exercise therefore should I find
a new exercise that I can apply long
length partials to okay so there's a lot
to uh go through here okay first of all
long length partials was the answer to
the first thing that you saw there so
hey first of all thank you for watching
my videos presumably on L length part
partials dear commenter I think the face
pull isn't the best suited to lengthen
partials because you're not getting a
full stretch on the rear ad anyways if
you just put your arm in front of you
like this like it would be during a face
pull at the very bottom of the rep
you're unlikely to feel much of a your
do stretch instead if you do something
like a rear Delta cable crossover which
yes I coined myself I think all of a
sudden you're getting a much deeper
stretch in your rear delts and that
exercise for example does lend pretty
well to lengthen partials but with all
that being said despite the face pull
not providing a great stretch on the
rear ads you can still do lengthen
partials on any exercise the face pull
just doesn't involve that very deep
stretched position and so it's probably
not the best exercise for hypertrophy
but let's see what Jeff Cavalier has to
see a long length partial being the
partial repetition not full range of
motion that's being done with usually
heavy weights good load at that top
extended portion of the range of motion
or the most stretched portion of the
muscle during that exercise but I'll
answer the question there does the face
pull first and foremost meet the
criteria for a good long length partial
exercise it doesn't really so he's not
incorrect in that when you have the
beginning portion of a face pull some
might say well you can be in a long
length and that can't you not really
because it requires heavy loads you need
high tension with stretch to make the
long length partial effective cuz I
could do let's say a stretch exercise
like a seated dumbbell curl with a pair
of three lb pink dumbbells in my hands
all day long and I'm not going to get
the same effect you need the weight plus
the stretch to create the tension that
makes those productive that is correct
actually well done Jee I I don't think
that you would get the benefits just by
being in the stretch position right and
in fact when people say that stretch
mediated hypertrophy is what is
happening with L and partials that is
likely untrue with stretching
interventions in humans you generally
need to spend at least an hour per week
stretching to see appreciable amounts of
muscle growth in contrast when you're
doing L partials you're spending an
extra five 10 20 30 seconds maybe a
minute per workout in a stretch position
and so if we're only really starting to
see how
when you're doing at least an hour of
stretching a week at the most lengthened
position possible during stretching I
don't think we can safely say that that
is what's happening with length and
partials so absolutely it is not just
muscle length it is tension and there
are a few studies now showing for
example comparing the preacher C to the
incline curl suggesting that the amount
of tension in a relatively stretched
position is more important than just
getting a deep stretch and so something
like a pre-ural might be a little bit
better all El being equal than an inl C
but let's keep going right in order to
build muscle we know that Ecentric
overload is one of the three main
drivers of hypertrophy so the first
thing that grabs my attention is
everyone wants to talk about long length
partials right now but we've been
talking about them forever really and
that is they are a subset of Ecentric
training a known stimulus for growth so
when research studies come out again
that claim or even let's say prove in
the study lon l partials create more
muscle gains than for range of em motion
Ecentric overload has nothing to do with
long L partials in a long length partial
you're doing both an Ecentric a
concentric phase and sometimes even
pausing you're doing the exact three
phases that you would also do during a
full range of motion rep and also
Ecentric overload is not one of the
three primary drivers of hypertrophy I
could go on a whole tangent here about
mechanisms versus stimuli hypertrophy
get on a whole thing about taxonomy
we'll be releasing a whole article on
that topic with as by sign soon but no
Ecentric overload is not regarded as one
of the three primary drivers of
hypertrophy in fact when you look at the
data on Ecentric accentuated loading
training were essentially lifts where
you put more weight on the Ecentric
compared to the lifting phase as a means
to make the Ecentric harder and more
stimulating we generally don't see more
muscle growth from doing that and so not
only is this not the consensus with the
evidence even when you look at training
specifically designed to accentuate the
Ecentric it doesn't seem to cause more
hypertrophy and finally to reiterate
lengthened partials are not the same
thing as Ecentric overload training not
even close but let's continue long
length partials can produce more muscle
gains than the contracted portion of an
exercise okay long leg partials can in
increase muscle mass when compared to
not using them 5 to
10% all right and some even create
protocols and recommend protocols that
involve only the use of long length
partials and they throw out the rest of
the repetition that's me right there
only long L partials for the past year
and a half of training or so still made
some gains uh he slided my paper here as
well I think with a 5 to 10% more growth
it's great to hear credit to athle X AKA
Jeff cavali here he seems to be
relatively cluded with research on this
one so if I looked at that lat pull down
again a full range of motion repetition
would bring that bar all the way down to
my chest and all the way back up now the
Ecentric portion of that repetition is
the entire raising of the bar back to
the top when I have heavy loads there
under tension in a elongating muscle
most up here when it's fully stretched
but in elongating muscle I have that
increased Ecentric load the partials
going to hang out at the top portion
where you're most elongated most stretch
which will drive the most tension
theoretically to the muscle so it should
come as no surprise that these are
effective and that they actually work
for building muscle I'm not arguing that
I use them in my own training saying
that it drives the most tension to the
muscle is a very weird thing to touch on
because it really depends on how you
view tension for instance if all you
conceptualize tension as is how much
tension is being delivered to the muscle
in one instant then theoretically you
would train only with one rep Maxes
because that's the most amount of weight
you can use and when you're producing
the most tension instead tension should
probably be viewed as an area under the
CU how much tension the muscles are
being exposed to at different points
throughout a set and importantly with
range of motion for example external and
internal moment arms also play into
tension for example if you do lengthen
partials on a lateral raise versus a 4 a
of motion yes you'll be able to lift
more weight but the external moment arm
between the shoulder or the axis of
rotation and the weight is much smaller
and so the actual amount of tension
being produced by the shoulders in that
exercise might end up being pretty
similar and so to make a long story
short tension is a complicated factor
and I don't think it's being assessed
properly yeah but I think that we have
to stop falling in love with research
when it comes out and considering it to
be the end all Beall because there's
more to let's say a face pull that we're
comparing it to that does not do a good
job of having tension in that position
by the way the load use in a face pull
is always going to be very low mhm 30 lb
60 lb whatever it is on your stack there
and when you have your arms out in front
of you here the tension through the
muscles they ultimately going to work is
at its lowest it Peaks when the arms are
perpendicular to that cave
it's going to be lowest when they're
parall so it does not meet the criteria
for being a great long length partial
exercise but should we do it that's the
question I agree exercises should not be
assessed purely on the length and
position however it is one of the more
evidence-based things we have we have
around 25 studies all in all comparing
more shortened exercises to more
lengthened exercises more shortened
contractions to more lengthened
contractions and so forth and
consistently more lengthened positions
seem to be better for hypertrophy and so
it should absolutely be one of the main
things to look at an exercise with but
there are other con considerations the
reason other considerations can
sometimes be less important as well is
because many exercises tend to do
reasonably well building muscle is not
that complicated you can do so with sets
of five repetitions 30 repetitions or
even 40 repetitions so if for example
you're new to pull-ups right and you can
only get 5 to eight reps guess what
because you can do at least five reps
with that exercise it isn't meaningfully
worse on account of loadability than
something you can do for 10 to 12 reps
because there is such a wide effective
rep range you don't need to worry too
much about loadability ility typically
that is unless you're not strong enough
to do five reps with an exercise or two
strong and you need to do more than 50
reps or so and so most of the factors
that regard hypertrophy exercise
selection are pretty flexible
hypertrophy is pretty flexible as an
adaptation where something like strength
is much more specific and so that's why
I think considering the stretch as an
important factor when it comes to excise
selection is absolutely Justified but
let's keep watching well I think the
bigger question we have to ask right
away though is is there something else
that's happening here maybe it's less
magical than you think because a lot of
the use of long length partials
especially in the case of samul is that
they're occurring at the end of sets
after the person has already reached
concentric muscle failure and failure is
a big concept here in other words are
you training with a higher intensity
because you're now employing long life
partials so you go through all of your
full range of motion repetitions and
you're only using partials not because
you decided I'm going to use partials
from the beginning of my set but you're
doing them out of necessity because you
cannot move the weight any further
because of the fatigue through any
additional range of motion there's a big
difference there and that requires that
you've already failed concentrically and
you're forced to have to use these
partials in the extended range when we
talk about the gains of 5 to 10% a few
thoughts here one I don't entirely
disagree it we now have one study and
that's unpublished because I'm involved
the minute I happen to have knowledge of
it we have a study where we compared
just doing a 4 in of motion set on the C
phase to then extending the set with the
other leg doing lengthen partials after
failure and in that one study on this
topic of doing lengthen partials after
you had failure we saw 50% more
hypertrophy when doing those partials
after failure however here he's
referring to 5 to 10% more growth from
poral versus of range of motion and
importantly what he's not mentioning is
that that figure and pretty much all of
the studies say this one study have been
done on length and partials as a
standard Lo modality in other words
they're comparing doing just partials as
the whole set to just full range of
motion as the whole set and they find
more hypertrophy generally with just
partials so it's important to keep in
mind that that is where we have the most
evidence on just doing partials not on
doing partials after failure like samsak
is doing and in general I don't really
care what samsak is doing no shade just
me I think we need to make sure that
we're also looking at that with the
right frame of mind is 5 to 10% gains in
muscle size or really in any lab setting
is it a significant amount of increase
yes it is
again in a laboratory setting that is
but when we look at the application of
that in the real world you may not be as
excited about it as it might seem let's
say we're going to measure strength okay
a 10% increase in strength over the
course of a study take a 250 lb bench
press that goes up to 275 by the time
you're done 10% increase that's big it's
pretty big right especially if that was
your max that's pretty big but now when
we measure muscle size or hypertrophy
we've got a couple ways we can do that
but let's do it by the circumference of
the muscle you trained you're training
your biceps in the study you're gaining
what how much in 12 weeks let's say it's
2 in real quick circumference
measurements of your arm for example are
not an often-used tool in hyper research
we generally have better tools so it
might be a bit of a not a straw man but
discrediting how hypy research typically
runs two Ines on your arms from 15 in to
17 in or from 15 in with additional 10%
to 17.2 in that's it 2.2 versus 2 and if
you gained an inch on your arms it's 1
in versus 1.1 in if you're if you're
giving up the alternative options and
you're seeking out like our questioner
is only exercises that can allow you to
perform long length partials are you
missing a much bigger picture here and
that's where I want to go back to the
face pull because this face pull is
traditionally a corrective exercise but
I don't want you to look it at as just a
corrective exercise in other words
diminish its value versus a sexier heavy
lat pull down it can't possibly be a
muscle builder yes it can because this
face pull while a damn good muscle
builder in its own right believe it or
not again you go back and look at some
of your your growth and development
there right it has this other effect too
it amplifies your performance on the big
lips I'm not really going to touch on
the face pole as a means to correct
posture or prevent injuries and all that
all my expertise but I will say that
attributing all of uh what's his name
Jesse I think it's Jesse attributing all
of his back growth to just face PES is a
bit disingenuous I'm pretty sure across
his seemingly 5 to 10 years of training
Jesse has done way more than just face
PS on top of that Jesse might just have
great genetics for back growth or he
might have done a little machine row or
a lot of pull Downs or a lot of
pullovers or any other number of
exercises he might also have great sleep
low stress in other words there are so
many other factors that play into his
back growth that saying that his back
has grown predominantly or primarily or
even a lot as a result of face PS that's
a very difficult inference of causality
to make and that's why we have studies
to control for many of these factors as
well as we can possibly do to see
whether our hypotheses are actually
likely to be true without controlling
for all this noise you really can't make
this assumption cuz I'm guessing Jesse
has done dozens and dozens of different
back exercises over his career why would
it be the face po why not something else
so yeah just to point more broadly I
know a lot of people make this mistake
in my opinion it is a mistake filling in
those weak links in the kinetic chain on
the bigger compound exercises you wind
up getting a higher sum total output on
the big compound exercise because you've
addressed the weak link so these are not
just corrective exercises they're stage
Setters for much bigger performances on
your big lifts and again all you got to
do is look at Jesse here how much did
you weigh when you did your 560 lb
deadlift uh 163 at best I that's a
massive deadlift for someone at his size
how does he do it is it something
magical no he is a disciple here of
athle next and he's been doing face PS
for a hell of a long time it's true and
he's got definitely very welldeveloped
upper back muscles and he's got that
from doing his face P but I think beyond
that it led to a much bigger deadlift
which led to more muscle size so ask
yourself this question so I'm going to
give Jesse here the uh benefit of Doubt
and that was a true deadlift and not
just fake plates cuz I know athx has
been accused of fake plates before but
imagine claiming that face poles led to
your deadlift progress there are much
bigger muscle groups involved in the
deadlift that are responsible for
essentially all of how strong you get in
the deadlift how good your Technique is
and how strong your hip extensors are
namely your glutes hamstrings adductors
is going to be by far a much bigger
contributor to deadlift performance and
hell because he's citing Jesse as an
anecdote I'm going to site anecdotes too
many many many highle powerlifters don't
do face Poes and yet they deadlift way
more than Jesse does does that mean face
PES make you weaker at the deadlift no I
don't think so but I'm just illustrating
how using anecdotes to make an argument
can really be pretty weak and silly
sometimes but the irony of athleen X
here claiming that face POS make your
deadlift stronger is not lost on me
given the 405 fake plate deadlift
controversy when you look at those
studies that compare let's say even the
same person doing a leg extension one
leg with partials and the other leg with
AB out yes you're comparing the partials
versus someone who's not using partials
but are you comparing the partials to
someone who maybe just focused on
Progressive overload and heavy squatting
because the strength Focus could have
produced greater than 5 to 10% gains in
muscle size it's true right there's more
than one way to skin a cat and I think
when we start to fall in love with the
research and we get excited about it
which we should but we start to say hey
everything else goes out the window
including your face pulls Jeff because I
need something that does long l partials
you're diminishing the other benefits
that you get hey he's s the pedosa study
so well done I agree we need more
research looking at more ecologically
valid contexts right the way people will
actually train in practice with that
being said many of these studies serve
more as a proof of principle and with us
having quite a few of these studies now
looking at the lengthen versus shortened
position generally finding better growth
from the lengthened position we seem to
have evidence of a generalizable
principle will we ever have evidence on
every single movement in every single
context no that we do have evidence that
is contributing to the understanding of
a generalizable scientific principle
that we can use to determine how best to
train for hypertrophy this face pull
allows you to do much more than that
there's some Downstream benefits that
come from this that in the end of the
day maybe at the end of a year you're
far surpassing whatever 5 to 10%
increase you were getting from long Lan
partials again I'm not saying long L
partials don't work I'm not saying that
I'm saying you have to make sure you
compare it and broaden up your your
picture here the other thing I would say
is are there other benefits to using
full range of motion and it's very clear
there are actually made a whole video
where some have shown Jeff talk about
four range of motion and its benefits
one more
time I dare you all jokes aside there is
definitely use cases for four range of
motion I'm not disputing that but when
it comes to maximizing hypertrophy there
is nowadays relatively compelling
evidence that lengthen partials might be
better for hypertrophy that's my stunts
they have the same increase flexibility
Levels by just performing all of their
weight exercises in the gym through a
full- range Motion in other words
negating the need to stretch now I don't
fully Advocate that because I think some
people develop tightness is that need
specific stretching but just as an
overall concept there have been studies
that show that so you can't just say hey
long L parcels and focus so far in on
just hypertrophy when the bigger picture
meaning your overall athleticism I mean
for me it's impossible to really
separate all these things but your
overall athleticism your strength and
maybe you aren't really so focused on
your strength but I can tell you right
now you better damn well should be
because as you get older it's one of the
biggest predictors of your function
throughout the rest of your life and
your mortality risk the stronger you are
the better you're going to be and the
healthier you're going to maintain two
things you mentioned one is your overall
strength and athleticism performance
outcomes like strength and athleticism
overall are range of motion specific so
if your sport involves a full range
emotion you should probably be trading
mostly through a full range emotion if
your sport doesn't and most sports don't
you should be trading mostly through a
partial range of motion eny second when
it comes to longevity from lifting
weights it is true that both muscle mass
and strength levels are predictors of
healthful Aging however that doesn't
mean you should be able to deadlift 500
lb 600 lb 700 lb to be in your best
health in fact the best health
associations between strength and
healthful aging are generally seen with
relatively low strength levels like if
you de live 315 there's a good chance
you're already maximizing your long-term
Health you don't need to be an elite
strength athlete to get those health
benefits how about explosiveness is that
a of any value to you so why are we only
looking at one element why is it always
about just hypertrophy I mean I love a
good pump I love a good muscle gain but
it's really about more than that listen
Jee you know exactly why it's all about
hypertrophy cuz no one cares how
flexible you are no one cares about your
lift how big is your bicep you feel me
that's all I care about trying to
evaluate exercises solely based on this
one aspect is going to definitely leave
major holes in your training and
something you're likely not going to be
happy with and when you realize that in
the case of your 5 to 10% increase your
2in increase in the size of your arms
versus the potential 2.2 in increase in
the size of your arms it's just a wakeup
call to how myopic it might be to be
looking at your training through that
one single lens so to answer our
friend's question here what exercise
should you do instead you shouldn't you
should still do the face pull you should
still do partial repetitions you should
still do eccentric overload you should
still focus on strength you should still
maximize your flexibility you need to do
it all and I'm sorry if you're looking
for a shortcut around that answer but
all of these things are important and
all play a major part I agree most
people have a variety of goals with that
being said I think je is falling into
this classic Pitfall of just
recommending that you do everything
include everything oh short life
commercials yes for range of motion yes
length and partials yes esmc overload y
isometric holds y do it all just do it
all when in reality certain strategies
are just better than others you don't
need to include everything especially
espe if your main or only aim is
hypertrophy why would you include things
that are worse if you can just do more
of what's better so just evaluate your
goals and include what makes sense based
on your goals it's called a needs
analysis and that's how a lot of
strength and conditioning coaches
actually operate is to look at what you
need as a person and what your goals are
and then base your training
recommendations off of that not just say
hey include everything bro cuz that
basically bows that to training ADHD in
terms of the studies guys it's the
responsibility of those that share the
information with you not just to have it
go in one side of the brain and out the
other and just regurgitate but to
actually apply some science to it and
that is something I think is sorely
lacking let's just say in YouTube
Fitness as a whole make sure that you
understand what you can do with this
information so you can make it better
and take it a step further nice I'm glad
that athle next ended it on that note
cuz uh hey we be out here citing
research even conducting research we be
sciencing and I also appreciate that he
cided some papers throughout the study
that was really a welcome addition cuz I
know back in the day his videos used to
be worse than what I just song so I
think athl X is kind of 50/50 about
length and partials I think he gets some
stuff right but he doesn't get
everything right overall as far as the
advice given in this video and the
interpretation of scientific findings I
would give it like a 5 out of 10 it's
good that he cited research and he
understood some of it pretty well but
there is room for improvement and hey no
personal beef with aan X whatsoever it
is all meant in Good Humor that is the
video if there's anyone else you'd like
to see me react to from an exercise
scientist perspective leave a comment
down below and I'll get to it like the
video comment subscribe I know like half
of you aren't already so please do
subscribe hit the Bell as well are you
looking for a training app that will do
everything a good coach does for you but
at a fraction of the price of a good
coach and do you want to have a training
program that is truly individualized and
Cutting Edge as far as the science goes
building you an individualized and
optimal program for hypertophy if the
answer to any of that is yes or no I
don't take no for an answer here check
out my.com myap is an app we've been
working on for several years now with a
team of sports scientists behind it
aiming to use the latest scientific
research in combination with our own
coaching experience to create an app
that is like a highlevel scientific
coach in your pocket just like a good
coach It'll ask you questions about your
lifestyle how much time you have to
train how often you want to train what
sort of routine you want to run if
there's any muscles you want to bring up
and it will create a program
individualized to you and better yet it
improves week upon week based on your
feedback go to my.com sign up to be
notified when it comes out and if you do
sign up when it comes out in the next
few months you'll be able to lock in at
a price that is as low as it's ever
going to get if you'd like me to coach
you in the meantime check out the link
above and I could become your coach and
now that I've sold out let me end the
video and tell you all to have a
phenomenal day peace out