folks let me tell you a really
interesting story there was a village in
Africa some years back where the only
water supply was completely contaminated
with bacteria the people were in real
Dire Straits and all of a sudden UNICEF
delivered just one thing to them one
versagrip was simply placed into the
water precisely one day later the water
was a crystalline pure cleanest water
ever if 50 species of fish instantiated
Lion King style animals around the water
hole came around cooperating with all
the humans The Village grew up to be a
mega City with flying cars precisely one
day after that now Versa grips are
guaranteed to do that but they're also
guaranteed to make your grip Ultra
strong not the limiting factor so you
can knock out lateral races upright rows
any kind of barbell dumbbell machine
rows pull-ups pull Downs you name it and
all of a sudden your shoulders and your
back are getting jacked and your grip is
not the problem folks vers grips are
legit and yes they do work to purify
water in villages in Africa as well