folks hello I am Dr Mike Israel for
Renaissance periodization this is Dr
Derek Wilcox of also Renaissance
periodization and Derek is a uh former
equipped powerlifting Champion record
holder the whole deal and we actually
have two things to talk to you guys
about today one is water cutting for
Sports of All Kinds well weight class
Sports where you have to make a water
cut and we're going to be specifically
focused on probably what longer duration
water Cuts like when you're 24 hours out
12 hour or 12 hours out sort of thing or
do you want to chat any of them any
two-hour side as well
similar Dynamics excellent and in the
back of your minds
I want you to also think of the Steven
Seagal movies Under Siege one which was
on a boat and Under Siege 2 which was on
a train Under Siege 3 on a plane and my
personal favorite hypothetical movie
Under Siege four the dirigible slash
Zeppelin slash blimp version
is highly weighted but uh
not around
one day if we're lucky Dear Mr Seagal
Esquire please get on to making those
movies in the interim real quick before
we talk about
the at least seven common mistakes of
water cutting
Derek what was your most uh extreme
water cut that still resulted in a high
degree of performance and thus a good
showing on the powerlifting platform for
you
I would say around 25 pounds you started
at what and weighed in it what uh I
started at 2 23 and got down to 198.
weighed in successfully
reconstituted well reconstituted up to
what back up to around 223 225 day of
the meet oh yeah and performed performed
well at least up to standards you know
not a crazy day but it wasn't a bad day
yeah and that's most time when you
introduce a big water cut that's about
the most you can hope for because you
know there's so much stress and a little
bit of fatigue that comes from that that
you're really just trying to bring your
performance it's been in training at
that higher body weight and present it
in a lower weight class
by bringing your body weight back up so
um it's hard to have a really big huge
jump in performance when you're putting
your body through that much stress so
what you're saying is any extreme water
cut comes at the trade-off of hitting
these magic meat PRS and that more than
likely what you're doing is making a
calculated trade-off of saying I could
have the meat of my life at 220.
or I can have a much better meet at 198
than anyone else at 198 but not exactly
hit these Superstar 242 numbers at 198.
right ideally you're just trying to
maximize that specific weight class and
a lot of the times I only recommend
people have these big water cuts
one if it's some kind of super high
priority like a professional meat for
money you're trying to actually win
something significant or you're trying
to break a big record uh a lot of times
you know it's like local State records
are always going to be there there's
plenty of those to have National World
all-time records those kinds of things
are what really make those big weight
Cuts worth it yes
in my mindset
every meat
is a life or death weight cut because
I'm a fucking champion and I always
bring 100 what would you say to that as
a powerlifting coach more power to you
you know that's uh you're you're gonna
you're laughing at me why are you
laughing
um that's just coming straight from my
heart you know
oh I'm a joke your fella no it's that's
a really good recipe for very short
longevity
career longevity or longevity longevity
yes yes excellent here lies Dr Mike he
died peaking for a powerlifting meet yes
he wasn't even that strong I would like
that on my tombstone
Tombstone actually a thing or is that
just a brand of pizza that you heat up
in the oven by yourself when you're
lonely and at home you can yeah double
entender there you can have an Epitaph
on one of them yes yes I guess you could
put that on a pizza
why not yeah in pepperoni shapes
excellent now that we got all the
important stuff out of the way to the
particulars so you sent me a little list
which is actually in an RP article that
people can Google and
um it is some common mistakes in water
cutting and I want you your hot takes on
all these sure
first is loading water too much slash
too little
what the fuck is water loading how's
that different from when I get uh as the
French say illithurst and I simply drink
drink sure uh the biggest part of water
manipulation is tricking your body into
holding less water than it normally does
simply to bring the number on the scale
down
um what we do with water loading is
we're going to intake you know way more
usually at least double the amount of
normal recommended water so that we can
start manipulating hormones inside the
body like ADH and aldosterone Etc et
cetera Angiotensin II all these like
blood pressure and kidney regulating
hormones that change how much fluid are
held in your bloodstream as well as your
cells and when we have consistently high
amounts or a hyper hydration hydrated
State your body is going to naturally
start changing those hormones and
pushing all the fluid out that it can
kind of like relaxing its need for water
right it's opening the floodgates in
your kidneys and you start peeing like
crazy
so these hormones don't take all that
long to get manipulated we're talking
about the course of you know hours not
days not weeks so I started water
loading six years before my first
Overkill you probably went through a few
toilets for that gloriously bloated yeah
just the velocity of the urine hitting
the porcelain over and over against that
much frequency the guy who fixed the
toilet he's like is there a horse that
lives here also
well yeah it's it's one of the things
that I see the most because you know
it's a short time period to really get
those hormones going to a significant
degree but I've talked to so many people
that start water loading two weeks I've
even heard up to a month before a
competition which you know a month in
the course of you know looking at a
window of hours it's not overly
practical it's just going to add a ton
of stress to your meat prep and probably
you know shoot yourself in the foot with
your training performance getting ready
for it also if you pee on your foot you
could shoot yourself in the deck because
the urine speed there's so much inner
bladder uh pressure to just go shoot out
a crazy velocity the doctor's like well
you're going to lose your toe also
believe it or not your insides are
fucked because that much pressure on the
insides is also bad for you yeah exactly
rock all right so
in your world view
water loading should look like what and
start approximately when if I'm let's
say I have a
24-hour weigh-in 24-hour weigh-in uh you
process would usually start five maybe
six days out we'll start drinking you
know somewhere around double the
recommended amount the recommended
amount is about
was it one ounce per kilogram okay of
weight that seems reasonable yeah
sometimes we'll take that up to like
three three ounces okay per kilogram of
weight okay
um for me that always ended up being
somewhere between two two and a half
gallons that's exactly what my mental
math looks like
so that's not crazy no it's like four
gallons or some shit right well we're
manipulating all these things and you
can definitely drink a lot more it
doesn't take a crazy crazy amount I've
seen people drinking like four gallons a
day and I'm like I hope that was fun
because there was no added benefit to it
in the least
um there was a lady who drank eight
gallons for a radio contest to win some
kind of prize okay with like a
PlayStation or something I think yeah
yeah she drank like eight gallons and
died yeah so hyponatremia is a real
thing yeah yeah your body just doesn't
know how to function anymore there's no
signaling neurologically going on
anymore
but that that's part of the process
we'll get to that later
um but yeah usually about five or six
days with two to three days of that
really really high water intake uh we
company with salt as well because you
have to pay attention to those
electrolytes and all the other hormones
that are based around fluid retention
that are based on that specifically like
aldosterone for the most part
and then we start changing those things
and we go to a distilled water
so that there's very little in the water
to begin with that can attach to
anything else high water High
electrolytes first yes continue high
water remove electrolytes exactly it
helps push all those remaining
electrolytes out very quick let me guess
next you start to remove water yeah fuck
it's the craziest thing because you have
such a quick velocity of pushing all
that body fluid out because of all the
hormone changes and if nothing else the
pressure of more water coming in
as long as you don't taper it down
slowly you cut it off all at once then
you get a really great effect of your
body pushing out the water before it
knows that it doesn't have any more
coming in yes so you're a fan of when
the water is pulled it's pulled either
very low or to nothing at all yes
basically when the water is cut off you
don't drink again until after weigh-ins
and how long do you want it that period
of no water coming in depends on how
much there is to cut again we're talking
about 24 hour winds but you know
two-hour way in all those different time
factors really play a big part and
that's going to be something we can
access in future articles and books Etc
by certainly okay but generally speaking
a good range for most applications is
what like 24 hours to 12 hours or we're
talking about 48 hours with no water for
just just for an example like that 25
pound cut that was very successful very
extreme yeah uh mine my time without
water was about 36 hours okay oh wow
that's not that long yeah so that's the
longest that I ever took it but that's
also to give more time between that
point of getting that flushing effect by
the body to drop all that water wave to
having enough time to sweat the rest of
it out yes no and there's so many
different methods for that okay so so
myth number one loading water too much
too early so I start loading water any
more than a few days before it's stupid
if I start loading water the day before
you're just gonna get really bloated and
then it's backwards to what right yeah
okay
um
all right we actually knocked out two
because the second one is water loading
too early
number three tapering water intake down
what do you see people oh the myth is
tapering water down right you need to
high water high water trick the body
into thinking there's too much water I
all of my hormonal changes basically
make me a water dropping machine and
then you stop the water
such that
the body is still pissing out like crazy
but there's nothing coming in so you get
this magic period of several hours of
extreme diuresis and that allows you to
push that momentum all the way to
becoming very light and low in water
right
so this method is something I've seen
with people that would start water
loading like two weeks out and I think
it comes from kind of the like maybe
magazine articles of bodybuilding a long
time ago and there are certain parts of
the protocol for bodybuilding peaking
with water manipulation that you know
like medications and such that are
tossed in that also manipulate the fluid
yes yeah and they kind of leave that
part out or they didn't know about it
yes so that water tapering was often
accompanied by different diuretics and
things like that and and let's not cut
those people too much slack either so
I've known plenty of bodybuilders who
cut their salt six weeks out
yeah which is not good it's just like
nonsense your coach tells you and you
carry around a job good you think you're
cool because you carry on The Jug take
enough drugs and diet long enough so
that you're lean and everyone thinks
you're correct just because you look
like that right and then you just never
examine those ideas again yeah though
the goal for bodybuilding is to look
good on stage at that exact moment like
does the rest of the time really matter
that much I guess unless you're on
Instagram actually it just matters not
at all right so it's the same thing for
weighing in you don't want to be that
weight aside from that instant that you
step on the scale and then you want to
be on your way back up okay so okay that
makes a lot of sense number three is
tapering water and take down we got that
so don't do that cut hard right and then
number four is it now okay real quick I
know some people are gonna ask this you
fucking people
I'm still eating food
is it okay if the food has a little bit
of water in it like I'm not having a
cereal with milk but like I want to eat
some white rice and white rice is made
with water is that okay or am I going to
rice cakes only
rice cakes definitely have benefits
there uh a lot of times I'll work with
people especially with the shorter
weigh-in periods uh we'll go ahead and
get as dehydrated as possible to get
below the weight class and then start
adding in carbohydrates as dry as
possible just like those rice cakes that
you're talking about to where you're
basically exchanging water weight and
carbohydrate weight where muscle
glycogen weight you drop the water
weight and the muscle the glycogen will
also drop from low carb diet through the
week but once you get your body weight
to a certain lower point below your
weight class you can start adding in
carbohydrates in exchange for less water
weight but you have more potential
energy stored in the muscles and when
you add the water back in it soaks it up
it sticks oh that's brilliant but that
that period of higher carbs lower water
for a few hours is brutal because your
thirst response is going to go into it
right no because your body's pulling so
much more fluid that's that whatever's
left basically into the muscles yes but
especially doing that the night before
weigh-ins helps Sleep Quality events oh
because you get some carbs you're
fucking out that's fucking brilliant
um ignoring electrolyte balance is
number four
I ignore electrolyte balance because
that word electrolyte is too big for me
to be able to spell I don't understand
it it offends me
and thus I ignore it and I just pretend
it's too sciencey and lame I would use
another word we used to use in the 90s
also meant lame but it's now uh
cancelable offense in any case
what am I going to do with electrolyte
bounds here during a water cutting
process that's going to really help me
out
paying attention to your salt intake is
the most influential part of that like I
mentioned before with the water loading
we're trying to increase that state of
hyper hydration yes and basically doing
everything we can to get the body to
hold as much water as possible we're
trying to bloat on purpose yeah exactly
and that always freaks people out
because the scale is going to go up a
little bit there's a typical freak out
of you know the next day you're two
pounds heavier than you were before
you're supposed to be going down like
what's going on right so I have to tell
everyone basically expect this you're
going to look like a swollen tick on a
dog's back the next day but the day
after that typically back down to where
you start it or a little bit lower and
you're that all the fluid retention in
your skin and everyone else is starting
to come out because those are peeing
like crazy exactly the hormones are
doing what they're supposed to
and you look like a normal tick yes like
a tick that if you look back into a tick
yearbook you'd be like that's a good
looking tick yeah back in the day before
it got so big yeah
and then
during the carb reintroduction process
towards the end you don't reintroduce
electrolytes just yet
depends on how much playroom we have
with the body weight okay uh if you can
add in a little bit of salt just to
mainly prevent cramping right because
salt by itself doesn't blow you up right
it attracts water that it holds like 40
times its own weight and fluid so that's
that's why it's so influential and I
think carbohydrates are around four
times yeah yeah okay so that actually
perfectly brings us into number five
mistake poor reconstitution or
recomposition
um what is it that people get most wrong
about recomping where do they go wrong
with that they don't think about what
they need to eat or drink to hold on to
the water let me tell you my plan for
recomping after 24 hours
men especially strong people of any
gender or sex are made with steak
fatty steak I go and it's got salt yeah
so I checked one uh salt and I have some
some sweet tea uh a nice steak tons of
eggs
I'm good correct
yeah
the big thing with that is it's a very
very common issue after weighing in
especially for 24 hour winds because
you're thinking you're just going to
Gorge yourself whatever cupcakes steak
there's no strategy it's just okay I
gotta put on weight how do you put on
weight you eat a bunch of crap and I
watch an episode of my 600 pound Life TV
show and I go whatever the fuck those
people are eating that clearly puts on
weight and then I just order pizza
they're permanently reconstituting there
pizza the doctor's like I'm the bad side
of things you're dying yeah the good
side you're very full of all sorts of
Life maybe too much yeah a lot of
potential I guess so before I eat a
pizza that is wrapped around a Taco Bell
order that's right Pizzeria
and because the pizza is the wrapping it
also culturally becomes a burrito or
taco and then it sort of makes a lot of
sense but clearly I'm going wrong there
what should most folks be eating in
order to get back as much of their water
weight as possible so the bigger thing
is you want to keep digestion moving
quickly a lot of people get shut down
like crazy when they eat tons of fats
and stuff yeah so fat is going to slow
down digestion green vegetables with
high fiber that's going to slow down
digestion so you really just focus on a
moderate amount of protein primarily
just carbohydrates yeah and you drink
naturally because you're trying to get
all that food in anyway and you want to
stay away from you know anything fatty
in general
it's going to start changing with those
signaling mechanisms in the stomach it's
going to tell your brain I'm not hungry
anymore and we better be hungry if
you're putting on 20 pounds of weight in
one day you are ruining the power
lifting recomp of donuts and pizza and
burritos
what I want to do Derek is pretty simple
I want to compete in powerlifting
and I want to weigh in
under my weight and take some selfies
end up the scale and then I want kind of
an Instagram story timeline of all the
fun Foods I ate with my cool
powerlifting friends
I know I have a meat whatever in 24
hours which I have to optimize my
performance but that's but I can always
have not so great meat but my outfits
look cute and I can post that I had fun
with my boyfriend anyway when I went to
Las Vegas to compete absolutely and my
followers don't seem to care about my
meat results they care about how I look
when I compete and also that I'm having
fun and being cute and having fun means
I eat junk food you're ruining all this
for me but assuming I'm the weird kind
of person that wants performance and
actually wins stuff
um
I'm sticking to what kinds of foods can
you give me some sample Foods because
I'm just not that creative everything I
thought of pizza beer pizza
leftover pizza crusts yeah yeah I got
nothing what kind of foods because
clearly all the normal junk foods are
off the table right because I ate them
the typical thing you go to after
weighing in for powerlifting meat is
either IHOP or Waffle House
or Bob Evans that's Bob Evans if you're
in the midwest yeah
um but unfortunately most time they're
cooking on this giant griddle and they
just like throw four pounds of butter on
there once and then cook everything so
when you're like can I have no butter
they're like uh yeah they don't do that
they're not going to add another pound
of butter before they cook it yes uh so
that that really causes you to run into
problems uh if you can stick with you
know
a light potato like a hash brown that's
really light in oil or something like
that baked potato uh sure yeah okay the
fiber starts to run into a little bit of
issue there okay but not not major
um cereal can work okay if it's a low
fiber cereal okay so go to the store and
get kids cereal is a better option than
go to The Griddle house and get griddle
house stuff right because most of the
time you're not going to have four
pounds of butter in your cereal mostly
yes most of the time uh things like that
but it's basically the reverse of what
you were doing before because you
started with high salt and then you drop
your carbs now you're going to
reintroduce all the salt that you want
just like you're salt loading again
because you've depleted your body you
need to reintroduce it but since those
hormones have flipped the aldosterone
has changed its uh direction to where
it's going to cause you to retain more
salt yes your body is going to be really
prepared to hold on to it yes which is
good which is exactly what you want
because water retention is going to come
much faster if you've had a low carb
diet through the week your insulin
sensitivity is going to be up through
the roof and when you add those
carbohydrates in after you've weighed in
your body is going to just soak it all
up shoot it straight into the muscle and
you'll be ready to perform great kids
cereals I surmise Sushi if it's all you
can eat sushi if it's mostly not the
bullshit American stuff but like actual
just like sushi rolls nigiri
uh which is great because with the um
soy sauce it's salt and Sushi and water
it's all the great stuff yeah don't
don't go getting the low sodium soy
sauce on those days get the big stuff
the real man shit uh kid cereal is good
something like a Subway sandwich with
like turkey
and just the bread and not a whole lot
of cheeses and stuff is okay sure a lot
of the especially on meat day as well
um it's finding those foods that are low
in fiber low in fat and your stomach can
easily digest you don't want to go
eating stuff that you're not accustomed
to at all okay during those times
because your stomach is going to be more
easy to upset at that point and you've
got to keep going you also want to keep
moving through the day as you're
reconstituting to keep your circulation
going and it helps digestion moving
quicker as well
moving how just walking around having a
good time and just looking at stuff
and stuff sure uh trying to stay out of
heat is a big one I've made that mistake
before don't go to Disney World before
you're powerlifting yeah exactly I had
to meet in Nashville one time and I was
trying to reconstitute and was walking
around Broadway Street and going in the
bars and I'm like I have a bag full of
chips and I'm eating and a gallon of
water that I'm carrying around but it
was hot and it was working out right
okay so lesson learned there okay
um
is there a gram of carbohydrates amount
roughly you want like the average sort
of 200 pound bottle if you're to consume
in a 24 hour wind are we looking at 500
grams that day we're looking at a
thousand are we looking at 1500 are we
looking at 2 000 there's not really a
limit it's their limit is going to come
from your stomach okay so almost nobody
gets too bloated we're gonna recomp it's
mostly just not bloated enough yeah
you're you're gonna hopefully reach
those maximum muscle glycogen stores but
it's really hard to do in one day yes
yes unless you're using exogenous
resources there that can help a lot but
uh if you're especially if it's a drug
tested meat or something like that your
stomach's going to hit that limit before
you go to turmoid carbon another great
food let me know if this is wrong frozen
yogurt because it's super low in fat
sometimes fat free tons of carbs yep and
you can eat it what I like to do
personally is alternate salty and sweet
Foods because after you eat a salty food
even though more salty food is meh like
let's say you have a bunch of like
low-fat Asian noodles with a bit of
chicken I can eat like 250 grams of
carbs of those and not even fucking bad
an eye but then someone's like more
salty stuff and you're like that they're
like frozen yogurt you're like yes
because you're dessert female dessert
stomach opens up we all have one no
matter the sex or gender
uh and then you eat a bunch of frozen
yogurt and then you eat the sweet stuff
you're good to go but then your next
meal you're super crazy for the salty
stuff again so you got for sushi Etc et
cetera
decent all those are fine choices yeah
definitely if that especially if you
already know that your stomach can
handle it yes so no new shit right okay
my big thing was always uh eating like
restaurant style uh Tostito style nachos
with a little bit of salsa I would add
salt to the salsa and these those things
were already just completely covered in
salt and just that's the chips that I
was eating walking around and they I
would end up looking like a chipmunk
with nuts in my mouth
all data like two family-sized bags of
those oh my God but it put the weight on
really quickly sure good God all right
number six mistake is diuretics how's
that a mistake that's what makes me get
the water off Dr Wilcox for the the
people that I've seen that have used
those a lot
one there's so much trial and error to
begin with sure trying to figure out
when you should take what and you know
which kind of diuretic to take how your
body specifically reacts to those yes
there's so many variables there that
would take so many different trials to
figure out yes and tons of the
professionals that I was around that
really got that system refined they had
it down and it worked really well but
there were probably you know three four
five six meets that they really
undershot their uh their performance by
having to experiment instead of going
with the tried and true method so it's
it's a big role the dice and that's also
where you can start getting to a lot
bigger health risks oh yeah
so uh those kidneys do not care for
those diuretics especially when you're
already trying to dehydrate yourself in
under that much stress yeah that's a
that's a bad deal
um luckily there are no
huge amount of dead power lifters but
you don't want to be the first in that
category yeah very true very true you'll
always be in first place but also unable
to collect your trophy
that's a detriment yes okay number seven
last one is depleting diets before the
water cut
what does that mean so I've had
several people come to me in this kind
of situation where they are way above
their weight class and they they realize
this like a month out okay I need to
drop 10 kilos to get to my weight class
I I can feel how this is happening
they're in the gym they hit a good PR
someone's like hey bud it's in the south
of course hey bud you got a meet coming
up I sure do like when does that mean
like four weeks out brother like oh I'll
tell you what that's off now what weight
class you competing at and they're like
uh uh oh shit 198.
yeah oh shit I weighed 235.
yeah just didn't think about that until
now uh to be fair I've seen that happen
all over the country but for sure but uh
how do they sound in other parts hey
fuck you hey what's up Philadelphia guy
whatever like hey you got a me coming up
you fat fuck yeah I'm at 181 but I'm fat
oh shit that's bad whoa
but what happens is like the week of
protocol that we're talking about
carbohydrates are a lot lower uh we're
manipulating all kinds of things to
create a lot of water retention and when
you're training normally you need to be
eating to sustain your performance yes
does mean eating carbohydrates you don't
want to change those things leading up
to a competition yes
so what these people end up doing is
they'll go on a crash diet like two
three four weeks out to try and get down
to the weight class no carbs no fats
chicken and veggies yeah basically some
green veggies and proteins and but you
can only drink so much water with that
until you become a diuretic machine
simply because there's no carbs and
mostly no salt holding it in so you end
up starting that diuretic hormone
enhancement way too early right it's the
same effect with a keto diet you're
going to get that immediate drop after
about a week if that drop now is drop
you can't do later right that's exactly
the problem so they're depleting they're
getting closer but they're getting
closer like two three weeks out and
you're they don't know it but you can't
just add a depletion strategy on top of
another definition yes because it's not
rude before my last meat I lost 15
pounds you're like I gotcha but this
time you're gonna lose 15 pounds again
and you already lost seven yeah so it's
not 15 from now it's 15 from when you
started three weeks ago plus maybe three
or four pounds of tissue that you lost
yeah and when you do this process
correctly through water manipulation
you're going to lose that weight about
36 hours beforehand yeah that it starts
coming down significantly at that point
and you're going to gain it in about 12
12 hours after you weigh in yes that's
how quick that needs to be us not weeks
not weeks because you're just putting
your body through a ton of unneeded
stress
so ideally watch your weight know what
weight class you're at and get within
whatever percentage you know is
reasonable
before your peaking phase starts right
arguably before your strength phase
starts such that if you are a 220 pound
power lifter and you normally can cut
from 235 no problem you'd be around 235
by the time you start getting in a sets
of three and six three to six reps like
strength phase so you just train at that
body weight so because this happens all
the time guys so 220. they'd be like I'm
a 250 right now and you're like okay
well how many we see after you meet and
they're like well like eight weeks but I
can make the cut you're like okay so
you're gonna make the cut during peaking
which is the most important time for you
to be hitting PRS right and the very
reason they get up to 250 is some
combination of sloth but also they're in
mega PRS because they're so goddamn big
but like no no you're too big too big
and that's going to take a diet and the
best time for a diet is drawing a
hypertrophy phase which is way before
your powerless can meet wait even before
the strength phase exactly I try to tell
my clients and the people who sign up
just for the water manipulation coaching
for the week of their competition uh you
want to be set with your body weight
leading up to it ideally eight weeks out
at the very very least four weeks yes
because usually before that you're in
your higher volume stages and you're
training if you're going to be making
body composition and body weight changes
that's the best time to do it because
you're going to help uh keep from losing
as much muscle mass during a calorie
deficit etc etc when training gets to be
much lower volume higher intensity you
know we're a little bit more susceptible
to that and you also need the energy of
a eucaloric diet when you're hitting
fucking big ass PRS the month before the
meat because peaking is not just
something that this like bodybuilding
training is something that just happens
you just do it and it's fine
um peaking training have to hit the big
numbers right otherwise like what does
your meat plan even look like like yeah
I'm gonna Squad 800 at this meet like
100 700 for three feel like well I
missed all three reps because but I was
depleted like so you haven't had any
more than 700 on your back for a month
because you're tired from your diet well
yeah you still get a squad at her like
yeah it'll all come together like yeah
we're gonna all come apart literally as
you tear your fucking quads off the bone
because you're going to accumulate so
much literal damage to Bone and tissue
while you're in a calorie deficit at
that point with those higher intensity
weights it's just a recipe for disaster
but weights that still aren't big enough
to get you ready for the weights you're
going to be needing do exactly yeah
because your your brain and your nervous
system really runs off carbohydrates to
a large degree and you also need sodium
from Salt to keep those ions flowing and
for all the we have a lot of Keto
followers Derek so if you can rephrase
your your brain likes the carbs two it
doesn't matter and buy my keto bar
low carb formula now if you don't mind
it don't matter
and that's really all you need to know
Derek I'm an aspiring young power lifter
I want to be smart and I'm sitting
it was very sad story one of my many
uncles has passed
sad but bequeathed me with an enormous
Fortune
and I want to do this product with me
right and I want to hire Dr Eric Wilcox
to do my training programming my diet
programming and especially or just my
water cut
how do I get in contact with you well
you can message me on Instagram at
Wilcox strength Inc or look me up on
Facebook same deal there Wilcox strength
and definitely go to rpstraight.com and
go to coaching look love my profile your
face is one of the faces my face is on
the page if you're not good with faces
his name is also listed under his
profile yes if you're good with neither
names nor faces
have the person who cares for you
contact Derek
thank you so much this was really
illustrative as people much smarter than
me who have those big a plus words like
to say syllables are good yep and lastly
I noticed a little uh oh accent there Mr
Dr Wilcox where Tyler why don't you tell
to find folks where you're from uh
that's more raised North Carolina
the
Eastern
Shoreline rich people money having
Washington DC commuting part no sir my
folks is from deep in the Hills
and that's the kind of shit we like to
hear Derek thank you so much for coming
on the
channel channel I was gonna say show I
was gonna say podcast it's neither one
of those things I'm on the thing with
you and you know
so much more that can be said on that
that will get us both canceled folks
don't get canceled yourself don't cancel
yourself with a water cut uh be smart do
the right things and we'll see you