[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and I want to be doing a
recipe today from my latest cookbook big
flavor zero fat that was a fifty recipe
one that I did specifically with all of
you guys in mind that are deep into your
cuts and fat is at a premium so these
are just a bunch of recipes that you can
go to when you don't have any fat on
your template which I am very familiar
with actually cuz I'm cutting right now
so the first thing you want to do is
take a lean piece of steak and in all of
my cookbooks I have a list of all of the
cuts of meat that are considered extra
lean this is a skirt steak skirt steak
and flank steak are actually not the you
know super lean cuts but they are a lean
meat if you really really want to go to
the mostly and you would do like a top
round or an eye of round it's just gonna
be a thicker piece I mean you know what
we love about skirt steak and flank
steak is that it's nice and thin so it's
great for marinating and this is a 24
hour marinade so you're going to just
this comes together in seconds and then
you're gonna just put it in this bag
flip it when you think about it for the
next day and then you're just gonna pull
it out and grill this thing so it's
gonna be really really good so the first
thing I'm gonna do is I like to do a
marinade in a bag you can do it in a
glass dish I like to take a fork and
just stab it just stab the meat and I
know there's that whole thing out there
like oh my gosh if you stab the meat
it's gonna lose the juices when it's
cooking you know it also really lets the
marinade penetrate into the fibers of
the meat if you're one of those people
that thinks this ruins it totally don't
do it and then we're just gonna whip up
this super quick marinade for it we're
gonna do some onions are you going to do
green onions and this is just the white
portion so we're gonna save the green
portion for later low-sodium tamari
some sugar-free brown sugar cinnamon
syrup just to provide some sweetness
it's optional if you don't like the
sugar free stuff totally fine to leave
it out some sesame seeds black or white
is fine some garlic red pepper flakes
for a little bit of kick and some ground
ginger roll that up stir it up it's
chunky some use a fork instead of the
whisk
we're just gonna pour it in the bag
don't close it up just yet
until you kind of like massage it around
flip it squish it play with it if that
marinade everywhere and all the nooks
and crannies just make sure all the
surfaces get covered it's gonna flip it
move it down so that it takes up kind of
the most space in the bag as you can get
rid of as much air as you can and then
seal it up and then that's it I'm just
gonna leave it on this plate in my
fridge and whenever I think about it I
open up the door to get something for my
kids or whatever I'll just flip it give
it a little squeeze that's it just gonna
give it love for the next 24 hours let
it do its thing and then it'll be a
quick grill or a quick royal however you
decide you want to cook it and that 24
hours of marinating is gonna make a huge
difference all right guys so our steak
has marinated for a full day we are
ready to grill this bad way up when I
put this steak under the broiler and I
like to set like a cookie sheet cooling
rack inside of a pan lined with foil
foil just to make cleanup easier for you
and then the rack will let the juices
drip down so you'll get like a crispy
err edge on the steak and it's up to you
what you want to do with the rest of
these veggies you know some people like
the veggies just for the flavoring that
they impart to the beef while they're
mayor
and you can scrape those off I love the
veggies and I don't mind if they get a
little bit charred when I broil this or
grill it
I'm not going to flip it so I'm okay
with these just setting on the top and I
like them on there and that's it it's
ready to go in I'm gonna broil mine you
could do this on the grill and stick it
in the broiler and you know with the
broiler you gotta watch it really close
make sure it doesn't burn and that's
what we're gonna do and it should only
take a few minutes so don't this isn't
one you put in the oven and leave the
room stick around watch it make sure
that it doesn't get out of hand like
broiled meat scan and here is our 24
hour marinated Korean skirt steak look
how amazing it looks and this is it this
is ready to carve into and have for my
protein for the next several days
[Music]