[Music]
and ask you
[Music]
[Music]
today we are shooting a workout at the
gym in Penticton British Columbia
training partner Patrick McKenna
yeah patterns Pro card in California and
one of the things you've been trying to
improve is his chest development
increasing the frequency of my
benchpress broke the week I'll have one
heavy day that'll Auto regulate a
moderate or light day depending on how
I'm feeling that day are there any
little tweaks that maybe you did with
your bench press like widening or
shortening your grip or like you vary
your grip from session to session I
actually started out with pointer finger
on the knurlings of the bar i widen to
oat my grip and I put my middle finger
on the knurling of the bar yeah I find
not only a little bit more tech
activation as I go wider I also find
them to stronger that way have you
shorten the range of motion right yes so
I went from 315 of 4 reps and that was
before I did the show then after the
last couple months I got a PR of 315 for
6 reps and that was without a spot it
may not sound like a lot you added two
reps to your red max but that's actually
pretty significant and I've noticed some
like big tech teams as a result of you
just steadily increasing your bench
we're going to get into the next
exercise which is going to be an incline
dumbbell press yeah we gonna do
something together
it doesn't evolve okay so place you
cannot say or you can go oh I don't know
oh god the [ __ ] oh [ __ ]
[Music]
I just bring this up with the incline
dumbbell press we did three sets of ten
to twelve reps and the idea here is to
get upper chest activation and also to
get a little bit of shoulder work so
rather than doing a vertical press we're
just doing a very high incline press are
there any cues that you found to be
helpful in your incline press instead of
just focusing on moving the weight up
and down I like to focus on the movement
of my elbow so I like to move it from
away from the body closer to the into
the midline of your body almost like
you're performing a plot Josh Bogle said
the same from when I was training with
him like you almost want to think of
driving your biceps across across and
towards your midline rather than just
pressing the way up but our next
exercise is going to be a cable slide
we're going to get that right
[Music]
I want to press my comedy recuerda
feelings I'm and live among feeling more
residual I'm feeling a burning building
taking [ __ ] we build a building just to
[ __ ] some I can justify my number yeah
yeah okay stop today them all we just
finished up with the Beijing cable fly
I'm gonna get packed and give a couple
quick tips about things that he found to
be helpful with this exercise instead of
using a neutral grip we're using a
pronated grab two little things that
I've done is I took a couple steps
forward make sure I still have tension
all my text while I'm in the stretched
position I used to fly the motion from a
really high to low but now I've been
doing it more across the chest going
along with the chest flowers so next
we're going to switch over to some
direct shoulder stuff lateral raises
might be the single best exercise in my
opinion that you can do for developing
shoulder width we're going to do a
dumbbell variation of that today I'm
getting set right now I get some food
bumps every time I eat I'm gonna tune
you
[Music]
so we just finished up with the dumbbell
lateral raises and one thing that I
found to be really helpful with these is
thinking about and I might have
mentioned it on the channel before but
thinking about driving out with the back
of your palm rather than just lifting
the weights top a lot of people will
have a tendency to shrug a little bit
but whereas if you think about pushing
out it's more likely to be you're
actually sized elephant doesn't work
even if you have to drop the weight back
a little bit I think it's more important
to actually feel the muscles that you're
trying to work working up next we're
going to get some rear delts I'm getting
better
I get those people's every time seven
one three you play one game hard and why
do you owe me why heal me up lioness is
no key I'm dipping low key on in my
Dorado
you
[Music]
just finished up with reverse hectic so
since I've been doing a lot of pressing
motions and working on the front of my
body I want to even that out of balance
work my chest and press equals with too
much I found out your postures to come
along or work on those rear delts to
bring that back and make sure you're a
balance ball if you're doing a lot of
pressing you can really develop your
anterior deltoids like I remember not
off the top of my head but there was a
study that looked at bond builders and
how much more their front delt tendency
hypertrophy is relative to their side
and your delts and it's like pretty
significant so if you're doing a lot of
pressing not only are you working your
texts you're also working your front
delts and as a body builders you don't
want to have that appearance of sixties
folders on the front and then just
collapse on the back so it's really
important that if you are running a
chest specific program that really work
your rear delts as well so try to
balance that out with at least a one to
one ratio you don't have to put that all
on the one day you don't have to do say
these three chest exercise but it
doesn't mean you have to do three rear
delt exercises that day but through your
back day your push day and then any
other days of the week you should really
try to balance that out and make sure
that you know you have that Hospital
support like okay guys so that's going
to conclude the workout thank you so
much for watching the video if you did
like the video don't forget to give me a
thumbs up I want to give a special shout
out to Pat for taking me through the
workout and giving us your tips
I've got his channel link below also
shout out to my man Shane his channels
links below he did all the filming um
thank you very much guys subscribe to
the channel if you haven't already thank
you so much for watching see in the next
video