[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
hey folks
dr mike here from science periodization
i'm here with my training partner
charlie and we are going to demonstrate
the one arm dumbbell row how to do it
wrong how to do it right remember the
one arm row is to target the middle and
upper back that means the mid traps the
rhomboids the tears major and of course
the lats but the lats are not
necessarily the number one target of
this exercise so we're going to keep
that in mind let's get to our first
mistake and how to correct it
all right folks the first mistake in the
one arm row is keeping the scapula
locked in and not getting a super deep
stretch at the bottom by letting it
protract that is damn near the whole
point of this exercise if you want your
scaps to be more locked in you can do
machine rows you can do barbell rows and
everything in between here we want the
scapulae to protract and retract because
that especially how they're gonna get
all the muscles around them really
really really jacked so the mistake here
is to over strike the exercise
right and you end up yeah you're sort of
doing rows this isn't terrible but what
you're really missing out on notice his
scapula are not going anywhere what he
can do better is go for a deep stretch
and come all the way up deep stretch
perfect and all the way up that really
allows all of the muscles of the back to
be engaged doing a great job to
stimulate hypertrophy
the next mistake is to not have a
standardized range of motion by not
touching something on your body at the
top to signify that you've done a good
job because charlie go ahead and start
one arm rolling if you don't touch your
shoulder what ends up happening is maybe
you did a rep and then charlie start to
kind of lose some distance at the top
right that's where this exercise gets
hard at what point do you pronounce
failure you have no idea so you're not
really sure if you're doing a good job
and you can't standardize over the weeks
and over the mesocycles to see if you're
getting stronger so if we can't have a
standard range of motion by touching
something on our body on the way up and
of course the deep stretch at the bottom
it's really hard to track program
overloads so on and so forth so we're
going to solve this problem by touching
the dumbbell somewhere on our body there
are two fundamental choices anything in
between is cool so charlie go ahead and
show us where the chest touch this is
easier to do with bigger dumbbells so if
you're more jacked like charlie your
dumbbells are probably bigger what he's
going to do is every single time touch
right at the bottom of his chest notice
he actually touches his skin to know
that it is a completed repetition and
then he goes all the way down
alternatively this targets the rhomboids
and middle traps a bit more if you want
to target the lats more you can touch
all the way back in your hip so he's
going to touch the dumbbell to his hip
and come back touch the dumbbells hip
and come back that targets the lats more
there are no right answers here just
make sure you touch the same spot for
multiple months in a row to get stronger
at that exercise and then you can switch
it up
if you rotate your torso into the
dumbbell as you pull it up and away from
the dumbbell as you go lower you
actually lower the range of motion
you're using with your muscles but you
get to complete the motion which rips
you off charlie go ahead and show us
what it looks like we're trying to get
this earlier outside of tape and it's
actually really hard to do
you've seen people do this before
they'll tilt into the dumbbell and away
at the top and it looks like they're
doing something pseudo-athletic it turns
out they're actually reducing range of
motion the best prescription here is to
keep the torso exactly in line nothing
is going to move in the spine
big stretch at the bottom and he's going
to come all the way up so that he's not
cheating himself notice how much longer
this range of motion is and how much he
has movement in his scapula which is
really the target
the centric phase lengthening
contractions on the way down are very
hypertrophic they're part of the puzzle
you don't want to rip yourself off by
dropping the dumbbell really fast and
then putting on the pressure to pull it
you want to slowly lower it anywhere
between sort of one and five seconds if
you really want it depends on how you
like to do it something like a two
second eccentric is probably best for
most cases but feel free to vary at the
end of the day control the weight so
what you don't want to do is this
especially when the weight gets heavy
it's tempting to put on the juice on the
way up and then let it drop on the
bottom yeah there's some injury risk but
really you're just ripping yourself off
because you're not letting your muscles
work under tension with the stretch
however the right way to do it is to
come up and then to milk it on the way
down and come up and notice he's not
doing like five seconds or some crazy
stuff but his back is working on both
phases of movement getting him ultimate
results
folks remember in order to do the one
arm dumbbell row correctly you need
three things a weight you can't actually
lift and for most of the tension to come
from your hips and from that opposite
arm charlie hit it show us what that
 looks like yeah baby get it that
head bob means that bio mechanistically
he's targeting serendipitous hyper what
the am i saying folks don't do that
kind of crap what you want to do is stay
very stable control the eccentric big
stretch touch at the top no swinging no
bs you cannot cheat hypertrophy it's
impossible because the tension to the
muscle is the only thing that matters
and the way you get that is with strict
technique you can write in whatever kind
of reps i did 20 reps of the 200's
 your muscles don't believe you
pick a realistic weight you can do and
do it correct like charlie's about to
show no movement in that arm no
hip swing he's going to be controlling
it the entire time good news is you
don't have to roll out the 150s bad news
no one's going to be impressed with the
rows further good news no one's ever
impressed with their arm rows it doesn't
matter people are super impressed with
huge backs that's how kings inherit
kingdoms they used to compare people's
backs and the king with the you guys
know what i'm saying king ronnie coleman
has the biggest back ever you want to
back like him don't swing around too
much stay strict stay safe do the right
thing and don't let your ego get ahead
of your muscles
[Music]
next mistake is going too heavy or too
light on one rows the cool thing about
one arm rows is there's really no such
thing as too heavy a lot of times that
super deep powerful stretch in sets of
five to ten reps as long as they're
strict is really what you need and a lot
of times because you're supported on a
bench the erector spinae muscles are not
limiting you anymore and it's even
better than barbell bent rows for doing
ultra heavy weights totally fine you can
go up all the way to 30 rep sets
anywhere from 20 to 30. that's totally
cool the thing is machines that are
bilateral with a chest support usually
do that a little bit better so i would
save the machines for that fundamentally
any rep range is good for this exercise
5 to 10 is probably really good 10 to 15
is a really awesome range i personally
like for this 15 to 20 is totally fine
20 30 is technically okay but you might
want to save that for other machines and
other exercises
[Music]
one arm rows can be an exercise you get
to use a lot of weight in because you're
in such a powerful position and you get
to pre-load with that eccentric and
everything right
you don't want your grip to limit you
this is huge how do you make sure your
grip's not limiting we have three
solutions for it one get some chalk on
your hands that's a really good start at
some point you might get so strong that
that still has your grip limiting you
you can't really pull as hard as you
want or get as many reps as you want
straps are really really awesome you can
cinch them in super tight wrap your hand
around and then you're good to go of
course the best invention of all time
it's like number two is the computer
number three is a space satellite number
one is the versa grip folks versa grips
buy them and try them
renaissance periodization nor myself of
any contractor any exclusivity with
versa grips at all i make no money from
this they're just that good get versa
grips wrap them around and it's gonna be
all back and nothing else
[Music]
lastly
big mistake
is
to essentially think there's one perfect
technique for one arm rows not making
the individual adjustments to feel the
muscles the most for example you can do
one arm rows in the traditional fashion
where you go all the way down for the
stretch and you come sort of mid-range
and sort of touch your ribs that's cool
too what's also totally fine is if you
come up all the way up here in front it
hits different muscles a bit more upper
back than lower there are no right
answers here you can also come sort of
lawnmower style and hit your hips
totally fine if you feel it better you
can actually take a more upright posture
and as long as you're fundamentally
doing the movement fine that's totally
cool you can even set this bench up if
you want on a decline careful with your
balance and you end up actually tilted
forward like this you get a baller
stretch here and you can super pull and
target the lower lats a little bit more
you can even do this
you can prop yourself up like this on
your knee or here this is probably a
good idea and do unsupported one arm
rows and sometimes that feels the best
do whatever you feel produces the most
stretch and the most tension in where
you want to feel it in your back and as
long as it's cool for your joints there
are no wrong answers
folks thank you so much for tuning in if
you have questions or suggestions for
another video that we can do shoot them
in the comments if you can answer some
questions the folks have if you know
what you're talking about a little bit
more please help everyone else thank you
uh send this video to friends you think
are what i'm rowing wrong with a polite
message and uh like subscribe and all
that other stuff see you next time for
the next technique video
[Music]