how long do you specialize for ideally
three mesocycles in a row accumulate
deload accumulate deload accumulate
deload then you're done you can alter
the rep ranges every single time A lot
of times you accumulate a lot of fatigue
as you go so maybe doing more High rep
stuff as each month of training passes
is a good idea maybe if you can survive
the lower up stuff no big deal you can
introduce some new exercises especially
if the exercises you have tend to get
stale on you so if you're you know
weighted pull-ups are doing great they
feel amazing very minimum joint
discomfort tons of great pumps and
tension you don't have to trade them out
you can keep them the entire three
months but if you've got like some kind
of cable row variant but after a month
or after the first program it's like
yeah it kind of feels weird my lower
back gets really tired I'm not sure I'm
into this try a machine or something
else variation should be imposed from a
needs perspective not necessarily we're
just like hey here's variation for no
sake at all