[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
spiritization with jared feather for
renaissance verization as well today
we are looking at
the lying leg curl of course for
hamstring development that's the target
let's take a look at the common mistakes
and the ways to fix them so you can get
the biggest hamstrings ever
[Music]
first mistake and is a super common one
it's kind of a twofer one not using full
range of motion and two having an
inconsistent range of motion which is
real easy to do if you don't do the full
because the full auto standardizes what
do we mean by auto standardized auto
standardized means if you just gently
touch the bottom and top the machine out
and if you touch your butt every single
time with the pad jared please
demonstrate voila then you automatically
know you're doing full range of motion
and nothing physically any more full is
possible the good thing too is that
because everything's full range every
single rep every single rep is
essentially the same which means you're
standardized which means you can program
well you can see if you're getting
stronger and bigger super well because
everything is always the same
the problem arises mostly when people
don't want to go all the way down
because they can't use as much weight
they don't want to come all the way up
because they can't use as much weight
they end up doing this kind of crap and
all of a sudden you know how many reps
is that who knows and also because we're
not getting the stretch under load and
we're not getting ep contraction the
hypertrophy is lessened because more
range of motion usually means more
hypertrophy if you can still produce
higher forces so we're not going to do
inconsistent reps but
sometimes you'd show us like the
inconsistency stuff sometimes guys will
do some partials that was a full rep
that was good they won't go all the way
down on one they'll go all the way down
on one who knows right you can't count
the stuff standardized full range of
motion is absolutely the way to go
no demo for this one but check this out
there is such a thing as too much range
of motion and here it is
you don't want your knees to feel like
they're being hyper extended at the
bottom that is in a painful way it's
okay to feel a stretch but some machines
let you set up a pad so low that you end
up going super low and your hips have to
come up to compensate because you can't
even go that deep it has to be a stretch
and fully extend the knee but anything
much below that that causes discomfort i
promise you is just not that great for
your knees and will limit the amount of
force you can produce and actually
engage all those motor units and grow so
full range of motion doesn't mean
extreme psychotic beyond range of motion
luckily on the top end when jared
touches his butt there's physically no
way to get any more range of motion
than you possibly can i mean that's it
a lot of people will do this thing where
they sort of almost get to the butt and
they're like well yeah kind of is that a
wrap well thing is you want to try to
count reps as best you can when you say
it's two reps in reserve or even when
you say i train to failure what does
that mean well failure is defined by not
being able to actually touch your butt
and go all the way down is 90 there or
rep if you start that kind of logic and
start counting like that there's no end
to that you'll never have any idea if
you're actually improving or not because
it's all arbitrary so the ultimate
solution to making sure every rep is
able to touch your butt is easy
lower the weight so that you can
actually do the reps you say you can you
get all the benefits none of the
downsides
next tip is a two combination special
uncontrolled eccentric phase lowering
phase
and a whole lot of swinging around on
body english to get the concentric phase
done why is this a two-for-one deal
because these usually go hand in hand
jared bro out for us
and do the thing oh yeah brother yep use
that whole body
amazing
who knows what's going on
here's the thing
the eccentric phase especially for
hamstrings based on how they're designed
is incredibly productive you want to
control lower on the way down it doesn't
have to be three seconds though it can
but at least one good second of control
a great tip we like to use at rp is if
you can gently touch the bottom in a
slight clank you're doing a good job so
come all the way up and a gentle touch
and all the way up and a gentle touch
and that's awesome that allows you to
control eccentric you can go slower
slower is cool too it's just variation
but definitely don't just drop it
because if you're missing a lot of the
hypertrophic stimulus from reps you
could have really really milked out and
of course the body english stuff now
here's what we're not saying we're not
saying you have to keep everything so
rigid that you reduce your force
production to your hamstrings grind get
as many reps as you can to meet your
target however you don't want any excess
body movement that you know is just
bullshitting you so if because of the
fact that your hamstrings are
contracting so powerfully you slide a
little on the bench that's totally cool
that if you're pulling yourself on the
bench here can you show us a pull-up
version of that like if you're
physically pulling yourself and you know
that's transferring momentum to get you
to do the movement you're just not
training hamstrings anymore be honest
with yourself let organically your
hamstrings contract hard and move you a
little bit but don't do anything extra
you know is
all right foot pad mistakes
where do you place the pad here's the
thing if you place it really close to
your knee you can leg curl more which is
sweet because then you win the leg curl
olympics and your whole country cheers
for you wait that's not a thing so
there's no advantage there actually
there's a huge disadvantage jared curl
it like that
you'll notice that it's awkward as hell
and sometimes it automatically prevents
you from getting a full range of motion
and counting it because either you can't
touch your butt anymore or based on how
the machine is designed you actually
touch your hamstrings instead of your
butt and it cuts the range of motion by
time either way it's bad news and a lot
of the time these machines are so well
designed they have as this one does a
pre-shaped cam mechanism that really
kind of optimizes the force curve for
your hamstrings anyway and if you have
to pad too low or too high it throws off
the thing completely and all the reps
feel like crap the forces are high when
they're supposed to be low and
everything is bad on the other hand so
what we're kind of saying here
is the lower on the feet the better
which is actually true however you want
to make sure that it's just behind your
actual heel so there's a good perch and
you feel secure because you want high
force production what you don't want
jared do the end of the crocs thing
sometimes we get a little too far ahead
of ourselves and all of a sudden yeah
like at the bottom there it's almost
rolling off the human body when it
detects instability automatically down
regulates force production to the
extremities if you have an unstable
squat your quad ability to contract goes
down same thing here if your hamstrings
if your proprioception isn't feeling
like it's stable it's not going to
contract your hamstrings as hard as it
could so ideally what you want is you
want that pad just below your heels and
no higher it's gonna feel great you're
not gonna be hercules here but you will
be getting bigger hamstrings
two very related questions that are very
meticulous but we have to answer
foot position paranoia and pausing
paranoia and these aren't technically
mistakes because they're really over
valuing things that matter almost not at
all
how are we supposed to have our feet
there's no shortage of folks with all
good intentions that every time i post
an actual training video of myself doing
leg curls or jared does of him they're
like okay so why do you have your toes
pointed out why do you have the
pointed in or what about your knees what
about this and that
folks it really doesn't matter almost at
all yes there's some tiny differences in
hamstring activation some sartorius
activation etc but these all essentially
just fall to nothing in the grand scheme
of your training what you really need to
focus on is the stimulus to fatigue
ratio how comfortable the position is
how much force you can generate in your
performance how many reps you can do at
a certain weight and making sure that
you're actually feeling the target
muscle that you're supposed to be so
pick whatever position of feet rotation
whatever you like if it's not hurting
your joints if you feel strong doing it
your performance is excellent and you
get up off the machine like holy
hamstrings you're doing a great job and
every now and again you can vary the
position if you want just to change
things up or you don't have to you can
do the same thing all the time and get
giant hamstrings
next very related point should you be
pausing at the top and getting a peak
contraction
again this is something we get really
often is when you get a p contraction
people are like oh why are you doing
that and when you don't get a p
contraction that is don't pause for the
top uh for a second people are like oh
shouldn't you be getting a p contraction
here's the thing it's just a little bit
of variation it's like pausing in a
press it has its advantages it has its
disadvantages disadvantage the amount of
total force area under the curve is not
as high the advantage is potentially
there's a little bit of enhancement of
mind muscle connection and if you feel
that if it really burns in your hands
more distinctly that's a good choice at
the end of the day it's just a variation
so if you like both of them and they
feel great for you do like three
mesocycles of no peak contraction and
then three meso cycles of a peak
contraction if you just like one just do
the one and you never have to do the
other there's never been a single person
on a bodybuilding stage ever to where he
turns to the side he flexes his ham and
the judges are like clearly he's been
doing the peak contraction thing wrong
not a single time so don't worry about
it
last few points
jared feather permanently quit rp and he
just walked off the set so he's never
coming back it's okay we don't need him
here's the thing let's talk about
loading ranges
are we going to train in the 5 to 10 rep
range the 10 to 20 rep range or the 20
to 30 rep range for this exercise and
like we always say it comes back to the
stimulus to fatigue ratio for you if
you're getting incredible tension
incredible pumps incredible performances
and a great progression from the 5 to 10
rep range in the lying leg curl i will
never in a million years tell you that's
a bad idea
but for most people at face value
usually that doesn't happen our hip
hinge movements stiff legged deadlifts
glute ham raises good mornings they're
almost ideally suited for the super high
forces and eccentric loads of that 5 to
10 rep range the lying leg curls and the
seated leg curls are much better in most
cases than the 10 to 20 rep range and
even in the 20 to 30. does that burn
hell yes it does but that's damn near
the whole point
i would focus on the 10 to 20 rep range
if i were you to start see how you like
it and then experiment with the lower
end of that rep range slightly heavier
see if you get a better stimulus to
fatigue ratio if not try on the higher
range and you'll almost certainly find
that that's where you like the exercise
best
last tip their related loading range is
using special intensity techniques like
mile reps where you take a few seconds
break and then keep cranking or drop
sets where it's the same thing as my
reps except every time you use a little
bit less weight with very little rest
things like this can be excellent to be
doing on leg curls because they're so
damn near impossible to do on stiff
legged deadlifts on stiff legged
deadlifts and on good mornings and on
glute ham raises a lot of times your
lower back and other muscles will get
tired or you'll just run out of oxygen
and it won't be a thing where the actual
muscle is being stimulated if you try to
do crazy intensity techniques but
machines especially plate selectorized
ones like these are ideally suited we're
not saying that you have to do these
things when you go to the machine you
can absolutely do straight sets but if
you're gonna do intensity techniques
every now and again for hams for a
mesocycle or two here or there this is
the place to do it so give that some
thought folks that's all we have for you
about hamstrings
do it right get big hamstrings and if
you see jared feather around tell him we
miss him and come back
dude real talk
i hated jared feather the entire time
was i i'm glad that motherfucker's gone
 him