[Music]
hey folks dr. marcantel for Renaissance
period ization RP diet book 2.0 chapter
summary were on chapter 5 food
composition if you want any more details
and there are tons the link is right
below to look at the book tons of
references the book is enormous give it
a thought here's the 50,000 foot view on
food composition yeah timings important
macros are important calories are
important but where do we get those
macros or you don't just go to the store
and get macros you get actual food food
composition is defined as where do those
proteins carbs and fats come from like
are you getting your carbs from you know
whole grain bread from fresh fruits and
berries or are you getting them from
like Pixy sticks that candy that it was
just pure sugar right could be a little
bit of a difference in where you get
those right why are there differences
you know sugars or sugars at the
molecular level it's all really kind of
the same and that's actually very true
but there's a huge role to play in at
least a couple of things especially for
carbohydrate sources which we'll get to
in a bit the micronutrients are a big
role we actually don't have a chapter on
micronutrients in this book they're
described in the food composition
chapter because if you eat really low
nutrition sources of macronutrients like
drinking a coca-cola and just getting
your carbs from coke please don't do
that
right at least not entirely you get you
know carbs and caffeine water and that's
about it what about all the other
micronutrients that you need well
vitamins there are minerals there are
phytochemicals special chemicals on
plants that help health by a little bit
and fiber all of those are available in
actual foods usually Whole Foods and
those have benefits to body composition
performance and especially to health so
there are differences in where you get
your food from so let's get through this
protein where sugar protein come from it
should be for mostly lean sources
because if you eat a lot of fatty
sources of protein your saturated fat
start to go through the roof and it
screws up your fats and probably your
macros as well lean sources of animal
protein have probably the highest
biological value and availability and
improve body composition performance the
best you have to have them know you
could absolutely have vegan of
vegetarian sources that are either
complete like soy or quinoa or
complementary proteins like beans and
rice they have sort of one has not
enough amino acids of one kind one has
not enough of the other but together
they actually form a protein that is
complete it gives you all the amino
acids that you need to optimally or
pretty close function and they have good
health and good performance so that's a
protein recommendations how can you
screw them up well you know if you eat
mostly not complementary protein sources
you can eat a really good deal of
protein and still under eat how much
protein you're required to and that is
gonna cost you about a composition
performance so a real big sub-header for
this chapter the point is that if you're
a vegan or vegetarian that's really good
you just kind of make sure you're real
careful about eating enough complete and
complementary proteins and a little bit
more of them because they're harder to
digest to make sure that you're getting
all your needs met
what about carb composition most of your
carbs should probably come from veggies
fruits and whole grains why because they
bring in tons of micronutrients they
bring in vitamins minerals
phytochemicals and fiber that's real
good stuff they also digest a relatively
normal speed not too quick and they give
you energy throughout the day and with
energy and the micronutrients combined
they're real good sources now there's
times where you gonna move away from
them during the workout you may have a
Gatorade or something like that which is
none of those things but you don't just
want to be pounding Gatorades all day
long you want to have mostly veggies
fruits whole grains in most cases for
fats you want to limit your saturated
fat intake to maybe a third or less of
your total fats which isn't that hard
because a lot of stuff that's that's
rated fat in it basically when you're
adding fat you probably want to add
saturated fats so if you're cooking you
have a choice to cook with
olive oil or regular butter olive oils
probably in the healthier option you
want to get enough essential
polyunsaturated fats so omega-3s are a
real good premium fatty fish and maybe
some supplements and so on and so forth
and if you eating a lot of fats
especially to boost your calories or
something like that or if you're just
like fatty foods within the context of a
calorie constrained diet then
monounsaturated fats tend to be sort of
gram for gram after you've met your
essential fat knees from Polly's really
really good for your health which we'll
talk about in a sec that that's
important for the long term and it's
been shown that they're actually pretty
decent for body composition as well and
for performance in addition to that so
where does that leave us if the majority
of your added fats after you get enough
essential fats are coming from olive oil
canola oil nuts nut butters avocados
things like that you're in a real real
good place if the majority of your added
fats are coming from butter and whole
cream processed meat sausages things
like that and it might not be the best
is it going to alter your composition
body composition a lot no performance no
but and here's where we get to the last
point you will alter your health quite a
bit so there's not a big performance
effect and body composition effect from
food composition where your food comes
from with the whole whole categories
five percent right so we think in five
percent geez that who cares well that's
five percent over the course of several
months if you want to get lean and do
really well in sport and you really
don't pay attention to composition a lot
but you nailed your calories macros and
timing if you're gonna reach very close
to your goals however your health is
what allows you to continue to train and
diet for performance of body composition
over years and if you don't support your
health eventually you don't get to diet
for body comes to shows poor performance
anymore because your doctor is gonna say
hey look you need to pay attention to
your health so we highly recommend that
though to be purely scientific and
honest it doesn't matter a ton in the
short-term what you eat as long as you
get macros calorie so on and so forth
it does matter considerably in the long
term for your health maybe 20% of your
health is decided by these things not
five
that's probably a good idea to get most
of your food from lean meats or lean
vegan protein products that are
high-quality proteins veggies fruits
whole grains mostly monounsaturated fats
with some powers to give your essentials
if you do that you're supporting your
long-term health and your body
composition and performance goal folks
next time we'll cover supplements and
hydration in Chapter six
[Music]