today I'm reacting to four common pieces
of advice I find on YouTube usually in
the comment section where the creatures
look first we have high-intensity
training for muscle building popularized
back in the day by Arthur Jones Mike
mener and many others high-intensity
training aims to maximize muscle growth
by doing a few heavy sets per week with
plenty of recovery time between each
training day it's not uncommon to train
a muscle only once or twice a week so as
to make sure full recovery can occur
between each day the good news this
approach is effective you can grow a
muscle with as few as 3 to five sets per
muscle per week taking a set to True
failure also makes a set more effective
likewise training a muscle once a week
is still enough to build muscle however
that is where the good news end in fact
here are some bad news if you wanted to
maximize your muscle growth
high-intensity training is a bad idea we
consistently see more muscle growth with
more volume in the research and yes that
is in the context of participants
training to failure in fact most studies
on high volume have participants train
to failure even in those studies we
typically observe more muscle growth
from doing more sets all the way to 20
to 30 or even more sets per week per
muscle similarly although it doesn't
play nearly as large of a role training
a muscle a bit more often likely grows
more muscle finally if recovery were
such a big issue that we needed to take
2 to 5 days off after doing a couple of
hard sets for a muscle and the hit to
recovery was such an issue wouldn't
these high volume studies observe worse
muscle growth due to worse recovery if
you're currently following
high-intensity training routine and you
want better muscle growth make the
following changes train each muscle with
at least 10 to 20 sets per week per
muscle train each muscle at least twice
a week and don't worry about
overtraining so much if you're truly at
risk of overtraining your performance
will visibly worsen walk out to walk out
and you'll know about it next the idea
that you have to get strong to get big
usually in the context of chasing a
strong squat bench medlift let me steal
man this one first most strong people
are big I ain't never seen anyone squat
500 lb for sets of multiple reps who
didn't have nice legs in fact comparing
the average 500 lb squatter to the
average 200 lb squatter the 500 lb
squatter has much bigger legs likewise
training for strength places a big focus
on Progressive overload which is an
important training principle for
continued progress however that's where
my ability to Steelman this claim ends
for one getting strong and the best way
to achieve that is demonstrably worse
for building muscle for example a study
by shelling colleagues compared seven
sets of three with 3 minutes of rest in
the strength training group to three
sets of 10 with 1 and 1/2 minutes of
rest between sets in the hypertrophy
training group the results similar
muscle growth in just 1/3 of the time
for the hypertrophy group to add to that
the participants in the strength group
felt much more banged up by the end of
the study than the participants in the
hypertrophy group other Studies have
similar findings one study by matox and
colleagues for example found muscle loss
in untrained participants from just
doing heavy singles in contrast the
hypertrophy training group and that
study gained muscle specificity is King
for strength and that's a bad thing for
muscle hypertrophy from the low number
of repetitions the focus on a few select
lifts the technique being used the lack
of exercise variation and more focusing
on strength too much is a sure far way
to reduce hypertrophy can you achieve
both and power build sure but there will
be some trade-off so no if you want to
get big don't focus on your strength
this isn't an excuse to not
progressively overload by the way keep
adding weight and or reps week to week
when training for muscle size but just
do it in the 5 to 50 rep range on
movements that focus on the stretch with
good technique if you don't care about
stretch you can remove the big three
from your routine next we have chasing
the pump the pump is a short-lived shift
in intracellular hydration that causes
muscle fibers to swell in response to
physical activity in this case hoisting
weights the pump is a normal byproduct
of lifting weights especially for higher
volumes I've made a whole video on
whether the pump is Meaningful for
muscle growth but here's the long story
short some evidence is found in
association between the amount of pump
experienced from training measured by
ultrasound not through palpation by your
Bros and muscle growth in a long term
however the association is relatively
modest and it remains quite unclear to
what extent or whether or not the pump
directly causes muscle growth with all
that in mind I have seen some wild
done by lifters who chase the pump I've
seen some lifters go by feel when
training such as forgetting about
Progressive overload and ending sets far
from failure to be charitable training
by Fuel can lock if you're traveling for
example if you're truly pushing yourself
close to failure every week you should
be automatically progressively
overloading by doing more reps or adding
weight on the other hand just chasing
the pump can lead you astray hell I get
my best pump after like two sets in a
given workout doing more than that
doesn't really give me any more of a
pump if I chase the pump I do two sets
and I leave the gym but that's in direct
contradiction with what the direct
evidence on volume says if I want to
maximize muscle growth I should probably
be doing
at least 20 or more sets for a given
muscle in a week in a similar vein the
my muscle Connection by how heavily some
YouTubers preach this you'd think the
science was Rock Solid well it's not we
only have one study looking at the Mind
muscle connection measuring muscle
growth and in my view it had mixed
findings while one muscle growth site
favored focusing on the my muscle
connection over focusing on performance
of the movement all other measurements
favored focusing on performance of the
movement
if you're currently pump chasing or
focusing on the Mind muscle connection I
have a few words for you my brother in
Christ seek help and then I would urge
you to look into what the studies
directly comparing different volumes
frequencies Etc have found are the
optimal volume frequency intensity Etc I
hear I do some cool videos on the topic
similarly for the time being I would
recommend focusing on external cues like
get the weight up or technical cues you
find help your Technique over focusing
excessive
on the Mind MUSC connection are you
confused by all the conflicting
information on YouTube and other social
media don't be my adap will cut through
all the noise and deliver you with a
truly individualized training program
that will maximize muscle growth it
works exactly like a coach does but at a
fraction of the price it takes into
consideration your preferences your
schedule how much time you have to train
each day and gives you the best excises
for you based on your training
environment and much more I'm confident
in saying there is nothing else like it
out there yet myapt is a one-of-a-kind
app so go to my adapt.com and put in
your email to be notified when it
launches by signing up early you'll be
able to lock in a discount for Lifetime
next the claim that you need to train to
failure to maximize muscle growth you
probably don't in fact I think people
forget there's an inevitable compromise
between volume and proximity to failure
an increase in either volume or
proximity to failure likely leads to
more muscle growth however increasing
either of these will also increase
fatigue and Recovery is a finite
resource therefore we have an
opportunity cost when we do more volume
we're making the trade-off of not
trading closer to failure fortunately
both higher volumes and trading closer
to failure do seem to yield more muscle
growth don't believe me just look at the
two latest published metth analyses on
these Topics by bval and colleagues and
by Robinson and colleagues both found
greater muscle growth when training with
more s and or closer to failure as a
result you probably don't need to train
to failure to maximize muscle growth
you're probably able to maximize muscle
growth by training shy of failure if
you're willing to do higher volume more
sets to make up for it conversely you
can probably virtually maximize muscle
growth by always training to failure if
you're willing to do slightly lower
volumes to free up some recovery if I
can end this section with a bit of
theory crafting I think that always
training to failure might be slightly
worse for growth there's very little
evidence on this but one recent study by
ref following colleagues suggests that
going to failure too early into a
workout can harm the effectiveness for
the remainder of the workout to wrap
this up if you like taking every set to
failure be my guest you'll need to do
less volume to free up some recovery
resources but it's possible if you don't
like training to failure you don't need
to with the recovery resources you just
freed up simply increase how many sets
you do per week to add stimulus for
muscle growth my personal favorite
approach is taking the first set to
about two to three reps from failure and
the last set all the way to failure as
the last overrated YouTube Trend we have
following wolf coaching wait a second
who the wrote the script following
wolf coaching D tier D tier oh I will
show you D tier but as today's purveyor
of the hot takes I would like to hear
what you have to say do you have
objections about how I talked about
high-intensity training or do you object
with anything else leave a comment down
below and I'll respond to some of the
most controversial and popular comments
see you next time