[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura Shah with Renaissance
period ization and today we're gonna
make a skillet keno bluff so it's a
granola but it's made with quinoa
instead of your traditional oats and I
get to play with this super cool machine
this is the revolution by wonder mix
it's made by the company Wonder Mill and
so this is a mixer so it has a mixer
bowl as a blender attachment and then
you can turn it on its side and attach
this super cool grain mill to the top so
it's really fun to play with my kids
love pouring stuff into it as long as I
make sure that I know what they're doing
but you can take oak growths that's the
most popular thing that you would flake
would be Oh croats and then you run it
through and then it looks like rolled
oats that you buy in the grocery store
but hopefully there's a lot more on the
nutritional content intact the flavours
fresher because you just rolled it so I
didn't want to do rolled oats because I
figured that was sort of expected so I
decided I would roll quinoa instead so
quinoa is you know what this tiny little
grain and it is pretty crunchy it's
pretty hard so the other thing that
helps with flaking grains is to soak
them a tiny bit of water overnight so I
took this little container there's a
half a cup of quinoa in here and a half
of a teaspoon of water and so it's not
very much you just kind of shake it
around in there it doesn't look like
there's any liquid in it at all but
that's all it takes to soften it just
enough that it rolls a lot better you
can roll it while it's in that hard
state but it rolls a lot better and sort
of fluffier if you soak it a little bit
overnight so I have done that I'm going
to open it up now
I'm gonna turn on the flaker to the
second position here
[Applause]
[Music]
and that's all you do just run it
through that grain mill and what it does
is it's sort of like cracks open
whatever you run through it and sort of
flattens it so you know I would not
think about eating quinoa as a cereal
with milk on it when it's those tiny
little hard grains I just couldn't
envision doing that but now it's like
super flaky and light I mean you could
you know put this in a trail mix you
could just eat this you know just with
milk like a cereal so it really changes
the texture of it so we are gonna use
this and make you NOLA so I'm gonna go
ahead and turn on the heat here and I'm
gonna add in date syrup and date sugar
and we're gonna bring this up to a boil
so we're just gonna stir this together
you want to keep stirring it does it
will burn turn the heat down a little
bit and then pull it off the heat and
add and baking soda stir that in I'm
just gonna like foam up totally changes
the color of it foams up gets a lot more
volume to it and then we're gonna add
that right in
[Applause]
and then just start mixing it we'll go
ahead put this on a parchment-lined
sheet you just kind of spread it out and
this is when you're gonna add your dry
roasted edamame this is the protein so
we're making some granola that has
protein it's with the beans and it's it
adds crunch and they're salted so
there's salt in there and just kind of
mix it in
spread it out really well and that's all
we have to do and it is going to just
dry on its own and then we'll break it
into chunks gonna sprinkle some cinnamon
on here and some salt
[Music]
and that's it just let it cool
[Music]