all right so you've been training hard
and staying consistent with your fat
loss diet you've dropped a decent amount
of body fat you're looking lean and
defined overall but you've still got
that last bit of stubborn lower belly
fat that won't seem to budge well i know
firsthand just how annoying that can be
so what is the best way to get rid of it
and fully lean down your midsection from
top to bottom well we're going to talk
about the actual steps you need to
employ in just a moment here however
there's a much more important question i
want you to consider first and it's one
that a high percentage of people
overlook the question is is that
actually a worthwhile goal in the first
place achieving an impressively lean and
muscular body is one thing okay anyone
can do that with the right plan in place
and that's primarily what the advice on
this channel is about building muscle
and losing fat but have you really
considered the true pros and cons of
dropping your body fat down to a level
where your midsection is fully leaned
down with extremely little to no
noticeable fat remaining at all and are
you actually willing to make the
necessary sacrifices in order to get
there because the honest truth that most
fitness influencers who make a living
off of their physique probably won't
tell you because they want to sell you
their abstracting programs and special
diets and fat loss supplements is that
there's a fairly good chance that
achieving a perfectly flat six-pack
isn't something you should be getting
overly concerned with in the first place
now stick with me here okay this is not
meant as some kind of feel-good body
positivity speech i'm not trying to say
that we should all give up on our
physique goals and go prance around in a
field somewhere holding hands and
singing kumbaya with our massive rolls
of sweaty belly fat gloriously flapping
in the wind okay not at all what we're
discussing here is simply a logical
rational cost-benefit analysis in terms
of what level of leanness is truly
optimal for your overall health your
fitness your physique and also just your
life in general as opposed to only
focusing in on this one small aspect
without considering the downsides
because this is the plain reality unless
you are genetically fortunate to have a
body fat distribution where your
midsection tends to stay pretty lean and
you store more of your fat in other
areas like your lower body then having
some noticeable lower ab fat is pretty
damn normal like when you're sitting
down or hunched over and you get that
extra bit of stomach fat that kind of
bunches up the vast majority of people
have that to some extent unless they are
very very lean you might not realize it
though because unless someone's content
actually is centered around body
positivity they're never gonna post a
relaxed photo or video of themselves
where that can be clearly seen they're
gonna be standing and twisting and
flexing in the best position possible to
make their abs look as impressive as
they can and that also might not even be
representative of their actual
year-round condition either it could
just be a snapshot of a certain phase
where they were especially lean now
don't get me wrong here you can
definitely have a lean mid-section you
know if your idea of the last bit of
stomach fat is something more along
these lines then yes you can definitely
progress beyond that to where your abs
are clearly visible but to fully drop
even that last little bit of lower
abdominal fat that's probably gonna
require you to be in
not even the top one percent of the
population in terms of leanness but more
like the top 0.1 percent it's by no
means an easy thing to do and it's very
very rare now if you still want to
achieve that then keep on watching and
we'll go into it in more detail later on
but remember that at the end of the day
your body is a survival machine and it's
programmed to carry a certain amount of
body fat for proper functioning and what
most people don't understand and this is
a key point here you have to recognize
that the difficulty of getting leaner
doesn't operate in a straight linear
fashion okay just like with gaining
muscle it's an exponential process where
the leaner and leaner you get it becomes
disproportionately more challenging for
each percentage of body fat that you try
to drop further because your body's just
fighting back harder and harder to try
to hold on to that remaining fat
survival is its primary goal and those
hardwired evolutionary systems have no
idea why you're trying to get so lean in
the first place and all the juicy
instagram likes that are about to come
pouring in or that there's actually a
chipotle 50 feet down the street and
that you're not in any real danger of
starving so for example going from say
30 body fat down to 20
that should generally be pretty smooth
sailing in most cases as long as your
diet and training is properly set up
whereas going from twenty percent down
to fifteen percent that's gonna be more
challenging for a smaller net amount of
body fat lost going from fifteen percent
down to twelve percent will be even
harder for a smaller pound-for-pound
result and once you're around about 12
and i mean a true 12 which is actually
pretty lean okay not 12 where you're
actually 17 you know so many people
online just default to saying they're 12
when they're actually nowhere near it
but once you hit a legitimate 12 percent
that's where getting even leaner is
going to be pretty difficult for most
people okay going from 12 body fat down
to 10
will probably be more demanding than
everything you've done up to that point
and even at 10 which is probably the
minimum level the vast majority of guys
can realistically sustain long term it
still doesn't guarantee you a fully
leaned down midsection like you might be
envisioning based on what you've seen
online you know i've been around 10 body
fat before and even at that level
because i store a high percentage of fat
on my stomach i still had some
noticeable lower belly fat even though
the rest of my body was very lean and
very vascular you know i'm standing up
and flexing in good lighting here so you
can't tell but even in this condition
when i was relaxed and sitting down i
still had those last couple rows of fat
and my stomach still was not perfectly
flat like you might think by the way if
you're finding this advice helpful so
far don't forget to like the video and
also subscribe to the channel to stay up
to date on future uploads and the next
question here is what are the specific
challenges of trying to cut that low
well we've talked about the typical
low body fat side effects many times
before but just to quickly summarize
you're going to be dealing with things
like significantly increased hunger and
food focus throughout the day since your
calories are just going to be dropping
lower and lower as you get leaner you'll
have less energy less strength in the
gym cognitively you won't be at your
best in terms of mood and overall mental
sharpness your sex drive will go down or
potentially even be non-existent your
sleep quality won't be as good you'll
probably feel increasingly neurotic
about your appearance and all of these
side effects will only increase in
intensity the leaner you get and not
only that but another factor people
don't even consider is that even from a
pure aesthetics perspective being very
lean isn't all upside either you know
the benefits are that you'll have more
definition obviously more vascularity
visible abs you'll look a lot bigger and
more impressive when you're shirtless or
in photos and videos and that's all well
and good but on the flip side keep in
mind that you're also going to lose a
good chunk of that muscle fullness both
from reduced glycogen stores and also
from having less intramuscular fat so
once you get very lean you're going to
be flirting with straight up do you even
lift status when you're in normal
clothes which is how i'm assuming you
spend the vast majority of your time
your face is going to get all sucked
down as well which some people like
personally i'm not a big fan of it i
remember when i got really lean in the
past the term my girlfriend at the time
used to describe my face was gaunt which
i don't exactly consider a compliment so
just remember that in order to gain
something you also have to give
something up you know you can't just
look at some given result without
considering the potential cost involved
when i see some guys who are extremely
lean they honestly just look emaciated
and unhealthy to me i honestly don't
even think it looks great overall in a
lot of cases now you'll notice so far
that we've basically just been talking
about losing body fat in general and not
how to lose lower ab fat specifically
and that's because the only way to lose
abdominal fat is just to get leaner in
general there's no way to specifically
spot reduce stomach fat all these 15
minute ab shredding workouts you see
online are mostly just a waste of time
since they don't target the fat around
your mid section in the first place and
they're less effective for stimulating
abdominal hypertrophy as well compared
to just doing regular straight sets in
the same way that you train any other
muscle group there are no top secret
diet hacks or supplements or creams or
devices that are going to do the trick
in case stripping off that last layer of
belly fat just comes down to pushing
forward with your training and diet and
continuing to reduce your overall body
fat percentage in general and for the
majority of guys unfortunately that
lower mid section area just happens to
be the last place where your body is
going to pull significant fat from now
there are certain strategies that you
can use to make your calorie deficit
easier as you drop down to those leaner
levels like really focusing in on low
calorie dense foods to fill yourself up
as much as possible so more vegetables
fruits lean proteins things like that
you can experiment with different meal
frequencies to find what works best for
you in terms of regulating hunger
whether it's smaller feedings more
frequently or larger feedings less
frequently maybe even employing some
kind of fasting protocol you can
incorporate higher volumes of low
intensity movements such as walking to
increase your calorie expenditure
without excessively stimulating your
appetite refeed days where you increase
your calories up maybe once a week to
give yourself a boost that can be
helpful or even incorporating full out
diet breaks for a one to two week period
here and there so there are little tips
and strategies you can employ but at the
end of the day it still all boils down
to just dropping overall body fat okay
the same general principles apply but
they just get much harder to implement
not only during the fat loss process but
also just to maintain your new body fat
percentage moving forward and if you're
in a situation where you've hit a
plateau and you're wondering why your
midsection isn't getting any leaner it's
simply because you're no longer in a
calorie deficit remember that as you get
leaner and you lose overall body weight
and your metabolism down regulates to a
certain extent as an adaptive response
the daily calories that represented a
deficit for you at one point might not
be a deficit any longer and you just
have to really tighten things up to keep
that deficit going so you can reduce
your daily intake slightly by maybe 1 to
200 calories depending on your situation
or you can increase your calorie
expenditure or you can do some
combination of both and you're gonna
need to be much more diligent because
once you're very lean all it takes is a
few tracking errors here and there to
unknowingly erase your calorie deficit
but when it all comes down to it okay
you really just have to look at your
fitness program and your life as a whole
and determine for yourself what amount
of effort and sacrifice is really worth
a particular result for you and that's
going to be different from person to
person but based on my own experience
and everything i've seen in 20 years of
training and 15 years of coaching i
would say that unless you're competing
or you're making a living off of your
physique the trade-offs that are
involved with cutting down to the point
where even your lower ab area is fully
leaned down it's probably not worth it
for most guys aside from maybe temporary
phases where you just really want to
challenge yourself for some reason but
not as an ongoing condition and that's
because the disproportionate amount of
effort and sacrifice it requires is not
worth the small extra result that you
gain the juice just isn't worth the
squeeze you know giving up that extra
dietary freedom and even general
lifestyle freedom having to monitor and
restrict things so closely every day
plus all the potential systemic side
effects that go along with it just to be
a couple percent body fat leaner which
isn't even all upside for your physique
in the first place for most people the
overall input output equation just
doesn't pan out now the key word there
is most people okay for those who truly
want that super lean physique and
understand what goes into it or you're
in the fitness industry and your
physique is part of how you advertise
yourself then knock yourself out or at
least give it a shot and see what
happens but for the majority of people
having some remaining lower ab fat is
completely normal it's probably not
going to disappear completely and it's
really not a big deal and no one else
even really notices it or gives a crap
either if you do need some help getting
your fitness program onto the right
track so that you can achieve that lean
and muscular physique you're after at a
reasonable body fat level that you can
maintain long term make sure to visit
shawnell.com custom just fill out the
short form there and i'll send you back
a free training and nutrition plan to
maximize your results the link for that
is up here as well as down below here's
two more videos i'd recommend watching
now don't forget to subscribe to the
channel and hit the bell icon to stay in
the loop on future videos thanks for
watching and i will talk to you again
soon