having the wrong exercise order is a
mistake I often see in people's programs
and they can limit how many games you
make here's how to fix it
welcome back soon to be Dr Milo Warfare
with wolf coaching and today we're
talking about exercise order and how to
optimize it for your gains I recently
changed my mind about exercise order
previously here's what I thought was the
Ironclad principles of exercise order
whatever you train first in a session
gets the best training effect and that's
where you make the most gains my thought
process was since you're doing that
exercise with the least fatigue your
freshest you're going into a session you
don't have any fatigue that will then
get the best training effect because you
perform your best and thus you get the
best stimulus so for hypertrophy I
thought you would want to start sessions
with exercises targeting the muscle
groups that you most cared about or you
are prioritizing the most if you really
wanted to grow bigger biceps you would
start with curls for example equally if
you wanted overall physique Development
A good rule of thumb was to start with
compounds within the session that way
the most important exercises the
compound exercises that grow most of the
muscle around your body will be placed
first get the best training effect with
high performance and thus you would grow
the most muscle overall for overall
physique development for strength I felt
the same thing applied so whatever you
trained first within the session saw the
greatest strength gains versus for
example an exercise they did as a fourth
exercise within that session however it
turns out I was wrong this is where a
methanalysis by Nunes and colleagues
from 2020 comes in they analyzed 11
studies and they looked at the effect of
the exercise order on both muscle
hypertrophy and muscle strength
shockingly for muscle growth they didn't
find a difference in other words no
matter the excess order that you used
you saw basically the same growth this
is kind of good news it means that you
don't need to worry about exercise order
too much and you can focus your
attention on things like training close
enough to failure and other stuff with
that being said even though there was no
effect found within this analysis
there's a few things I would still
recommend paying attention to number one
I would try not to put all of the
exercises that are quite systemically
fatiguing in other words make you quite
out of breath or have a lot of
stabilizer muscle groups one after the
other for example if you're doing three
exercises the squat the split Squat and
the leg curl generally I would try to
order them as squat than micro and then
split squat rather than squat then split
Squat and then leg crawl because if you
go into split squats having just
squatted oftentimes what will happen is
you're so systemically fatigued you're
out of breath certain muscle groups like
your lower back can still be quite
pumped and fatigued that your
performance often takes a hit or if your
performance doesn't take a hit you often
have to take longer rest times which
overall can reduce the time efficiency
of your session why is reduced
performance a big deal for hypertrophy
well if you recall from my rest time
video a volume load across the session
how much weight you lift or how many
reps for how many sets does seem to play
at least a bit of a role for hypertrophy
and so in other words if you're going
from squats to split squats Without
Really resting much protein exercises
the same kind of finding applies but not
resting for enough time between two
similar exercises you may be reducing
performance which can in turn reduce
hypertrophy so putting an exercise that
is less systematically fatiguing between
two highly systemically fatiguing
exercise sizes like the squat and the
split squat can often help either
improve the time efficiency of your
sessions or potentially just result in
better stimulus for muscle growth
overall in all likelihood although this
is a bit speculative the second thing I
want to point out is the Dilemma of
either consolidating or spreading out
exercises for the same rough muscle
group consolidating exercises with an
obsession for the same muscle groups
means placing exercises that train
similar muscle groups sequentially or
back to back so for example if in a
given session you're doing both a bench
press and a dumbbells lie doing them
sequentially would be consolidating them
so starting with a bench and then going
to Dumber flies on the other hand
spreading them out would mean for
example doing the bench press and then
doing for example a row and then you
follow it up with a dumbbell fly so
spreading out the chest work a little
bit across the session consolidating and
spreading out the exercises for the same
muscle groups across the session have
different benefits When You're
consolidating you may find that you need
fewer warm-ups for that second exercise
because the target muscle group and the
target joints are already quite warm and
you can get away with doing just one or
two warm-up sets and this can lead to
Greater time efficiency on the other
hand by spreading out exercises so not
doing all your chest work within a
session back to back you would
potentially be able to perform better on
each exercise accumulating a greater
volume load across the session and as I
mentioned earlier this may or may not be
better for hypertrophy the third thing
to pay attention to as far as exercise
order is concerned for hypertrophy is
potential Mobility enhancements what I
mean by this is that certain exercises
can essentially double as a dynamic
warm-up increasing your Mobility before
going into another exercise that
benefits from increased flexibility and
Mobility for example let's say you're
about to do some squats by doing calf
raises right before your squats you are
essentially using calf raises as a
dynamic warm-up for your Squat and so
while you might want to do squats before
calf raises on principle because you
care more about your quads and your
calves you may also find that doing your
cat phrases before allows you to be a
bit more flexible in your ankles go a
bit deeper in your squat get a better
stretch in your odds and because getting
a good stretch under tension during
lifting is really important for growth
as I explained this video here that
might actually lead to more happy tree
for the quads the final thing I would
pay attention to is something I call
fatigue contamination let's say you're
doing a full body split on Tuesdays you
do ladder erases and squats in the same
session what you might find is that if
you do lateral raises after your squats
your lateral raises kind of suck you're
able to lift way less weight than usual
and you get less of a pump in your side
belts than usual however if you did
lateral raises before your squats
oftentimes you'll find that your squats
don't suffer at all and you get a great
side belt stimulus and so in this case
in order to maximize stimulus across the
session you might actually want to place
isolation exercises before bigger more
psychologically and systemically
fatiguing exercises within a session
this predominantly applies to full body
splits but you get the idea importantly
I wouldn't do this when the target
muscle group for the isolation exercise
is also involved in a later compound
exercise so for example I wouldn't do
light extensions right before squats
because that will negatively impact
opponents on squats and unless you're
trying to pre-exhaust or trying to
superset on principle it's not a super
good idea the one caveat to this idea of
preventing fatigue contamination is
potential psychological considerations
I've actually tried this extensively and
I've tried this with many of my clients
and sometimes doing too much work before
a psychologically demanding exercise
quote-unquote like the squat can just
make it hard to get started with a squat
or hard to really get into squats fully
and put your full effort into it and so
if you've been trying to do for example
ladder raises before your squats to
avoid that fatigue contamination you may
find that by doing squats first actually
sure your ladder raises are worse but
your squats are also a lot easier to get
through now that we've talked about
hypertrophy let's move on to strength in
this analysis they showed that whatever
you train first seems to get the best
training effect for strength so if you
train multi-joined exercises first
you'll see greater gains and
multi-joined exercise strength than if
you train single joint exercise first
and vice versa so if you start sessions
with isolation exercises you'll see
better strength gains in those exercises
than if you've done them second after
the component exercise as an example if
you start your session with a bench
press followed by dumbbell Flyers you'll
gain more strength in the bench than if
you did Dumber flies follow that bench
press and the opposite applies to what
does this mean well here are a few
points first start a session with the
exercises you care about the most for
example if you have a lagging lift that
you really want to improve it's probably
wise to sort most of your sessions that
contain that lift with that lift it'll
probably help because you're freshers at
that point and you're able to lift the
most weight which for strength seems to
be important the second point this is a
bit more speculative but for power
authors or for weight lifters this might
be a bit more important the fatigue
patterns of different excise orders
might be specific let's say you're a
powerful for example you know for a fact
that in any competition you'll be
squatting first benching second and
deadlifting last in order to get some
potential fatigue resistance adaptations
you may want to do most of your sessions
like contains say the squat and the
bench starting with a squat followed by
the bench essentially mimicking the
order of exercises within a paletting
competition this one is speculative but
there might be a case where by doing
this you're able to accrue some fatigue
resistance adaptations that make it so
that by the time you get to meet day
you're pulling a little bit better on
your bench in that lift than you would
otherwise have been Point number three I
mentioned fatigue contamination earlier
whereby fatigue from one exercise bleeds
into her next which reduces performance
on that next exercise this likely plays
more of a role for strength than for
hypertrophy while there is a potential
role of volume load or how you perform
across a session for hypertrophy there
is definitely a role of how much you
lift within a session for strength
adaptations in other words if you're
trying to improve your maximum strength
like your one of max strength for a
power lifter being able to lift as much
as possible on each of your sets for the
squat bedroom deadlift directly leads to
more strength gains than if you lifted
less lifting heavier for a powerlifter
is really good for strength games this
effect is definitely more important for
the main main lifts than for the
accessory lifts because then specificity
decreases a lot but for power offers and
for strength athletes fatigue
contamination is a big deal as a slight
continuation of this as I mentioned
earlier you have the option of
consolidating exercises for example
doing your squat followed by your leg
press if you're a power offer or
spreading them out for example doing
your squat then doing your bench and
then doing your leg press for a power
after as a continuation of the previous
Point spreading them out is definitely
better because it reduces contamination
of fatigue from one exercise to the next
and so if you split up your Squat and
your leg press by having bench in the
middle the fatigue from squats will
bleed over to a lesser extent into your
leg press allowing you to lift more and
as I mentioned earlier lifting more
weight on the bar is pretty important
for power flows and for strength
athletes more broadly who are concerned
about maximum strength that being said
spreading out exercises is a little bit
less time efficient because you need to
warm up a little bit more but to be
honest if you're a powerful for example
you're already on gym for like six hours
doing four sets and talking between sets
for about half an hour each so this
isn't really a consideration for you to
begin with so enough rambling what are
the takeaways from all this let's start
with muscle growth for muscle growth I
would generally sequence exercises to
avoid systemic fatigue spilling over
from one exercise into the next as I
mentioned earlier I would prefer
sequencing the squat into the light curl
followed by the split squat The Squat
and the split squat being the highly
systemically fatiguing exercises and the
leg curl being the last systemic fatigue
exercise rather than doing two
systemically fatiguing exercises back to
back like for example the squat into the
split squat followed by like curl number
two I would generally recommend for
hypertrophy spreading out the exercises
over a session as much as possible so
for example instead of doing bench press
Fall by Dumber flies Fall by rows
followed by curls for your arms I would
do bench press followed by rows so you
have an exercise Gap followed by
dumbbell flies followed by cruels and so
between two exercises for similar muscle
groups you have at least an exercise gap
between those to maximize performance
within each exercise and to get a
greater volume load across the session
number three consider doing some
isolation work before bigger compound
exercises if they will benefit your
Mobility for example doing calf raises
before a squat can enhance your ability
to go deeper get longer muscle lengths
for your quads and thus grow more muscle
in both your quads and your calves
because now you're doing calf raises
before squats which leads me into number
four a fatigue contamination especially
for full body sessions I would generally
recommend doing smaller isolation work
that won't interfere with the bigger
compound work later on first in the
session if for example you're doing
lateral raises and squats in the same
session I would generally recommend
trying doing ladder raises before squats
and see how that impacts your
performance on squats and on lateral
raises in all likelihood it will
favorably impact it and potentially give
you more growth now for strength
generally starters session with your
exercises you care about most in terms
of strength number two it may make sense
to order exercises as you will be
exposed to them during a competition
this may allow you and this is
speculation to be a bit more fatigue
resistant when it comes to competition
because we want to minimize fatigue
going into any given competition
exercise for strength spreading out
exercises for the same muscle groups
across the session is the clear winner
because it allows you to lift more on
each exercise and thus have potentially
greater strength gains that's the video
if you like the video please consider
liking comment subscribing it really
helps out the channel and I will see you
guys in that next one peace
okay they don't make me catch it you
write the [ __ ] now I will [ __ ] do it
you've been meowing a whole lot you've
been talking all that [ __ ] you feel me
okay yeah that's right run away [ __ ]
yeah that's right it's time for the cat
check you want to escape so bad but I
won't let you we are best friends we are
bound okay bye