[Music]
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
you
folks dr. Mike dr. James we got a doozy
today we got like 16 pages of questions
so I think we're just gonna rapid fire
our way right in welcome to the weekly
webinar awesome James good to see you
good to see you my friend
Irene MC from Instagram finally found
from Instagram yeah he's from there ah
great to see that Irene was joining
let's get his questions answered I'm
gonna answer them super rapid-fire if
James has any thing to interrupt me with
he absolutely do that if he sees fit so
uh arena has a bunch of questions he
says hey Micah James if I'm doing four
sets of dumbbell lat rose as in rowing
an arch instead of straight up sort of
like a lap cave and pull over twenty
four sets of wide-grip machine rows
while standing up straight when I count
those four total working sets for the
whole back or eight sets for the whole
back so I would count them myself and
James would count them as eight because
we just look if it's back we just
counted us back can you do more advanced
counting where you count lats
differently the director stuff and
rhomboid stuff and trap stuff sure it's
probably just not worth your time I
would keep it simple
and counted as eight forces form for
both combined if you know at some point
none of these act counts are very
accurate because even different rows
have different fatigue and stimulus so
the count is super approximate anyway so
there's anything that involves pulling
we just count assassin baby got back
yeah all right next question if my
minute effective volume is 10 cents and
my MRV is 25 sets what if instead of
going for intense that's at 25 cents
every cycle I would start from 18 or 16
and maybe add a center to every week and
mainly achieve higher loads from
increasing the weight on the bar what
would I miss out on well so what's your
stuff and there's a section of the book
how much should I train that actually
literally just addresses that but just
as a sample of what that section says if
you started at 18 or 16 you would be so
wildly above your MeV when you began you
would miss out on two things one easy
super awesome no-nonsense injury free
easy is shit to actually do growth that
occurs between 10 and 17 cents and 2 you
would miss out
on something technically speaking you
could actually not just miss out on but
do the negative effect is you can get
insanely sore and do so much damage as
to risk injury by restarting a bus
likely getting into high volume training
right away without a ramp is known to
cause injury risk increase and also
there just interfere with hypertrophy
sore for a few weeks there at the
beginning you could not be getting much
hypertrophy at all or just the first
week because you started too high you
know you could also ask the same
question again and say why don't I start
at twenty four twenty five sets in the
first week and just manage load from
there and it would be an extreme version
of that so there's a reason we started
on TV because it's primarily because
it's easy gains and starting any higher
is doing a needless amount of damage
yeah and so if you are doing multiple
mesocycles in a row it's feasible that
your mev would start to go up over time
and you were gonna auto regulate at some
point so the mezzo one right would be
like mev MRV mezzo two you'd see like a
slightly higher starting mep and you
what you would essentially be doing what
you're kind of thinking about doing but
very incrementally and then if you did
like mezzo three then that would start
to look more and more like what you're
talking about but there's still
definitely a benefit to starting low and
working up yeah so a good way to think
about those from you know somebody ask
you a question like your first week of
training you're doing seventeen cents
he's like why don't you do ten
what's your answer that gonna be you
back well i wouldn't grow a ten wrong
you'd be like yeah you would you show me
video okay I would grow he's like okay
so why aren't you starting the hairline
and I don't know cuz I just want to do
more well that's not a really good
because I'm a masochist exactly um next
question
we think the m e vm r vm AV is for the
neck no clue jeff nipper knows how
follow notice no tube at tons of that
stuff no idea question three what
exercises do you personally hate or just
like it one question there's a whole
episode that's a whole episode I'll just
James and I'll each pick one on I hate
rope overhead tricep extensions because
I don't feel a fucking thing in my
triceps it's only shoulder and elbow
pain but I'm not recommending that you
don't do that because that's stimulus to
fatigue ratio sooner individual James
what you got
what's it called reverse hyper that one
nothing nothing nothing
it just might my lower back starts to
get tired I didn't know what that
suppose that song we're back I think
there is like a therapeutic use for for
people with back pain but from a
training perspective a non
rehabilitation training perspective uh
nothing nothing blue these things gonna
kill you no question for what do you
mean when you say fatigue accumulation
with weeks of training besides being
mentally being fatigued and increased
injury on some joints what is the actual
like fatigue accumulate over the weeks
there's a buncha different we just give
you two examples in our book recovering
from training we actually give it an
exhaustive list of fifteen factors when
teasing one's muscle damage muscle
damage accumulates over the weeks and
joint connective tissue damage as well
another one is hormonal alterations as
fatigue accumulates you tend to use a
bit more catabolic and fight-or-flight
hormones chronically elevated like
cortisol for example and anabolic
hormones tend to decline and either the
concentration or their effect or both
like testosterone for example so it's
one of those situations where you may
you know not really want to have a lot
of course on a lot of testosterone you
may not want a lot of muscle damage and
nervous system disruption and so on and
so forth or that all comes in to fatigue
yeah so I would say check out recovering
from training on that one cuz that back
that delves into that quite a bit
difference between men and women and
hypertrophy strength so women start at a
much lower amount of hypertrophy of
strength they seem to gain at pretty
decent rates compared to men but they
also are women relatively can handle
much higher frequencies and much higher
average loading paradigms per session
and much less rest so if you look at a
women's program you would look like it
would kill a man I probably would and
that's so so those are the biggest
differences yeah
and I think statistically men like lower
for lower body women and men tend to be
similar but upper body is like vastly
different just by default men have a
much more upper body strength yeah all
right next one I have a loan of body fat
percent to see my full abs that have
muscle definition and some striation I'm
working harder and getting a bigger
v-taper my question is what about the
other muscles besides the chest belts
that's that no those are pretty much the
muscles that I would train yeah number
two I'll be fat what are your thoughts
on branch on felt saying that since
recovery is a limited capacity you could
then for example let your other muscles
rest or be at MeV and just go nuts on
one body part uh read a few when you
finish reading how much should I train
you will see an entire chapter on just
that exact recommendation but a little
bit more specifically how much to reduce
volumes by how to make sure you're
pairing your MD mmm a B's and so on and
so forth so absolutely that's definitely
a thing the way to execute that is
described in depth in that book also
just for the record Brad showed fell
does not coined the idea that recovery
is a limited capacity people have known
this for since since people have been
alive this is a bad Schoenfeld saying
something that most people in the field
agree with a lot of knots not disputed
by anyone ever for sure yes that's a
separate except for uh that's the guy
from South Africa Noakes him Noakes yeah
he didn't find that guy only him but he
doesn't count
yeah fatigues all in the mine mean I for
some reason gave an Australian just good
enough giant wild animals play a lot of
rugby talk funny Australia South Africa
saying it was the same three next
question how would you coach a beginner
that just wants to be must clear like
clear that are see through the type that
would take Zac Efron as a lead level
that's really funny uh you know it
depends on if they want also I guess the
questions asked they don't want
long-term I would introduce them into a
caloric deficit that would be number one
oh I see levels are high and I would
also put them on a program that trained
them three to four times a week focusing
largely an upper body to develop
muscular hypertrophy usually most
exercises in the five to ten rep range
emphasis on good technique and slowly
bump up the intensity involve your
loading and volume as needed and just
progress until they simultaneously grow
muscle and lose fat until they look
really really cool and then either one
of two things they look cool enough to
where they think they're good
and then they can coast or they can look
cool enough to where they really start
to get buy-in and start to ask you okay
what do I mean to go to the next level
and then you can train them in a more
pure that's fashion sounds great
ah next question can you check your
Instagram I sent a pic re-time see don't
know owner in MC based on what I saw on
your book and how much training the
photo I mean you know real a marks added
some points and see how accurate they
were I can't is they don't check means
to grin DMS from people I don't follow
I have something like six trillion DMS I
don't plan on doing that Instagram is
interesting but I'm not sure if you're
real person or robots I don't never
check that stuff but you can feel free
to ask any questions yes so a raining in
the future you made your way on to RP +
welcome you can just if you have
questions about volume landmarks and
stuff you can just ask them instead of
sending them to Instagram number five
Ken masturbation effect hypertrophy your
strength
sorry don't apologize to us apologize to
God yeah never heard that one before
almost certainly not in any way that we
can measure so I wouldn't worry about it
the only way I can think of is like look
if you have a huge leg session coming up
and you go to furious masturbation binge
and blow your load right before you
might not have as much move but like
that's really just don't you wouldn't do
that
dehydration maybe yeah you slip a
dumbbell cuz you have Chi is on your
hands I shouldn't have our own podcast
yeah alright num next one I sleep at
3:00 a.m. and wake up at 11:00 my first
meal is at 11:00 or sometimes when I
wake up at 10:00 then a second meal of
three that I go work out or another meal
at six and then nine half my daily fat
intake in that meal and then another
mean 11 usually late but still very
fatty the other half of my fat intake my
question is should I space by 6:00 and
9:00 a.m. good more
it follows the hours post-workout so I
have a bigger appetite no that seems
just fine to me okey doke some details
for that other question that we already
covered my testosterone is on the low
end of normal my doctor says that
physically I don't seem to need it well
that's because you train with weights
and so that's an interesting perspective
a doctor to have there's no such thing
as needed by the way decently
muscular 19 year old male 165 pounds top
we found 5:8 however my test is
otherwise well it's on the low end of
normal but it's not otherwise it means
you're fine
my still my doctor won't write me a
prescription I don't mind I might have
but if I get on TIG how would that
affect my training not much me 19 and
having normal testosterone levels tea or
tea or effective training office not at
all
I've been working out for 40 months I
used to be obese currently eating 335
3436 hard calories of me managing to get
very slowly the e or testosterone
they'll have a very little impact on
your gains over the next several years
the people that see a lot out of trt are
people that produce no testosterone or
very very low subclinical range you're
gonna get almost nothing if you want
more details on that James Krieger has
authored a few articles on how little
testosterone in the physiological range
makes as far as difference yeah he's 19
right yeah homie
you don't need trt just to just get in
there and train by the way when you
start trt your dick stops your ball stop
working and you have to take drugs for
the entire time in addition to keep your
balls working it's a fucking complicated
mess you don't want any part of that
sure yeah Evan Greg says I make a James
or the week's trial period at the start
of rugby season how would you go about
period as in training to peak for this
time will you suggest comparing for the
season as normal as the season starts a
week or two after the trials but would
you go through different phases of your
firm and compare for them thank you
James I will be putting him nothing to
this question that's oh I'm actually not
understanding the question with the
week's trial period at the start of a
rugby season oh you mean like um tryouts
and tryouts okay yeah I see um ya know
so here's the thing with the tryouts
you're gonna have to already come in
shape you what you what you don't want
to do is try to like period eyes like a
peaking approach to making the team
because you'll have your best
performance at tryouts and then you'll
will suck the rest of the season right
so that's no good so my suggestion would
just be to always maintain a good level
of fitness always maintain a good level
of skills and tactics don't allow
yourself to decondition in any of those
areas and you would just approach your
rugby training as you normally would
like it you have your general
preparatory periods where you're getting
your body compensates
being less fat or gaining muscle getting
some basic cardio it's uh more capacity
getting some basic hands on the ball
skills stuff like that and then once
you're into your preseason time you move
into your specific preparatory stuff and
so on and so on so I wouldn't do
anything different and I wouldn't
necessarily because here's the thing
right so like what's the point of like
trying to do a peaking protocol for a
tryout well it's it's kind of like an
all-or-nothing effect right if you have
a really good performance then you'll
make the team and that's the outcome
that you want okay that's good but if
you make the starting squad and you suck
the whole time hey you're gonna feel bad
about it and then you might not make the
team next year they might be like that
guys suck dick we're not gonna bring
them back so what I would say is stay
stay in shape just do your normal stuff
and you'll be better off in the long
term what if I my wife is father of a
term under-promise over-deliver yeah
yeah
all right cart XE asks can I increase
them as a cycle length while
specializing in arm slash delts is it
won't increase much fatigue as bigger
muscles would do well the answer is
actually an auto regulation so as you go
through the cycle you will understand
what your systemic fatigue is like and
if you are correct in that arms and
delts are not as contributory to
systemic fatigue you actually won't feel
very fatigued by the time you would
normally deal owed so you can do an
extra week or two yeah totally but that
might not be the answer you might
actually train so hard and not lower the
other muscles so hard that you idea was
oh I'm just gonna keep going but you may
not be able to keep going
so I'm actually doing arms and delts
mass specialization mezzo right now and
the goal is to hit your muscular em RV's
right not so much worrying about like
extending out due to systemic
limitations so what I would say is in
this case with those because those
muscles tend to recover so fast like for
me I do a fucking arm and Delta movement
every single day they recover so fast
what you really want to push is you
don't want to extend your Maslow cycle
out and never hit your local M RV's
because you're worried about systemic in
marquise make sure you hit your local
MRP shoot for that that if it ends up
being the same and it's a being the same
that's fine Kristopher tolls Minh
asked what our scientific principles of
endurance training and how do they
differ from the Society for boots
principal strength training so I'll tell
you this right now
actually the same there's the same
principles but the details of how you
apply each one of them is going to be
very radically different James and I
don't know fucking da I mean I can teach
you 50 minutes a part of a course intro
on them but that's all the reasons why
that their principles is because they
are applicable in all situations right
that's why their principles so it's not
when we say like scientific principles
of strength training or hypertrophy
training it doesn't mean that there's
different principles it just means that
how we apply the principles are
contextual and those they've got these
bad news folks too hyper tree principles
book that we're coming out with in about
six months here it's gonna be the same
principles just completely different
yeah and I mean so like if we want it to
be really nitpicky about leg if as for
like a really really anal sport science
standpoint like which principles are the
ones that have like them like no one
would ever say this is not a thing
you got you know specificity overload
variation face potentiation those are
like no one would ever argue fatigue
management's one like everyone knows
fatigue management important but like
could you really pull up an article and
they say like oh this is a training
principle it's like man maybe not but at
the same time no one would dispute it as
being something that's important and
valuable so the principles are all the
same sometimes we take a little bit of
liberties on things like
individualization fatigue management
something like that but they're also not
contested by anyone right all right TJ
Jankowski says hey fuckers citement when
are when you or lecturers in college
would you ever answer questions framed
in such an absurd manner isn't James and
I are rather big scary people to most
people in real life I ain't never had
anybody talk shit to me in a class in
real life and know their students would
never fucking try that shit because they
know you can fail the motherfucking drop
of a hat so it mostly just get like the
point mongering stuff for people with
the f what do you mean I don't
understand
well you meant squat did you deadlift
thanks for the recommendation of blank
slate the other way too fascinating you
read awesome I got some more questions
for you first absolute hypertrophy how
much weight would one expect to gain
here relative to other body parts like
actual weight of your abs one to three
pounds over your career it would be a
fuck load yeah I mean your abs are such
slow twitch you mean your midsection
muscles in general are very slow twitch
so it would be akin to like your
or arm and your calf type training where
it's just like you put in a lot of work
they don't grow a ton but they do grow
it'd be very similar not not I mean the
size difference is noticeable but the
type of training and the rate of
progression would be similar
I've massively increased my core work in
the past logs that have made decent
strength Ian's and the AB movements of
considering up dog practice your ab work
in the gym I'm thinking this could be a
reason on the weight gain he's been a
fair bit faster I've gone up from a nice
low point to five to one point five
increase without much fan increase
that's good game yeah it's so remember
weight gain is not determined by how
much well so you put on a switch or
about calorie balance I have also added
daily focused calf training before I'm
sure before I'm sure I phoned it in
excellent I remember a minute had
someone saying that calves are one of
the biggest body parts throughout the
whole body I'd assumed the same for
abdomen thus meaning total well so the
you know training the entire abdomen you
train your core a lot of times it's just
the rectus abdominus musculature and
those are fairly gigas muscles and large
spinal erectors right thus meaning total
weight potential from these body parts
to gain is actually more than one would
suspect maybe for the ABS you definitely
the calves the depends on if your calves
grow some people's can crawl that much
nothing beats like the thigh you know
like if you look at that like that this
is the size glutes traps that's and
those muscles are also in the Taurus
they slow twitch so although they're
large they also are not prone to being
huge either next question does means
volume for body parts go up during a
motorcycle if so is that accomplished by
adding one to two reps going up in
weight undergoing a slightly close to
failure probably have no measurable wave
there's member maintenance is super
super easy right it might go up a tiny
little bit as you go and even that's
tenuous but it's bodyweight aggressing
in relative intensity or relative effort
are are you take care of all of that my
guess is that it does marginally go up
but that that increase is offset from
the momentum you generate through the
training so like you you just get more
and you get you keep the same movement
or same rep range in for a while and you
just get more dialed into that move
an indoor rep range and just had better
performance and so it works of gel
strength gains it works itself out which
is also supported by the fact that
stronger people don't have higher
maintenance volumes in terms of number
of sets than weaker people do they have
the same as sometimes even less because
they get so strong but it's so easy to
stimulate the retention of muscle
masters by lifting weights um my next
question and I said I want to change
gears I though this might not be your
executive expertise will prepare for
shitty answer last week you mentioned
that for longevity the biggest Germany
factor is body weight and substantial
subsequently calorie amount I assumed
this is over the whole lifetime yes
correct well let's see where it goes I
know that an elderly population was one
of the negative effects of aging is the
lower desire to eat and lower carbs less
protein totals resulting in muscle loss
so there's actually a very big
difference between mortality and
morbidity and there's a big difference
between your lifetime overall body
weight and the trends of body weight
towards end-of-life one of the big
downsides that when older people eat
less it is usually more of a cause that
I'm sorry usually more of a consequence
of their failing health than a cause
usually when people's body weak decline
and they stop eating towards the end of
life they're fucking dying bro like
eating more on purpose may not help the
situation at all if it's muscle mass
deterioration and eating more gives the
more energy makes it more active that
can actually help but over the course of
the average lifespan its calorie balance
towards the end things as you point out
do get a little tricky but not so tricky
because a lot of the times it's really
not not not a whole lot you can do about
yeah and a lot of times it's related to
their activity levels and their activity
levels are related to their capacity to
actually move because maybe they've had
significant bone or muscle loss at this
point so it just it's one of those
downward spirals I asked this question
because over the past couple years I've
gotten grandma doing some very business
training training starting at the ripe
old age of 74 nice at the start she was
able to recompose getting stronger
however now she's been at a sticking
point for some time I personally believe
that her family is more of a health
risks than her weight frailty is more of
health risk on her weight what id
correct it may very well be even so a
point would gaining any strength still
be somewhat unrealistic at that age
could be mouth
can deadlift 100 pounds of overhead
press 10 pound dumbbells do we focus on
maintenance and balance I would just try
to get her as strong as possible it
being very much aware of fatigue
management and if she does not get
stronger that means her MRV has been
exceeded by her MV and then there's just
old age and the inevitable and then like
also if if you're hitting strength
plateaus like you can you can switch to
lighter loads and do higher reps at some
point you know what I mean if she's just
like not getting any stronger at you
know sets of 10 go up 2 sets of 15 to 20
and just go from there yeah
and he says to add to the conundrum I
think eating more stuff on her mentally
as she's been able to lose body fat on
his condition to think skinny equals
thinks skin equals sexy hmm I don't
think you need to add a pair of
hurricane a whole lot of weight I think
she could just eat more protein and
veggies and fruits and healthy stuff and
she'll gain muscle lose fat at the same
time and her health will improve a lot
you know did jack grandma but she needed
me to get her even more protein unless
of auto-ship get grandma on that TRT oh
fuck TR team after our alright last
question just for the bands how do you
guys like your level of fame do you get
recognized in public much I ask because
I follow Charlie on Instagram and he
seems to deal with it and fantastically
unique we barely entertaining a stupid
comment a question of suppose as is his
right just thing is like Charlie was
always like that before anything but he
got charlie is the straightest shooter
in the fucking world he was straight up
like Charlie's got into a verbal
arguments the people on the street like
gets out of his car with people but
people get out of their cars to fight
him he will get out of his car to fight
them and they realize oh so big ass
Korean dude so yes I understand where
Charlie's coming from and you know it
can be real tough when you get you know
a level of clinical Fame I'm in the
social media especially you get the same
the question that was absurd the first
time asked for the hundred and fiftieth
time and for a while it upset you and
then you get used to it I'm pretty used
to it by now and then you get some some
real assholes and trolls it really it
can upset you but then most people you
just come they're coming
a good place so just to just don't know
and it's in the end it's better to
either ignore them or be nice
Charlie's probably trending in that
direction by now anyway but like you
know Fame I Fame doesn't really appeal
to me at all I don't kind of care to be
known I would it's really it's really an
honor of privilege when people recognize
me like they're recognizing Jim's a
bunch now pretty consistently but I
don't doesn't it's Russo so it's so very
nice to have but I'm not addicted to it
or if I could just they take it or leave
as a matter if I could probably leave it
but I understand it's a big part of my
role and RP and a big part of what makes
me income this to be known for who I am
and I've just really more about
spreading ideas if any of you guys meet
me and James has been my one my best
friends for years now there's nothing
very super interesting about me as a
person outside of my ideas like I'm just
like a fucking fuck off kind of guy like
so is Jane you know anything people meet
me and they're like dr. Mike oh my god
and it's like I promise you I'm gonna
disappoint you in every capacity other
than hypertrophy knowledge which I'm
gonna be excellent so you know James
Mike gets Mike gets recognized
everywhere I've been like in airports
and stuff we're just in like random
events or good doctor Mike know me like
what about me I never get recognized
ever I've never once been right oh is it
you had chosen this I think people would
hear my voice and maybe know my voice
but knapford never my face so I don't
really deal with it frankly I've I don't
really want anything to do with that I
as if you guys have ever seen my social
media you probably get the impression
like I reluctantly use social media to
like help promote myself and RP because
that's how we make money and it's a for
me it's a necessary evil but I don't
particularly like it and like Mike said
I get frustrated at people who are
trolls or have mean things to say or
just being dickheads because sometimes
you know like Mike gets this more than I
do but people will they'll write
something like Oh a James fuck you can't
and you don't know if they're being
serious or not I don't know no idea if
it's a joke or if there's you don't like
so yeah I don't know I'm about to move
to Montana and and become like an old
hermit in the woods very soon which is
great for me but I don't know Mike seems
to handle it pretty well Mike actually
is is famous whereas like I'm like fake
famous I'm like Facebook famous I
jokingly say like I'm the Alfred -
Mike's Batman which is so wrong
I'm not a not Batman and you're not
Alfred I'm much much prefer I'm like a
really famous Robin to your Batman
people know you he is right Batman
are you the the short like speed Oh
laughs no James the gayest are in 1962
[Laughter]
what is that
max Jenkins says hello docs just for
clarification last week when I use the
description not lean enough to be one of
the elect the term elect was a reference
to Puritan meaning of the word God's
chosen few they were predestined for
salvation it's still not a good joke but
now we're able to see about me max sorry
I appreciate it love it we've all had
we've all had some that have fallen flat
oh good you're just you're just better
at than we are so let's the jokes lost
on us for our own fault
so until less blasphemous note there
seems to be a decent amount of both
physiological logic and personal
anecdote in favor of high carb low fat
mass do you guys think that physique
athletes adhering to a strict high carb
low fat diet could aim to aim for slash
benefit from more aggressive rates of
gain compared to those consuming higher
percentages of these calories from fat
dr. micha I've heard you speak about how
you've seen physique improvements have
from funding a high carb low fat diet
and you found that it keeps you leaner
throughout your massing phase you know
I'm an interesting case there I'm not
sure what I found definitely the answer
is yes I have found that but there's a
lot going on you know a lot of
supplements a lot of different kind of
training and cardio crap I will say
though if the hypothesis is true that
the low-carb are sorry low-fat high-carb
massing is better and his fronts of
gaining weight or gaining muscle then
technically you couldn't run it with a
higher gain rate I would be for I would
like I'm recently a bigger fan of
staying a little bit leaner and not
trying to push things faster so you
could run it for longer and slap another
three or four weeks in the end of your
mass as a post or just end your mass
leaner you know like any one of those I
wouldn't just go faster the thing is
going faster it's actually profoundly
hard with low-fat high-carb passing
because you're like oh I get
eat all these carbs at the end of the
day ugh I can't anymore food you look at
Eric I've only had thirty nine hundred
calories what the fuck and then like
you're like oh I can't have anything
with high fat like I'll put this on no
unequivocal terms gaining weight is easy
as fuck when you get a mix of highly
palatable mixed high carb high fat foods
as soon as you anything in that equation
people switch to keto lose a bunch of
weight without controlling their
calories purposefully because once you
take away carbs from fats like hey man
do you want this thing of chicken and
ranch dressing and cheese and you're
like yeah it sounds great two meals of
that later you're like fuck this I don't
even want to eat anymore so the thing
about high carb mass saying it sounds
super fun then you got a plate of white
rice however well flavored it's walking
around beef and chicken sitting in front
of you and you're like man if these were
tacos if yeah so yeah I still think
calories went out on that for now so if
you go too fast you're probably gonna
get too fat yep Khalid B says high docks
I hope you're well and healthy a couple
of questions for you this week
number one I have a question about
fatigue and adaptations let's assume for
the sake of simplicity that I do 20 sets
per week for each body part and then I
cover recover from that after doing 20
sets of chests last week for example I'm
able to barely maintain my performance
entry also let's say the sets are static
so I do not increase or decrease in that
week to week if I cut that mom to say 15
sets but I'd be able to progress faster
about 20 sets per week I'm simply
maintaining performance on the $0.15 am
able to increase reps load etc would
that produce more of her trophy despite
less volume no it almost certainly
wouldn't because this has been directly
tested with lower volumes so long as you
can recover from them almost always
produce less hypertrophy than higher
volumes that's just reality matter so
but with a higher volume hypertrophy
thing will you do is see very little
increase in strength in performance over
the course of them as a cycle then when
you drop your fatigue you would see a
shitload of it because you were gaining
you know to the muscle the entire time
whereas if you went for the performance
increasing around 15 you might just go
to 10 sets you could really increase
performance but then after the next
measure performance wouldn't go up as
much and then as much and it as much and
you just wouldn't you would be like
quite a bit about you know four or five
measures later you'd be just as strong
as someone who did the higher volumes
but be carrying
last muscle so you just be more
neurologically efficient which is
essentially what you happen when you
take a hypertrophy program and lower the
volume you're turning into more of a
strength program yeah not the best
long-term engine yeah so that would be
like the 15 sets would be more of like
an M a V range which is fine the 20
would be more of the MRV wrench so in
terms of like total magnitude the 20
would be preferable the 1520 as a peak
right so the magnitude of gain would be
the highest there whereas like the 15
might be a more economical use of your
time because it would be pretty similar
just not as high of a gain but you'd be
seeing performance improvements so that
will be like a situation if you have
like a sporting athlete who's doing
hypertrophy training and you were trying
to prevent them from overreaching so
that you can maintain a level of
sharpness on skills and tactics and
other things that you're training at the
same time you might say we're doing
hypertrophy but we're just training 2m
maybe we're not trained to MRV because
if they start overreaching then we can't
do other things and it becomes a problem
but fer physique athletes nah man oh boy
let's hope I can pull this up pretty
quick I'm gonna give you the reaction
thumbs up man fuckin Instagram can you
see that ah no bullshit yeah
[Music]
oh okay so you guys are fucking luckiest
fuck you get the biggest preview of the
world James can i screen Cheryl quick
yeah go for it just willing to answer
the rest of your question oh boy
so here we go these are
never-before-seen because they are
reserved for the hypertrophy book these
are graphs that will be in that gasp so
here we have prioritizing volume versus
loading over the training block it's a
mess a cycle one two three four right
old trading block and we have three
variables we're sort of theoretically
talking about volume performance and
muscularity so what you're gonna notice
here is the top section is something
that prioritizes loading okay so like
you said lower overall volume but we get
stronger over the weeks within each row
so you'll notice that the volume here is
lower right so the following volume
volume is low Valon the entire time and
the bottom condition here is when we do
higher volume without progressively
loading as much to the muscles and the
volume here as you notice as much higher
the entire time let's take a look at
performance performance is going to be
higher in the first mezzo because you
look right away you get stronger right
and performance starts but you know
increases a little bit a little bit a
little bit so performance is going up
great here's the thing performance here
starts pretty low because remember this
first mezzo like you don't really gain
much performance notice performance
starts to rise mezzo to mezzo mezz well
two reasons one fatigue drops between
males and we get a big performance boost
at the end of it if you have basically a
concentrated load and drop fatigue and
two you gain muscle every single time
between these so performance is gonna go
up mezzo Demelza mezzo could hear more
musky every time but here's the real
kicker take a look at muscularity
muscularity goes up here pretty well
right you a muscle if you get stronger
this is like what a power lifter it's
later higher volumes of training light
it works here's the muscularity though
starts at the same place for someone who
does higher volumes it goes up faster
and eventually gets to here notice the
performance of this individual in mezzo
v is the same both people are just as
strong one guy got their doing heavier
weights and lower volumes one
I got they're doing higher volumes and
thus less progression and lo but check
this out this person is more muscular
this mezzo 5 is representative of the
difference between a professional class
power lifter and an IFV Pro this guy
weighs 200 pounds and squats 800 this
guy weighs 220 and squats 800 not as
impressive but he's more jacked this is
just another way of showing your
specificity if you do higher volume as a
cycles between MEP and MRV versus doing
what I'd say like MeV or close to there
you get stronger for sure doing the one
enemy he but because you're not gaining
as much muscle long-term strength to
bodyweight better but long-term overall
strength the same and you gain more
muscle this way yeah that's really good
and so that the top one example is what
you would what I was just talking about
before this is how you would do
hypertrophy for like a strength sports
athlete which is like 90 percent of
sports yeah because you still want you
don't want a ton of hypertrophy you want
still performance to go up mostly but
some hyper and you want to save a little
bit of that training resources because
you don't want to be over reaching the
whole time what you don't want to be
overreaching your legs or your arms to
the point where you can't go to practice
and do other things so it's a that's a
handy little trick there well that'll
appear that's all you get no more
there's such dicks like the books coming
I promise guys the book is fucking good
the book is done it's just being edited
these are one of them somebody's gonna
make a meme of like the skeleton guy
waiting for the high perch free book
like that's coming over here waiting for
the book don't mind me die of old age
all right let's see what else he says
would that reduce Moorhead produce my
per trophy despite less volume no
produce less hypertrophy despite less
volume because of less volume in that
case then low volume powerlifting since
there is also bigger strength increases
would yield the most hypertrophy it
doesn't as we see power lifters are not
as big as bodybuilders I guess that ties
into fatigue in a way if I do 20 sets to
get more stimulus with more fatigue so
there's less room for adaptations well
so here's the thing the way you phrased
your example you're such a weak training
at MRV that are the entire time that's
not a good idea you need to train at ma
v which is start at MeV and go to MRV so
yeah if you trained at MRB the entire
time you absolutely would get more
fatigue and less muscle growth and as a
matter of fact you would never be able
to survive that for longer than a week
or two so yeah we don't want to do if I
remember you really is 20 sets we don't
want to do 20 sets
a week so the better example would be if
I start at ten sets and go to 20 an
average of 15 how does that compare to
starting at ten and finishing at ten
then everything you said in your example
would be correct it performance will go
up faster if you start at N and finish
at M because you can just increase load
but it would be exactly the target just
this is another reason why we advocate
for using autoregulation because we have
kind of like our pre-planned strategies
say I know my mev starts roughly here in
my M RVs ends roughly here but week to
week you can auto regulate that m AV to
be a little bit on the top heavier
bottom heavy as you train right so you
can go top heavy and that's what
physique athletes generally will do and
you can go kind of mid-range or bottom
heavy and that's what strength sport
athletes will generally do and that's
what that's what they auto regulations
for yep what else he says meaning should
we actively try to minimize fatigue or
as long as our performance returns to
baseline we should worry about fatigue
impacting our vacations unless a drop on
performance curves for hypertrophy
training this is absolutely the case for
strength training how quickly you gain
even micro to micro can matter so that's
different all together as an example the
last time L cycles using MPT for
instance I had a lot more sets for arms
than what is included in a template but
I am since I am in recovering and not
have a drop in performance
I can then there isn't any benefits to
dropping volume correct not on the
short-term thinking perhaps I would
progress faster if I do and potentially
it would actually lead to less growth
you would progress faster and strength
based on neural characteristics and the
fact that you're carrying less fatigue
that would potentiate more growth later
perhaps but it certainly wouldn't result
in more growth right away there is
amazing research by tons of people and a
bunch of studies showed us now the
Schoenfeld and creature studies the
replicated a bunch of studies where
you'll have three groups and this is
actually really interesting you'll have
a low volume moderate volume and high
volume group and the growth hypertrophy
will be lowest of the low the moderate
group will have the moderate hypertrophy
and it'll be highest in the high group
as far as volumes volume hypertrophy
perfectly related strength will look
like this the low volume group will game
decent strength the moderate volume
group will gain the
strength and the highest volume group
will gain the exact amount of strength
be like what the fuck
so wait a minute the moderate to high
volume didn't increase strength no it
didn't it as a matter of fact if you
need a very high group strength might
need not even improve as much over the
course of the mesocycle so so that's the
deal is a strength fundamentally we'll
put this very technical terms strength
has a lower ma v than hypertrophy in the
mesocycle scale so if you want to train
to maximize your strength in a mesocycle
you're gonna have to trade less this is
why James and I are super big on saying
if you are not regressing adding volume
is okay because that's they get the most
growth we don't say add as much volume
as would cause the best within mezzo
gains because James and I can design you
a motorcycle that will cause you the
best gains in strength check it out you
start with the highest volumes you
actually drop volumes the entire time
and you go to step two three and five
you'll be strong as fuck you be like oh
my god this is the way to hypertrophy
but it's not it's just the way to peak
yes yes number two I am currently
starting week for man bTW metabolites
focus the last day of week three I think
I reached my triceps Emperor V as I had
overlapping soreness going into the
session I had lost two wraps yes
certainly thought I mean I just two reps
I'm not sold I'm just gonna say I'm
totally you could have a great workout
next time but I if you have overlapping
sort us and you lost some reps I
certainly wouldn't go around telling
people you've got five more sets in the
tank I decided to skip any movement that
day that involved triceps directly or
directly so that I give her car for the
next session is that a good decision or
should I have continued the exercise
despite losing strength no I think
that's a fine decision you could have
gone either way as long as if you've
gone the other way and finished the next
session should have been lower James do
you agree with that
yeah I think it's fine either way like
you said and I'm just I'm sorry I'm
being a dick about this I'm just caught
up on the despite losing strength like
didn't effectively you did in the
strength you had to rep difference is
like the difference between taking 30
seconds rest in 45 seconds rest right
it's not so super conclusive now so this
is actually to James's point this
buttress was the idea that maybe you
should have kept going because if you
got going and everything was down and
way down you could have said okay
definitely
but because you just sort of tested the
waters with one movement and then Auto
regulated it could have just been a bad
yeah and like I you know I'm not saying
that you should be constantly
overlapping and soreness but I will say
just because you do have overlapping
soreness does not mean that you've
actually hit your MRV yet so just keep
that in your mind yeah but also choosing
erring on the side of okay f/8 MRV is
probably better than the area yes yes
yes also the first session of week four
I lost her up or incline bench okay so
now so now we're seeing that
performances at best flatlined and
potentially fallen so now that that
actually does so come be just just so
you can get the point and I think Mike
will agree with me on this
losing a wrap or two even on a couple
exercises not super alarming what we
what the bigger indicator of like
hitting your MRV and a movement will be
like first set close to normal second
set bomb like just nothing that's when
you know it's this if you if you like if
you got like fifteen fifteen like
fourteen thirteen and you're like oh man
I should have gotten another fourteen
it's like no not even close if you got
like fifteen eight six or at similar
whose reps off of your previous week's
best the two sessions in a row there's
are more sessions in a row you can't
match PRS the more I don't think you're
starting on to perform so the week for
loss to rap on my incline bench by
itself like games put is not much but
because he also fucked up your triceps
last time and didn't perform I'm
starting to think that look it's
probably err on the side of easy and
definitely drop your volume he says I'm
not sure if it's Duda might rise to
being or reach your chest in the
overreaching week is it fine is it fine
to drop reps the beginning of the week
or should it be reserved for last
session or two ideally because I do have
frequency I still have two more sessions
involving chest and triceps I'm also not
sure what to rate those as in as the
reaching week is still a negative one
zero or perhaps even one since I'm
dealing next week anyhow so good news
and the npt the last week's ratings go
nowhere a little trick of a trade so
don't worry about what the fuck your
rating shit's not gonna have anything to
do with what happens that's just to keep
you in the habit of reading stuff also
it's a customer service thing if we
didn't put ratings in there people would
ask why there's a three the last yes I
would say that you should keep your
loading the same
it is fine to drop reps in the last week
yep it also he said in the overreaching
week as a fine to drop reps in the
beginning of the week well he don't have
a choice he didn't drop the reps on
purpose you just can't do them it just
happened
Dubai is it fine do you mean that is
this overreaching gonna be super
compensated yes
yes so you can have a dogshit
overreaching week and be totally fine
it's not like if you start on Monday
over reach and we can you underperform
your like that that's it we're just
taking a deal on now like you could do
one more week and have a shitty week and
still have great super compensation so I
would say keep going yeah my card he
pointed out that the rating is kind of a
no point but if that was me doing the
same thing that you're doing I would I
would do a zero that for me that would
be a zero like I mostly the same you
don't have to do that and if you were
being conservative and saying you know
I'm gonna err on the side of not not
overdoing it you could do minus one and
just say like okay next time I'll just
back down a little bit so I can make
sure I get through the entire mesocycle
all the way but me looking at that that
for me that would be like a zero like
carry on
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses given me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
number three what would you suggest I do
after my metabolite phase I'm thinking
I'll probably doing RP at home program
in my states need or workers are likely
extensive mid genome so I won't have gym
access to lease mid-june my next phase
is a resuscitation phase but I'm not
sure I need to do it I have done lots of
hyaline work on my own part of us are
one of our P I hop directly to meso one
at a week a week of mezzo two but
because of my gym shut down I stay for
two weeks doing basic bodyweight stuff
and I waited for equipment for
transition example and I would say
there's a maintenance phase right there
I've justin'll dumbbells go to fifty two
point five pounds hey we have the same
done those so that I work perfectly for
my metabolite phase I've been messing
through vessels one two three and I'm
thinking I will deal whatever the fourth
week of metabolites started meeting this
phase for the first two weeks of the at
home gym training then start a cut and
finish that home program until gyms
reopen where I will transition to
measure one and keep cutting but what do
you think a recent cessation phase is
still necessary I think you're good to
go
seems fine to me yeah for tying into
question three how much new Delos
responds in size due to volume enough to
buy you another measure cycle but not
another block that's the technical
answer say ended up my metabolism 25
cents per muscle group as an example
that was man MRV what I still have good
growth if I went into my at-home program
and stopped short of my RV
say seventeen cents per muscle but last
week I still have good growth if I went
into the at home gym program and stopped
short of my RV it would be hard to
compare those things yeah it's tough to
compare at home also is it with a D load
or without a deal owed are you saying
you could get into the 17 sets I'm not
sure about that D loads we sensitize you
to volume a lot they can buy you weeks
of more volume responsiveness whatever
that's worth to you number five are
there benefits for going from any heat
up RV for strength work it's different
it's very different
so we'll just actually answer those
really straightforwardly you
you go from MEP to our VM strength work
anyway you actually have no choice
because if you start at any anywhere
between MeV and MRV ever if he comes to
you with the form of accumulating
fatigue ever he falls down right but
because you have a choice on how to
progress from immediate MRV whether it
can be completely volume progression you
did just don't increase your load all at
all versus just in just Adsense which
forehead per trophy would work pretty
well and not ideally but pretty well um
men on the other end you could only
increase the loading because strength
workers so loading based and the volume
just has to be in the ballpark that
James and I recommend not increasing
sets unless you just really clearly just
shot the way below your anything you're
just not stimulating properly like you
just thought it was two sets of squats
was gonna get you stronger but you're
like ten I fucking barely feel this it's
got to be at least four unless that's
adjustments like that James and I
recommend that you most of your
increases of straining stimulus which is
really what gets you from any be MRV
occur via loading addition through
strength work so you don't intentionally
go up and up and up in a volume set
numbers we just say put more weight on
the bar James yeah that's good so just
keep in mind when we talk about the
volume landmarks I think maybe we don't
always do a good job about this yeah so
I think people get really caught up on
the the volume part and really what
we're saying is like for any outcome
right there is an appropriate blend and
intersectionality of frequency volume
and intensity and when we're talking
about hypertrophy that's usually what we
talk about the volume landmarks we're
assuming that frequencies in a normal
range intensity is in a reasonable range
for hypertrophy purposes and then the
thing that we're modulating at that
point is volume right and so for
strengthen anything that's more
intensity based we kind of have a
similar but flipped script where we say
we talk about the volume landmarks but
the big drivers intensity so frequency
has to be reasonable for strength so
that might change intensity has to be
reasonable for strength and then we can
modify you know volume a little bit
accordingly and so in this case you
would see substantially lower volumes if
you're trying for strength and probably
frequency as well yep and you modify the
intensity more
and then he says say one at a corporates
in street clerk at a medieval is a
template per trophy muzzles going
forward I don't double point one two
three to five reps and the rest the
extra teenage twenty I know that arising
volume is the air is rising fatigue or
you're barely maintaining performance in
those cycle progresses which is good for
effort Rafi but that indicates you're
overloading with higher volumes week to
week what about strength should I keep
the combat exercise that's static to
avoid fatigue so here's a problem for
you yes you should so you can push
heavier weight you can but the problem
is the this is the now welcome this is
you face potentiation 101 this is why
periodization exists your hypertrophy
work will still increase in volume in
will poison
fatigue wise your strength work so you
can increase your sense on squats and
deadlifts or not that you're gonna get
fucked either way because your hack
squats and leg curls you're gonna fuck
you with the fatigue they're leaching
out because you're increasing those this
is why I per trophy and strength at the
same time is not the best idea
so yes the best answer is don't do them
at the same time like James grunted
before you start on this question the
second best is definitely keep the
compound strength stuff to the same sets
and reps and just increased load and the
third worse just to progress those and
everything else which would just be a
total disaster and co-lead like you're
not alone in that you you probably have
goals that are some blend of like I want
to be jacked and I want to be strong
that's like a very common thing for
dudes but the best way to get there is
to have focus periods of getting jacked
and then another focus period of getting
strong and then rinse and repeat as you
see fit rather than trying to do both at
the same time they just they end up
interfering although they seem
synergistic because you're just lifting
weights and lifting heavy weights right
they do interfere as Mike already
described so you you have so much more
success getting jacked and more strong
if you just did three mezzos of
hypertrophy and then three measures of
strength rather than trying to do them
both at the same time yeah khalida sharp
guy because he goes I guess going from a
medium or if he and other exercises will
increase fatigue regardless so perhaps
for a strength a specialized phase as
needed absolutely where chefs remain the
same to avoid fatigue
exactly and mostly that only sets remain
the same or mostly the same you would do
less accessory work that would just make
it so that more of your volume came from
these big compounds and
would free up even more recovery but he
said yeah a Leo says hi dad's two
questions today question one I'm
planning a mesocycle Oh
planning meso to a lockdown training I
will consider using metabolite work is
this an advantageous advantage program
room temp like work for all body parts
at the same time nope that's totally
fine especially if it's all you can do
or alternatively pure dancing each
muscle group two new metabolites trainee
different times just hypothesizing but
could the higher circulating lab oh I
see from one muscle group impact the
others and reduce the effect of novelty
for the other muscle groups almost
certainly not your circulating lactate
from metabolite training barely affects
muscles of the amount of Lac so potatoes
right if muscle does generate its own
lactate or them the muscle fibers the
muscle cells around a seller generating
it or that cell is generating the
intracellular lactate is fucking
enormously high you cannot to get that
much lactate from one muscle to another
because the you would have a blood
acidity fucking kill you you'd be dead
so the amount of lactate that gets into
the blood is a fraction of what have we
have in the cells in the muscle cells
and that'll never ever ever in a fuckin
million years get to other muscles
around like you can't get a tricep burn
so gnarly that your biceps start burning
it's not gonna happen so not a concern
in my view James yeah I agree with that
I would say like it's it's perfectly
fine to do occlusion training or
metabolite training it's I know in this
lockdown situation at home it's kind of
tough if you can have at least one
session per week per muscle group we
were just doing more traditional kind of
straight sets maybe even for higher reps
that's fine I would say it would be
slightly more advantageous than just
doing pure metabolite training for
everything because that's just gonna
peter out relatively quickly i think
you'll get a little bit more out of it
like if you're training chest for
example have one day where you're doing
push-ups maybe 10 to 20 or maybe upwards
of 30 reps and then have another day
where you're doing like more metabolites
or type type chest work and that will be
fine if you just did all metabolites all
the time it'll be interesting for the
first week or two and then by week three
and four you'll just be like
so question two
I'm increasing frequency within a
mesocycle 2 X 2 3 X 4 some muscle groups
does it matter if in the 2x frequency
sessions volumes are higher for one or
two weeks that are the 3x frequency
sessions no as long as the average
volume goes up which it will for example
week 1 10 sets of biceps 2 by 5 sessions
week 2 12 sets of biceps 3 by you're
about doing frequency changes within the
mezzo
with it I thought I just like reading my
mind I read that between don't change
frequency with there now within cycle
just don't do that and yes technically
speaking week to 12 sets of biceps 3 or
4 us this probably even out to be
roughly the same hypertrophy in other
ways this would not be a progression so
you might as well just do more so that's
it the amount of variability it
introduces to your mesocycle is just
like astronomical but so between mezzos
fine within mezzo know with a higher
frequency but lower per session going to
be less hypertrophic after doing
slightly higher volume sessions yes
would you get more session so it
balances out or would increase total
weekly volume overrule this if he could
just probably balance out so this is not
a progression don't do thanks for the
question ollie alright mr. hacker Daniel
hacker the one who hacks are there any
movements you adopted during quarantine
training that you hadn't done prior to
quarantine that you actually think will
stick in your program or that you will
add to future mezzos James I know this
doesn't apply to you because you've
always trade at home I have found that
the super heel elevated squat holding a
plate or dumbbell in 20 30 rep range has
actually been awesome but I truthfully
would have never done it in normal gym
settings but I would likely use it as a
lighter quad variant instead of maybe
leg extensions to failure top paws
barbell bent over rows in the 10 to 15
rep range and front foot elevated
barbell squats and 10 to 15 rep range of
also been awesome just keep for sure
keeping similar question has quarantine
made either of you guys well let's I get
that in a sec so James I guess this
question does not apply to you because
you don't have quarantine
and affecting your training I would say
that one exercise I will keep is the
superset of chest rows barbell rows to
chest to the nipple line to barbell rows
to the tummy it's actually been a really
really great movement similar question
has Quarantine made either of you guys
revisit your technique on certain
exercise of it more so and you might had
if you had a jam at any machine you're
available to you may be retooling some
exercises their past didn't work for you
now that really do this has happened to
me particularly with dips in this past
Mezo I was down on them for a wild I'm
grooving yeah skull Crusher's with a
barbell every tool my technique a little
bit mostly so my joints didn't hurt and
also I've been dealing with some
shoulder pain in my right shoulder and
had to retool my lateral raise technique
and incline dumbbell fly technique in
ways that are not optimal remotely and
as soon as my shoulder gets better I'll
be too he going back to the old
techniques ya raised on I I've had to
revisit my up retro technique a little
bit just because I've had like a nagging
because I'm doing the arms delts
emphasis and there's just a certain
range of motion where it cost us like
clicking and pain and I had to do a kind
of an overhaul and it worked out fine
you know it's one of those things where
it's just like a little little tweak
sometimes goes a long way fictional
fuckness says number one I've heard you
say that low MRV isn't always a bad
thing for hypertrophy so it lower memory
is always a bad thing rapper trophy if
it comes from anything except for this
one thing you're faster twitch muscle
fibers a lot of times it's over the way
I said that and the way I meant it is if
someone has a lower Murphy uh it might
be because of the fact that they're very
fast oriented and that's that's the good
thing that keeps them growing so just
because someone has a lower V doesn't
mean that they're gonna benefit from
having a higher one and especially don't
try to get a higher one by expanding
your work capacity pointlessly and
reconverting fibers away from that and
then he says um so you've heard you say
the longer V isn't always a bad thing
for richer people what about for
strength
apart from diet and sleep what are the
best ways to improve your strength
training I'm seeing some cardio but
maybe not definitely not cardio because
wherever you do cardio for strength
training you're just going backwards on
adaptations just doing more strength
training helps to expand your strength
MRV it makes you stronger oh that has a
point I would say that lower Marvy for
our chubby training is not always bad
because
four fibers but it's even more not
always bad for strength training so if
someone can't do high volumes and
they're hypertrophy trainee then I'm a
little bit worried about if it's coming
from some other place but they could
still be getting great gains whatever
but if someone has very little work
capacity and they want to train for
strength I'm not really very concerned
about that because you the amount of low
and where you have to get in the way of
your strength training we're really
really really yeah and this is another
one of those classic faced potentiation
examples where most of the models used
suggest either doing work capacity or
hypertrophy training to potentiate gains
in strength and power down the road one
of the reasons is is because strength
training is so rigorous that a lot of
people with low M RVs for strength will
hit like one set of six and then just be
fuckin dead for the rest of the week so
one of the ways you can do that is by
building a big base of work capacity
through either hypertrophy training or
just kind of more like sport or capacity
type training and then when you get to
your strength block you can actually
tolerate doing a pretty substantial
amount of strength training rather than
only being able to hit like a couple
sets per day and not very much out of it
that's what doc stone used to call
getting in shape to train yeah exactly
number two what if ever reas or VC is a
good idea come and close to say never
and the A's are incredibly available in
the weight protein so just or egg or soy
or anything
yeah thanks Doc's jeans get a haircut
I'm gonna quote a very very wise man who
once said I do what I want that's you
can one fictional fuckness you can suck
at ur to a point and stab yourself with
it what do you think of that ice hole
preferably in doesn't over blood supply
so you get sepsis alright
Payton down says hell gentlemen I've
heard both of y'all agree in saying that
training the soleus is almost pointless
but I want all the calf length and size
I can get I've been training the soleus
along with gastroc for a few years now
should I stop training as always report
on a maintenance phase for ever thank
you i watch from
Gunsan sea South Korea every week well
it's real cool
listen South Korea is terrible place
with South Koreans which are terrible
people I've just leave JK
two of her close friends are from
genetically from South Korea if that
makes any sense I will say this no
keep training them but look if you're
not seeing any difference or any gains
and you put on my maintenance um nothing
happens then yeah just it's really all
on you sure training them is gonna make
a difference James and I just say it's
gonna become very very small difference
and it may not be worth your time so
paint now would we ask your question to
yourself and I'm fairly confident that
any kind of straight knee straight calf
variation well if not entirely at least
partially hit a soleus absolutely grab
some fellows bigamous Judaism he always
says like look like when you straighten
your knees the soleus doesn't stop
working just that gastroc also helps so
yeah so I would say you can just do
straight knee versions and you probably
get an Envy there I have a hard time
imagining that what you would need more
direct work than that alright ernõ
toivonen says hi mister doctors and
number one several quote-unquote experts
have said that enhanced people sustained
protein synthesis for much longer time
that natural people do so natural people
should train the same muscle more often
and enhance people more scarcely for me
that sounds like bullshit bro science
you agree well the thing is like I'm not
aware of any fractions inside of great
studies timecourse studies unenhanced
people so idea where the fuck you got
that also seems to become yeah who knows
but so it's a friend someone you become
enhanced if you become enhanced in the
middle of your natty career of course
every single exposure to trading weights
is gonna make you grow muscle for longer
and more muscle the area to occur will
be bigger the thing is if you become
enhanced at the quote unquote right time
just the end of your natural progression
it just basically allows you to eke out
natural gains for longer the behavior
doesn't really change fundamentally so
now having said this enhanced people
both grow more muscle for longer after
any given training session if you
compare twins for example training the
same amount of time also they don't lose
as much muscle sash of a session session
so they can but they can recover fast
you're such an accession recession and
benefit even more from high frequency
training so that is to say enhanced
people should if they want their optimum
gains natural and has people should both
train at a higher frequency
period yeah not too high for frequency
that we can't recover that's it yeah and
that would that would you know seem to
be in line with the been of using
enhancement is that you could feasibly
train more frequently and morphine
that's early or what yeah or you could
trade less frequently and get this you
get the same games yeah yeah I don't
know how the fuck you do that oh man I
fucking there's guys like delay of
literally or people say like man the
reason I run trend is I can just eat
whatever I want to not get fat I'm like
wow you're destroying your health and
psychology for that like and really yeah
it's also like just like a very very
fragile person like you can't just
fucking deal with it like a normal
person you can't just like diet and
train like everyone else that's it's
really like that was really pathetic
number two some people I guess always
powerlifting oriented do deadlifts
that's with a long pause between each
reps a friend of mine for example did
six reps with the set took over 35
seconds even though he freefall the bar
always he is jacked and pretty strong
though isn't this causing very actually
high fatigue needlessly or does actually
have some benefit so I don't think the
pauses between reps cause any fatigue
actually lowers wrapped her up fatigue
so you could try harder in each rep and
the power lifer has to do that because
he's training for a one rep at a time
sport is that a good use of your time is
the single time ratio very good for that
no it's terrible which is why
bodybuilders don't do that I would say
there's there's there's some diminishing
return even on the rep to rep scale
where like after I don't I'm not don't
quote me on a number I'm just
spitballing but like let's just say like
after 20 seconds your ability to get the
next rep is not enhanced to a tangible
time you tiring yourself out yeah so
there's probably like diminishing
returns on that at some point but this
is one one thing why they use what we
call cluster sets in speed and power
development where you can have somebody
do like a clean pole and then they'll
wait like five or ten seconds
deliberately and then do another one so
that they can maximize the power output
on every single repetition so that ideas
been around for a while
number three best time during the
motorcycle slash program to get infected
with the Wuhan 19 Kovach coronavirus my
theory is that after a few days into a
deal oh to be the best when fatigue has
fallen significantly enabling the body
to have most of a strength to fight it
I'm not totally serious of this but I
plan this out
we get sick or you don't like I'm not
totally serious but I have been given
this a lot of thought since I want to
visit my parents especially my mom might
have some risk of serious complications
if infected in a general live normally
the way I see it I'm a healthy active 33
year old who will have only mild or even
those symptoms from the virus and anyway
with high probability get it anyway at
some point so why shouldn't I just get
it over with
well so I don't know how you plan on
getting it if you're gonna get it over
with this way it would be in control
also know for certain I have suffered it
already of course I would need to find
an effective person and French kiss him
or her to achieve so breakfast I'm doing
this isn't easy so I would say actually
at the end a very end of a deal owed is
when your immune system esters over
super powered and that's when getting
it's the best idea that midway through
but the rest of your question is held
both hilarious and insane I was having a
daydream of like 28 days later
zombie-like vomiting on Erno just like
you know I don't feel anything her no
would be the guy cuz he's fucking
finished he would be he'd be the guy
that like the zombie virus gets in his
mouth and he's like I don't feel
anything and they just never gets sick
never becomes a zombie or like really
that's it I suppose those zombie viruses
asymptomatic for many people all right
number four is strength or you know
training during weight loss diet
accompanied with recent civilization
okay
know for example two shorter mezzos 32
plus deal a week after three upper
trophy meadows remember any just for 10
less volume oscillation with small for
you know because when you're losing
weight so a lot of times strength
training relies on two things one it
relies on lower fatigue environments to
get you your best training and two that
training in weight loss has to supply
enough volume to keep you from losing
muscle and strength training first of
all the weight loss fucks it up at first
and it might not even do enough of a
second so it's bad either way slicing
yeah absolutely
and trust me it's not just a theoretical
thing like been there done that multiple
times it just doesn't work lead reading
them Lyle McDonald articles where you're
supposed to just like try to get trained
for strength for 16 weeks of the diet
turn it along with battle socks Oh Mike
have you seen you know the this guy in
Instagram is reps in reserve yeah
somebody sent it to me it's a I think
it's some guy that like really hates
Yong freeze or something like that
because I'm pretty sure most of them
take so many potshots and he's taking a
couple of like kind of light ones at us
it's funny like I don't I don't
I'm not butthurt about it his shit's
funny like he calls everyone a trophy
coaches and he's like don't I didn't
think it was funny but like funny funny
it was you know it's some banter it
seems like he really really has it out
for like you know like you know briefs
as far as I could also like some of the
memes are in German you're like okay
you're German yeah he's really big on
like he hates the maintenance or phases
he hates for are they are and he hates
people who weigh like 60 kilograms sure
all right mark Conway says already Mike
Arabs I always read that in Jamaican me
too
that's same as always I thank you both
for your sternal tutelage last week I've
now the final week of my modified
version of the metabolite phase from
five day male physique company I'm
training everything to failure and
subjecting myself to volumes I wasn't
sure I'd survive eg 17 and 18 sets per
week for chest and that respectively and
I'm actually thriving Wow nice that
pumps and performance are still great
but by the way is still increasing to
last the gains are good I'm at the upper
limit of what I'm willing to accumulate
fat lies 20-25 percent my questions are
feel your pain they're really it's
called fat that's not paint I'm starving
or like Stan's sister in South Park sure
turn stop hurts I like what she
occasionally like saves all their lives
or does a really good thing and he's
like hey thanks largely shut up asshole
[Laughter]
number one if my performance over the
week is great and I don't feel too
fatigued
should I add another week and
potentially more volume based on
soreness and attempt to reach my Emory
we just recommend simply delivering his
plan he's my number so just feature
metal circles yes this last one was
almost always the last one
alright number two as per last week's
advice I planned us start a resale
scintillation phase after my D load I'll
be using a recess position Mazda cycle
for the five-day BT is an outline
however as I only have access to nine
kilogram dumb Ellison can't increase
intensity week to week
how would you both recommend I structure
progression am I correct in thinking I
should keep the volume low throughout
training around three from fail you can
train three two and even one from fail
just make sure you cut the sets by a lot
yeah it doesn't have to be heavy that's
one thing that a lot of my clients have
been kind of whinging about and just
saying you know it's fine like you can
just basically do the same stuff we did
last time just a lot less of it and
it'll be fine
yeah number three I plan to maintain my
body weight during the recess inhalation
period once the gyms are open again I
like to start cutting would you
recommend I undergo another strength or
you know recent phase of maintenance
calories before cutting to regain some
strength I want to jump straight into a
cutting phase using basic very mezzo six
to twelve range with no real detriment
channa no I'm 50/50 on this James um
unless you have like really strong
strength aspirations I would say it's
unnecessary yeah
you'll bring in a lot of strength during
your first puzzle of cutting yeah bonus
question favorite DBZ saga and why I
would have to say cell saga simply
because that sounds great Vegeta oh
sorry sorry so Android late Android
early cell saga when Vegeta is saying
this to Super Saiyan for the first time
and when he ascends to ultra Super
Saiyan first mmm-hmm that's really good
I don't know if this is within this
context because he did say DBZ but
actually I really liked the deep this
Dragon Ball super the Galactic
tournament story arc was really awesome
I got it was awesome the first half of
all the movie good it's good the reason
one it's yeah it's not like it's not
like mind-blowing but it's good it's
worth a watch it deviates from the from
the original a little bit ya know the
first part of Dragon Ball Z super like
the first half it's like okay it's kind
of a like a collection of the the movies
and then some downtime but then the last
half because I look like I got through
the first half and I was like dude this
is lane and then Marcos is like no and I
was like yeah Marcos you've given me bad
anime advice before I don't know he's
like you know trust me just keep going
like the last part is really good and he
was right
kudos to him because the last half is
really good that's when they they do the
basic instinct or whatever yeah yeah I
mean like it's more of that stuff but
like the actual like that they did a
really good job of like introducing new
characters who were all like really
interesting and they did a really good
job of revisiting old characters on the
show and giving them like a moment in
the spotlight and that's I really
appreciated that so all the characters
that you're used to are there and
instead of like crowing and Yamcha just
sucking they actually have like little
moments of like
yeah all right
theythey both in advance sent me both of
you and your family's kind thoughts in a
spirit bomb like fashion Jesus Christ
that's fucked up you're a killer family
that's Jesus walls kind of you know it's
funny it's like the animals and the
plants give them like Goku kindness and
he uses it to fuck kill somebody
I know it's like kind of like be like a
Care Bear type power where he's like
soaking in their love and their kindness
and then he's like die all right
alpha dual alpha dual hi doctors I'm
currently studying BSC Nutrition 4e
recommendations just start coaching and
where can I find resources of our people
Ocelot periodization and making work on
plans well so in the videos that's
pretty much all of our videos um how you
got to this part of our p+ and you
missed that stuff what happened so I
wouldn't look in the webinars I would
just look in the video section
yeah weekly videos about all that
different courses and then as far as
starting coaching I would start coaching
your friends and family for free and
then when you do a good job with them
you advertise it and then other people
ask you then you charge them a little
bit of money and you go yeah that's a
very very sound advice
Eli Holland says greedy gents thank you
very much for your response from last
week
oh I just swallow air I hurts never do
that yeah you know like you feel it like
push out your ya throat yeah all right
thank you very much for your sponsor for
last week to clarify the concept to the
centric training that I was talking
about was basic barbell lifting like
barbell overhead presses push-ups bench
press push breasts etc I'm not
concentric only training
AHA oh okay as an example upper body
pressing routine might be barbell push
press 3x3 barbell over press 3 or 5
push-ups 3 by AMRAP headstand ab work 3
by 5 candlesticks
dragon flags 3.5 points 3 Albertine 7 or
10 RP you are appropriate I am making
progress and all my exercises but I feel
that intercession fatigue is limiting
the amount of high-quality volume I am
able to do for my core at the end of my
workout the next day my core feels just
a little works and I I could like I
could have done more volume and sent a
larger stimulus while still being able
to recover but if you're reasonably
suppose some other core work it to
either to my day workout or having it
dedicated directly to core work I would
say that to add a split 4 core work is
great could you see any benefit to doing
core work first of Accession that
barbell stuff no that would be backwards
because then your core wouldn't fucking
let me even more than all stuff yeah you
could do that on a day that maybe if you
just had some like light or dumbbell
work that you were doing and it wasn't
super core intensive but definitely not
on any table where you doing like a push
press or anything like that no no no
yeah I would just split it up into two
sessions just come back to it you
mentioned in someone else's response
last week that well Jim mr. Leeman fit
gymnastics trainees in efficient
hypertrophy do gymnast but many times do
the Royal training for strength not yeah
modern gymnast dude but they didn't used
to if they don't do powerful training
are they missing out on something
absolutely their tour goes I got pink
strength about transfers it gives here's
a good example of barbell trainer right
we don't even say barbell weighted dips
right because you must just do a lot of
dips usually and that's how they get
really good at dipping strength if you
do weighted dips you get way stronger
way faster and a transfers way way
better movements replicating the Iron
Cross and gymnastics can be loaded in
the gym for example with dumbbells and
you could progress to doing that
movement better than even progress just
so the thing most of gymnastics training
is traditional isn't they all they had
was the gymnasium and there are the all
the instruments they're absolutely
barbell training dumbbell training gym
training hilariously which is not
gymnastics is absolutely enhancing yes
there's another reason why a lot of gym
gymnastics coach haven't used a lot of
weight training is because they are
under the impression that lifting
weights just makes them big and heavy
which would be a major disadvantage for
gymnastics which there's there's a hint
of truth to that so all gymnasts have to
find their optimal competition body
weight and body composition there's a
power-to-weight ratio
they have to consider but they can use
strength training to get stronger
without necessarily putting on a lot of
size or any size for that matter frankly
if you can control diet so there's a
huge benefit absolutely to doing
dedicated strength training in addition
to gymnastics training as far as
biomechanics questions about shoulder
flexion extension lateral abduction
adduction I realized that was lack of
specificity that I was essentially
asking for a dissertation and shoulder
pad mechanical worries dude specifically
I was looking to understand the muscle
groups that are used during those
movements when the arms are above and
below 90 degrees what I guess I mean 90
degrees could be like abducted or could
be flexed right so there's a whole like
range in between there so you know going
to 90 degrees for straight out would be
a lot of front delt right just flexion
going out to the side abduction would be
a lot of you know lateral delt and then
some of the shoulder girdle muscles as
well going up and above it gets a little
bit different but it's still a lot of
the same like once you go past 90
degrees this is something I would say is
needlessly nitpicky if you can make it
up you the more you go above 90 the more
the short girl starts to rotate and so
you start to see like a lot more
activation of other muscle groups and we
can go through all that stuff but it's
why it's definitely you know so he
actually says in a similar question I'm
having a hard time understanding some of
the most elections that are going on
during some calisthenic movements let's
say or locks out in a dip position and
then we pull our torso up onto our
handstand
how are the muscles in our shoulders
back and core being used to pull us
upside down so a lot of its momentum
because you can't just fucking pull
yourself upside down and there's a bunch
of blood she's actually very complex
moves a bunch of stuff going on you got
muscles that are actively used to
perform certain functions for example
the front delts will be big in actively
doing that tons of static stabilizers
dynamic stabilizers are synergists the
way you can do that though is if you
start so here's what you do you can read
anatomy books and see words and
insertions remember muscles only pull so
you can figure a lot of stuff I like
that for any movie you want secondly you
could do the exercise of getting into
that position or out of it even if it's
assisted and even if it's partial and
start to see where do you feel it like
where are you feeling the burn where are
you feeling the tension where are you
feeling the where are you getting a pump
you know if someone tells you that traps
have nothing to do with overhead
pressing but you get massive trap pump
they're fuckin clearly full of shit that
you do use your traps right so it's
something like that there's also a lot
of elastic component to a lot of those
movements to where they're the muscles
are and the connective tissues are
pre-loaded and are actively recoiling
you back into position in a lot of cases
so there's like not only the contractile
component but there's also the series
elastic component to the tissues as well
the engine says something you know that
I would like to address he says I'm
looking at it and I see as a body moves
upside down the amount of shoulder
flexion increases like I don't know
front raise but it doesn't seem like the
anterior deltoid is doing and even
lifting because it's a torso does moving
while the arms are staying stationary so
I'm not really sure what's going on well
that's an easy answer
if you bench press and using your pecs
front delts and triceps the barbell
moves geez your front front delts backs
and triceps of course you do this we
need used to push what about on a pushup
your body moves the floor doesn't move
well it's the same fucking muscles right
so if the muscle if the front bells job
is to pull across the glenohumeral joint
either pulling the upper arm up or
pulling the body to it it disturb our
arm a stationary the body goes so it's
still the front no yeah but a bunch
other shapes recharge then Stephen
Alfred our last question for the rp+ the
portion do the Batman first I don't know
if I share this with you but there's a
fucking Batman me more it's a Batman and
he's like Alfred this sandwich is
terrible it makes me fucking laugh my
ass off every time it's like a leak cuz
you know what like here's what happens
Batman gets almost killed and he like
comes home in Alfred mother fuck makes
him like a worse juice and a ham
sandwich
oh my god I want some wings or something
come on man I'm hungry fuck's sake I'm a
fucking billionaire Stephen Alfred this
is dr. James dr. Mike a couple questions
regarding body parts specialization to
cut to gain psycho transitioning
okay I'm a 28 year old mid to late
intermediate lifter lifting weights for
ten years but I've only been thoroughly
period as a bother for last two or three
physique why I do not have any clear
ladee body parts but progression has
turned a slow noticeably cycle a cycle
thus far I've only emphasized the
balance program five or six days a week
two three sessions larger body parts
twenty-five or small ones journey my
core hypertrophy cycles generally should
I consider body part specialization for
my next gaining block yeah sure not a
bad idea
yeah if so can you provide some guidance
on specialising we have a shitload of it
and past webinars we have tons of videos
in RP plus about it for instance how
many body parts should I have says at a
time so there's no answer those the
answer is you start by emphasizing you
start by de-emphasizing just one muscle
group and seeing how much better the
training for the others get and if you
really and fundamentally the answer is
this if you're reaching systemic if
you're for systemic fatigue is getting
crazy and preventing you from
accumulating local fatigue as much as
you could be that's when you start to
emphasize to emphasize but generally
speaking what you do is you do emphasize
one muscle group for a mezzo and it
gives you a little bit more like your
training gets noticeably better for the
others and then after a few mezzos
you'll realize that that's not getting
noticeably better so you need to
emphasize two muscle groups and so on
and so forth whereas pro bodybuilders me
emphasize the emphasizes half of their
muscle groups at the same time and
you'll notice that doing that with
different muscle groups will have
different magnitudes of impact so if you
stop training your quads or your you
know glutes for example that's gonna be
massively or not not stopped raining but
train them at maintenance volume there's
gonna be massively impactful where it's
like not training delts or something or
biceps is gonna be minimally impactful
so it's there's a little bit of get some
check work that goes in with that
because you know quads and glutes cause
of Shimoda systemic fatigue and when you
go to maintenance farm be free office
torsion what a facility could just pour
it into the other month and he says for
instance how many about ever show up so
it's time should I emphasize a body part
four consecutive mezzos but what message
before emphasizing another one see
consecutive is best I would emphasize
the same muscle groups in a block of
training two to four sequence mesocycles
and then I would we sensitize and then
repeat with another group of muscles
same I'm currently nearing the end of a
prolonged cut ten we cut four-week
breaks and five a cut I only
come from 198 to 182 that's what do you
mean only that's really good that's good
but I pushed past my previous fat
setpoint and achieve an all-time low
body fat percentage with a second five
to cut block as a consequence I've had
to take my calories quite low in order
to limit fat gain I'm planning to spend
some time at my new level of leanness
before starting the gain again that will
not work don't do them I plan to run a
reverse diet to slowly bring my Venus
couch up for five or six weeks I will
likely shoot 475 calories a day
increased week to week I have no idea
how the fuck you're gonna program that
dude that's that's way needlessly
complicated just followed on a normal
look ahead James oh sorry I didn't mean
fu I was just gonna say finish your cut
take like two weeks off have a you know
keep your diet relatively tidy and then
get get right into mass ting at that
point yeah followed by a normal three to
four week or so cessation cycle with
this amount of time likely be enough
just how much my car body fat levels a
new set point absolutely not you're you
can't get to your all timeliness to
expect that you're gonna be your set
point it'll reset your settling point
for your normal body fat like down two
or three percent but so basically like
if you're five percent right now you're
not gonna reset the five percent
you're gonna reset they see you started
a 15 and now your five normally you
around 15 normally you're settling point
now maybe 12 or 13 yeah so that's how
it's gonna work so I would go
I wouldn't reverse diet like that I
would say within a week ease into
maintenance calories and just eat around
maintenance calories maybe a little bit
more because you gotta gain some fat for
your body to recover this kind of stuff
it's okay to gain fat after a fat loss
phase that's part of what recovers you
and part of what it allows you to
resettle and really like for this
transition you just need a little bit of
resynthesizing from your cut into your
mass face to keep you going and that
might be a very you don't you might not
need an entire mesocycle in length
the key would just be take as long as
you need which might be as little as
like one to two weeks and then just keep
keep your diet tidy at that point yeah
don't balloon Java mass slow mass and
you get the best of all worlds and then
he says also we're training volume you
suggest for five to six your styie five
to six week first I have for love I for
socialization I wouldn't suggest 5 to 6
but I would say that for your first
mezzo after you should be high volumes
to take advantage of all that eating
you're going to be doing and it's fun
when you get cool pumps
grow that in one meso of high volume
training and maintenance plus eating so
slight surplus take your in the entry
sensitization and go into the really
little volumes and then restart the
profession solid to the YouTube to
YouTube I will share the screen pool
minute we had a lot of questions today
all right
Berber Berber let's see first question
what and no episode of James Burke's
during the webinar over James shits
himself that's awesome
I've been pretty good lately yeah you
have kayo lore a Leo Radiohead oh okay
okay okay oh hey I wonder if we hae
Doc's hope you guys are doing well
recently came out of came out of a study
on protein distribution indicating the
three high protein meals spread over the
day we need to better games and then
what I mean what I don't know so I was
wondering why protein distribution seems
to be more important we're trying to
gain muscle out of energy surplus when
compared to maintaining during a deficit
actually there's a good reason for that
so maintaining muscle is just not that
hard so as long as you get your daily
protein it tends to work out if you are
gaining weight if you're not growing
muscle whenever you can be taking
opportunity to do that there's no making
up lost ground so for example if you eat
two meals a protein per day but miss the
third one you still get enough protein
in the other two that six hours or eight
hours that you could have gone up in
protein and thus grown that's just gone
like you're just not getting that eight
hours back whereas if you lose a little
bit of muscle during a low protein
feeding during it deficit if you eat
more protein later you can regain that
lost muscle for some extent so so
there's the answer to that I like I like
the question of the statement above with
caveman
it's been weird this last month I
watched these vids while I work out due
to Kovac quarantine you guys have become
my best friends says heavy started
having dreams that they were into oh my
goodness all right Riley asks how do you
adjust muscles
how do you how do you adjust volumes for
smaller muscle groups for instance
Nelson biceps parity basically never get
sore and usually get pretty pumped after
two or three sets how do I know when to
stop adding senses they never get sore
performance is the answer when they stop
when they decline in performance weak to
eat also I'm not sure the first week
volumes change from mezzo mezz oh
there's not a should you use the RP sort
of ghetto stimulus MeV stimulus
estimator like if you're getting a
decent pub and you feel like you've done
some work there then stop and then see
you next week if how you saw where you
got it and go from there well generally
speaking me we'll go up from sno-med oh
well like usually one or two sets or
something like that James is that
typically your experience yeah
absolutely I was gonna say it would be
weird for it not to go up a little bit
if everything is the same like if you
have the same general exercises same
general rep ranges for the most part
that would be strange but it's feasible
you might not alright last question last
actual question here - James Kearney
says for an individual who cares about
the big three and occasionally competes
one to two cups a year but wants to be
as jacked as possible what would the
yearly counter look like I was thinking
of two measures of hypertrophy probably
four plus one and meso of probably three
plus one then a low volume phase focused
on introducing two lifts specifically
three plus one strength lock and a peak
for taper context is five for male at
160 squat for 13 bench to 67 Delta five
thirteen that's a really good doesn't
for someone who's out or sixty pounds
roughly ten years of lifting age 26 so
James I would say that you got it pretty
well except for the metabolite phase I
were just fucking pasta completely and
replace that with training for strength
more training for a burger to be more of
a normal rep range I would want your
hypertrophy to be more in the 5 to 15
rep range for most things to more easily
transition to strength outside of like
lap training inside dog training which
you really could train in a rep range
because it doesn't transfer to
powerlifting performance and my calves
yeah I would say like your your your
annual breakdown would be something
roughly like 60% hypertrophy 30%
strengthen like 10% peaking for any
particular comp that you wanted to do
that would be like a really solid if you
if you're not really hell-bent on
competing and then like being a super
tough competitor I think that would be
fine because the thing is with the
strength training it's fun and it's
awesome but then it's like it's a big
opportunity cost if if like being a
jacked person makes you happy on a day
to day basis and being a power lifter
makes you happy once every six months
you know what I mean so it's like you
might as well just do more of a
hypertrophy stuff because it's something
that might just make you feel better
about yourself more often than not very
very good whoo we did it oh oh mama Mia
I why you take us along webinar doozy
all right so uh anything like any
housekeeping stuff from you
you wanna plug her got anything good
going on yeah folks my Instagram I'm
always sharing upcoming like since the
kool-aid nineteen thing is killed
face-to-face interaction I'm doing a ton
of like webinars and other folks are
organising like our special projects and
presentations I've got 1/4 cup of the
fuck it's called some kind of summit and
I'm presenting a very very new lecture
that many people have sort of heard
Inklings of here like how to proxy the
stimulus from training and how to do it
during training that various time points
they even how to proxy wrap to wrap if
you're getting good stimulus all the way
to set the set exercise to exercise the
end of a session in between sessions
even all kinds of cool lectures like
that and give me more for us aw so if
you just keep tabs on Instagram and the
shit I share and you might be able to
catch one of those that's super cool
possibly very good so follow my gun fuck
oh we have just released and we're
watching this is for sure true actually
it's happened to needs record a couple
days before you guys watch it free at
home multiple sessions per day workout
guide with a whole fucking program so
basically there's like if you're
training at home there's workout videos
and ization and everything for a
mesocycle of eight sessions a week and
as a cycle of 10 sessions a week and I'm
a cycle of 12 sessions a week that's 2
days every single day Monday through
Saturday so that's totally free so get
on the fucking site and get that shit
and at least look at it cuz it's a cool
program that you could run with normal
exercises when
call her mighty things over folks you
are losing money not running this
program are you kidding me oh my
goodness
my ahead of another video pop-up I think
today which is Tuesday so it's on some
sport training stuff common cardio
mistakes if you're interested in sport
training I have tons of ranting to do so
check that out and other than that will
be on next week as normal so we will
come guys later peace