so last year I decided I was going to
give this bear mode thing a shot for
about eight months
the basic concept isn't really anything
new I basically eat and a heavy caloric
surplus with the goal of gaining body
weight at a pretty rapid pace in my case
I went from about 160 pounds pretty lean
to 183 pounds balked so it was 23 pounds
gained and my 5 foot 5 inch frame which
was a pretty big amount of weight gained
in a pretty short period of time now
part of this was inspired by an
interview that I did with Alex from the
channel alpha Destiny where he basically
convinced me that being nice and bulky
in the 15 to 20 percent body fat range
is the single best way to look extremely
muscular on a day to day basis without
taking steroids to get yoked means you
got you got super wide neck oh the
mountainous traps by boulders shoulders
basically it's the UH it's the mass
portion right you look massive on a
t-shirt it's the upper back that's
popping out it's um it's that 3d
mountainous effect now it isn't just
about getting big and bulky bear mode
also means that you're gonna develop and
focus on training specific muscles like
the neck and the traps that when you're
in that bulked state lead to what Alex
would call a naturally enhanced
appearance I think the true bear mode
approach is different from just dirty
bulking or just getting overweight or
obese and that the goal is to actually
get as stacked as possible in your
clothes so maybe you lose your six-pack
but you still have a pretty flat stomach
and in general just look like a really
big beefy buff guy pretty much now I
took to this idea because in natural
bodybuilding spheres people tend to
focus on the exact opposite where the
goal is to look as big as possible on a
bodybuilding stage for one or two hours
while competing not necessarily on a day
to day basis most natural bodybuilders
just accept the fact that you will often
look much smaller in your clothes and
especially without a pump but because
you're so lean you tend to look very
massive on stage because of the
striations and the way that the light
hits the muscles and creates shadows
around them but last year I thought hey
I'm not planning to get on stage this
year I'm not competing and I've got
nothing to lose
that's why not eat up gain some putty
fat and give this bear mode thing
shot so having done that now and having
cut back down to a leaner body weight
again I think I have an official opinion
on this in my opinion I would say the
main benefit of going bear mode is that
you should be stronger all equal a
bigger body will mean bigger lifts and
this is why people in heavier weight
classes and competitive powerlifting
tend to be stronger than those in
lighter weight classes and if
progressive overload is the main thing
driving muscle growth then it makes
sense that if you're progressively
getting stronger over time then that
should lead to more muscle growth over
time as well however this isn't exactly
agreed upon by experts in the field and
before recording this video I got dr.
Eric Helms on the line and he actually
challenged the bear mode approach
outlining some research showing that
well you don't actually gain more muscle
despite being in a heavier caloric
surplus so let me challenge the the
concept a little bit and suggest that
perhaps nutrition is permissive to
weight training because you can't
force-feed gains if you're not lifting
weights nutrition itself is not going to
magically make you put on muscle mass it
will simply make you put on weight and
most of it will be body fat training is
the initiating event which induces
skeletal muscle to grow that tension
stimulus is then supported by our
nutrition and this doesn't necessarily
require a huge surplus and he went on to
explain to me some research from Garth
and colleagues which basically showed
that when you overfed one group of elite
athletes on a four day per week training
program by 600 extra calories on average
they actually didn't gain significantly
more muscle than the other group but
they did gain over three times the fat
mass so just about all the extra weight
from bulking was added as fat not as
muscle but I think it's worth noting
that this was just one eight to twelve
week study so perhaps more meaningful
differences would have came up would
have been detected over a longer time
frame but maybe not I think that the
bottom line here is that although you
might gain more muscle when going bare
mode you will undoubtedly gain more fat
mass which means that the next time you
have to diet down that chances are
you're going to either need to diet for
longer or diet more aggressively to get
that
excess body fat off again and according
to all the case studies that we have on
natural bodybuilding cutting phases that
are more aggressive tend to result in
more muscle loss so even if you built
more muscle while bulking up
you may also lose more muscle when
cutting back down now for the true a
bear mode adherent this may not even be
a real problem because the goal with the
bear mode approach is not to look as
aesthetic and hélène as possible to even
maintain a lean physique over time now
but the goal is to be as big and strong
as you possibly can be even if that
means adding some extra body fat but
despite the fact that you most likely
won't gain as much muscle as you'd like
to by eating in a large caloric surplus
I still think that if you want to get as
big and strong as you possibly can while
looking beefier and bigger in clothes
then I think the bear mode approach
makes perfect sense
alright so Pro number 2 when going bear
mode is that you really never have to
worry about cravings hunger or changes
in mood which you so often have to deal
with when trying to stay lean and I
would say this was probably the most
pronounced benefit for me I was pretty
sweet being able to wake up or be up at
1:00 in the morning
and have a slice of cheesecake and it
actually be a part of the plan
where you're eating to fuel your
strengths and performance in the gym and
actually try to gain weight well simply
accepting the body fat that comes as a
part of the process I actually think
that this can be pretty psychologically
stabilizing for many men to sort of help
break the spell of trying to look lean
all the time and instead focus on your
performance in the gym because I think
too much of a focus on aesthetics can
very often lead to a skewed body image
where in your head you may think you're
actually much fatter than you in fact
are so in my experience bear mode was
actually a pretty good antidote to this
because the goal was shuttled away from
aesthetics and leanness and on to
strength and size so that was great and
Pro number three for me was that I do
feel like I actually did look bigger in
my clothes and I just out walking around
without a pump especially in a hoodie or
a t-shirt you tend to fill out your
shirts more however the flip side of
this brings me to the first negative
which is that with a shirt off I think I
did actually look a bit smaller and this
was especially true when
flexing in good lighting so if you want
to look good at the beach or at a photo
shoot or even in a tank top I think most
people will look bigger when leaner even
if their body weight is in fact lower
and there are so many crazy examples of
this if you look at natural bodybuilders
in our offseason compared to when
they're contests shredded when posing in
good lighting they actually look way
bigger even if they are in fact lighter
and calm number two for me was that I
did tend to feel more sluggish in my
training get more easily winded
especially during high volume leg days
and I think that even though I was
stronger my work capacity was probably a
bit worse which is definitely bad from a
pure hypertrophy perspective since we
know that there's a dose-response
relationship between training volume and
muscle hypertrophy now a fairly simple
countermeasure to this would have been
for me to simply add in aerobic
conditioning work so I suspect that if I
had done say high-intensity cardio while
going bare mode I probably would have
been able to handle that high volume leg
training a little bit better but still I
think that cardio is really time
consuming and if you do it too
frequently it can actually interfere
with your ability to build muscle so I
do see this as a bit of a catch-22 for
going bare mode I'm so all in all I
would say that there definitely are some
pros definitely are some cons to going
bare mode for me personally I probably
will do the bear mode approach again at
this time I'll probably be much more
methodical with my own training and
really make sure that my strength is
scaling appropriately as I gain weight
and I think I'll definitely add in a bit
of extra cardio probably two to three
days a week so handling higher volumes
on leg days isn't too much of a
challenge and for you you want to also
keep in mind the research that dr. Helms
showed that you don't need to be in a
heavy caloric surplus to build muscle
and you also want to remember that
nutrition is permissive to training
meaning you can't force a muscle to grow
just by overfeeding it I'm so depending
on whether your goal is to look lean
while building muscle or to look as big
and beefy as you possibly can especially
in clothes and you'll have to make an
educated choice about whether the bear
mode approach or the lean bulk approach
makes the most sense to you now so I'm
going to put some general
recommendations up here on the screen if
you did want to pause it and read what I
would suggest for doing a bear
mode approach versus a lean bulk and how
I'd set everything up for that and
before we go I have to give a huge thank
you to audible for sponsoring this video
as many of you guys know I've made it a
goal of mine to read 50 books this year
and I think that the easiest way to do
that is by taking advantage of
audiobooks that's that you can listen
while on the go which makes reading so
convenient I'm currently finishing up
the skeptics guide to the universe by
Steve novella and it's seriously amazing
and I think if you have any interest in
science logic reasoning and skepticism
in general then you've got to read it
I've been using audible for the last
four or five years and I think it's a
great service if you'd like to get
started with your free audiobook and a
30-day trial and go to audible.com
forward slash Jeff Nippert or you can
text Geoff nipper to 500 500 and I'll
have that as the first link in the
description box below thank you to
audible for showing your support on the
channel I really appreciate it thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave me a like if you enjoyed the
video and I'll see you guys all here in
the next one