hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization we have a really cool
video for you today I've given us a lot
of thought I've trained a lot of people
I've diet consulted and coached a ton of
people and I realize that most folks
with careers and hobbies and school and
stuff like that want to get more
muscular over the long term let's say a
year and they want to get leaner but
real life is a thing and so sometimes
when you ask people to bulk through the
time of the summer which mostly they
want their shirt off if you ask people
to diet hardcore into December something
like that or through January it doesn't
line up with the rest of their life so
what I have developed for you is a
periodized plan for diet and training
that covers the entire year and makes it
super super convenient super awesome
lets you modify it such that over the
year you make gains and you get shredded
but all the phases make sense as to why
they're positioned where they are to
maximally improve your
lifestyle why periodize specifically
because I think you probably want three
things versus just training and dieting
and seeing what happens one you want a
physique that gets bigger and leaner
over time duh that's why you're in the
gym two you want ideally to have the
ability to be your leanest when it's the
season to show some skin again it's
awkward when you're Mega Peak bulk in
mid July and people are like let's go
boating and you're like uh it look like
a boat right now but fuck that and
you're the weird guy with your T-shirt
still on and of course you want the
ability to enjoy fun events and holidays
without having to diet right through
them you know there's a lot of articles
that I've written in the past and
commentary I've done about people's uh
take to what is it what is the best
approach to diet through the holidays
usually what I say is it's best not to
diet through the holidays eat some fun
Foods relax with your family and friends
there are good God 11 months out of the
year that aren't the winter holiday
month and you can just do that shit then
there's no big deal at all so putting
this all together by arranging your diet
and training in a
specific periodized fashion throughout
the entire year you can have it all you
can look great when you're expected to
look great you can look fluffy when no
one gives a shit because it's too cold
outside to see your physique and you can
make gains that entire time here's the
plan I'm going to outline it real quick
I'm going to talk about how these phases
work and then get into
specifics March April May or roughly
thereabouts you're going to do a fat
loss
phase June July August you're going to
do a slow gain phase through the summer
late August you take an active rest
phase generally two weeks of limited or
no training and generally at the end of
August I'll tell you why in a bit
September October maybe a little longer
you do another Fat Loss phase maybe a
little shorter we'll get to that in a
second as well and then November
December January and February you do a
muscle gain phase for sure and there's
going to be an active rest phase in
there as well so that you're taking care
you get two muscle gain phases per year
you get two fat loss phases per year and
you get two active rest phases for year
so checks all the boxes but why this
specific sequence why can't I do a bulk
in March April May good question here's
the
justification in the spring you're going
to do a fat loss diet because then
you're going to get to look leanest for
the summer
amazing nobody cares what you look like
during the spring anyway so if it's you
know March and or April and you're not
quite in the best shape yet who gives a
shit who the hell is showing skin in
April that's insane look if you live in
Australia sorry this is all going to be
backwards for you maybe you can still
rig it to be super effective ask a
kangaroo what to do or a koala they'll
help you
out secondly when June hits you've been
dieting for the entire spring and your
shirt comes off it's odd because people
are like holy shit you look great
exactly when you're supposed to and
here's a cool bonus feature dieting is
easier for almost everyone fat loss
dieting when the weather is warm outside
you're not as cold you're not as hungry
which is amazing when the weather is
cold outside you're both cold and more
likely to be hungry believe it or not
but when the weather is really warm you
don't get asung hungry you guys ever
been to like a tropical resort and
you're out by the pool and they've got
like the little stand where they give
you hamburgers and french fries and hot
dogs and you're baking in the Sun and
someone's like do you want a snack and
you're like I guess cheeseburger arrives
and you're like oh my God this fucking
son and it's human I ate this
cheeseburger I don't know about all this
man you eat half of it you're like
that's good enough give me some fresh
fruit or some shit but if it's winter
time someone's like do you want a
cheeseburger you're like yes why the
hell wouldn't I hell's wrong with you
and just existing with your lower and
lower body fat is a very comfortable
when it's hot if you're fatter when it's
hot it sucks if you're leaner when it's
cold it sucks so this timing works out
really really well because you are now
your leanest precisely when the
temperature is as they say in uh in the
British Isles hotting up which we in
America say heating up I don't know why
the hotting up thing thing but that's
something that's that is said in the
world now we're into the summer in the
summer for the first part of the summer
for most of it you're going to do a slow
muscle gain phase and at the end you're
going to do an active rest phase because
the muscle gain phase is really slow how
slow I'll tell you in just a bit because
it's really slow you never really get
out of shape during the summer you're
still in very decent physical appearance
by the end of the summer or close to the
end like you were in the beginning but
because you are gaining you have a
surplus in your diet you don't need to
fret and worry about hitting crazy
macros and starving yourself which
really does interfere with Summer Fun a
ton but also you can enjoy fun summer
treats and parties and cookouts and
things like that so you both enjoy the
shit out of your Physique in the summer
and get to eat some tasty food and
you're making gains Triple Threat
unbelievable now at the end of August
generally is when we prescribe active
rest when you don't really go to the gym
much you just chill out eat whatever
train basically not at all really give
your body a physical and psychological
break why do that because in most of the
world late August everyone's on vacation
anyway fun fact try to vacation in Spain
or Portugal or Italy in late August
ain't nobody around there's nobody to
fucking use nothing to buy at the store
fucking entire the entire fucking
country moved somewhere the fuck else
wherever they go and all the British
people show up and then there's no one
around to take care of them fun fact
right that's just the way it works
generally speaking in many of the modern
countries of the world late August is a
time when not a lot of people are uh
doing a whole lot of shit so and a lot
of people are vacationing great time to
go on a trip and amazing because you
don't have to train super hard or Diet
super hard you can take your active rest
in Late July if you like but uh August
is definitely the default and my highly
recommended
version now Summer's over the fall
begins you take about 8 to 10 weeks
through the early part of the Fall to
get leaner again this shreds off all the
summer fluff Because by the end the
August active rest you're a little
fluffy uh in the fall there's no more
naked times so who gives a shit you look
like it's Sweater Weather and well most
anyone can look like a human being uh
underneath a sweater and so you don't
have to worry about being super shredded
it's kind of like if you are there's no
bonus can you imagine being your best
shape and like late October and you're
like yes finally one day for Halloween I
can go as Macho Man Randy Savage and the
rest of the days I'm just bundled up
like everyone else and no one can tell
I'm lean look at my face bro can you
tell I'm lean like yeah stay calm good
God you can end this diet I'll give you
some more options in a bit but generally
right before Halloween if you're as lean
as you want to be or you can di it right
into about just before Thanksgiving if
you really want to get leaner still and
that's your call dealer's
Choice soon as right around the
Thanksgiving holidays hit and I'm just
using the American reference late
November you switch and do one of two
things muscle gain diet and some active
rest in there some place holiday eating
makes muscle gain a no-brainer if you
fat loss through the holidays you zigged
when you should have zagged and you
fucking made a
mistake you're going to put on a little
fluff but don't you worry about that
because remember you have next spring to
shed all of that off and you're going to
gain some muscle too so it's going to be
a really great thing there are very few
things more fun than hard ass training
and fun holiday eating amazing
combination and you can take your rest
during the winter holidays or even take
your active rest sometime in February
depending on how you want to do things
some people gyms around them are open
they want to smash that food and that
training during the holiday season but
for some folks they go on holiday they
go on vacation or the gyms aren't really
that open and then they just take an
active rest phase right around Christmas
time and New Year or something like that
if you're real Galaxy brained and you're
really dedicated and you have lots of
good gyms around and you're not worried
about folling on or off the plan Super
Galaxy brain idea is to take your active
rest in the first two weeks of January
strange right fuck would you do that
well think about it how many New Year's
resolutioners are there in your favorite
gym in the first two weeks of January I
don't know like all of them it's like
the Barbarian hordes invaded they don't
know what the fuck they're doing they're
watching hopefully our channel to help
them out it's a fun time for everyone
involved but if you're pretty Advanced
and you like the gym environment like
you like it and you have a choice to
take an active rest phase anytime and
you love to smash food and to smash
great training during the holidays soon
as Jan one hits you're off the gym for
two weeks so that by the time you come
back me there's some new faces but most
the old faces and the year resolutioners
are well for the most part after two
weeks unfortunately they're gone most
people drop off after a week or two and
then it's kind of like you can avoid
that whole Rush altogether and bonus
round is you can get New Year's
resolutioners to have a little bit more
space uh to themselves so which is quite
nice it sometimes works out really well
either way it
works now time for the technical
recommendations these are fungible and
we'll talk about that in a little bit as
well I recommend for your spring fat
loss phase to do roughly half a percent
to 3/4 of a percent body weight loss per
week as the goal for around 12 weeks
plus or minus and we'll talk about that
in a bit that's going to net you
something like four to 8% fat loss
pessimistically you can do even a little
bit better and that's pretty cool that's
a big dent for the summer muscle gain
remember earlier I was telling you guys
we're going slow because we don't want
to get too pudgy so I recommend a
quarter
of a percent of your body weight gained
per week all the way up to 375% gain per
week that means you're not gaining a ton
of weight so if you weigh 200 lb we're
talking about half a pound per week gain
I mean that's around 10 weeks of gaining
plus or minus you're only going to net
around 2 and a half to 4% body weight
gain through that time some of which is
muscle so you may be talking about maybe
two or 3% gain in fat look gotd be
honest with you guys if you finish your
fat loss phase at 11% fat you're nice
and lean you're looking great and you
bulk through the summer to 14% fat
you're still fucking pretty shredded out
you're still looking great it's not the
end of the world right it's not like
you're going Mega bulking and then
you're a fat fuck at the end of the
summer and you were working on a couple
girls that you were talking to you know
what I'm saying by the dock is that
where people in the summer hang out by a
lake and meet women any case I've
neither been to hang out by Lake nor
have ever met any women but
theoretically you know she's talking to
you and everything is going great but
every week you meet up at the dock
you're fatter and rounder faced and
bigger titties her titties may look
great but you have bigger titties in the
wrong way and then she's like ah things
started out cool but that fuck that but
this way you go nice and slow in the
bulk you just look healthier and have
more energy and you're happier and most
women don't give a shit about veins
anyway so nobody lost nobody found this
is a really really good approach
actually you're pretty lean the entire
time which is
great if you want to stay leaner I just
recommend getting leaner during the
spring fat loss phase a little bit more
aggressive in the spring get down to 8
or 9% you'll be 12% by the end of the
summer that's still fucking that percent
from a technical scientific perspective
still fucks so you're still good to go
active rest during the summer
maintenance eating around two weeks in
duration no big deal you're going to
look a little flop little floppier a
little uh flabbier no big deal fall fat
loss somewhere between half a percent
and 75% loss per week just like before
in the spring
this time around 8 to 10 weeks a little
bit
shorter and there you net something like
3 to 7% fat loss which is a really
really good amount of fat loss if you
really really grind into there and I
mean total weight loss so fat loss could
be a percent less than that that's still
fucking solid I mean imagine dropping 5%
fat you go from 15% fat to 10% fat
that's a fucking big
deal you're going to be much leaner at
the end of this perfectly setting you up
to bulk through the holidays amazing
it's weird to start bulking when you're
already fat but when you're very lean
not only do you psychologically want to
start bulking but physiologically and
anatomically you have tons of room to
grow so it's a really great
situation winter muscle gain 0.25 to
0.5% gain per week a little bit more
aggressive because look it's the winter
and you have all of spring to drop that
fat off so feel free to little eat a
little bit more and remember summer yeah
there's fun treats around but you're not
that hungry because it's hot outside
winter not only are the treats pretty
much fucking better because holy shit
holiday food is fucking amazing but also
it's cold as shit and you're less active
and you just eat more when it's cold all
sorts of porridges and shit like that
saw Stu pasta I love
it
so 14 weeks is of winter muscle gain
this is a good thing muscle gain takes
time and you're going to want to take a
lot of time to do
it around 3 to 7% of your weight gain
will occur there that's a lot of weight
gain potentially and some of it's going
to be muscle which is great but a good
deal is going to be
fat but you'll probably be leaner at the
end of that phase than last time because
last time you had minus one fall and one
spring of fat loss and guess what after
active rest in the winter where it's two
weeks of Maintenance eating and and
roughly no training you're going to be
ready to hit up Spring again shred
City get shredded have a couple more
pounds maybe even more of muscle from
that whole year and you just repeat and
repeat and repeat amazing now three
modifications to think about before you
you apply this to
yourself what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now first you can always and everywhere
slice a week or two off of the plan
duration or add a week or two on just to
match your schedule to make sure that
your phases work well if you have a
cruiser taken in early June there's no
sense in dieting through that just cut
it off early and you'll be ready to go
number two you can fuss with the rate of
gain or loss uh by a small fraction if
needed maybe you want to gain a little
slower than I said maybe you want to
lose a little faster be intelligent
about it be wise and you can get really
really good results tailored exactly to
your face Point number three this is a
big one you can always take especially
the fall fat loss phase because when you
think about
it in the fall in the spring fat loss
phase in the spring fat loss phase your
fat loss has two elements one is to
reduce your body fat to prep you for
further bulking but two is like to
actually look good so there's some
impetus for the spring fat loss phase to
be pretty serious but a fall fat loss
phase yeah you can get primed for gains
but you might already be lean enough to
gain plenty and it's not like anyone's
going to see what the hell you look like
after the fall fat loss phase short of
posting some after picks so feel free to
turn the fall fat loss phase in just a
four-week mini cut probably through like
the month of September or mid-september
to Mid October there you can lose up to
a percent of your body weight per week
every week for about four weeks Chi you
know 3 to 4% fat loss and then you can
take a much longer bulk 16 to 18 weeks
if not more through the winter if you
really need some size so if you're
biasing the plan towards being lean over
the course of the year your fall fat
loss phase should be like 8 to 10 weeks
but if you're biasing towards muscle
gain because you're already pretty lean
or Fu and skinny and you want more
muscle over the course of the next
following years then every year you
should do something like a 4-we uh mini
cut during something like September
October and then as soon as that's over
right back in to that winter bulk early
hash winter bulk Ash samsul there you go
I said all the stuff I needed to say
during this entire time by all means
feel free to click on the link in the
description use the RP diet coach app
and the RP hypertrophy app because if
you use them they're designed to be
periodized you arrange all of the needs
that you need to with all of them you
type in all the variables you need and
they'll Coast you through get you
amazing fat loss amazing muscle gain
phenomenal training and all the best and
you just have an entire plan for the
whole year so that whenever you need to
be shredded you're shredded whenever you
need to be super bucked you're super
bued everything is good you're happy you
have friends even your dog looks at you
differently nodding an approval there
his dog wisdom what anyway questions hit
them in the comments I'll see you you
guys there
peace