one of the ways maybe the classic way is
to pull the bar straight down and touch
right around your clavicles right at the
base of your neck nothing wrong with it
great option another way to do pull
Downs is actually to touch somewhere
along your sternum just below your pecs
and of course everything in between is
also a valid answer which one of these
is better for lats no clue you could be
built a little differently than some
other people and the answer is
completely different could be all the
correct answer could be none the correct
answer but if you don't know about it
you might have written off the lp pull
down is not a great exercise if you've
only been touching the clavicles try a
Mesa cycle of 4 to 8 weeks of training
where you go to the sternum every single
time and you may find that that's better
and vice versa