the use of single joint exercises has
actually been questioned in the
literature with the 2016 review
concluding that the use of single joint
exercises provided no additional benefit
to multi-joint exercises for hypertrophy
however as pointed out by response to
this review by Riviere and colleagues
they existed only three studies and
therefore there were many others single
joint and multi-joint exercises not
explored making the conclusions of the
review premature this begs the question
are multi-joint exercises enough for
stimulating optimal hypertrophy more
specifically in this video we'll be
taking a look at the bench press and
awesome whether the bench press alone is
enough for growth of the triceps this is
what a recent 2020 study by brand√£o and
colleagues explored 43 untrained men was
split into one of four groups a multi
joint group a single joint group a multi
joint plus a single joint group or
single joint plus multi joint group the
multi joint group performed the bench
press only the single joint group
performed triceps skull crushers only
the multi joint plus single joint group
performed the bench press
followed by tricep skull crushers the
single joint plus multi joint group did
the reverse of this they performed
triceps skull crushers first followed by
the bench press for the exercise or
exercises the group's performed at 80
percent of 100 max load was taken to
failure each set 3 minutes of rest was
given between sets all four groups
trained twice per week for 10 weeks from
weeks one to four three sets per
exercise were performed for all groups
from weeks 5 to 8 4 sets per exercise
were performed for all groups from weeks
9 to 10 5 sets per exercise were
performed for all groups
EMI was used to measure cross-sectional
area changes of the pectoralis major and
triceps brachii before and after
additionally cross sectional area of
each triceps brachii head was measured
before and after what the researchers
found was that for pectoralis major
cross sectional area the multi joint
group the multi joint plus single join
group and the single join Plus
multi-drug group experienced
significantly greater increases compared
to the single joint group and this makes
sense
the single drunk group were the only
group not training the benchpress which
of course primarily trains the
pectoralis major interestingly despite
the lack of between group significance
performing the triceps skull Crusher's
before the benchpress
resulted in a lower relative growth of
the pectoralis major compared to the two
groups performing the benchpress first
it could be speculated that performing
the triceps skull Crusher's before the
benchpress fatigues the triceps
resulting in the triceps being more of a
limiting factor and benchpress
performance meaning the pectoralis major
receives less of a stimulus for triceps
cross sectional area increases were
statistically similar between all groups
however I believe this is probably a
type two error as looking at the
percentage increases the multi joint
group did experience half the gains
compared to the other three groups
performing triceps skull Crusher's
therefore it seems the bend rest alone
is not enough for triceps hypertrophy
this is further supported when looking
at the growth of each triceps head
interestingly the benchpress does seem
to be good for growth of the lateral
head as of the groups that were
performed with the benchpress displayed
significantly greater growth of this
head compared to this single drug group
that only performed triceps core
crushers however for the long head there
were significantly greater increases for
the groups performing triceps skull
Crusher's compared to the multi run
group that only performed the Benjamites
increases in cross sectional area for
the medial head were statistically
similar between all groups however again
this is likely a type two error as the
groups that train triceps skull
Crusher's experienced roughly double the
growth compared to the multi drug group
training only the benchpress
so as we can see the benchpress does
seem to be good for growth of the
lateral head however for the medial head
and especially the long head the bench
rest alone is not enough
concerning the long head its anatomy can
help us to understand why the bench
press is ineffective the long head is
the only head of the triceps that
crosses the shoulder joint therefore
aside from elbow extension it is also
evolved as shoulder extension which is
putting arms behind your body and
adduction which is putting your arms by
your side as a result during the
eccentric phase of the benchpress as the
shoulders are extending the long head is
shortened therefore on the upcoming
concentric phase it cannot contract much
further and so its ability to produce
force is limited with triceps skull
Crusher's the shoulders are maintained
in a flexed position meaning the long
head can produce force effectively
throughout the movement interestingly
putting our shoulder into even more of a
flexed position such as during overhead
tricep extensions should stretch the
long head even more potentially meaning
eclipses are even greater force but
regardless for optimal development of
the triceps in the long run it's
probably a good idea to include various
elbow extension exercises at different
shoulder elevations
[Music]
additionally as we have seen the
benchpress and even other multi-turn
exercises like overhead presses will
undoubtedly contribute to hypertrophy of
the triceps however the use of single
joint tricep exercises are very shoulder
elevations is still necessary to ensure
we target the three heads optimally