and for almost everyone 5 gam of creatin
monohydrate every day and timing doesn't
matter is going to sort you out and it's
going to be about a week week and a half
long period where the creatine's loading
in your cells and it's filling your
muscles up your pumps are going to get
better you're going to look a little bit
more jacked all the time and the people
respond to creatine the most are usually
ones that eat the least meat especially
red meat in their diet so if you're
vegan taking creatine might change your
 life if you're a carnivore
taking creatine might have absolutely no
impact on you whatsoever if you take
five grams of creatine daily it's going
to sort you out it's not going to like
revolutionize your physique but it's
going to be something that you know is a
ritual for you to take and under the
hood it's absolutely causing some
positive changes they're small but
they're there just like I tell the
ladies I'm small but I've been following
you around for years years I know
everything about you I've been
collecting your hair too would you like
to see my doll I made of you sorry that
was for another video I'm sending to
Patricia