welcome back Dr M Warfare PhD in sport
Science reacting to Eugene Tio to be
perfectly transparent I haven't watched
any of his videos before so in the
spirit of actual # science this is about
as unbiased as it can get I'm going to
be reacting to his advice from the point
of view of a sports scientist that is to
say my standard for evidence or what
makes for good solid advice that we can
give to people confidently might be
different from a practitioner let's see
but I also try to see things from a
lifter's perspective as I am in fact a
lifter without further Ado let's get
into the video here 10 Things I wish I
knew earlier about training legs these
tips wouldn't have just helped me build
muscle and get stronger but do it in
less time more effectively whilst
improving ability and over athleticism
and they would have really helped me
fall in love with the process a lot
sooner as opposed to feeling like I was
just forcing myself to do the work
because I had to and not because it was
something that I truly enjoyed so first
up is to lean back on the leg extension
this is one of those things where
science is starting to catch up to the
Bro Science from decades ago leg
extensions are one of the few ways for
us to train one of the muscles of the
thigh called the rectus Fus laying back
as opposed to sitting upright places it
into a slightly more stretched out or
longer position which based on a few
nerdy muscle physiology principles like
stretch metal hypertrophy and the length
tension relationship seems to be a
slightly stronger and more effective
position to be training a muscle from so
give it a shot I usually find that most
people end up up being around 20 to 30%
stronger on this once they get used to
it which means you can expose your body
to more tension and stimulate more gains
you don't have to lay all the way back
to your completely horizontal the goal
is to open up your hip angle to find
your own comfortable position so you
still want your butt to be in contact
with the seat so you don't lose
stability so I think the first tip is
actually pretty solid this aligns
perfectly with the muscle length
research that I've been involved in I
think there's a few things to consider
here though you might know that I
recently released a short that is
entitled is the leg mention the worst
quad Builder and I kind of Stand by that
because the discussion of what is a good
and bad exercise fundamentally hinges on
what alternatives are there and exercise
is only good or bad in relation to other
options available and by quad exercise
by the way I mean commonly perform quad
exercises not withstanding technique cuz
technique can be bad or good on any
exercise equally you have to keep in
mind that when we're discussing
exercises we're discussing them on
average there's always going to be
context to consider so for you the leg
extension might not be the worst
exercise but my point is that it might
be the worst exercise on average for the
average train knee when it comes to the
Alternatives present I think if you have
a lovely leg extension like the one
shown in this video right here which
allows you to lean back a bunch get your
hips a lot more extended thereby
lengthening the rectus foror to a
greater extent the leg extension might
no longer be the worst quad exercise
absolutely I agree with you J here that
if you have a leg extension and you want
to make it more effective and you're set
on using the leg extension in your
training leaning back is going to be a
great tool but personally I still think
the reverse Nordic curl which allows you
to fully extend your hips and fully flex
your knees and the same thing with the
[ __ ] squat are going to be slightly
better in terms of getting you a full
stretch on your Reus femoris and being
most challenging in that position
because ultimately most leg extensions
do still suffer from limitation that
there is very little tension at the
bottom in the stretch position compared
to the top but by and large I agree with
Eugene here second tip is to use a
variety of load carrying options for
single leg exercises like lunges split
squats and step-ups people think single
leg exercises are designed for two
things ironing out side to side
imbalances and to improve total overall
balance now strength discrepancies
between sides May improve some but will
always have a strong side and a weak
side as for balance that is more a side
effect of the exercise and not
necessarily the goal if you really want
to work on your balance you'd be doing
balancing drills like standing on one
leg the real reason why we do single leg
movements is to access different amounts
of rotation occurring at the hips when I
hold the weight on the non-working side
only or what's called contralateral
loading this pulls my body imp pelvis
towards the working leg which increases
the challenge on hit Mobility over time
Ipsy lateral loading is holding the
weight on the working side only and has
the opposite rotational Force which
makes it slightly easier to push out
from the bottom position and if you hold
the weight on both sides you don't get
any of that but you do get nice
stability that can help you overload the
muscle neither is better or worse I'd
simply be looking at asking yourself
what have you been neglecting and does
it show up in things like poor HIIT
Mobility or the ability to rotate your
legs by and large I age with Eugene here
I don't think worrying about your HP
Mobility is something most people need
to do unless you have terrible Mobility
increasing your Mobility isn't
inherently going to increase your health
or what have you and I think the bigger
reason to use unilateral exercises is
actually completely different and that
is to reduce the load on your spine by
training one leg at a time you're
effectively roughly having the weight
that your core needs to stabilize that
your lower back needs to work to extend
your spine against Meanwhile your leg is
still getting a great stimulus and so if
you have some back pain or if you tend
to be bottlenecked by how much your
lower back can recover from then maybe
using single leg exercises can be a
great way to get more effective volume
in for your legs without necessarily
loading your spine or your core in
general that much third thing is to lean
forwards while doing s leg pills I love
sat leg pills they probably the most
bang for your buck direct Hing exercise
for building end range strength and
muscle without putting any load through
your spine and creating extra fatigue
like you would through a typical hinge
variation like good mornings or
remaining deadlifts they also give you a
lot of stability so all you have to
focus on is pushing as hard as you can
without worrying about much else here's
something that seems obvious but most
people don't realize right away when
you're at the start of a seated leg Cur
you're in the exact same position as the
bottom of a Romanian deadlift so what
does this mean it means just like the
RDL we're in a really good position here
to be stretching the hamstring and
getting it loaded up in that position so
when IQ and RD yell I normally think
about making my chest as proud as
possible to tip my pelvis forwards to
increase the stretch on the back of my
legs and the same thing can be done on
the seated leg kill to get that extra
stretch as well check out how Pro
natural bodybuilder and black belt and
Brazilian jiu-jitsu Jimmy house sets up
this exercise so here from this position
I'm going to be leaning forward as if I
was trying to touch my toes pull your
chest up and straighten out your entire
spine here Flex the quad squeeze through
that hold control on the way back load
the Centric Flex the again you should
feel that stretch and squeeze and that's
one of the best ways you can use a
simple machine that you can find at any
commercial gym to help mobilize your
hamstring I agree with Eugene here and
in fact I have a whole video on the best
hamstring exercises up here somewhere
where I think the seed light C is the
single best leg C variation for
hamstring growth and I also agree that
leaning forward is going to further
lengthen three heads of the hamstrings
the ones that insert the hip that's to
say every head but the biceps for more
is a short head and therefore likely
lead to more hypertrophy indeed we have
a study by mywing colleagues directly
comparing the seed leg curl to the lying
leg curl showing better hypertrophy of
the hamstrings again the ones that do
insert at the hip with the seated leg
curl compared to the lying leg curl we
essentially greater hypertrophy in
hamstrings when you're lengthening the
hamstrings to a greater extent and so
leaning forward is just another way to
further increase the stretch next up we
have using straps for front squats the
load placement on front squats allows
you to more easily get into a full depth
squat so even if you have horrible
mobility and proportions most people
find it easier to get into a front squat
than a back squat the only issue is it's
limited by how effectively you can hold
the weight up in front of your body if
you don't have the mobility for a clean
grip most people opt for the cross arm
variation which is perfectly valid but
it's also quite challenging when you get
tired another option is to use straps to
work around your wrist and shoulder
Mobility you simply attach them to the
bar where your hands would normally go
pull them tight and use them to keep the
bar fixed in place you're able to focus
on the same cues as you would with the
clean grip to tension your lat an upper
back without worrying about the bar
rolling forwards down your arms another
great option for anterior load helps you
stay more upright while sorting is the
zerra carry position although that
definitely takes a lot of getting used
to I agree with pretty much all of that
I don't really have much to say except
that the zerra squat in my experience
does limit depth to an extent I rarely
see because of the way the bar is being
held and the elbows getting in the way
of the legs and what have you from what
I've seen most people don't manage to
get quite as deep in a zerra squat
compared to a front squat tip number
five is training cares first I think
many people get stuck into the same
pattern of training a big compound list
first it's always squats first but there
are also going to be a lot of benefits
of training other areas like your Cales
or hamstrings first first and foremost
is from a basic priority standpoint
whatever you do first you're able to
give the most attention and mental
energy towards which is why you'd pick
the hardest compound exercises to go
first usually but that often leaves the
same exercises and body parts to be
tacked onto the end of a workout and
they wind up becoming more and more and
more neglected and weaker long term
carves and hamstrings are are the
biggest two ones that get overlooked
here JN Meadow was a big fan of doing
leg kills before squats as well to warm
the hips and I think that's really great
I like to extend it down to the cares as
well no matter how hard you go you're
not going to completely wipe yourself
out to the point of decreasing
performance on the big like your squats
and deadlifts but if anything you're
probably going to improve your mobility
and stability and you're going to
finally start training an area that has
been neglected for so long yep I
completely agree with this and I have a
whole video on exercise order here which
kind of broadly aligns with this idea of
potentially your leg curls and your
calvs first neither of them are going to
impact your performance on squats but
the other way around squats do tend to
impact your performance on leg curls and
calves just by being more systemically
fatigued and additionally doing calf
raises before any sort of squatting type
work whether squats like press hack
squats can actually be a great dynamic
warm up wherein you become more flexible
in your ankles thereafter and are able
to get deeper into your squat so not
only does training calves first
potentially lead to better performance
across the session but it also
potentially allows you to get a little
bit deeper in your Squat and by getting
deeper you're training at lower muscle
lengths which to bring it all back to
the thing that people always complain
about me talking about too much is
probably good for muscle growth I am
sorry for talking about my phd's topic
and trying to communicate science to you
I apologize number six is while we're
talking about mobility and specifically
the ankles elevating your heels when you
squat is not cheating people often say
it's a Band-Aid or crutch for poor
mobility and is just masking your
problem without addressing it well for
many people this problem isn't poor
Mobility it's literally their bone
structure where you can have two people
of similar Heights but incredibly
different relative leg lengths and torso
lengths all else being equal people with
longer torsos and shorter femur will
have a more upright Squat and easier
time getting into a deep knee Bend squat
than people with shorter torsos and
longer femur elevating the heels in this
case would be giving those longer femur
people a relatively shorter femur which
helps to balance things out a little bit
more now if that's cheating then I as
someone who has genetically good leg and
torso lengths for squatting I'm
permanently playing the game in guard
mode elevating your heels on a wedge or
using squat shoes or even just a couple
of small plates can make your squats
feel so much better which means you can
train even harder and get more out of
your leg days which sounds pretty good
to me yep I agree and even the people
who are all about functional fitness
that is to say getting functionally
better in your everyday life through
lifting I don't think there's much of a
case here for saying that oh if you're
elevating your heels that is somehow
worse it turns out in everyday life
you're not really ending up in an astig
grass position all that often anyways to
begin with and therefore it doesn't
really matter if you use for example
weightlifting shoes in your training or
if you use heel elevated squats and
ultimately if you want a bit of a rabbit
hole the benefits of lifting weights and
of cardio actually max out pretty early
you don't need to do a ton of cardio or
lifting or lift in a specific way to get
the vast majority of the health benefits
and it really doesn't take much so to
think that is vastly less functional for
your overall health to use weightlifting
shoes or to use a heal elevation when
you squat I just don't think there's
anything think we have to claim that
with confidence and yes my evidentiary
standard for what we can actually claim
with confidence might be very different
from yours personally unless there's
relatively compelling evidence in favor
of a claim being true I won't make that
claim with much confidence if any I
might just rely on saying hey look as a
coach I've noticed this that isn't a
very strong claim and I make it clear
but if someone's making a very strong
claim very confident claim based on no
evidence look they may be right but
there's a very solid chance that they
were and certainly the way that they've
arrived at that conclusion does create
some issues this next one isn't one that
I do a lot anymore but it definitely
serves a purpose it can be an absolute
game Cher for a lot of people so have
you ever lifted up a way that you've
done before so you know you can do it
but on this specific day it just felt
really heavy and your performance sucked
because of it if so this tip is for you
doing explosive jumps at the start of
your workout and even immediately before
your work sets on exercises like squats
or deadlifts May improve your overall
performance this trick relies on a
theory known as post activation
potentiation or in simple terms the
activation of all the muscles in a max
if a jump carries over to your max lift
and improves the activation there we
often think of muscle activation
happening like an onoff switch you
either turn on your muscles and lift the
weights or you don't and that's kind of
true but not the complete picture muscle
activation happens a little bit more
like a dimmer switch we've got these
really big strong powerful muscle fibers
that won't get activated until we
absolutely need them it takes a lot of
energy and effort to use them so your
body prefers has turn that dimmer switch
only maybe a quarter or half the way up
and activate only the smaller weaker
muscle fibers if it can get away with it
now that's fine but if we flash back to
you're going to pick up a weight that
you know you can do but it feels a lot
heavier than it should that's usually
because your body hasn't recruited all
of his muscle fibers yet which would
probably mean it's going to be one tough
set doing just a couple of Max effort
jumps is a really simple way to turn on
all your muscle fibers and get them
activated that activation should then
carry across to your main work sets so
we're not doing this to generate a ton
of fatigue with super High Reps and if
you need to you can take maybe a short
race before you doing the actual work
set of it is you're doing but if you
struggle with this sort of thing it
makes a pretty noticeable difference
immediately by and large I agree with
Eugene here couple caveats though one is
that I actually read a recent
unpublished systematic review on the
topic of post activation performance
enhancement for boosting performance in
the gym caveat number one it is likely
going to have the biggest effect about 4
to 10 minutes after you do that jump or
the explosive task caveat number two I
think you may be getting the benefit as
far as post activation performance
enhancement goes by just doing that lift
in an ascending manner gradually
increasing the weight but being as
explosive as you can on those warm-ups
for example let's say you're walking up
to 500 lb for a single on De LIF if a
few minutes before that single you maybe
do a single warming up with 450 and you
perform that as explosively as possible
there's a good chance you're getting
that post activation performance
enhancement effect from that 450 single
already and adding in that jump might
not actually confer you any additional
Advantage tip number eight is don't
neglect your add doctors your add
doctors are your inner thigh muscles
that work to pull your legs from a wide
stance into a narrow stance they also
one of the Prime hip extensor muscles
that help you out of the bottom of a
squat we don't really think of doing
much direct adductor work outside of the
seated adduction machine which I'm
guessing for many of you is something
you aren't really doing because it's a
pretty fluffy accessory exercise overall
but given the size strength and role of
the adductors and the fact that we don't
do much work directly TRS and bias ISM
this is a huge opportunity for us to
make some pretty big wins by adding in
just a small amount of working so doing
some wider horse stance work like
deadlifts and squats in these wider
positions is a really simple way to
start to act them a little bit more
they're also going to be working a
little bit more when we have that
rotational element from the earlier tip
on the single leg exercises so do that
too adding in just a few exercises like
seated adductions or Copenhagen planks
and other variations are also great
options so I agree with Eugene here that
training the AL directly is a pretty low
hanging fruit to improve your leg size
and in fact I have a whole video on my
routine somewhere up here and you can
see that once a week I do my hip
adduction and hip abduction superet to
train those muscle groups that get
neglected what Eugene didn't mention
here is that the only muscle in the
adors that is actually responsible for
hip extension is the adapter Magnus the
other two muscles that are grouped
underneath the adapter's umbrella the
Ador longus and breus don't actually
perform hip extension and importantly
this makes for an even better case for
including some Ador training in your
routine if you can and have the time to
do so because those two admittedly
smaller muscle groups otherwise don't
really get trained all that well in your
routine and just adding in maybe once a
week some direct Ador work might get
them to grow pretty substantially as
they are functionally untrained next up
is all about improving your mobility and
range of motion just about everybody has
tight hips doing stretching can
absolutely help but a big rock that many
people are skipping over is adding in a
deliberate 3sec pause in the bottom of
exercise that emphasize the lengthened
or stretched position for their muscles
so think of things like calf raises
which emphasizes dorsy flexion and the
ankle joint or a Romanian deadlift which
emphasizes hip flexion and the
hamstrings and a weighted pigeon or
seated good morning for the hip
abductors and glutes and a split squat
for hip extension and quads it doesn't
have to be complicated just try to
include at least one exercise per week
for each muscle group that takes the
muscle to its completely stretched out
position underload and prioritize it
with an extra 3se second hold in that
stretch position on every rep I love it
on calf raises in particular as many
people tend to bounce out of the bottom
here because of how small that range of
motion is and how relatively strong
their Achilles tendons tend to be in the
ankle so this will build active strength
and stability in all those hard-to-reach
places which will make you more mobile
and resilient long term so I'm not sure
about resilience necessarily I think
just training in general will make it
pretty resilient I don't think pauses
will necessarily increase that but I
agree with this and in fact as a
methanal is comparing the range of
motion improvements or essentially your
Mobility from specifically passive
stretching to lifting weights and in
fact the improvements in your Mobility
or flexibility or range of motion over
time are similar and while it doesn't
need to be a 3second pause it could be
one second pause it could be just
spending more time in that lengthen
position by increasing the stretch in
your exercises doing lengthen partials
for
example always bringing it back to Leng
and part baby all of that may get you
slightly more flexible over time just by
virtue of lifting weights and
potentially even more flexible than just
training through a full range of motion
with no constraints on the range of
motion or no constraints on the tempo
last tip and probably the most important
that I still see so many people arguing
about is that you don't have to do
barbell squats when you train legs
whether it's due to structure Mobility
or simply preference many people don't
want to do barbell squats I feel like
they have to because it's the king of
exercises squats are an essential patent
to be training as is lunging but doing
it as a specific movement of barbell
squats is not there are so many other
free weight or machine based options
available for you to train your body to
its limit while I think most people
should work on gaining Proficiency in
the barbell squat at some point it's
absolutely not an essential movement
progressively overloading your body over
time and being consistent is important
so do whatever allows you to do that and
you'll get fantastic results and for his
final tip I do also agree with him I'm
not sure I would classify any pattern
even as a function ly necessary that is
to say essential that you have it in
your routine for instance let's say you
can squat for some reason or you really
don't want to squat I think you would
probably get mostly the same health
benefits at least maybe not hypertrophy
by doing some rdls some leg extensions
and potentially even some lunges
although that may fall under the whole
Squad umbrella but overall I do also
agree with this claim as well so that is
my reaction to Eugene Tio's 10 tips for
bigger legs overall I've got to say
besides some slight caveats that might
stem from me being more familiar with
the research or him having a bit of a
different experience more practically I
think this was really solid like I would
give it just considering there's 10
points here right and I agreed with
virtually all of them minus minor
caveats I would get this like a solid
eight or n out of 10 very good very
practical solid that's my reaction if
you enjoyed the video leave a comment
down below like the video subscribe let
me know who else you want to see me
react to If you'd like me to take care
of your training and nutrition click the
link above and I can start coaching you
in the meantime have a fantastic day and
I will see you in that next one peace