hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
natty training versus enhanced training
what are the differences you may be
curious first a caveat
what do we mean by enhanced
well watch our video that we put out
very recently
how much muscle do steroids add i'm not
sure what scott the videographer
actually titled it but something like
that hopefully we'll link it for you
guys watch it before you watch this so
you have a lot of context for what we
mean by natty or not you don't have to
watch for this video but it'd be kind of
neat also it will increase our clicks
that gives us more money it gives me
more lamborghinis and you know the only
reason i'm alive is to collect
lamborghinis
now
per that above video i will treat all
enhanced people as advanced natties who
have chosen to become enhanced okay they
are already advanced lifters training
for 10 years and then they go enhance
now what are the differences because a
lot of the differences we see in
training natty versus enhanced is
actually training beginner versus
advanced because very few people are
enhanced and super jacked and famous
when they're beginners because it just
takes a while right
so
training differences i count four major
ones and i'm sure i missed a bunch of
little ones please ask in the comments
below i'll try to address it maybe make
a follow-up video first training
difference
is
enhanced people should probably take
longer warm-ups because they're not
really big and really strong and if they
don't if they rush into training they
can get hurt
another thing about drugs is generally
speaking a lot of the ones especially
the bodybuilding drugs they make your
muscles really big and they make your
tendons a little bigger but not as big
as you would think so it actually when
you are balloon muscle jacked up ifb
prologue motherfucker you can
legitimately just get more hurt in any
one given occasion
and if you warm up for longer it
obviates some of that risk so huge deal
here number two difference
using pre-exhaust more often so doing
some lag extensions or lag presses
before you get to the squats in the lung
or something like that
that really is to just increase your
stimulus to fatigue ratio because if you
did squats first the amount of load it
would take to
zap your quads properly zaps your entire
spinal column lower back glutes systemic
fatigue crazy like if big rainy did um
you know like squats first and proper
technique and everything warmed up would
he be squatting in the seven to eight
hundreds for reps with quads his size
that is not sustainable for most people
actually for almost anyone with a guy
the size of big rainy's waist which is
to say very small maybe even less
sustainable so someone like him might
opt for doing some lag extensions first
to get the quads going then leg presses
and then doing squats after with only
four to six hundred pounds
what uh what a weasel that guy right and
that doesn't make sense on paper for
folks that are natural or beginners uh
because generally you want some compound
first to kind of synthesize integrated
movement produce a lot of force no
limiting factors but stimulus and
fatigue ratio has to be considered and
you don't want axial spinal fatigue and
tons of systemic so as a more advanced
person who is enhanced you want to make
sure that maybe you're doing some
pre-exhaust only as indicated but a lot
of times it's going to be like look i
can't bench first anymore because my
shoulders will fall off so do a shit
load of flies then when i bench my packs
are the limiting factor that's great i
can still bench i don't have to bench
with 500 for reps i can just do 350 and
i get all or similar benefits right a
similar level of raw stimulus magnitude
maybe a little bit lower but then much
less fatigue and on the trade-off it's
worth
next
fewer lower upsets and more higher
upsets why
the lower upsets viewer is because the
risk to reward of sets under eight reps
is just not worth it remember you're
more likely to get hurt and you're so
fucking brutally strong and your muscles
are so big and tendons not so big
that sets a five gee whiz you know like
we know roughly the same amount of
growth occurs at least in the medium
term months from anywhere between sets
of 5 and 30 repetitions
um
if there's a huge injury risk for sets
of 5 much smaller one for sets of 10 way
smaller for 15 and down the line
when you're big and jacked and much more
likely to get hurt because you're so big
and jacked it may not be a smart idea
anymore to do lots of sets of five and
stuff like that
um
i know a lot of bodybuilders still do it
and they're probably wrong for doing it
another thing is when your muscles get
really big especially when a high
proportion of those fibers are faster
twitch
they start to sequester metabolites very
very well which is kind of a bad thing
because that means they tighten up a ton
they get a crazy burn and crazy cramps
the good thing is the sequestration of
metabolites probably causes a decent
hypertrophic stimulus huge pump a huge
metabolite independent stimulus from
lactate and things like that
so
for people who are really jacked and
enhanced and by the way a lot of the
drugs actually contribute to that
metabolite sequestration um they give
you crazy crazy pumps and crazy burns
you wouldn't have without drugs
sets of 20 to 30 reps are fucking brutal
whereas for someone who is natty and
smaller they do like a set of 25 and
they're like i don't know man it's just
gonna be a lot of reps you can't really
feel the tension yeah i get a little bit
of burn at the end but not much but for
folks with big muscles sets of 20 or 30
are unreal and relative to the heavy
weights they now start to have a pretty
decent advantage on the stimulus to
fatigue scale
related
uh a good idea for folks that are
enhanced is to do less dynamic lifting
uh more pausing uh
less change in direction quickly so
pause at the bottom of bench versus
bouncing slow recent tricks and stuff
like that even controlled concentrics so
that you don't snap your shit up again
when you're enhanced your chance of
injury is higher never mind the
pre-contest period you take
anti-estrogens and all this other crazy
shit your chances of injury really
fucking skyrockets you got to take care
of yourself another thing is if you're
putting all these chemicals in your body
you don't want to get hurt it's a it's a
big investment right it's almost like um
how do you drive a real fancy car
fucking carefully right you don't do
shit with like you know if your dad gave
you 1998 toyota corolla and he's like
fuck it up the car cost me nothing at
this point you know you're gonna fucking
drive the shit out of it uh if you know
your dad gives you a whatever i don't
know what the fuck is an expensive car
uh rolls-royce mercedes-benz
mercedes-benz you fucking never been in
a benz before you fucking fuck yeah like
shit like that you know your dad gives
you the bends you're gonna be careful
with that shit when you're when you're
an ib pro bodybuilder top national level
guy you're basically your body's a
fucking mercedes-benz i'm like the
mercedes-benz of bodies damn it why am i
not italian and from new jersey that's
right those two things can be the same
last one so so anyway careful you're
just basically being more careful on a
lot of these last one more extended
fatigue management
connective tissues take a beating when
you're that fucking jacked and a lot of
times the substances don't help much
either so folks will take breaks from
blasting the gear to take down turns of
gear or no gear at all
and then they'll go
one month to four months per year in
many cases of real easy training which
is different from natties who do you
know a week here two weeks three weeks
here and there but if a natty person is
taking like four months off of anything
you would consider hard training even at
maintenance you'd be like we're like are
we waiting on something but for folks on
a ton of gear when you're running the
gear shit is in business when you're not
running the gear you got to cool it
because everything has got to heal up
and sometimes you're just buying time
because if you ran gear all year round
you would just die really soon
those are the big training differences
here are some things that do not
predictably change just because you're
on anabolics now as an advanced nanny
making the switch
accumulation to deload lengths do not
change they fucking don't okay people
say like when when i'm taking gear i can
train forever and not deload guess what
dumb motherfucker you're not training
hard enough per week or you start a gear
so goddamn early that you're like a
beginner natty on gear yeah of course
you don't have to de-load but also you
don't have to read books and do other
shit smart people do
you should be taking gear if and only if
you can barely stay above water in a
three-to-one accumulation to deal with
paradigm as a natty then you take gear
and you go to a four to one and as you
age and as you get bigger and bigger and
bigger fatigue accumulates you should be
able to just keep that four to one by
increasing how much gear you're using
until you finish your career get out of
the whole fucking thing so the whole
idea about like well if you're on drugs
you don't need to deload
[Music]
it hurts my soul to think about
next one set numbers or frequencies
volumes are m e v to mrv minimum
effective volume maximum recoverable
they're influenced by a ton of factors
and again because this whole
conversation is referenced to advanced
nadis yes once you are an advanced nanny
and you go with gear your med drops and
your mrv rises notice that average is
still the same you can train more and
you can train less you just generally
get good results everywhere
as you get bigger on gear the volumes
generally don't change because you're
getting bigger and it takes more to grow
but at the same time you're taking more
fatigue hits but you're raising the gear
generally tends to stabilize that thing
so you can essentially kind of replicate
your last five years of natty training
as far as numbers are concerned other
than the fact that you're using more
weight
with another five to ten years of gear
use so a lot doesn't actually change if
you're using it intelligently again if
you start after three months of training
you start taking gear yeah the shit will
go wild you'll be double the number of
sets or half the number of sets and all
works great but that's a really stupid
idea use of drop sets or other intensity
techniques yes it has a bit more of an
effect with gear or relatively speaking
because of the metabolite sequestration
thing but generally it's not like
categorically more or less effective
like what i don't want you guys to think
is someone's like
doing drop sets and you turn to your
buddy in the gym like because he's done
fucking gear doesn't work for us natty's
the fuck out of here drop sets were
great for 90s they were great for people
on gear uh it's more of a true statement
when guys are doing heavy sets of five
and be like why doesn't that guy do it
because he's on gear that's more true
than the other thing around so a lot of
times people think oh these special
strategies are just for gear users no
the special strategies work for everyone
it's unfortunately the super heavy
hardcore compound lifting
doesn't tend to be as good of a
trade-off for guys on gear that are
super jacked anymore and pretty much
most of everything else there's this
idea
that gear is both a get out of jail free
card for dump shit that you're doing if
you're on gear and to get out of jail
free card for saying dumb shit about
people on gear like well yeah the only
reason he does this he's on gear most of
that is literally just made up on the
spot by people who have a grandiose
sense of self-importance that they have
to jack up by making fun of others
damn that got deep folks that's all i
have hey next week why don't we talk
about nutrition and how that's altered
with enhanced and natties
am i the new derrick moore plates more
dates i could never do as good of a job
as he does on all that stuff and i'll
never get super in depth on this
hopefully ever but i'll do at least one
more video for the love of god that
should wrap up our whole foray into this
dark side of the world i feel like i'm
frodo
going to mordor with this whole video
series hey scott the video guy do you
want to be my samwise
i'd rather be like
sweet
you'd rather be smeagle great
scott the video guy is fired see you
guys next time
who says that
you