your pre-workout is some
instead take these science-based
supplements welcome back Dr mil wolf
here today the last person in the
fitness industry to still not have their
own pre-workout to sell you here's the
deal most Prout supplements have a
laundry list of ingredients most of
which don't have enough evidence behind
them to support their efficacy and when
they do have studies behind them the
results of these studies usually don't
support their inclusion before workout
that said there is evidence specifically
on the bang prew workout Master Blaster
specifically a study by Schwartz and
colleagues that suggests that having
pre-workout can actually boost your size
and strength gains that said with a
pre-workout drink that has as many
ingredients as this one does the
question has to be asked which of these
ingredients actually helped you gain
muscle and strength well I'm here to
answer that let's look at what
supplements actually have Merit for
boosting your size and strength strength
gains which of these supplements
actually have evidence behind them in
any discussion of efficacious
supplements for size and strength
creatine has to be first by far it has
the most evidence behind it creatine is
considered to be one of the few
efficacious ergogenic dietary
supplements for augmenting resistance
training adaptations mechanistically
creatine increases the scalo muscle
total creatine free creatine and
phosphocreatine allowing for a greater
capacity to rapidly resynthesize a
Denine triphosphate and consequently
enhance high-intensity exercise for
anyone who's not really a nerd here's
what that means creatine helps your
muscles produce more energy in the form
of ATP additionally because creatine
binds to water within the muscle it also
pretty quickly makes you look a little
bit more jacked when 10 studies looking
at the effectiveness of adding creatine
to a lifting program were analyzed in a
recent metanalysis they found a trivial
but significant benefit to using
creatine as a supplement in terms of
boosting your upper body and lower body
size gains importantly these Gams
appeared more meaningful in younger
people than old people we also have
evidence suggesting that creatine
supplementation is likely more important
and more beneficial for people who don't
have much creatine in their diet namely
people who typically abstain from eating
animal products so vegans for example
here is the disappointing bit having
your creating before a workout as part
of your pre-workout doesn't actually
benefit you and in some ways it might
hinder you indeed the deal with creatine
is that you simply want to build up the
creatine levels within your muscles it
doesn't matter whether you take it
before session or at any point
throughout the day but if it doesn't
matter when you get it in couldn't a
pre-workout just be a convenient way to
get it in unfortunately probably not
there's a line of research suggesting
that when you co- consume caffeine which
is almost always present in PR workouts
with creatine the benefit of creatine
for size and strength actually seems to
disappear why is this well while there's
a variety of mechanisms that could be at
play for example caffeine and creatine
both impact muscle relaxation time the
most likely explanation is that both
caffeine and creatine can actually cause
some gastrointestinal distress AKA when
you consume them your tummy gets a
little bit upset and so if within your
pre- workout you have both creatine and
caffeine both of which can cause your
tummy to be upset and you go into a
session after having had this god- awful
concoction yeah you might not perform
your best simply because your t is upset
importantly the dose here is a poison
higher doses of caffeine and of creatine
probably enhance this effect
additionally if you have enough caffeine
across the whole day the benefit of
creatine may still be hindered even if
you don't co- consume them so the big
takeaway there is try not to have your
creatine through your pre workout if it
has caffeine and try and separate when
you take your creatine and when you take
your caffeine throughout the day as far
as dosage goes at least 3 g a day for
creatine is a good idea up to five and a
more recent call to action has been to
take 0.1 G of creatine per kilogram of
body weight per day as recommended by
Darren Cana so creatine in your
pre-workout is a bust what should we
actually take in your pre-workout well
the main supplement you want to be
taking in a pre-workout is caffeine by a
long shot caffeine is a drug that
stimulates and increases the activity of
your brain and nervous system it has a
variety of physiological effects it
makes you feel a little bit less tired
which is good for performance and it
also interacts with some your muscle
physiology potentially leading to better
performance likewise a study by geralis
Costas and colleagues actually found
greater bench press gains when taking
caffeine habitually over 4 weeks as
opposed to not taking anything and in
this study they were taking 3 mg of
caffeine per kilogram of body weight so
there is evidence of both caffeine
increasing performance in the gym
acutely when you take it it increases
performance happy days but also of that
then leading to Greater strength gains
when repeated over weeks and weeks so
with a million dollar question how much
should you take and when should you take
it well to see a benefit in performance
and long-term adaptations you probably
want to take 2 to 3 mg of caffeine per
kilogram of body weight at least before
session although you can see further
benefits going all the way up to 6 Mig
of caffeine per kilogram of body weight
however as you go from say 2 to 3 to 6
there is going to be an increase in side
effects for example if you're training
later in the day and you're taking 6 mg
that may actually be reducing your gains
by impairing your sleep later down the
line so just consider how close to sleep
you're taking it indeed there's some
evidence that caffeine can interfere
with sleep even as long as 12 hours
later depending on the dose when should
you take caffeine well in all likelihood
30 to 60 minutes before training
importantly most of the effect of
caffeine on training performance and
gains appears to be physiological it has
a physiological effect but there is a
small component of placebo effect where
just because you're taking caffeine and
you know you've taking cine you will see
a slight Improvement in your performance
going back to the study by Schwarz and
colleagues where they saw that the bang
pre-walk out Master Blaster drink
increased your gains it is likely that
creatine and caffeine largely accounted
for the additional gains that they saw
in the study so caffeine seems to be the
main thing when it comes to a
pre-workout supplement is there anything
else it turns out there might be and
that is citruline malate citrine malate
is the combination of citrine and
another compound called malate both of
which are important for energy
production and Metabolism now does
citrine actually offer further benefits
than just taking caffeine that question
is exactly what a study by Hogan and
colleagues set out to investigate they
compared four groups one group the
placebo group just got a sham treatment
that didn't have caffeine or citrine the
second group consumed 6 mg of caffeine
per kilogram of body weight a pretty
high dose of caffeine the third group
consumed 12 G of citrine mate which is
also on the upper end of what you would
recommend the final group took both 12 G
of citrine malate and 6 Mig of caffeine
per kilogram of body weight and here are
the results on performance generally
caffeine alone resulted in similar
improvements in performance as caffeine
and citrine however in some measurements
there was a slight marginal benefit to
be seen potentially by adding citrine to
caffeine if you look at the data on
citrine malate overall for improving
resistance training performance there is
evidence of a small effect being there
as well so when combining citrine Mali
and caffeine you may get diminishing
returns but you may still gain a little
bit something extra importantly in this
study I just mentioned when participants
were taking 6 Mig of caffeine per
kilogram of body weight alongside 12 G
of Cally Mite side effects were pretty
pronounced indeed around 20% of
participants in that group experienced
significant side effects so if you're
taking so much citrine malate and
caffeine and creatine at once that you
start yourself during a session
consider the erogenic performance
enhancing benefit gone since both
creatine caffeine and citrine malate all
have a potential benefit but can also
all cause significant gastrointestinal
AKA tummy distress you may want to be
cautious with how you combine them and
just monitor how you feel indeed this
might be a good place to take a
minimalist approach to your
supplementation so while keeping the
gastrointestinal distress component in
mind you may want to take 6 to 12 G of
citrine malate 40 to 60 minutes before a
session as well perhaps you could even
take it alongside your caffeine if you
choose to use it now going down the list
of supplements that may or may not be
beneficial in your preout there are a
couple more neither of them have as much
support as say caffeine or even citrine
malate but there is some support for
these so I'd be remiss not to mention
them the first one is beta alony I'll be
drawing heavily from Eric trexler's
information online specifically the mass
research review in this one because it's
not an area of research I was
particularly familiar with until I read
up on it recently to make a long story
short the evidence on beta ioning is
quite mixed when it comes to lifting on
the one hand there is quite a
significant field of research showing a
benefit to Beta oning supplementation
when it comes to things like sprinting
or other endurance-based exercise modes
however when it comes to bodybuilding or
powerlifting or even strong man there
just isn't the same data and that data
isn't nearly as convincing when it comes
to these Sports so while there is
currently a mechanistic rationale for
potentially using beta Aline for example
when you're about to do a strong man
medley in the months leading up to it
when you're going to compete in Crossfit
because these are quite glycolytic forms
of exercise there's currently
insufficient evidence to really
recommend beta alanine as a supplement
if you're just Lifting for overall
hypertrophy and or strength for example
a recent metanalysis on the effects of
beta Aline supplementation on fat-free
mass that included 10 studies was very
far from finding any significant
meaningful findings of beta an in
supplementation when it came to a fat
free Mass with that being said when they
specifically looked at higher dosages of
beta Aline and over longer time frames
this is where effects at least seem to
become more consistently positive if
there was an effect in the first place
the issue with that is that a lot of the
benefit of beta onine comes with higher
Doses and longer time frames however you
have to we out the cost benefit here
with beta onion specifically there is a
relatively substantial side effect
profile specifically when you take over
a certain dose of beta ironing at once
you will get something called par
athesia which essentially feels like
having needles Pok into your skin if
you've ever taken pre-walk out with beta
alanine or taken beta alanine on its own
you'll have felt this and you'll know
what this feels like for most people
that side effect is enough to justify
not taking beta Aline considering how
mixed the evidence is so for most people
just interested in building muscle and
gaining strength I wouldn't really
recommend beta ising at this juncture
perhaps if more evidence comes out that
is more convincing I'll change my stance
the final supplement that I would
consider in your pre-out that isn't
actually really a workout is dietary
nitrate dietary nitrate which can be
found in a variety of vegetables for
example is a nitric oxide precursor
because it is a nitric oxide precursor
it has the potential to increase blood
flow and act through different
physiological mechanisms to increase
your performance when you're lifting
weights but don't just rely on the
mechanisms for example a study by
Williams and colleagues from 2020 found
that consuming dietary nitrate before a
session increased how many reps
participants could perform with 70% of
their one rep max on the bench it
increased velocity on the bench and it
increased power output once again though
just like with creatine chronic
consumption of dietary nitrate seems to
be the main thing it doesn't really have
to do with having it before a session it
just has to do with having enough of it
in your diet on a consistent basis
importantly while it has a good track
record in terms of studies when it comes
to increasing performance it isn't
actually all that clear yet the evidence
when it comes to lifting isn't super
substantial just yet in fact let me give
you a few quotes from a recent
systematic review on this topic nitrate
supplementation may have an ergogenic
benefit on muscle strength given the
appropriate dosage format timing and
type of exercise assessment muscle
hypertrophy was not as widely assessed
in the studies included and therefore
these data are inconclusive of the 12
studies reviewed here the results of Six
studies indicated that when subjects
were given nitrate or increased their
total dietary intake of nitrate muscle
strength and muscular performance were
improved an erogenic effect of nitrate
was produced in response to an acute
dose of 400 Mig of nitrate
in the form of beetroot juice SL shot
administered 2 to 2 and 1/2 hours before
exercise when the resistance training
test involved compound movements
conducted at 60 to 70% of Wonder Max
Muscle efficiency and time to exhaustion
were improved not withstanding the
remaining six supplementation
interventions resulted in no differences
in muscle hypertrophy or strength in the
tested subjects so most of the current
studies on nitrate supplementation just
haven't actually looked at hypertrophy
or strength gains just at how it
increases performance acutely
importantly the timing doesn't seem to
matter too much as long as you have some
nitrate in your diet you're probably
good interestingly one review paper has
suggested that females may be less
responsive and less likely to benefit
from dietary nitrates compared to males
if you wanted to go the supplementation
route you would want to take 400 to 800
mg of dietary nitrate per day the timing
isn't hugely influential you could also
get it through certain vegetables such
as the following specifically green
leafy vegetables such as spinach rocket
fennel Chinese cabbage radishes and
parsley all have a decent amount of
dietary nitrate so to conclude on
nitrate it is a good bet but there is
more research needed before we can
widely recommend it as a pretty
evidence-based strategy to increase
hypertrophy in strength I would classify
it as a bit more convincing than beta
Aline but not as convincing as caffeine
creatine or citrine mate so now that
I've broken down the five most important
supplements that potentially have a role
when when it comes to a pre-workout
supplement for their gym here's my
recommendations for minimalist
formulation AKA sort of barebone
approach and a maximalist formulation
AKA something you want to take if you
really want to optimize everything just
in case there is a benefit to be had if
you're going to be a minimalist about it
you can honestly get away with no
pre-workout at all depending on your
circumstances for example if you're
training close to bedtime or what have
you this may actually be the right call
however if you do want to take something
consider caffeine and potten ually
citrine malate as far as caffeine goes
start with a dosage of 2 to 3 mg per
kilogram of body weight for citrine
malate try 6 to 10 G take both your
caffeine and your citrine Knight at the
same time about 40 to 60 minutes before
a session you may want to add your
citrine to a sweetened beverage like a
dyet Pepsi or a Diet Coke what have you
as this can actually fit together well
finally for the maximalist formulation
here's what I would do I would take the
aforementioned citrine malate and
caffeine potentially going a little bit
higher than what I recommended so closer
to 4 to 6 Mig of caffeine per kog of
body weight and closer to 8 to 12 G of
citrine malate but add into the mix both
some dietary nitrate around 400 to 800
Mig per day either as a supplement or
through your diet and potentially some
beta anine anyways guys that's the video
a lot of research went through this one
so if you liked it please like comment
subscribe it helps out the channel a lot
I appreciate it and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one peace