even mild dehydration can bring your
metabolism to a screeching halt we're
going to take this literally as I assume
it's me imagine you crash land in a
fucking plane in like Alaska or some
shit and people are like look I don't
know how long we got to walk back to the
city it's summertime so we're going to
be fine as long as not all of us get
eaten by bears it's going to take a
while for people to get to us we got to
navigate we got to go to the city and
like we got to make sure we ration food
and they look over at you and you're
like I need that shit like what do you
mean that shit like I don't need to eat
they're like what you don't need to eat
we're going to be here for weeks are you
crazy you're like watch this I just get
a little dehydrated and you know what
happens to your boy's metabolism that
shit stops dead in its tracks do you
guys know what happens when your
metabolism comes to a screeching halt
yeah there's a term for that it's called
death and without putting too fine a
point on it is a v shreds metabolism
still on fuck