it's June 7 I'm just out for my morning
cardio here still a little bit cold so
I'm rocking my barbell one two
that'll be my cardio for the day yeah so
I kicked off this push workout with
overhead press I will admit this is a
movement that I haven't incorporated
into my training hardly at all if I do
any compound shoulder work it's usually
seated dumbbell press or standing
dumbbell press so this is essentially
like relearning a movement again for me
and there are a few things that stand
out for me here in terms of technique
the a couple things I can improve on
that will make me stronger because one
thing that I noticed my overhead press
relative to my bench press is kind of
bad really bad so as you can see here I
actually fail with 165 and I think that
that's because for one my grip can be
better you'll see that my wrists are
really hyper extended here and so I can
decrease that moment arm get rid of that
leverage due to my wrist position if I
would just let place the bar a little
bit further down in my palm basically
the other thing I'm noticing here is I
can tuck my chin a little bit better if
you see the bar tend to kind of get out
in front of me so those are things that
I'm gonna put into practice next time
but you know I kind of had to check my
ego those sets and just realize that
well you know lifting is a skill and
this isn't a lift that I've been
practicing regularly so I shouldn't have
too high of expectations on myself for
my essentially my first time doing it
and probably over a year or more and so
then I moved on to flat dumbbell press
with the hundreds and as you can see I'm
sort of more in my element here I did I
believe it was three sets of
10 to 12 and so guys a couple people
have commented on my so-called poverty
macros that I'm starting out on already
at 20 weeks out what is their thinking
right but you know what this offseason I
didn't really run a strict reverse diet
like I did for the previous one and so
maybe my calorie my caloric intake
didn't get as high as it was before when
I was maintaining that 162 and I was
really tightly regulating that intake I
got up to around 3,600 calories at the
end of my offseason then I began my cut
at around I think it was 27 or 28
hundred calories at 12 or 13 weeks out
but those adaptations are really quick
to reverse so you can build up your
metabolic capacity we'll say over the
course of a prolonged reverse diet and
that will support your training and I
think for the first few weeks of a diet
it'll allow you to diet on higher
calories but I think that ultimately
towards the end and middle of a cut your
body is going to fall into it's sort of
comfortable place where it normally does
and you're probably gonna have to end up
bringing down your macros to the levels
that you typically bring them down to
anyway so I'm not convinced that this is
sort of like a long-term approach that
works overtime and if you'd like more
detail on that because I can't really
provide it here check out my podcast
with Jacob trout it's on my youtube
channel it's called poverty macros
this is what I got it's another round
B's patty
20 grams of goat cheese ketchup mustard
some spinach for the burger and grilled
asparagus boom and Robin got this he let
me have this one today
I don't had this one locale monster
30 Cal's so yeah we drank that monster
on our way to the gym where Robin did
some work out or another and it was a
rest day for me so I played basketball
and yeah here I'm shooting a couple free
throws and you'll see I take three
dribbles spin the ball take one dribble
to the side and then shoot the
free-throw and that was a routine that I
always had when I'm at the free-throw
line when I used to play basketball and
it kind of reminds me of lifting a
little bit because I think it's a good
idea to get into a routine before you
perform any lifts whether that's a you
know a list of mental cues or little
things that you do before you while you
set up for a lift or whatever and that's
sort of something that basketball taught
me and applied to lifting and I wanted
to include this here just so you guys
wouldn't think that I cut the video a
million times so I take one half-court
shot
I don't know why and then I take another
one
Robin just finished doing cardio I
finished ballin and I didn't have any
stupid protein macros left because I
drank a protein shake after so there's a
lone turkey burger on the grill for
Robin and I'm basically just gonna read
some of the new issue of Allan arrogance
or search review so you guys haven't
heard of this or and or aren't a member
I strongly recommend subscribing in this
issue he talks about some case studies
in natural bodybuilding some genetic
stuff to do with cholesterol I'm
assuming this study is gonna tear into
the Paleo diet or at least his review of
it will some stuff on caffeine food
sensitivities and what else do we got
here Oh his debate with Gary Taubes
that should be interesting to read and
some tips on staying in shape while
traveling yeah guys so this is where the
physique is currently sitting I
appreciate everybody who's said that
they that they think I've added size to
my mid-back and some thickness there
that as a lot of you guys probably know
was the central focus of my offseason so
I really appreciate those comments
sometimes it's hard to see on yourself
and this is what the lower body is
looking like so it's always the last
thing to lean out on me and they always
look a lot bigger but this is what
they're looking like now I have a super
hard time flexing my start furious
muscle but thank you to Berto who told
me a couple of tips to help to get that
out so I'm working on that
alright guys so thanks again for
watching please subscribe if you haven't
already it's a like button if you are
enjoying this series so far and I'll see
you guys next