the t-ball row is arguably better than
the barbell row and is in highly
underrated exercise let's break it down
first the t-ball row is inherently a
length and partial by having the plates
touch your chest before you can get a
full contraction the exercise is
essentially a length and partial
something the research suggests is
beneficial for hypertrophy secondly
because of the way a T Bar moves the
moment arm and resistance are greatest
at the very bottom when your back is
lengthened then as you shorten the back
the resistance decreases again this is
potentially something that is good for
muscle growth so compared to the
traditional barbell row the t- bar row
may just be better for hypertrophy try
the t- bar Row in your routine or for
that matter any t- bar exercise you may
just see more growth doing so