I'm going to give you five easy ways to
help supercharge your metabolism all you
got to do is take our free metabolic
[Music]
assessment I was going to make that joke
before he said it no joke you pay us a
little money it's okay we're going to
get you the body that you want the
vshred promise did I say promise the
great
[Music]
lie hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance puration I'm also a
professor of exercise and sports science
at Leman College in the Bronx Mr vred
continues to make content even though I
felt like last time's video we did about
him was quite strict and Mr be you cut
this out he hasn't he's made more stuff
we've taken a look at more things of Mr
vred on the internet and now we're going
to see how much of what he says is true
how much of what he says is false and
how much of what he says is really for
real false not even funny anymore you're
just lying to people let's get to it you
ever notice no I'm just kidding I'm
being abusive right up
front how some people can eat pretty
much anything they want without worrying
about gaining weight I did notice that
Mr vred I did notice that and I actually
also know the answer to why that's the
case and it's really kind of a two-part
answer maybe three one small part is
their actual metabolism but it can be a
pretty large contributor but nothing too
crazy in most cases usually couple
couple hundred calories per day in
either case another reason is that they
have a lot of non-exercise activity
thermogenesis which means they just move
around a lot moving around randomly
throughout the day doing various tasks
versus just sitting there can burn
hundreds more calories even if you're
the exact same SI and the last factor is
the fact that you rarely spend 24 hours
a day with these people and it turns out
that some people can eat very impressive
meals or very impressive large amount of
food at once but then they don't eat
much for the rest of the time and while
some of us can eat a crap load of food
for every meal
and every meal we eat is kind of
representative of the other meals that's
not true for everyone else but what do I
know I just have a PhD on the stuff Mr
vred has a
a PhD in being in the streets and being
a real influencer let's find out what he
has to say I'm going to tell you why
that is and what you can do about it
anyone can become super fit holy shit
Scott the video guy do you see that CGI
they even got her a little chin music
there and they got her she's looking at
the camera sort of you a very ghostly
way but she looks unhappy she's trying
to run big ass titties getting in the
way
woof they want you to know like you
don't want to be like this bitch right
here Karen's got it all backwards you
want to do some shit visha tells you to
do see it up like this we all have that
ability it just comes down to one oh I
like how as she got leaner with somehow
no excess skin and instantaneously she
also started smiling and dare I say it
detect a little flirtation in her eyes
before she was like dring people like
get the away from me I'm too fat but
after she got lean she's like yo what up
poppy what you
doing I think you're supposed to be like
I don't really mess with blue Avatar
girls but for you I'll make an exception
make or break your body
[Music]
goals metabolism you don't want to learn
about Metabolism from vred there's
science books on it let's watch him fuck
this up or I can proven
wrong you see having a slow or what I
like to call a broken
metabolism folks there is a very big
difference between the term slow and
broken if you have a Toyota Camry it's a
fine car is that a very fast car is it
broken cuz it tops out at 140 M hour and
for example me I've actually recently
some of you may find this a little bit
shocking I've gotten into uh DB tring in
Bugattis I bought three at the same time
I wanted a good sampling the Bugatti
goes like 260 mph it does that mean it's
not broken no vshred some people have
slower metabolisms some people have
faster metabolisms it's normally
distributed with everything in between
with most people having a pretty average
metabolism if your metabolism is slow
that doesn't mean it's broken it's just
slower but I think he wants you to think
it's broken because the fallacy of
thinking something is broken means he's
going to give you something to fix it
and it might even be for free just this
mon so you can go and into his funnel
you go to buy shit later it's all about
that Profit Stream Mr vred go and make
that money for us tell us more shit is
going to make weight loss or seeing any
type of result in the mirror H am I so
frustrated Scott you're a video Guy
where are they getting these people did
they consent is this public domain
videography or are these
uh bespoke actresses for this specific
video this is probably St stock footage
screams of stock footage it does doesn't
it what do you think Karen right there
with them headphones on is thinking
about she's like got to have pick up my
kids later
whatever husband's going to come home
later he's going to want a meal he's
going to want a theing meal later if you
know what I mean what damn my slow
metabolism man there must be some shit I
can do you know what I he's so slow I
feel like it's broken I wonder if V
shred can help in the mirror virtually
impossible to achieve is she
crying girl don't you cry about that
slow metalism and if you in an alternate
world where I'm a single man just for
hypothesis give me uh roughly 30 seconds
of your time potentially up to an hour
and a half I could show you how bitch I
could show you the world look it's a
metabolism demo by vred keep flying the
magicarp of the away from it and that's
because when your metabolism is slower
than normal or broken kill me it feels
like it doesn't matter how hard you work
and that the results just won't happen
he's on to some true shit having a slow
metabolism especially with Hunger
signaling that mismatches which is
pretty really should have been talking
about slow metabolism is not a big
problem because you slow metabolism
generally comes with two things one you
don't burn a lot of calories and two you
typically don't eat a lot of calories a
lot of people forget that most slow
metabolisms don't have a dis at Hunger
Drive the real problem is when your
hunger Drive is disproportionate to your
metabolism or how much you burn then you
start to accumulate body fat and
reducing how much you eat is profoundly
difficult because you're so hungry and
so low on energy and all that other
stuff so it is definitely some true shit
to what he's saying but I bet you he's
going to pounce on it so I'm going to
give you five easy ways to help
supercharge your metabolism I love shit
like this I'm here for it let's do it
and these tips are going to make it
easier for you to burn your stubborn
body fat and really just feel good about
the progress that you're seeing both in
the gym and that bitch I'm B ropes I
mean holy shit that's a lot of Caren
energy in one place she's having like a
mystical psychic transcendental
experience while battling ropes or
double dildos as I like to call them
what's she practicing for mhm day job
you're going to Superman up and then
take your arms and pull down like you're
doing a lat pull
down oh God Scott I'm gonna have a heart
attack guys when you do this and there
is neither the vector of gravity nor any
weights in your hands you're not
actually working out you guys want to
see me do the world record on the
shoulder press watch this I did it did
you see that but M wait you don't have
any weights in your hands no fing shit
fuck if you guys are liking this then we
have an extended triple xrated super
Insider cut in a members Channel if you
click the join button you can pay us
money and become remember and you get
all kinds of other videos too hopefully
we'll see you there so tip number one
eat more
protein I want to say mean things
already but we should listen to what he
has to say I'm going to say outright
eating more protein especially Beyond a
certain point has no effect your
metabolism whatsoever even if by eating
protein you end up gaining muscle having
lots of muscle makes only a very small
dent in your overall metabolism it turns
out your muscle cells fat cells and all
the other cells of your body burn
roughly the same amount of calories uh
that being said many of the other cells
on your body like the cells of your skin
cells of your inner stomach lining they
actually go through calories way faster
maybe we could have a program that makes
your intestines
bigger hit me up about that if you're a
gastroenterologist we could be making
this paper out here but you play in too
much and I know you've probably heard
that one before right no actually V I've
never heard that protein boosts your
metabolism do give us mechanisms please
but it's actually super important that
you actually follow this advice because
when you eat high protein meals first
off it allows you to fuel your muscles
properly ah
excellent much like your house is fueled
by bricks no that's wrong the bricks
construct your house much like protein
constructs your muscles it turns out
your muscles don't really rely on
protein as fuel what do they rely on as
fuel first answer anything they can get
proteins or carbs or fats but much
better answer realistically much more
likely carbs and then fats and then way
down the line if they run out of
everything else a higher fraction of
protein or amino acids used for
generating energy so protein doesn't
fuel your muscles properly this is
simply wrong it's mythical and if I'm
going to give him some social
responsibility which I don't really
believe in morally myself and also it's
a bit asking much for vred to know these
things but he's kind of poisoning the
well it's not great to give a lot of
people when you have a big audience
nonsense nonfacts that they can learn
wrong I would much rather an ignorant
person than someone that knew things
that were the opposite of the truth or
just totally wrong dare I say that that
process of social media influence is
broken nope it's just slow like the
Shred the thermic effect naturally
boosts your metabolism because your body
it is your metabolism you fing asshole
it doesn't boost it out of
nowhere has to work harder to break down
the protein that you're eating whoa
Scott did you see his mouth move oh and
he's got some shit going down has
esophagus into his what's seemingly his
heart uh oh it's the stomach thank God
basically it means you're burning more
calories just by digesting your food and
there's actually a study on diet induced
thermogenesis that found that protein
has a much higher thermic effect than
carbs and fats combined be shred you
know I know you're not a scientist you
dumb motherucker because it wasn't a
study it's an entire body of literature
it's a a closed case and most of this
research was done like Generations ago
is that recent you're like oh you know
you can see a water cooler talk from
people that listen to vred they're hey
do you know that uh new study shows that
protein burns more calories if I was on
that water cooler be you know what else
is dope watch this tip over that cooler
out of my face basically I'm saying you
can actually burn more calories just by
eating and digesting protein rich
foods
if you add food to your diet if you add
protein to your diet there is not a
guarantee that you will burn more fat
you'll just eat more protein and
probably just get even
fatter
H tip number two and that was just tip
number one holy shit we got a
free-for-all this is it we're just gonna
make a video of just as five
tips tip number two I'm excited let's go
stay
hydrated faor all the myths at once
before he says any lies to you I will
ruin the fun the amount of water you
drink has almost no effect whatsoever on
how many calories you burn unless you
are hyperhydrated and no longer healthy
or hypohydrated very dehydrated and also
not healthy anymore if you are
hyperhydrated you generally just don't
feel like drinking fluids for hours and
if you're dehydrated you'll almost
always and almost everywhere be really
thirsty so as long as you're not Ultra
thirsty all the damn time and if you are
have yourself a sip of some kind of
fluid then you're good to go an addition
of extra water to a metabolic system
does not meaningfully increase the
metabolism I wish you could just have a
couple of extra glasses of cold chilled
beautiful Arctic water per day and the
fat would just melt off but this is
First Rate influencer fed dog shit you'd
burn more calories drinking dog shit
liquefied why am I saying that I
shouldn't say that look if you throw up
a lot a God I swear and again boring
sounds basic right but I can't stress
how important this actually is I can
stress how important it's actually not V
shred especially if you're trying to
lose fat and improve your body guys the
number of times a well-qualified diet
coach has had a client not lose weight
and the first thing on their mind was to
talk to them about their hydration
practices borders close to zero that's
not some shit you're going to fucking
guess you guys ever see that lady no
offense at Walmart no offense that
weighs 530 lb she's in alling one of
them scooters and shit spilling off the
sides is your first thought you know I'm
no scientist but I feel like she's just
been under drinking
water my face what are you nuts up to
75% of adults in the US suffer from
chronic dehydration no they fing don't
that's bullshit chronic dehydration
leads to thirst
this is not a problem I love
manufacturing problems listen that's our
whole business model you're not jacked
enough try the RP hypertrophy app with
over 28 preset programs already in the
app you can choose to make your own you
can modify an existing program or you
can just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app
today number three make sure you get
enough
sleep it's actually a good tip but it's
often one of the things that people
struggle with the most oh my getting 7 8
hours of sleep uh uh I can't sleep also
girl hold up I got a couple
recommendations for you right off hand
bitch your room is like a in sunlight
levels of light here the close that vent
that's your Curtain get some darkness in
your ass I didn't mean that literally
though also that would help you go to
sleep the time that you spend sleeping
is where your body repairs and restores
itself and this is also the time that
your body produces many of the key
hormones that are important for fat loss
this is not a tip to boost your
metabolism I'm just being pedantic but
it's F true let's see what else she got
in her fridge old ass apple juice it's
kind of egg whites dildo looking thing
like a cookie container couple apples
banana Scott you have a part of your
fridge which is supposed to be full of
all kinds of food that's vertically
oriented but you really just put a
horizontally oriented one stack Bagless
celery
dude it's all get nasty rubbing around
on that shelf what the who's going to
eat that bitch you better throw them
goddamn cupcakes away look at you you
pig Scott likes the abusive jokes it's
not that sleep has a huge influence on
your metabolism though it does it's that
sleep when you get it promotes muscle
anabolism muscle growth Muscle Recovery
and to some extent reduces the amount of
fat anabolism and it PR otes normal
amount of fat catabolism which is fat
burning if you get much less sleep
especially several nights in a row
especially big reductions then your
body's overall metabolism uh metabolic
rate mostly because you're just tired
takes a little bit of a hit but what
takes a bigger hit is your propensity to
grow and retain muscle and your
propensity to burn and not store fat so
if you get too little sleep it's no good
for your body composition but metabolism
isn't the first way I would talk about
that but since he needs more popita to
stuff in his toilet of bullshit I guess
we're on this topic too and then tip
number four go lift some
weights now I'm not saying you have to
try to become a big bulky bodybuilder
gross in fact the reason that I
recommend strength training for like 20
minutes a few times a week is because of
how effective it is at actually helping
you slim down yeah 20 minutes three
times a week for sure won't make aing
dent in your metabolism that you'll be
able to tell nothing will change with
generally how much food you can eat and
not gain or lose weight from it this is
all lies but you can shake a dress in a
if you want because by stimulating your
muscles you actually increase the amount
of calories your body Burns at Rest by a
teeny tiny amount the teeniest tiniest
be R does a lot of straightup lying but
also a lot of Lying by extreme
exaggeration to the point of nonsense
note to self but it also allows you to
eat more food and do less exercise
because Scott I think we have a new
series called Dr Mike annotates stock pH
photography stock photos and stock
videos are the fing best so first of all
the Asian lady on the right hand side
there um she's asleep sitting up second
of all this girl eating this pizza you
know Scott she's worried about all kinds
of stuff is my boyfriend going to ask me
to marry him is my career really the
thing I'm most passionate about but
she's not worried about one thing and
that's getting fat cuz she fixed her
metabolism with v shreds five simple
tips take notes people it'll help help
your body burn calories automatically
even while you're on the
computer Scott remember when you were a
26-year-old Caucasian female and you
were in an otherwise completely white
room with white furniture and a white
lamp and it was gee the middle of the
night and you had two cheeseburgers on a
white plate with an unmarked laptop
which has no brand name and you were
scrolling through the internet what
website you think she looking at I think
like Red Robin these are so good I need
to order more right now please she's
managing the only fans uploads she had
from earlier out of
here and then finally my fifth tip for
supercharging your metabolism and it
might be the simplest of all cuz it only
takes you 30 seconds all you got to do
is take our free metabolic
assessment I was going to make that joke
before he said it no joke I was going to
be like on a fifth tip it's only going
to take 30 seconds is just getting on
the click and click through our funnel
it's exactly what he said
unbelievable oh my God it's oh guys
really you going to play with me 30
seconds of your whole life just take
this little quiz we'll give you more
tips you pay us a little money it's okay
we're going to get you the body that you
want the vshred promise did I say
promise the great lie and and I know
right now that might sound too good to
be true but thousands of men and women
Scott do you know how bodybuilders get
big it's by putting unmarked supplements
into their Shake of all ages have
already taken this metabolic assessment
thank God it's all ages I thought for my
age they W going to have the category
what's your biggest Fitness goal in the
next 90 days that does not pertain to
your metabolism at all Jesus Christ lose
fat build muscle get toned which I
suppose is some mythical nonsense thing
or some combination of loose F and
muscle I don't know are you allowed to
select multiple options wonder if you
can do Mo all of it at the same time
really confuse the fuck out of that test
we're not supposed to do pitchforks
anymore or town mobs Rabel
rousing it's good it's good that stuff's
bad but where's vshred at I want to meet
this motherfucker in real life wouldn't
it be trippy if he's actually like 260
but I'm a child's height so he would
just Tower over me and he's like hey
come here pussy what the fuck did you
say about me on TV what the fuck and I'm
like Mr ven please spare my
life unlikely in any
case I rate his stock videography as a
10 out of 10 phenomenal work and I rate
V shred as
a douche SL liar SL out of 10 figure
that one out see you next
time hey that was pretty cool huh
YouTube thinks this is going to be cool
too I'm not sure what it is YouTube's
usually right give it a
[Music]
click