trying to get a 500 grams in here do you
think hundred grams alright so as I'm
getting my pre-workout meal right now
I'm about to head for a chest workout
with the mountain dog himself John
Meadows our leg day was awesome you guys
seem to really like it so we decided as
long as we're both in Toronto might as
well collab for a chess workout I
haven't done a chest workout like a full
blown like just chest we work out on the
channel in forever done like if you push
workouts but this should be really
interesting I'm looking forward to see
how it is John structures is training
for chest I'm just gonna kind of let him
take the wheel and guide the whole
workout so yeah from my free workout
meal I'm basically getting some ground
turkey that I just cooked up and this is
just some microwavable rice and I'm
gonna add a little bit of fat-free sour
cream and some salsa probably throw a QB
in there
so yeah this is the meal got some ground
turkey rice a little bit of cheese a
little bit of fat-free sour cream some
salsa and kiwi and then we're gonna get
on the road
famouser take me right back
to the side
[Music]
alright guys so we're back we're hitting
a chest day today by popular request so
we're here planet workout is in
Mississauga Ontario and John's basically
I think you're just going to take me
through your chest dated a couple sets
apply some ABS and we're out of here
it's a beach workout
so what do you think of man what are we
gonna pick it off with a stick and maybe
a machine and then maybe an incline
barbell maybe some kind of dumbbell
variation it's something that will put a
crazy stretch on our pads
okay so it kind of follows like when we
did that that interview you're kind of
like you know you get your kind of like
activator and then the heavy one next to
heavy tension one and then another one
and then yeah okay sounds like a good
sequence to me let's get into the first
exercise
[Music]
all right these plates look at this I
know it's pretty old
boy there's a little activation trick
John's just showing me basically just
put your arm out straight and then press
across so like think about driving her
wrist into a super yes Reza very very
slightly scientific actually never done
that before
oh yeah purchase lottery machines the
decline is in particular the way they're
made man I just feel like it just as
crushes your rotator cuff you get that
rotation yeah it just feels good
fun rings and what motion is a little
bit a little bit short here feel like
I'm not getting out but see no one I
don't mind that
okay we're getting range of motion with
our burgers okay okay so what are we
doing in terms of sets and reps let's go
set to a we'll just kind of carom it up
yeah yeah I'm just gonna do a couple I'm
swinging a few arm circles and I'm gonna
jump into our first set right here
[Music]
the plate arrangement is going to give
some people OCD tingles this will be
very familiar this is thing will be like
so that is this our top last set
okay going for it all right
[Applause]
Oh
[Applause]
but didn't like it eh that's okay yeah
that's um yikes for this one all right
[Music]
[Applause]
there we go
keep going
six oh I got you
[Applause]
a big difference between just kind of
pumping it here and doing the full range
of motion with the squeeze at the top
like that's the killer right there the
two more weight on there this balance
yeah I mean it's really not the scheme
that that extra contraction up here at
the top look even like you feel it right
in the center so you know it feels good
yeah
yes yeah throw a plate huh
pick the rep range whatever but we did a
traps over there why don't we go six
here and renounce it
quite as long I like to get more kind of
ending here
and that's harder on your rotator cuff
though if you're up here that's why you
want to see me stopping okay yeah just
took well but I want to have a lot
you'll see I got a lot of tension right
there and with your elbows are you
alright because I do a pretty heavy tuck
do you keep them out like this I do in
between
I believe that when you're here you're
putting way too much pressure on the
back insertion yet and obviously when
you're here it's friend L trust ya so I
pled it in the middle okay sometimes all
my really heavy sets
I might even drop you a little bit more
but the reason why is to protect myself
yeah yeah I'm old I'm fragile so
sometimes I just gotta go you know what
I might get a little less back
activation but might change the venturi
goes way down so yeah that's kind of
what I've always prioritized so like
high ten like from a powerlifting
background like you know I do a pretty
heavy tuck on my bench presses even on
the easiest a habitual at this point but
I agree with you that like a middle of
the road is probably best forgetting
that backpack activation is still
protecting your stick
[Music]
a bunch of people after the last like
day like my friends and stuff her asked
me like how was the workout like how
much did it hurt even though it was like
it was probably one of the more
challenging leg workouts I've ever done
but psychologically the reason you can
get through it is because of the
approach John takes which is basically
all the sets leading up to that last one
are not all-out sets so they're kind of
like preparing you for that one set and
then mentally you know all you've got to
do is give your all on that one set so
it's bearable if you had to do that on
and say like five straight sets for
every exercise you would just burn out
psychologically I would anyway so that
was what made it actually like enjoyable
is because you're like building up to
this one final set and then you've just
got to go in that like get it mentality
it's more bearable that way right
similar style thing here even though
we're only two exercises we'll get crazy
on the next one yeah okay okay last one
now make it good come on okay let's go
there let's go easy sexless here we go
control dry oh yeah right there oh right
there that's three three more four five
one more take it varnish they'll say
dude you're smoking needs
seven one more Hey okay I got you come
on nine your body just turned on man
yeah that's all that's funny just turned
on I think for me I usually don't do a
incline barbell if I do incline is
usually dumbbell so it's a little bit
different I thought I just kind of got
their groove on that last yeah you were
an agreement yeah that one was Zoey as
fallen yeah
did you throw in a 45 long but that's
bad luck very superstitious there we go
oh yeah easy let's go come on yes it's
respectable
that's good I was around 300 yeah so
exercise number three
can we do a smith machine decline for us
so he just kind of Giri
step right here let's bump our reps up
we did eight we did sixes and we like to
Train the full rep spectrum get every
muscle 5 hour fast switch slow twist
let's do a 25 it's just really high ok
and let's do a 15 then let's do a drop
set when we started 8 through 25 15 and
8 and drop awake and drop down from
there and see Brandon yeah so all right
25 what do you think here I guess I mean
I could probably do like at 45 then
maybe at 25 for 25 reps to start let's
do that yeah all right 5 6 7
come on five more one two three four and
five
yeah I was a fluke it was like I don't
know if I could have got 26 it could
have been mental dude that was perfect
now we're gonna do a set of 15 right 15
so I'm gonna go I would say 25 of 10 and
then append those your head cuz what's
gonna happen is that fatigue you more
than you know yeah that's that's that's
true that's true especially because I
don't I don't do 25 oh okay here we go
15 right
[Music]
ladies did too - so you keeping track so
we just did our first set we did 25 reps
so you know pretty challenging but like
I felt like I could have got you know a
couple more reps dance at number two we
did 15 I only added 20 pounds but it
felt so much harder so I barely was able
to squeeze out that 15th rep on that one
and now with this one we're gonna do a
drop set so gentlemen you have in mind
here we're gonna actually yeah so let's
see about eight and then let's see what
you got with is let's see what you got
with this I want you to do this on the
very last one when you get down to this
I want you to take your grip out a
little wider and work the bottom okay
okay it's a little kid safe to wait
slide a little bit more chest that you
usually get so normal for me and go to
the very last one okay these are quite
heavy lockout strain that money said
money said right here
Hey yep two three four five six seven
[Applause]
to
five six seven
giggling racket they why my grip a
little
[Music]
six so he's going keep going on ten one
two three now I'm going to give you some
help
I want to give you some help five more
there you go two three four
and yes sir yes sir
good job let's go
[Applause]
there we go
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
you normally give chest its own its own
day your children
Odia okay I was wondering about that
yeah I like doing that because my
shoulders are a little banged up just
from getting older so I get all the kind
of the loading on the joint in the same
day I got it okay so I don't come back
and then load my shoulders again that's
actually more similar to what I do I
mean I very rarely will do just like a
full chest workout I'll usually pair it
with roof so it'll be chest shoulders
triceps you can't help but get shoulder
work and tricep work out of it anyway
well I know the incline barbell make my
shoulders bro yeah I've always felt like
that's a great exercise your shoulder
did those two there one more exercise
what works what are we finishing with
we're gonna do a dumbbell press with a
little toy sauna we're gonna really
okay anyway reps I want you to relax let
me push you down okay I'm just going to
give you a little pressure I'm not going
to jump up there and rip your pecker off
I'm gonna give you a little pressure and
we're gonna start with a 10 second
stretch okay okay I love doing these
I've done these for a while like
weighted stretches on the dumbbell yeah
love shall I do them now because if your
changes of injury or almost trying exist
because you're tired when I use 120 foam
bomberos true yeah we're getting the
same benefit with a lighter than the
right right I've done them at the end to
me I just find it so great as a finisher
and like you know a good stretch like
you said you know doing them at the
beginning you can almost have to go so
heavy in order to get enough of it to
the tensile stimulus right okay
[Music]
and like the this strap the extra bit of
stretch that you're giving me makes such
a big difference then look because ya
fifties kind of light like I can kind of
almost hold it there passively when
you're working against your manual
resistance it makes it so much harder
I'm gonna go up and wait though yeah
there's still a little bit like six
things my guess is yeah your trust
around oh here we're doing sets of eight
reps but they're free pretty easy you
know just feeling a good stretch here at
the bottom and then after the eighth rep
we're doing a 10 second isometric hold
down here at the bottom and stress
position and not only that John is also
gonna apply manual resistance to my fist
kind of give a little bit of an extra
stretch but it's a very minimal amount
of added resistance and as he was saying
it kind of helps keep you locked into
position so you don't you're not kind of
like vulnerable to go back or forward so
that's the idea with these first time
doing
really
sex two more credits
five six seven eight nine good okay so
there's the last set of the workout
gritty 60s again eight reps into the
stretch let's get it yeah
[Music]
to
[Music]
mr. temple
[Music]
everything
did you notice that the 4 or 5 second
mark you relax and weed out another inch
yeah can't help it no that's good yeah
that's ok yeah that's ok I was happy to
see that reaching that point where my
muscles just will no longer shorten like
I so figured I'd get a little bit of
posing advice as long as I've got the
master here so far I'm gonna hit a side
chest pose give you guys a little I
guess physique update and then John is
gonna kind of correct some of my posing
so I'm just gonna do it the way I'd
normally do it
[Music]
so first of all you're doing a pretty
damn good job and that's pretty good
there's a couple things over I want you
to stand right here and I want you to
watch my shoulders okay watch this now
watch this I am NOT watch this watch
this
oh yeah okay when you start coming down
here on your wrist what's what's
happening to my shoulders what's going
on my shoulder coming in it's coming
closing up so if you want to look big
and volumous get your hand here okay
okay
pull it in low a lot of people do this
yeah okay that just makes you look small
you want to create an illusion of a big
thick Arnold barrel chest that ties down
to your volcano waist so here none of
this all the way to get your side guys
clawing at your side right here is your
side now lift your chest he's made
yourself look a lot thicker now there's
one more trick of it so watch what
happens when I flare my back laughing
what's what happens to shave my body
well look at my table yeah yeah really
got this
oh wow okay yeah yeah so you've just
created this Y paper so you bring this
lap get in position bring that lap out
it takes practice here this
yeah lift your back light out kind of
rotate over to create that wide bed not
kidding when they say posing is hard
work oh I feel like my havin getting a
back pump now look I want you guys to
look look at how it's tapering into his
waist look how big this is look how wide
that is it's just it's just a little
feel so natural to me you know the other
one feels harder it's like an ideal yeah
for sure it looks better than its what
well what you see guys going when
they're posed I mean just see guys their
hands you can see it creeping up and you
can just literally see their shoulders
going like this and then instead of been
here through out here right right
definitely gonna keep practicing it that
way it's gonna take a lot of on writing
I've done I think six bodybuilding shows
like this this is a hook well yours
looks really good it's just thinking I
guess that's gonna be a wrap because
awesome thank you yo I'm gonna have the
whole workout linked in the description
for you guys I don't always do that but
I'll have everything laid out there so
if you want to go in the gym definitely
try this chest workout out I don't
always do like at the chest dedicated
workout but it was it was nice for
something new so you know if it's if
it's a Monday evening and it's a chest
day just try it out so also I had to say
this John is closing in on a hundred
thousand subscribers let's try to get
him there if you guys aren't subscribed
to his channel you should go over and
subscribe
all the little butt tweaks and cues that
we've been doing in this workout is
basically what his channel is all about
if you like it I'll put a button up here
I'll put it up in the cards as well make
sure you go check out John's channel and
thanks again man for come on
and comment below what you guys want to
see us train next I'm gonna go down to
Ohio and we're gonna do a workout
together so you can stay tuned for that
[Music]