all right what's going on guys we are
here in Melbourne Australia I'm here to
speak at the ultimate evidence-based
fitness conference alongside a lot of
guys that I've learned a lot from over
the years
we are currently here in our Airbnb in
Melbourne it's great to be here I'm
gonna show you guys some of the behind
the scenes some of the training that I
get up to this weekend it's just gonna
be lo-fi you're on the old small
point-and-shoot camera hopefully you
guys are cool with that I didn't bring
rashon down here with me oh yeah you can
sit back relax and enjoy the video
[Music]
granny things I think it points to one
of the fact that this stuff is really
prevalent on this platform you have some
of the biggest creators on Instagram and
still promoting detox tease it tease and
all this stuff and it's getting hundreds
of thousands of likes so this is a
concept I want to introduce to the
evidence-base community because I
haven't seen anyone to talk about it and
it's really popular on YouTube some of
my most popular videos now are on direct
mentoring and I actually think it has
merit or one interested in science it's
just a matter of making people more
effectively I'm going to science
application and I think it really does
become an art form of blending science
and experience I don't think one without
the other
[Applause]
was that the Hong Kong seminar and now
he's completely shredded how many weeks
out are you bro
three weeks bro shut it to him I'll put
his Instagram right here dude that's so
crazy yeah there's a reason why I didn't
want to do that pose yes look most of
the time when you want to become a
better power lifter you're going to be
squatting low bar in a low bar squat you
essentially to prove your leverage it
and allow the extensor muscles to do
some warm work you reduce the amount of
total work done you spread the load to
more of the muscles of the body so that
you can accomplish something greater for
an external load how many people
currently train their neck does anybody
do it directly literally no one whatever
Erica did you hear it from me yeah I
will probably put the neck in the same
category as the calves in the forum's I
don't think anyone's gonna win a
bodybuilding show based off their calves
or the forms or their neck but if you
have people of equal caliber I think it
can help tie the physique together you
should be able to work up to be at
around like a 45-pound plate or sets of
20 that's like a pretty reasonable
strength standard but definitely don't
jump into that has anyone seen the
office when correct Dwight Ruth is doing
you guys seen that yeah so it's actually
legit alright so it is Monday the day
after the weekend of the seminar and I
felt like everything went super well and
then the applied stuff was actually
really fun I got to learn some stuff
myself from dr. Mikey's Rotel and dr.
Eric Helms speaking of dr. Eric Helms
I'm actually on my way over to the gym
now I just got it uber on the way and
we're gonna head over to the gym and
we're gonna get in a workout so he's
currently running a full body split five
days a week which i think is really
interesting and that's the split that
I'm gonna be doing next after I finished
my upper/lower program so I'm excited to
get some insights from him on that and
so I'll check him with you guys over at
the gym
[Music]
legs are so shredded I it's not can I
get a look at them first actually dude
it's not even like crazy lighting and
the feathers are still out like crazy so
yeah if you guys can't tell Eric is
about one week out not even safe yeah
crazy man if you can just explain what
your current split is how you kind of
have it set up and what we're gonna do
today
yeah so I spent about a year and a half
trying different splits out the same
volume it's the same equated sets per
muscle group and then trying upper
lowers and what I landed on with what
felt the best that would be the most
volume wishful body splits so I carried
that in the front there's a ways to
manage your team so I actually trained
full body five days a week I typically
have one I think one or two leg
movements a day and then three to four
body movements a day a week it's really
interesting I've never trained with
quite exactly that style but I'm going
to after this it's been like three years
since I did that original interview with
Meno I'm training frequency and I was
saying to him yesterday I'm like I'm
finally convinced so we're kicking off
with leg press what exactly are we doing
here
super a phrase I'm gonna look for three
sets between eight to ten RVD how you
kind of use a dynamic or regulated model
so I'll be doing anywhere in the six to
ten rep range gotcha
so you're gonna do like maybe three four
five warm-ups kind of gradually working
your way up assess I RPE from there try
to get yourself in that eight to ten
zone and just do three working sets like
that good and this is something I've
never tried before so you're gonna do
your leg press and then move your toes
down keep the weight to same and then do
your calf raises my strength is actually
very similar I'm like really try yes
your gears may not see I don't train
calves much so it'll be interesting yeah
when we go angst are you serious someone
said that oh I think that's a nice thing
to say when it's like
they were just better than you right
it's your calves you can't do anything
about that yeah another thing Eric said
here too is doing the calf raises super
sided with the leg press it'll give you
a little bit more extra range of motion
as your dorsiflexion range of motion
improves on the leg press itself so if
you struggle maybe getting all the way
down this might be it help you out with
that this is the first working set we
worked our way up to 425 kilos and 115
kilo all right let's go Eric
damn that depth is crazy
oh nice rock solid eight and a half
that's that's what I would have guessed
you that specifically blank yeah
so I track you can grab it up it's got
my whole history so ironic that you did
this back Wednesday December 26 I'm not
as strong as I was apparently we're out
100 kilos December 26 of over a year
over 800 you've got data from way back
then that's great to do this dropping
somewhere geez what's the app called
gravity rabbit us gotcha yeah it's
really good really good at mine check it
out analytics Oh
let's go Jeff nice there you go
[Music]
[Applause]
good stuff beautiful was RP come on
there you go
RPE okay okay at least with the two
decimals Oh buddy get nice work that's
good stuff so you're not forty kilos
heavier than me my promotion is so that
so that right
so you're just proving your Canadian
citizenship right now that's very it's
very humble of you yeah so that's it for
the leg portion of the workout up next
we're doing
it's a superset but we're gonna rest in
between each exercise moving flat
dumbbell press and then a seated cable
row first working set let's make it
count
solid eight and a half nine so now do
you keep the way the same and just cut a
wrapper drop the way back a bit yeah
yeah so diced dude that's not how I hit
that that's crazy
all right 46s that's 101 for the
Americans there you go easy push it come
on nice good stuff that's a much better
set yeah that looks really good good
decision on the way yeah you you knew it
was gonna be actually a heavy load the
kilos getting your right and get your
wrist wraps yeah that helps you all
right good Jeff it's lightweight
dude oh my god that's juicy you see more
of an upright posture hey scapular
retraction bass yeah you think just
curious because I'll do them like this
now really stretch the last here
yeah down you know forward well this is
it's a bit of a trade-off so you lean
forward
you give you the stretch into a lot yes
it's good but then of course you're not
generating all of force from shoulder
extension right you're getting the
extent you're getting extension from one
bar right so it depends what you're
trying to do I think is something when
you're doing these are you thinking
about it as that shoulder extension like
a Latin movement who are you thinking
about it as a scapular retraction in a
trap movement or busted children yeah
yeah both and so I don't pull high right
I do pull the kind of Center yeah you
can definitely do a row and by its own
or toward shoulder extension by pulling
low like again it just depends on what
you're trying to do I got you so now
we've got barbell upright row just to
about 90 degree angle try to push down
come back barbell curl I'm about the
same strength on my up front row for
high reps either like a barbell or mid
reps and then we're not doing like
supers like no rest cuz you have a curl
would be the upright so resting between
a little bit and these keeping our feet
up to like nine ten except for three
rounds
gotcha okay that's why I'm at a breath
yeah yeah I need to do hey um you guys
kill me on the talking so the upright
row what do you what are your you know
one minute thoughts on this is a safe
by people trying to put exercises in
either bad or good or safer dangerous
camps our body can move in so many ways
it always has you know and what kind of
load do you use what range of motion
users with the biomechanics should
always be considered there's no such
thing as a bad exercise in the upright
ropes sure if you get really really high
there is a higher imprisonment risk but
it's also a very low load exercise I've
literally never met anyone who's hurt
themselves doing bodywork style good
form upright rows especially if you do
them like I would recommend like mostly
recommend just getting right up about
that 90 degree you look at your shoulder
just straight up it's basically the same
thing as a lottle raise just yeah the
different rotation if you feel pain
don't do it right it makes it too much
that makes too much sense bring on the
hate comment
Thanks
hey go come on that long head is just so
feathered holy crap
right mom big boy
[Music]
there you go horseshoe there you go nice
that's a crazy core exercise yeah that's
the only reason I do it nice keep
fighting push let's go
cool control it
let's go control the way down there you
go nice good fight let's blast through
this yes sir was the first question we
asked you you're gonna ask me why do I
choose to trample why that's right yeah
yeah so I think the reason why I wanted
to clarify this I think a lot of people
focus on like the the MTS response like
you're an advanced lifter you have a
short an FPS there you gotta stimulated
again that's largely theoretical largely
not based on my own fibular data which
we have very little of if there is an
effect it's either neutral or like so
slightly positive mm-hmm and I think for
the most part the benefit is that it's a
way to manipulate volume spread you know
so for me I find when I only have a
finite amount of energy in any given you
know time period when prepping I don't
want to do RTL front squat like girl
like press leg extension calf raise you
know to get the kind of volume I need oh
and one like that that would kill me but
if I did like we did today lake press
calf raise and then have upper body I
have a way more energy and I can
distribute the same amount of volume
with less fatigue over the week right
doing formal body sessions brings more
about volume and fatigue manage the
hypothetical question if the seminar was
and some people might think the same
thing it's like all we did four legs
today was three sets of leg press now I
can attest to the fact that that was
actually pretty challenging like though
because when you say RPE 8 to 10 but he
means RPE 8 to 10 and I think a lot of
people think that RP 8 is like and
that's like work but it's actually
like freaking like you literally mean if
the gun to your head you could get two
more right so yeah it's actually quite
challenging and I'm not to answer your
question for you but you basically said
to me that you don't think that that's
below some like
per session volume threat
like you don't need to do 9 sets of
workout you get that work workout to be
effective here's another cool thing well
because Mendel just tell us so it's
either neutral or beneficial to go
higher frequency if it was true that
there was a per session minimum volume
it would start to go negative right
because then if you call right exactly
the volumes that are used in the
literature are relatively low we're
talking in ten to twenty seven lost time
so if you did ten sets across five days
it's only two sets per muscle group and
they've done that right and that is
either equal to doing like three times
as many including some cases or better
right so I mean if you think about it
physiologically why would there be a
minimum set volume and the only thing
you come up with all you can't get a
pump or already know called muscle
damage but those are I don't think those
are those are those are causative
factors that those indicate that yeah
you train that muscle group I'm not
saying they're really bad things all
right but I also I have no issue getting
a pump yeah I got a sorting this one
today to be honest in the gym was
freezing cold so that was an argument I
used to make it may not be valid I just
need to experiment with it myself and it
may be valid for something not other
yeah you know I use movements that I've
been using for over 15 years that have a
good mind muscle connection with another
thing I just just to let everyone know
is how individual this stuff fits as I
spent over a year trialing this to get
the right combination of exercises
distribution over days and like a few
different mesocycle versions and you
know I also change my rep ranges
specific to the movement and then I use
you know a kind of a flexible number of
reps to hit a certain RPE target so I
think when you start to use a full-body
program that's too rigid
you're like I'm gonna do 15 because yeah
yeah yeah movement etc yeah you just
stop it's like okay three sets of 15 I
got to 15 I'm done even if it's late or
whatever even in the case of like 8 to
10 you could be leaving a significant
amount of tension on the tee
by just stopping just because that's
when your program says I do I did we
just wanted us to talk about basically
the progression model in prep my
strength is not as consistent it isn't
the offseason instead of going right I
have a set target eight I have an RPE
target and a rep range right so I let
progression come to select if I'm going
to train in let's say okay I'm gonna do
six to ten reps on this and I'm gonna
stop my first set of eight then I'm
gonna hold it that way and try to do two
more sets and not go over xrv to eat
right frankly so it's like an RPG stop
it Auto regulates it and it allows
strength to build it will if it's a
shitty day my strength up in a bill that
i just do what i can that day that kind
of lets me know where I'm at with prep
whether I'm under or over recovered and
it could be good feedback gotcha alright
man well it was an amazing workout
hopefully we can get it again good luck
with your show this weekend and then a
Eric's can be doing the muscle mayhem
I'm gonna be there so maybe you guys
will see him again I'm gonna be blogging
a little bit over there I'll leave the
video a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
don't forget to subscribe if you haven't
already
we'll see you guys all here the next one
pickup bodybuilding take a new way but
if I eat a horse with someone play a
game of course and feeding with your
worship
[Music]