how many grams of proteins carbs and
fats do we need daily in order to see
good results protein intake something
like a gram per pound of body weight per
day is a good idea for most people
looking for sort of near Optimum results
fat intake anything below three gam per
pound per day is probably pushing that
hormonal and health uh metric a little
bit especially if done in the longer
term and we can eat as many fats as we
like but we need some carbs in our diet
to produce energy and all that other
good stuff carbs do so we're going to
cap our fat intakes at05 G per pound per
day once you know your proteins and you
do from the first calculation and you
know your fats you do from the second
one the carbs are just whatever calories
are left over divided by four cuz carbs
have four calories per
gram