here we have a setup for a one arm
dumbbell row so we're going to put our
knee onto the bench in the leg closest
to rowing is off of the bench I'm going
to start with a flat back pretty close
to parallel to the ground maybe a little
bit higher relaxed in the shoulder at
the start of the position we're going to
row using only our arm all the way up
into the side just like that and slowly
on the way down for a deep stretch every
time that dumbbell must reach your chest
or just outside of it and it must
stretch all the way down that big
stretching movement is a critical part
of the exercise you have to do full
range of motion notice there is no
swinging there is no jerking only arm
and back power and that chest stays up
and we're always looking forward
perfect
that's good