hey guys dr. michael svigel here for the
first inaugural lecture of our PU
renaissance period ization university
what the heck is that we'll get to that
in just a bit hopefully you know a
little bit about it already and the
first course that we have for you is
introduction to Sport and Exercise
Science kind of like a Grand Tour to
begin your journey of knowledge so let's
take a look at what we have as far as
the contents of what we'll go through
for this current lecture we'll talk
about the purpose of this actual course
itself that we're talking about now
we're going to talk about it a grander
scheme with the purpose of Renaissance
pure is a seoun university or rpu as
we'll call it from now on what the
purpose of that is then we're gonna talk
a bit more in depth
get into the actual introduction to
sport exercise science we're gonna talk
about what science is very good idea to
define that before we define what
Exercise Science is then what sport
science is and then to talk about
subfields within those realms and why we
have them or we can't just learn the
whole thing in a straight shot why we
have developed this entire curriculum
for you so first of all the purpose of
this course itself there's not a ton of
new knowledge in this course but you're
going to be able to apply directly to
training clients to training yourself to
designing diets to understanding a whole
lot of specifics this course is to give
you a starting point on that learning
journey that's going to allow you to
learn all of those things that you're
here to learn the course basically this
course introduction to sport actual
science is designed to familiarize you
with your potential path ahead so that
you can do a couple of things more
efficiently first so you can know what
subjects cover what topics if you're
interested in learning some topics more
than others then you'll know which
subjects cover which topics and then you
can really start to zoom in your focus a
really classic example from this
is that some of the nomenclature doesn't
make a whole lot of sense it's kind of
antiquated one of the subfields and we
call it something else here but it's
typically called athletic training
athletic training is actually the
prevention care / management and
rehabilitation of sport injuries it
doesn't have almost anything to do with
actually training athletes that are
healthy and not hurt but there is a
athletic training majors in schools and
colleges and if you don't look into what
subjects they have that cover what
topics you might sign up and try to be
an athletic trainer and realize like two
or three semesters in after you've
already covered your basic courses that
oh Jesus has to do with injuries
entirely is almost nothing to do with
training athletes whatsoever so some of
the nomenclature can bit off so a good
thing we'll do here is talk about what
subjects really cover what topics and
then whatever you're interested in you
can continue to pursue through this
curriculum however a lot of the
curriculum the whole thing actually is
basically built in layers and what we
want is to make sure that you have the
baseline knowledge to understand the
second layer and the third layer and the
fourth layer because as your learning
becomes more advanced you rely heavily
on the basics that you learn beforehand
so we're gonna recommend to you in this
course what subjects are really good
idea to learn before stepping on to more
applied more advanced other subjects
like for example using nothing with a
support an exercise science if you
wanted to learn the theoretical physics
but you didn't know any math it would be
pretty much impossible to do because
theoretical physics is so based in math
so if you have a theoretical physics
department and a university the first
courses they're probably gonna have you
take probably required is to take a
really advanced math courses to make
sure that you're ready to understand the
theoretical physics courses which
themselves might not be any more
difficult than the math courses but just
rely on the knowledge gained from that
so what we're gonna be able to tell you
in this introductory lecture in this
particular lecture in this whole
which has three other lectures in it is
okay if you want to learn XYZ what
should you learn before that in order to
make sure that you're well prepared to
learn what it is you want because for
example if you want to learn about how
athletes recover you're going to want to
learn the training principles before you
learn that you're probably going to want
to learn some biomechanics or some some
physiology of the body of exercise and
sport before you learn that you probably
want to learn some functional anatomy
and some basic physiology and before you
learn that you might want to learn about
the theory of science and how scientists
look in the world so you can understand
how the conclusions in the recovery
literature actually reading now are
drawn out so super important I'm gonna
repeat this over and over be really
really needy gritty with it that
structure of making sure you learn the
basics first is a really really good
idea in addition to that of course we'll
cover where to find the basics and where
to find the applied knowledge which
courses are which and here's the thing
yes almost all of the advanced courses
require some basics as an underlying
foundation to better learn and
understand them but as you get really
high up in the categories of learning
very specific topics they don't always
require that you know every single
course for example there's a course
that's going to be offered almost
exclusively about sport injuries how
they occur why they occur how to prevent
them how to rehabilitate people and
treat them for that and get them back
into play there is a lot of sports
science for example sport nutrition that
you don't have to really know much about
sport injuries to know so when there's
advanced concepts and sport nutrition
that we're going to be talking about in
a higher level and sport injury is at a
lower level course you don't have to go
through sport injury to get to that
advanced sport nutrition so once you
know what everything is you can kind of
take the best path get the courses you
need at the basic levels to go into more
advanced ones you can absolutely learn
everything we have to offer and that's
awesome but if you're not quite
interested or don't have the time to
learn the entire curriculum we can help
you map out a track that you understand
what prerequisites are required for
what future courses so all of this is
for what well what's the purpose of
Renaissance period University what is
the purpose of RP u RP U is basically an
online Sport and Exercise Science
learning program and it's based in these
video lectures every single lecture will
be delivered to you sometimes by myself
sometimes by dr. Hoffman and sometimes
by some of the professors and experts we
have on our staff at Renaissance period
ization and sometimes by invited guests
within their expert fields they're going
to be giving these video lectures and
they're gonna come with quizzes and
tests for you to take there's gonna be a
quiz after every single individual
lecture after every single video and
after the entire course is over they'll
be quote-unquote final exam you don't
have to take these but they're there to
make sure that you are confident that
you're retaining some knowledge and
these quizzes and tests are gonna be
pretty difficult to make sure that if
you're getting really good grades on
them you could be confident that you
know whatever topic you just learned
very well what is it designed to do well
it's designed to help you learn Sporn
exercise science at more than just a
surface level because as many of you
probably have come to RP u you've read
more than your fair share of online
articles about a variety of topics and
there's a lot of stuff in online
articles that people say when you're
kind of like okay oh that sounds science
e sounds reasonable I don't really know
the background science to that but maybe
I'll take it for granted and the article
might be useful but if you want to learn
at a deep level to be able to be
skeptical of scientific articles or to
be able to be skeptical of any online
article to be able to be skeptical of
videos to be able to design your own
program not just select the ones that
you like or to select the ones you like
better based on the principles you have
to learn at a very deep level this is
the kind of level that's offered at
undergraduate master's program and the
baseline curriculum the coursework that
we have to offer for you the lectures
and the quizzes and the tests are at the
very least equivalent to a very
competitive undergraduate program as far
as the quality of the professors
quality of lectures the depth and scope
the breadth of the material covered and
probably comparable to many masters
programs as well so it's a lot of stuff
it's basically like a like a college
education digitally as far as specific
and applied courses very advanced
courses like applying nutrition and
recovery to tactical applications
individuals people in the military or
and police and fire departments courses
like that of which we're gonna have very
many and continually updated are almost
never seen in anything short of PhD
programs and even then are very unlikely
so we're gonna have more courses for you
in our PU especially applied ones than
any brick-and-mortar PhD programs if you
go through the entire curriculum which
will be out within probably a year's
time or a year and a half and of course
there'll be more video updates after
that but the basic curriculum is gonna
be laid out probably within about a year
or two if you go through that entire
thing and you do well the tests and
quizzes and you know the material you
want to know as much as an individual
who has done a master's program or a
ph.d program as far as the baseline
level of knowledge that's pretty cool
thing is here's kind of a trick we don't
give a certification there's no
certification for completing the course
there's no stamp there's no seal of
approval RP you just has one purpose
knowledge to bring you knowledge if
you're here to put a stamp on your
personal training certificate saying
that your RP you graduate mrs. Epstein
you don't ever graduate our P you you
watched all the videos awesome
what is your benefit to that that you
know stuff you know a lot of stuff you
can help other people you can help your
clients you can help yourself it's the
knowledge itself that you're here for
not a certification plenty of other
people plenty of other places give up
certifications and some of them are good
and some of them are not great we're not
currently business of doing that that's
not the purpose of our piu our purpose
of our PU is to bring you University
grade knowledge something you can't get
from articles and watching YouTube
videos something had a quality leap
higher than that but so it's comparable
to a university setting it's University
quality education but at about one
one-hundredth of the cost so typical
rates currently as of the filming of
this video $20 a month for RP Plus which
is the the big website that contains RP
you so for $20 a month you get to learn
the equivalent amount of information
that somebody who's paying 20 30 40
thousand dollars a year learning an
undergrad or master's program you can do
this at your own pace you can do this
anywhere in the world hood internet
connection that's what our PU is all
about bringing you knowledge in an
incredibly cheap easy to consume easy to
consume on your own time and delivered
at a high level of quality and mind you
this isn't simplified knowledge there's
going to be real courses we are going to
be speaking in technical terminology are
there really good reason to learn the
basic courses before you get to the
advanced ones in the advanced ones it'll
be all technical they'll make very
little sense to someone who doesn't know
the basics this is a real education is
they're not just a series of videos for
fun they are not tailored to individuals
with no background in exercise science
the first couple are and then after that
you have a background actually say
science and then it gets more and more
complex it's basically almost exactly
like a university setting that's how we
designed so that's the purpose of our pu
now let's get all the way back to
talking about an introduction for you to
Sport and Exercise Science before we can
logically speak about what sport
actually science is we have to talk
about what science is there's a reason
it's not called sport exercise practice
sport exercise tradition stuff we know
about sport actually I support exercise
science science is a systematic process
of getting closer to revealing the true
structure and function of the universe
science is a way by which we learn the
world around us right and about our own
structure and function as human beings
because we're parts of the universe
for all we are birthed by the universe
we live within it we are the universe or
it sounds like we are the world sounds
like one of those records you could you
know one of those cheesy songs so but
but all cheesiness aside we are part of
the universe and we are under the
manifestation and control of all the
same physical laws so for you when we
say that science is a way for us to
learn about the world we don't just mean
the outside world and you know how
animals run and how Jupiter doesn't
swing away from the Sun we're talking
about everything down to how our own
bodies and even our brains work and the
revelations of this quest for knowledge
which is science lead to insights on how
we can manipulate those structures and
those functions based on our needs and
desires so we can use science to
engineer outcomes once we know how a
system works we can tinker with it here
and there to get us closer to what we
want I mean if you understand how a
glass works and how a bottle of water
works you can pour water into the glass
making it easier to consume you don't
have to pour too far you don't have to
pour too little very simple physical
system but if we know how the human body
works as well as a glass which is far
off but we're learning more all the time
we can manipulate the human body to
become potentially more muscular lean or
better at sports etc thank you now
centuries of science have been applied
so far and the results the result is a
vast amount of knowledge about the
structure and function of our world and
how best to change look around what has
science given us a science is competing
with other things for how to understand
the world is competing with dogma is
competing with tradition is competing
with notions and other people's just
random ideas well I think we should do
it this way right science has been
competing with those things for a long
time and the debates kind of over it
kind of won almost everything it's been
at for a while so for example you know
if we still thought the earth was flat
would we have space travel when we have
satellites your GPS wouldn't work
right we would never be able to fly
around the world you know the
continental travel will be impossible
than 50 million other different things
because we know how temperature works
and we know how chemistry works we have
refrigeration refrigerators run around
before people discovered how concepts
work once they discovered how the world
works they said ooh if we move this
around whoo that around we can keep
things cold and it just costs us some
energy awesome all the wonderful things
you see of modern society gifts from the
revelations of science now that's all of
science and science obviously has
subcomponents one of those is exercise
science what is that very similar
definition to science exercise science
is still a systematic process of getting
closer and closer to viewing the true
structure and function of the human body
not necessarily of the world but just
the human body per se and the way that
exercise science finds out about the
human body is by studying changes during
and after exercise training so one of
the big goals of exercise science
interestingly enough isn't actually to
study how to make exercise better which
sets and reps are gonna grow your
muscles the most oh that is one of its
goals probably its biggest goal is to
use exercise kind of like a lens kind of
like a little poking stick poke at the
body see what it does and then we can
understand more about the body so we
understand how the liver produces
certain enzymes what about if we work
out really hard for a couple of weeks or
for a session or order if we have
someone who works out and then they stop
working out how does the liver change
and based on the liver changes producing
those enzymes we can alert a whole lot
about how the liver works and how those
enzymes are secreted so a lot of
exercise science is using exercise as a
tool to learn about our bodies and not
even necessarily apply that stuff to
exercise some of it but some of it can
be applied to other places right so in
addition to that exercise science wants
to reveal structures and functions
during exercise and recovery and how
will they change with training so we're
not just using exercise as a poking
stick and say okay here's a session of
cardio let's see how your body responds
we're saying hey here's 12 sessions in a
row
what changes about your body over time
that's the difference between an
exercise session or about as it's called
and an exercise training or chronic
exercise training is defined technically
as any more than two sessions there is
any more than one session session number
two is already exercise training
training is the summative effect of
multiple sessions exercise scientists
are very interested in that as well as
well as what one exercise science or one
one exercise session does to the actual
body now of course just like with
regular science revelations from
exercise science lead us to insights on
how to manipulate change various
structures and functions based on our
own needs and desires for example
decades of exercise science applied to
notice I said decades not centuries
exercise science is relatively new in
its modern form we have learned a
variety of things we've learned a whole
lot about how the body works in health
and disease right when you you study
exercise and you can get people to have
low levels of oxygen in the blood you
learn a whole lot about how low levels
of oxygen the blood change various
enzymes and various functions and
various adaptations you can then apply a
lot of that literature to people who
have low blood oxygen for other reasons
maybe because of disease right we use
that knowledge to make the body
healthier or prevent or treat disease as
best as we can which is awesome there's
been a ton of insight from exercise
science that has helped people become
healthier for example research on
biomechanics is often making different
kinds of padding different specialized
soles for feet some people have legs
that are slightly different lengths or
they have some kind of foot abnormality
learning about biomechanics and how the
forces operate at the foot we can design
a better foot or better sole for your
shoes that makes maybe your hip hurt
less or overall your walking more
relaxing and less strenuous to the body
in addition to that and this is the part
that we're more interested in learning
about at rpu and probably teaching you
about as well is exercise science
teaches a lot about how the body works
during exercise training and recovery
and
thus we take that in enhance the body's
ability to get the most out of exercise
the most health in the most Fitness out
of exercise and training and a lot of
individuals who study exercise science
are really interested in that last part
okay now that we know about how the body
works great medical stuff super cool
right this is not a medicine University
we're gonna take exercise science and
figure out how to get the most fitness
and the most health right from exercise
and training but if we want performance
and if we want really radical changes in
appearance we'll have to look somewhere
else and that's to sports science we're
gonna flip the slide over a sports
science exercise science is a little bit
different than sports science exercise
science uses exercise to study the body
so they can more know more about the
body in general kind of we were just
like talking about and potentially use
this knowledge to enhance medicine or
just more basic science work okay we've
used exercise to really figure out how
the mitochondria in the cell work now
that we know how the mitochondria in the
cell work better we can take that
knowledge and use it to test the
mitochondria in more ingenious ways to
learn even more about how the cell works
just more basic science in addition to
that of course medicine treating
diseases etc and exercise science deals
a lot with health how to recommend more
efficient and health promoting exercise
diet and lifestyle behaviors are all
questions exercise science can answer
but sports science is coming from a
little bit of a different perspective
sports science uses the revelations of
exercise science it learns a lot from
exercise science and its own direct
sports science specific research to
enhance the performance of athletes at
sport huge huge difference sports
scientists are always asking the
question of how can we make athletes
better and to be completely honest
answers
or facts revelations that don't have
much to say about making athletes better
don't interest sports scientists
sometimes it all is sometimes that much
so when someone says hey we got a way to
be healthier sports scientists or mildly
interest in that what about how to win
more games what about how to jump higher
run faster be more muscular enough that
stuff that sport scientists are more
interested in now of course you don't
have to use sports science or it's
lessons to just get better at sport you
might not play a sport you might just
want to be leaner and more muscular and
stronger even though you don't compete
well those are all sub components of
support science and sport science has a
lot to say about them so it could also
be used to enhance those sub components
like body composition strength etc so
you can use support science to learn
about that whereas exercise science
might not have much to say about that
subject by itself right sports science
the difference in use for national
science the biggest one is that sports
science is much more goal focused
because exercise science helps with
general medical stuff it helps so the
exercise performance it helps with basic
science sport science doesn't have a
whole lot to do with medicine it doesn't
have a whole lot to do with basic
science sports science is very goal
focused it's more applied and nearly
everything in its realm leads to
answering the question of how do I or we
as a team get better at our sports or
better at our goals which are sport
related like getting more muscular
getting less fat etc etc so sports
science is where a lot of what we're
gonna be learning in this course and
we're gonna be learning a ton of
exercise science too but it's important
to note the distinction that when we
talk about recovery for sport for
example we're talking about what kind of
recovery is gonna get us to win more the
health stuff is maybe not a huge
interest on the other hand when we talk
in a later course about the psychology
behind adhering to a certain fitness
plan adherence is our number one getting
people into the gym getting people to
eat healthy getting people to live lower
stress lives chronically and you say
well how's that gonna enhance their
performance we don't care about that at
the time because that's exercise science
we care about health we care about
longevity we care about wellness as
opposed to sport where we care about
winning now sport exercise science is an
enormous field and all of the knowledge
within that field is Incred
the vast it is so vast that no one
expert knows even a very large
meaningful fractional for example I
myself am considered by many to be an
expert in Sport and Exercise Science
there's a whole ton of stuff I know so
little about it's almost embarrassed
here's one injury I will not be giving
the sport injury course rpu I am not
remotely qualified to do it I have a
couple of answers for people who are
hurt don't do whatever hurts and go see
a specialist that's all I know about the
stuff
there's biomechanics individuals that
run graphs and equations and numbers and
calculations on exactly the joints and
forces and angles during walking gait or
during running I know almost nothing
about that kind of stuff and I'm an
expert right I really am an expert but
the science is so vast we know so much
and there's so much to know that we
can't just all learn Sport and Exercise
Science because if you tried to learn
all of sport in exercise science you
come away with not knowing a whole lot
of anything you just be picking at
various little parts the whole field is
enormous it's not something you can
learn in one course you can learn a lot
of it over the breadth of multiple
courses which is where subfields come in
right so another issue is that a lot of
aspects of sport action as a science
require an enormous amount of baseline
information to even understand the field
let alone do research in it or work in
it or something like that for example
take a look at Toyota Motor Company for
example Toyota what do they do they make
cars and some other stuff let's just say
they make car does anyone at that
company know how to run everything in
the company
that's nonsense so let's take a look at
the vehicle engineers the individuals
that actually design cars they know that
stuff front to back they are a subfield
within Toyota subspecialty but if you
try to get the people that engineer cars
to work on the legal team and talk with
lawyers about how their current car
looks a little bit too much like Honda's
and there might be a lawsuit
they have no earthly idea how to do
legal work they have a legal team for
that in their incredible specialists
they know some general stuff about to
you or just like everyone else does who
works there but they know the law really
well now if you've got a legal team
expert to try to build you a car it'll
be the biggest disaster you've ever seen
in your life
they may know just in rudimentary terms
how cars work and that's about it maybe
they know a little bit about some
component they studied for a while to
try to defend the case that it was an
original component that they share as
heck don't know how to build cars in
general or even create anything in
specific build me a car you turn on this
welding robot like I don't know how to
turn it on look exactly you've never
done this before
so just like building cars and that
industry has a ton of requisite
knowledge and you have to go to law
school for a long time to be a good
lawyer you have to go to an engineering
program to build cars those are usually
mutually exclusive almost nobody has the
combined knowledge of that you could say
okay what about two you're a CEO what
about somebody many University the
analogy is somebody in a university that
runs a sport an actual science
department the department chair
something like four rpu that dr. James
Hoffman and I are doing don't they know
everything
well no sometimes they have their
specialty areas but they usually just
know how to run the whole thing which is
very different than running all of its
sub component parts right so at the end
of the day you can't just learn
everything all at once because there's
so much to learn as a baseline level to
be able to apply it so we got some
constraints it's a ton of information
and you have to know the basics before
you know the advanced and there are a
lot of questions that are so far away
from each other even though they're in
the same field it would take you months
or years of study to be able to know
either one of them well with very little
in common for example basic questions
how do cells work oh somebody could give
you a pretty good answer on that there
are cell biologists at universities that
study exactly how cells work try asking
them how much creatine you should take
to enhance your performance
they're gonna have no idea there's a
hell creatine creatine yes I can tell
you exactly how creatine works in the
muscles and exactly how it helps your
cells produce energy a little bit faster
as far as how much to take no clue
they've never seen that literature
because it's so applied and their stuff
is so general so we can't possibly teach
you how a cell works and how much
creatine to take in the same course
because one is super general one's
applied it's totally different
curriculum it's a totally different
discussion good news this complexity is
possible to organize logically by
putting it into subfields all right so
subfields are sections of sport Exercise
Science which focus on specific things
the first focus is that they are sorted
by relatedness right so the subfield of
athletic training or care and Prevention
of injuries has everything to do with
injuries in one field if it's about
injuries it's in here if it's not it's
not in here right so these some
subfields these subtopics that compose
extranet sport science they're organized
by relatedness how related are the
topics to each other that's how you get
a lot of these names sport nutrition
care and prevention of injuries sports
psychology everything psychological do
the sport in one field and so kind of on
the horizontal they're organized by
relatedness and on the vertical kind of
the sprawling tree pattern of our
curriculum they can be split by
applicability right basic versus Applied
subfields so the basics for a while
everyone has to know and there are some
basics that only some people have to
know but the applied stuff is super
interesting super relevant but you've
got to get through the basics first to
know the applied stuff after you do that
you can get into the basics much more
than you have to learn the applied stuff
but it's two different focus areas so we
have courses that are very basic
for example physiology of exercise jeez
all of physiology that means sport
nutrition is in there
that means injury mechanisms are in
there
that means adaptation to sport is in
there that's a very basic understanding
of all the mechanisms that doesn't go
into specifics at all and then once you
know physiology you can take another
course in another subfield of sport
nutrition do you have to know a good
basic amount of sport physiology
exercise physiology to know sport
nutrition yes right but do you have to
know sport nutrition to know exercises
core physiology no absolutely not right
so by splitting things up in their
relatedness and in how a plot basic
verses apply there we get this very very
neat logical structure that you can work
your way through depending on what you
want to know so we're going to help you
with this logical structure we've
developed a subfield classification
system at rpu it is six levels levels
one two three four five and six in each
level is a different kind of learning so
we're gonna go through them really quick
I'm gonna just summarize them and then
we're actually gonna have in the next
couple of courses more in depth about
what each level means right the levels
go from more general to more specific
right just like we talked about and from
more basic research or more basic
understandings to more application kind
of stuff so the higher levels are more
specific and the higher levels are more
applied level one it only has one course
in it and it is the introduction to
sport actually science is this course
you're taking right now awesome you have
to have level one to familiarize
yourself with the field what you're
talking about unless you have this kind
of course some we're also doing
diversity you just want to brush up on
your stuff man it's totally cool but
this is the first step right here this
is the only course of level one before
you go on to anything else you have to
have an understanding of where it's all
going that's what this course is for
level two or we call the foundational
prerequisites level two has a couple of
courses on just basically understanding
science understanding very basic anatomy
understanding very basic physiology that
once we start teaching you something
like exercise from Sport physiology you
already know how basic systems work now
you just have to learn and apply them to
sport instead of learning all of
physiology
at the same time as you learn how it's
applied to sport that's a really really
big task so foundational prerequisites
are level to highly highly recommended
for anyone that wants to learn beyond
those levels in level three we have what
are known as the major basic subfields
now you start to hear terms you've
perhaps heard for the first time you
know sport physiology biomechanics how
the body moves as a machine etc etc
those are now real Sport and Exercise
science curriculum once you've been
prepped by levels one and two for
learning them in level four we have the
first major applied subfields those are
the fields for the first time in which
you can actually really use stuff to
help you with your own sport training
with other people's sport training with
your own exercise with your own fitness
with your own health and with helping
other people that's the first time you
get really any application up through
level three it's all basics to establish
a deep connection of knowledge that will
let you learn all the other applied
stuff and apply it 50 times better level
five gets to be much more specific
applied subfields stuff that at this
point you might branch out to one thing
or another and probably not have to
learn every single basis and level six
really is the level that's gonna grow
the most it's kind of like the fruit at
the end of all the branches of the tree
and after the leaves it is full of
recommendations guides current best
practices seminars and that's when you
know all the basics already and you've
taken your particular path through the
more applied stuff now you can learn
very very in-depth very go to here's
what you do here's how to build programs
here's how to monitor athletes all the
very specific advice that you may be
very keen on learning but you have to
have all that background before you can
do that level six is a lot of times the
level for which articles are written and
a lot of times some you know popular
books are written at level six
the problem is level six rpu is going to
be very very based in technical
knowledge usually we're going to assume
you already know all the stuff in levels
all the pertinent
anyway in levels one through five so
it's going to be very very advanced but
as well very very applied right so next
time for lecture number two for this
course for introduction to scorn
actually science we're going to talk
about the foundations and basic
subfields what they are why it's a good
idea to learn them and what you can
expect thanks for tuning in see you in
lecture two
you