so most people don't know this but the
single largest muscle group on your
upper body by volume is not your chest
it's not your lats or your traps it's
actually your shoulders and
well-developed delts will not only have
the biggest impact in terms of giving
you that wide more powerful look but
it'll also create the illusion of a
smaller waistline as well and let's face
it there's nothing quite as important in
life as having an impressive V table so
shoulder training is definitely an area
you want to fully dial in especially
when it comes to that lateral head since
that's the one that'll benefit the most
from direct isolated work and in this
video today I'm going to go over eight
common mistakes people make on lateral
raises that reduce tension on the side
delt and increase stress on the shoulder
joint so make sure to watch this video
all the way through to ensure that
you're taking off each of these boxes so
that you can build up those wide
sweeping
fear-inducing 3D deltoids as efficiently
as possible and I'll just be using a
standard dumbbell lateral raise to
demonstrate this but these tips all
apply regardless of which variation
you're using mistake number one is
maintaining a fully upright torso
throughout the exercise this actually
shifts the line of pull a bit more
toward the front delts which are not the
target during this movement of course
and already get plenty of stimulation
during all of your chest and shoulder
presses so to maximize the involvement
of the side belt specifically you want
to lean forward slightly at roughly a 70
degree angle and a great way to do this
my personal favorite free weight lateral
raise variation is to perform the
exercise while leaning forward against a
high incline bench since that'll help to
lock your torso in place and maintain
that consistent angle on each rep
without excessive momentum or cheating
mistake number two is raising the weight
directly out to your side now this one
might seem a bit odd because lateral
actually means to the side but if you
take this too literally then you
actually end up placing more stress on
the shoulder joint while reducing the
amount of force the side delts can
generate so instead you want to raise
the weight up into the scapular plane or
in simpler terms at a diagonal angle
that's about halfway between straight up
to the side and straight out to the
front mistake number three is leading
the exercise with your hands to where at
the top of the rep your hands end up
higher than your elbows this usually
happens when you try to heave up a
weight that's too heavy and by
implementing more of that external
rotation component you're going to be
Shifting the stress away from the side
delts and more onto the rotate cup
instead you want to keep your hands and
elbows in line with each other at all
times as you raise the weights up keep
in mind that lateral raises are not some
kind of heavy power exercise no one's
ever going to come up to you in the gym
and ask hey bro how much do you lateral
raise listing your lateral raise one rep
max in your Tinder bio won't increase
your matches trust me I've tried that
already so think of this more as a
moderate weight slightly higher rep
movement where the emphasis is going to
be on technique and control mistake
number four is shrugging the weight
upward on each rep and this is also
usually a result of trying to go
excessively heavy on the exercise if
you're using a lot of momentum out of
that bottom position and then really
shrugging your shoulders at the top
you're going to be utilizing less side
Delta and more traps instead and a good
cue to prevent that excessive shrugging
is to think not just about raising the
weight upward on each rep but also
reaching out toward the walls at the
same time if you're finding this
information helpful so far don't forget
to hit the like button and subscribe to
the channel to stay up to date on future
videos and mistake number five is
actually the opposite of the previous
one and that's trying to completely
remove your traps from the exercise you
don't want to be doing that aggressive
of up and down shrugging motion but you
also shouldn't be locking your shoulders
down either and trying to completely
remove your traps altogether since the
humerus and the scapular work together
in a coordinated fashion to perform this
movement when you prevent the scapula
from moving Naturally by rotating
upwards you actually end up with less
stability at the shoulder joint and less
Force being produced by the side delts
the goal during a lateral raise is not
zero traps the goal is to maximize the
net amount of tension on the side delts
period when you actively try to cut the
traps completely out of the movement it
actually does the opposite of what you
were aiming for mistake number six is
rotating your hands so that your pinkies
are facing upward this is a pretty
common lateral raise tip you might have
heard but all this really does is Put
Your Shoulder joint into a more
compromised position that increases the
risk for injury not in one workout or
one month or maybe even one year but
over time due to that accumulated stress
on the tendons of the rotator cuff this
is actually something that I used to do
in my younger lifting days and now if I
perform even one rep in that highly
rotated position it's nothing but sharp
pain and misery it burns
oh not saying you're guaranteed to get
hurt by doing this but there's no real
upside as far as side dealt stimulation
is concerned and from a risk reward
standpoint it just doesn't make sense
mistake number seven the opposite of the
previous one which is having your hands
externally rotated which is going to
shift the lineup pull more onto the
front delts so when it comes to your
lateral raise hand position you don't
want the pinkies facing directly up or
the thumbs facing directly up just keep
your hands in mostly a neutral position
to align the resistance with the side
delts while protecting the shoulder
joint and lastly mistake number eight is
neglecting the length and position in
other words only performing lateral
raise variations that maximize tension
on the side delts where the fibers are
in a medium to shorten position which is
what you're doing with a standard
dumbbell lateral raise since there's
little to no tension on the side dealt
in the lower portion of the range when
the fibers are a bit more lengthened
followed by a large amount of tension up
towards the top now exactly how much of
a difference this will actually make
over the long term I can't say but for
100 optimal results to make sure you're
not leaving any gains on the table it
probably makes sense to incorporate a
more lengthened position lateral raise
at some point in your training if you're
using dumbbells then this can be done by
performing a leaning lateral raise
variation which reverses the resistance
profile to make it harder at the bottom
and then easier at the top or if you're
using a cable then you can set it around
waist height which will accomplish the
same thing if you want some more help
getting your overall fitness program
onto the right track whether your goal
is to gain muscle lose fat or do both
make sure to visit shawnell.com custom
just fill out the short form on that
page and I'll send you back a free
step-by-step training program based on
your current condition and goals along
with an easy to follow nutrition plan as
well the link for that is in the
description box when it comes to
effective supplementation you can also
visit realscienceathletics.com to check
out my own line of research backed
clinically dosed formulas I personally
created from scratch to maximize your
results and you can use code YouTube 15
to save 15 off your first order here are
two more videos I'd recommend watching
now don't forget to subscribe to the
channel to stay up to date thanks for
watching guys and I'll see you in the
next one