how long will it take you to see your
abs and how long should you cut for on
the screen now is a chart of common body
fat percentages and roughly how they
look this isn't meant to be perfectly
accurate but try and see which one you
look closest to and now based on my
coaching experience and how fast you
should be losing weight this is how long
it'll take you to see your abs this is
assuming a pace of weight loss of about
0.5 to 1% of weight loss per week as
suggested by this recent review paper by
sticking within this range we're
minimizing the risk of muscle loss by
cutting too fast and we're also not
wasting time by cutting too slowly most
men start being able to see their abs
around 50 to 20% body fat and for most
women it's closer to 23 to 26% body fat
however to have really visible abs for
men it'll often be closer to 10 to 12%
body fat and closer to 16 to 20% body
fat for women eat sufficient protein get
into a calorie deficit and finally make
sure you train your abs if you
ultimately wish for them to be visible
and impressive at the end of your weight
loss phase so hopefully that answer your
question of