so in bodybuilding and fitness culture
there are a variety of different terms
used to describe someone with a muscular
physique but one stands above the rest
to be yoked means you've attained a very
specific type of muscularity resulting
in a monstrous overpowering appearance
now generally speaking someone who is
yoked has impressive development in five
key areas giving anyone who sees them
the immediate impression that they've
built up a great deal of pure brute
strength over the years so these five
muscles are the neck the traps and upper
back the side delts the upper chest and
the long head of the triceps
I would also technically add the glutes
to this list but I wanted to focus on
the upper body yoke for this video some
folks might also add the forearms and
that's fine but I think they're gonna
get plenty of indirect work from the
shrugs and rows we're about to do anyway
now the common theme across all five of
these muscles is that they make a very
quick visual impression having a thick
neck can give you a powerful appearance
even if all you see is your face you
just consider this photo of Channing
Tatum with his neck photoshopped in if
you don't believe me and the traps
create a similar perception of mass if
you see someone with a thick upper back
and big upper traps it immediately tells
you that yeah that person can most
likely pick some heavy weight up off the
ground now the side delts also give that
broad shouldered look from the upper
chest shows thickness and taper from the
side and the long head of the triceps
adds a lot of mass from the back when
their arms are down and from the front
when their arms are raised up so in this
video I want to take you guys through
the ultimate yoke workout based on my
experience and what the scientific
evidence has to say so at first we're
starting with the neck and we're doing
this because I think of the neck as the
calves of the upper body it's usually
just tacked on at the end of the workout
if not totally skipped and because a
strong neck is fundamental to looking
yoked or prioritizing it by putting at
the beginning of the session
several studies including this 2005
paper consistently find that fatigue
from early exercises can reduce
performance on exercises done later in
the workout regardless of whether it's a
small or large muscle group so if you
want to prioritize a given body part you
should do it earlier in the workout so
we're kicking it off with three sets of
20 plus reps on the plate loaded neck
curl here you'll want to use some kind
of two core meaning to protect your
forehead and position the plate so the
center lies directly
on your forehead you can start with a 5
or 10 pound plate but most people should
be able to get to the 35 or 45 pound
plate within their first few months of
hitting neck consistently the thing I've
been doing lately is just Auto
regulating my reps according to RPE
because with neck work you shouldn't be
overloading the cervical vertebra too
heavily you'll mostly be working in
higher rep ranges meaning it's important
to get reasonably close to failure to
get enough so-called effective reps in
so I'll take my set somewhere between 20
to 30 reps stopping once I think I've
only got one or two reps left in the
tank the good form and just for the sake
of time we're gonna be super setting
these with three sets of fifteen on the
cable neck extension and using a head
harness I've talked about the neck flex
in other videos and I think it's great
for training both flexion and extension
in a variety of different ways including
cables bands in free weights and of
course it makes hitting your neck at
home and really easy as well so I
wouldn't say it's a required piece of
gear but it definitely makes training
the neck either and more effective
trying to load plates on the back of
your head is really awkward so as many
of you guys know and neck flex is a new
sponsor here on the channel so I'll put
my affiliate link to them down below if
you'd like to check it out or if you
want to pick it up later and always grab
it at the affiliate tab on my website
show me some support here on the channel
as well alright up next we're doing
three sets of eight to ten reps on the
trap bar shrug or if you don't have
access to a trap bar you can substitute
in a snatch grip shrug using a 1.5 to 2
times shoulder-width grip now one reason
why I love the trap bar is because it
forces your arms slightly out to the
side putting your shoulder in a more
abducted position and according to
anatomical data from johnson and
colleagues the upper traps and don't run
it straight up and down as many people
think but actually run much closer to
horizontal this means that rather than
shrugging straight up and down you
should be thinking about shrugging your
shoulders up and in as if trying to
touch your shoulders to your ears I
personally find this a lot easier to do
with a trap bar or by taking a wider
grip and according to a blog post from
dr. my kids or tell while most
intermediates can make great trap gains
with no direct trap work at all most
people respond best to 12 to 20 weekly
sets on average and he also mentioned
that following up a set of shrugs with
upright rows can really destroy the
traps so up next we're doing three sets
of 15 to 20 reps on the rope upright row
a lot of people in my comments get up in
arms about the upright row despite the
fact that the best evidence
on the exercise clearly indicates that
the upright row can be a safe and
effective exercise especially when
modified properly generally I recommend
stopping somewhere around the point
where your elbows reach shoulder height
which is going to reduce impingement
risk however when using the rope your
grant is much more freedom about the
shoulder joint than what a barbell would
allow so I personally have no issue with
getting in a little extra squeeze at the
top
by trucking my shoulders up and I feel
my traps so much better doing them this
way of course we're also going to be
hitting the side delts to a large degree
here as we're not only elevating the
scapula but also abducting the shoulder
so I think this is a great yoke builder
as it effectively targets two muscles on
our list all right now that we've got a
solid upper trap and neck pump going I'm
gonna smash the upper chest and triceps
using the Close Grip barbell incline
bench press or three sets of ten to
twelve reps and we know from by
mechanical data the upper pecs have a
remarkable leverages for shoulder
flexion and since closer grips tend to
emphasize shoulder flexion over shoulder
adduction
there's biomechanical grounds for
thinking a closer grip will hit the
upper chest more so here I'm focusing on
directing worth the load to my upper
pecs through the use of a strong mind
muscle connection and thinking about
feeling my upper pecs pull apart on the
negative I also like to cue the press up
and back toward your face as it's gonna
ensure that you're actually carrying out
shoulder flexion properly now well I
still retract and depress my shoulder
blades with a slight arch I'm avoiding
an exaggerated arch here since it's
basically just gonna flatten out the
pressing angle and could slightly shift
emphasis away from the upper pecs
granted I say if a more arched position
allows you to overload it more
effectively or safely I'm not sure it's
worth splitting hairs over remember
total upper PEC activation is actually
pretty similar from 0 to 56 degrees of
incline and it isn't an on and off
switch okay next we're doing three sets
of ten to twelve reps on the incline
dumbbell modified at seal row I actually
love the traditional seal row for the
mid-back because the bench forces the
line of pull to be perpendicular to your
torso which is gonna maximize range of
motion for the lats and overload the mid
traps through scapular retraction
however it can be a pain to set up so
I'm always looking for more convenient
substitutes so the other day I saw
bodybuilding coach Matt Jensen doing
these on his Instagram and I think
they're great just make sure you've got
a pair of nice leaves or a towel that
you can lay on the top of the bench for
some extra cushioning and you want to
position that
edge of the bench down toward the bottom
of your chest and you can also lay a
couple plates down under your heels if
you're finding it tough to get the right
foot it you also want to drive your
elbows straight out to the sides to
emphasize transverse abduction over
extension which is really gonna hammer
the mid traps rhomboids and rear delts
over the lats this is a yoke workout
after all you want to allow your
shoulder blades to protract at the
bottom by rounding them forward and then
squeeze them together at the top and you
could also flip the other way around
but I do find that I can get a really
solid stretch and squeeze when I lean
against the incline of the bench for
whatever reason alright so up next we're
hitting three sets of ten to twelve reps
on floor skull crushers now because the
long head crosses both elbow joint and
the shoulder joint it can perform both
elbow extension and shoulder extension
so to maximize on its biomechanical
potential we want to load the weight
back in an arc rather than straight down
to the forehead I also like to use a
more constant tension approach with this
movement as 1 2017 study found that
training in the mid range while keeping
constant tension on the triceps led to
nearly twice as much hypertrophy as
training through the full range our
attention is lost at the top and even
though there were potential issues with
a relative loading between the groups in
this study the mass research review
article noted that a nearly two-fold
increase really jumps off the page
limitations aside now the reason we're
doing these on the floor is that you'll
be able to overload a bit heavier since
the starting position is a bit higher
and you won't need to worry about
dropping the bar off the edge of the
bench if you did happen to fail a rep
but if you find the bench more
comfortable that's perfectly okay as
well and lastly we're rounding out the
workout with three sets of butterfly
machine lateral raises to an RPE of nine
now generally I'm working in the 15 to
20 reps on these but again I'm not
really counting the reps I'm just going
until I think I could probably get one
more rep and here you want to keep the
shoulder in a neutral or slightly
internally rotated position raising the
arms straight up to the sides and then
as you get to the point where your arms
are parallel to the floor externally
rotate your arms and squeeze your traps
to complete the top part of the range so
at the bottom have your pinkies slightly
up and then as you clear parallel point
your thumbs up toward the ceiling and
how high you go is gonna depend on your
comfort ability with the movement I find
going about three quarters of the way up
overhead gives a great mix of side
and upper trap activation and if you
don't have the lateral raise machine you
can sub in dumbbells for these but I
personally like the tension curve of the
machine I find it to be a bit smoother
so guys before we wrap it up I want to
give a quick shout out to Alex from the
channel alpha destiny for drawing my
attention to just how important the
development of some of these muscle
groups are for looking yoked and I also
want to thank the neck flex for showing
their support here on the channel make
sure you guys check out the link in the
description box down below if you're
interested in taking your neck training
up a notch or you guys can always hit up
the affiliate link over on Jeff nipper
comm for the links to all my sponsors
and you can also pick up my neck and
trap training guide on my website which
I decided to knock down to just $4.99
for this video you guys would like to
have all this information put into one
practical routine so guys don't forget
to leave the video a thumbs up if you
enjoyed it subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next video