[Music]
ignorance walking on my vlog I'd like
doing the vlog because I want to spread
positivity around the world like there's
so much negative crap my friend and I
are like just working out just having
fun you guys charlie
[Music]
very likely the reason that your
training
fundamentally in economics can be
categorized under leisure sorry but in
reality you are not a warrior neither
are we there is no battle with the iron
it's not life or death you know when
people say like this next set is life or
death like brother you could die
fuck that I'm not dying on a fucking leg
press you know go hard or go home yeah
with some other good ones that we had
yeah kill to win kill to ahead
that's fucking sweet I bleed for this do
you really bleed when you lift weights
if it's a consistent thing you doctor
yeah you may be using the machines wrong
the leg extension is actually for your
quads it's not for putting your dip in
between the plates and stacking the shit
onto it now it will have you know you
might get some dick hypertrophy out of
that do not try this at home folks at
the end of the day we lift weights we
train we diet we try to get our bodies
to the next level because it's fun mm-hm
it's super fun and we try not to forget
this one we're at the gym so we have
sort of a two-part mentality in the gym
part one is plan and warrior shit and
when you are geared up to do a set you
focus you do the set right you do it
with good technique you do it with high
intensity there's no room for fuckery
between sets we have breakdancing
competitions
[Music]
rap battle rat tons of rap battles folks
you are straight-up not ready for the
flow that Charlie and I have you know
Jared feather used to train with us but
he lost so many rat battles he had to
move to another city lost his street
cred and philia so hero street cred
jared visits us in philly he gets out of
the plane and you didn't evitable eek a
random airport worker would be like you
that guy that lost that rap battle and
he's a good he cries a lot
so between sets it's all what is it what
do the kids say it's all gucci gucci
yeah everything's go GI don't even know
what that means but it's straight here's
the deal our advice to you when you
train you train fucking hard between
sets pre workout after workout save your
psychic energy and just relax you don't
have to break dance between sets
even though Charlie and I are both
worldwide recognized breakdance artists
ah yeah Charlie's Korean so he's got a
really easy start on there I learned the
hard way
exactly two three dancing for piano and
spy violin I think what's the Ashkenazi
Jew progression aged one anxiety age two
I came up with my own physics theorem
age three I played the piano in front of
a crowd so big that I got a panic attack
and almost died the hospital age six
osteoporosis yeah I was technically 72
by then so the deal of this is you know
just relax between sets and here's the
thing you only have so much in the sort
of literal sense psychic energy
psychological energy to give to your
workouts to your meals to all the
structure to all this plan to all the
difficulty when you're not working
seriously if you're still serious and if
you're trying to burn a hole the wall
with your eyes you are burning away the
very energy that can push you on your
next set so the best thing in the world
you can do is between sets between
exercises pre-workout post-workout is
being as chill as possible it was happy
hmm
[Music]
yes because no one's happy when they're
like the hood up and no like you can be
happy like that for like a set or five
but like if you're like that between
sets to like what is it people wear the
shirts like I'm training get the fuck
out of my face let's shut up and lift
like what if I lift and then after that
don't shut up you know like what if
we're in the gym having a good time and
thinking as Charlie and I will start
random conversations with people at the
gym just to have fun and where it's
always never it's not the joke's on them
it's the jokes with them but you know we
makes tons of self-deprecating humor all
kinds of stupid bullshit if you take
yourself seriously during your set
you're gonna go a long way if you take
yourself seriously between sets you're
probably a piece of shit that nobody
wants say yeah well you might not want
to hang out with yourself so lighten up
between sets have some fun you might
even make your first friend I don't have
any friends yet Charlie my parents paid
hang out with me but I'm well on my way
what do you think Charlie let's talk
later they pay you well don't they they
do but money can buy you friendship take
that who are the Beatles Scott wasn't
the Beatles of said money can't buy you
love how many friends of the Beatles
have because they were rich
all of them folks breathe love live
laughs whatever white girl type posters
people buy and put on their fucking
walls do that shit don't take yourself
too seriously or do you know what I'm
saying it's then follow your bush
in summary whatever
[Laughter]
[Music]
yeah sure you can
[Music]