if you can I'm always an advocate to if
you can push through that fatigue on the
other side of that fatigue is is some
sort of success that's wise's words man
it's totally fine to be tired tired is
not a cuto off for your workout unless
you actually think you're so tired you
can't hit the weights for the Reps for
the sets that you need and then hey day
off recovery day if you're really up
half a week of recovery if it's towards
the end of a mes cycle de lo no problem
but a lot of people seem to think that
tired gives them an excuse to stop not
motherucker it's especially if you're
really pushing bodybuilding hard
hypertrophy training hard a personal
transformation hard definitely any kind
of athlete of any kind of sport you kind
of live in the realm of tired that's
just what you do the only question is am
I tired enough so that I can't get my
goal done if that's the answer hey
you're good if anything else is the
answer like no I'm just tired shut the f
up stop bitching and get to it Rock's
got some wisdom on that