okay what is going on everyone I'm just
out here for my regular morning walk
here in Jacksonville Florida and I will
say it's a little bit cold in
Jacksonville today in fact I think it's
I think it's the coldest it's been since
I've been here I think it was five
degrees Celsius when I left the house
this morning and I think I am coming
down with a little bit of another cold
so if you hear that my voice in this
video please just excuse me but in this
video what I wanted to do was sort of
make just a recap video on some of the
things that I think I skipped in my
original video on sugar and respond to a
bunch of the questions that I've gotten
about that video and I guess just
engaged with some of the general
conversation that's been happening
around the topic of sugar since I
published that video if you didn't see
that video I'll put a link to it up here
somewhere in the cards you may want to
watch that first before watching this
one but in any case I just wanted to do
a sort of walk and talk video addressing
some of those topics for those of you
who are interested in having a little
bit more deep insight into some of the
peripheral topics around sugar and just
for your own discretion I don't plan to
do like a fancy edit with this or
anything I'm actually just filming on my
cell phone right now with a lapel mic
and that's just for the sake of time
I've got to get to work on my next myth
busts mind a video but I did want to get
this out there so if you do have a short
attention span this may not be the best
video for you but in any case I wanted
to address what I believe to be the
three main or three most frequent
questions that I've got or three most
frequent points that were raised about
my video and so the first one is about
insulin so just so we're all on the same
page
insulin is basically a hormone
responsible for taking glucose out of
the blood and shuttling it into muscle
liver and fat cells and sort of related
to that it also is responsible for
inhibiting lipolysis or the breakdown of
fat and stimulating lipid Genesis or the
formation of new fat and I think it's
for these latter functions that insulin
really gets a bad rap
I think by extension sugar gets a bad
rap because sugar is of course a very
powerful stimulator of insulin release
and so by extension because of these
functions it goes that sugar is
basically making us fat on this
mechanistic level I think that this
argument is flawed for a bunch of
reasons I'll just give my top three the
first is basically that the point is
kind of moot because sugar is not the
only thing that stimulates insulin
release in fact any complex carbohydrate
or any carbohydrate in general will
cause insulin release and not just that
protein is also a very powerful
stimulator of insulin release in fact in
one study they showed that when you fed
subjects a high-protein low-carb diet or
if you fed them a or I should say a
high-protein low-carb meal or you fed
them a high carb low protein meal you
saw very similar levels of insulin
release and in fact the high-protein
low-carb condition actually saw slightly
more insulin release now but this didn't
reach statistical significance and I
think that this point is particularly
salient in the case of people consuming
mixed meals where insulin release is
going to be blunted to a degree anyway
that's not like people are just eating
meals of only table sugar or something
like that at least not very frequently
secondly even if it were true
I think it's irrelevant because a high
sugar diet doesn't cause insulin to be
chronically elevated just transiently
elevated and so after you eat a meal
insulin levels will rise and lipid
Genesis will be high for that time
period and then in between meals when
you're not eating basically lipolysis
will exceed lipogenesis while insulin is
low and as long as net caloric balance
is zero these two processes will
essentially cancel out and that fat
balance will be zero at the end of the
24-hour period and by extension if
you're in a net energy deficit then
lipolysis will exceed lipid Genesis over
the course
the 24-hour period and then the insulin
lols will sort of exceed the insulin
highs and you will lose fat overall net
fat balance will be negative so that
puts it in a little bit more context
hopefully and the third reason why I
think that the insulin point is somewhat
irrelevant is because insulin is not the
only hormone responsible for storing fat
in fact even if you were to eat a zero
sugar zero carbohydrate diet you could
still get very fat if you hit enough
calories because of a hormone called a
solution stimulating hormone or ASP and
this will just shuttle any fat in your
diet directly into the fat cells so I
think it's wrong to pin down insulin as
a primary driver here I think like I
said in the video overconsumption
in general of which sugar is a part is
the main issue here okay so the second
concern that I have or the second
concern that's been voiced to me about
sugar intake probably actually the most
frequent one is that sugar is addictive
and this addictive quality causes us to
overeat on it or overeat it and and I
think that this is not correct I think
it's more accurate to say sugar has
addictive like qualities not that it is
truly addictive in the same way that's
something like heroin or cocaine would
be addictive and I think the
common-sense argument for this or for
what I'm saying is that you don't tend
to see people go right to the bag of
table sugar and just have to get their
fix no matter what you always see sugar
being eating ravenously in the context
of a whole some sort of food product so
it it tastes very good
it's packaged in a way that looks maybe
aesthetic so maybe smells good
and so it's this sort of general sensory
overload this general hyper palatability
I think that's driving that
overconsumption of sugar not something
truly addictive about sugar itself and
notice that this isn't true about things
like heroin that are actually uniquely
addictive you would see people having to
get their fix of heroin a really
regardless of how good it tasted or
anything like that now a lot of people
will point out that there has been some
research showing that when you feed rats
sugar the same dopamine centers centers
in their brain tends to light up in a
very similar way that you see when you
give them cocaine and this has led a lot
of people to believe that sugar is as
addictive as cocaine excuse me is as
addictive as cocaine and I think that
this is misplaced because when you look
at other rodent research you see that if
you knock out the taste buds in those
rodents they suddenly stop overeating
and I think that this seems to imply
that it's the taste that's driving it
not necessarily some addictive property
about sugar itself and furthermore if
you packaged sugar with some substance
that when the rats eat it it makes them
sick or it makes them throw-up they
suddenly become averse to that sugar
bolus this is called devaluation and
when you devalue other drugs like say
cocaine or heroin and feed it to rats
they will continue to eat it or they'll
continue to consume it even if it's
making them sick and this indicates true
addictive quality true addictive
qualities of those substances so with
that said I don't think it's the case
that people aren't over consuming sugar
or it may not be a good idea for some
people to moderate the sugar intake I
think it's a good point that we noticed
that people will say there's always more
room for dessert and there's a reason
for that and it's because it tastes very
good and so we need to be mindful of
these hyper palatable foods but I do
think that again this is an issue of the
sheer availability of highly processed
hyper palatable very tasty foods that
are just always at our disposal and less
an issue of some specific unique quality
of sugar in and of itself and I just
remembered another common thing that
came up a lot I was actually to do with
insulin so we're just gonna flip back to
insulin for another second and it had to
do with insulin sensitivity so the idea
goes that increasing sugar in your diet
or
maybe any sugar in your diet will cause
you to become less insulin sensitive or
more insulin resistant and as a healthy
individual you want your insulin
sensitivity to be high this basically
means that your cells respond well to
the hormone insulin and this shuttles
glucose out of your blood which of
course puts you at less risk for
conditions like diabetes obesity
metabolic syndrome etc and I think that
this has some legitimacy you know
especially in the case of individuals or
on the individual level if you have
someone who is eating or drinking say a
2 liter of Pepsi every day certainly
especially in the case of
overconsumption in general that's going
to have a negative impact on their
insulin sensitivity and simply
eliminating that soft drink would have a
positive effect on their insulin
sensitivity I don't really think anyone
would necessarily deny that of course it
will depend on context and the rest of
their lifestyle and so on and that's
sort of my point here is that insulin
sensitivity just like diabetes in
general is a complex issue and it's
multifactorial and in this case it
depends on a whole host of factors not
limited to very strong genetic factors
and also lifestyle factors that includes
regular exercise or you're exercising
habits and your diet in general and I
think that to pin down sugar as the
single thing driving negative changes in
insulin sensitivity is very narrow in
focus and a little bit misled and I
think this because when we look at the
research that matches groups in you
caloric conditions so both groups are at
a net caloric balance of 0 roughly
speaking whether you feed them a very
high sucrose our very high sugar diet or
a low sucrose diet you don't see any
differences in insulin sensitivity
across six weeks in those healthy
subjects so this leads me to think that
again the main problem is
overconsumption now certainly sugar is a
player in that over
consumption I don't think anyone would
deny that however I think like I said to
pin down sugar as the central cause or
the central thing causing changes in
insulin sensitivity is misplaced and I
think that some of the best things you
can do for your insulin sensitivity is
to regularly exercise and to have a
healthy diet in general and basically
that means focusing on eating minimally
processed Whole Foods foods that are
rich in vitamins minerals and very high
in fiber and place a special focus on
increasing your consumption of fruits
and vegetables I think that's probably
some of the best advice you can give for
improving insulin sensitivity so the
third thing I'm going to do my best to
cover here I definitely won't be able to
cover everything so like I had done in
the previous video I'll have a bunch of
other stuff additional resources linked
in the description below but that has to
do with the idea that fructose is
somehow a unique player here and in some
sense it is worse than other sugars like
say glucose and I think that this comes
from the basic idea that glucose is
metabolized by every tissue in the body
at least to my knowledge correct me if
I'm wrong on that I think glucose can be
metabolized by every tissue if not it's
certainly almost every tissue whereas
fructose is limited to metabolism almost
I think exclusively in the liver and
this has drawn the comparison of
fructose to other things that tend to be
considered toxic like alcohol which are
basically detoxified and sort of
filtered by the liver and I think that
this is a misplaced judgment because
what makes something toxic is basically
whether or not it has deleterious health
effects not whether or not it's
metabolized in the liver and this is
always dose dependent so even the most
truly toxic thing on the planet the
botulinum toxin is only toxic at a
certain dose and the cosmetic industry
knows this very well and it's why when
they do Botox treatments they only use a
very very very tiny amount of box
and this is because this toxin is
actually more toxic than nerve gas and
plutonium now when we're talking about
fructose it just simply isn't toxic in
this same way we're looking at a
completely different scale and I don't
even think it really makes sense to use
that terminology I think that like I
said in the original video that's a bit
of that emotion raising language that
Auntie sugar advocates really use to try
to sort of heighten their claims the
other big thing about fructose is that
it's claimed to increase or to be more
fat generating than other foods and
other sugars and the idea is that sugars
ingested goes directly to the liver and
there it's metabolized and converted
into fat and then that fat is stored in
the liver and contributes to fatty
delivert liver disease and a whole host
of other problems and to my knowledge
this is again not based on a fundamental
understanding of fructose metabolism I'm
drawing some of this information from an
interview with Brad dieter which I'll
link in the description box below he has
a PhD has actually done a lot of
research in this field and the basic
idea is that when fructose is ingested
and you radioactively label it you
basically find that about half of that
fructose when it hits the liver is
immediately converted into glucose and
roughly the other half is converted into
lactate and then shipped out to other
tissues and only about 1% of that
fructose is actually converted into fat
and this remains true even at very high
doses of fructose up to I think a
hundred or 150 grams which is a lot so
that's going to conclude my basically I
guess initial thoughts on some of the
the controversy and the conversation
that resulted from my video on sugar I
can't possibly get to everything so I've
linked a whole bunch of material in the
description box below this is a topic
that I find really interesting
which is why I decided to do this sort
of walk and talk video if this is
something that you guys liked please let
me know if I am going to be covering
more controversial topics with the
Mythbusters then I expect to get some
pushback and I actually encourage that I
think it's a good thing to have a
conversation about this sort of stuff
because it is kind of more important
stuff and it is something that I
personally find very interesting now
just let me know what you think down
below if you did like the video if you
found it clarifying in any way or
helpful in any way please leave me a
thumbs up and I will see you guys all in
a couple days for the next myth bus
[Music]