[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr mike israel here
renaissance president random guy i found
in the gym i just like was like hey do
you want some money to demonstrate stuff
like a deadlift correct techniques and
mistakes and he's like he said something
i assume the answer is yes he took my 50
here he is jared feather
check it out
stiff-legged deadlift okay tons of
controversy on how to do this right what
are the big mistakes how do we fix them
let's get into it but first let's just
remind ourselves when we're doing stuff
like a deadlift what the purpose of the
exercise is from a hypertrophy
perspective it is to stimulate
hamstrings hypertrophy for sure but also
good news is that we get some pretty
good back hypertrophy especially in the
spinal rectors and we get some decent
glute hypertrophy as well so there are
side benefits but when we do the
techniques for this exercise and we
point out the mistakes we're going to be
really really making sure that the
hamstrings are the target alright let's
get into mistake number one
the first mistake is a two-part mistake
either not enough knee bend or too much
knee bend when we're targeting the
hamstrings we want to make sure that the
knees don't bend a ton because if we
bend the knees as we descend we actually
take tension away from the hamstrings
and give more of it to the quads and the
glutes which is really becoming more of
a deadlift rather than a stiff leg
deadlift it's very tempting because you
can lift more weight this way but you
won't feel the tension in your hams
which is how you know you're doing it
wrong and it doesn't really target the
hams well jared show us what that looks
like
you're going to bend over and all of a
sudden the knees go pretty far forward
at the bottom and then they come back up
so it's not a stiff legged deadlift at
all on the other hand very good and up
perfect now next mistake in the very
very similar line of mistakes is you say
okay i'm never going to do that again
what i want to do is completely lock my
knees out and then try to do a stiff
legged deadlift with very locked knees
and jared's knees are even unlocking so
yeah if he's like that it's really hard
to pull off right so people lock their
knees out completely and then do good
enough
then do a straight legged deadlift
so the thing about a straight leg of
deadlift is i don't even call it an
exercise it's a dog exercise why is
it dog because when you lock out
your knees completely
your hamstrings end up being in such a
poor position to produce force and in
addition that when you lock your knees
there's a lot of messaging going on that
you're not in a very safe position to
produce force what that ends up doing is
actually the hamstrings generate less
tension that way yes they're lengthened
considerably yes it's uncomfortable but
you'll also notice it's very
uncomfortable for the knees as well we
want the movement to be just enough knee
bend to allow the hamstrings to really
be the limiting factor not a ton more
knee bend and we don't want it to be
locked out because that way yeah okay we
get the hams we get them but it really
turns into a weighted stretch which
isn't good enough we want a good middle
ground between them jared can you show
us what that looks like
good middle ground just barely unlock
the knees and then they stay just barely
unlocked as the descent occurs you'll
notice there's not a ton of movement at
the knee one more the you stay at oh
like 160 degree angle or something
perfect that's really good
the next mistake
huge mistake i would say there are two
big mistakes here one is mismanagement
of the knees which we talked about and
this next biggest mistake
is letting your pelvis posteriorly tilt
okay why is it a problem
if well let's jared show us what that
looks like real quick and then we'll get
into why it's a problem
so gets the bar out and the purpose of
the movement just becomes going all the
way down so then pelvis posterior tilts
a lot of times that comes with lower
back rounding and then he gets
successfully pretty low but all of a
sudden he doesn't feel a ton of tension
in his hands go ahead and wrap jared
that's good enough
and here's the problem right and i'll
just demo this on myself because it's
easy to do right here so
the hamstrings stretch all the way from
right below your knee all the way into
your hip they insert into your hip so
that if you let your hips tilt with you
and you go down
a lot of the movement comes at your
lower back and your hamstrings never
develop a ton of tension or get a lot of
stretch which is really important for
hypertrophy so when you're keeping your
knees straight
if you anteriorly tilt your pelvis
basically
point your back that way right
if you do that it pre-stretches the
hamstrings and then the rest of the
descent is both powered by the
hamstrings and exposes them to the most
tension that's what we want that's the
purpose of the movement now if the
purpose was to simply lift the weight
you can bend your back a lot let your
pelvis posteriorly tilt sometimes you're
actually stronger that way the purpose
of the stiff leg a delta for hypertrophy
is not to lift in a way that you are the
strongest it's in a way in which you are
strong but exposes uses and has
hamstrings provide the tension for
majority of the movement that means
knees stay stable and you want to lock
anteriorly tilt your pelvis the entire
time so that it's a true hip hinge the
movement comes from the hips it doesn't
come from the lower back
big question on this is what cues should
you use
just do the right thing and the cues are
sort of up to you can you use the cube
big chest for many people especially
beginners big chest is a great cue to
get them to do this so when they do this
and they start to run over you say big
chest and they fix it and their pelvis
goes into anterior tilt again that's
really good is it a required cue no can
you technically be stronger if you let
your shoulder sag down but you
anteriorly tilt your pelvis your chest
isn't up can you anteriorly tilt yes if
you're athletic and you're experienced
and you can pull it off perfect does
your lower back have to be super arched
no your lower back can be a neutral
spine as long as your hips are
anteriorly tilted and they don't tuck
under you
start if you really have trouble with
this movement start with chest stop
super butt back if eventually you can
get into more neutral position but still
be anteriorly tilted that's 100 fine but
what you don't want to do is round the
lower back let your pelvis stuck in and
turn this into just a standing up and
going back down exercise
next mistake which is a little bit minor
but you guys would benefit from knowing
it probably and tip to fix it is not
pushing the butt back during the
exercise a lot of folks will say okay
i've got all the cues my back is tight
my knees are in place and they'll bend
over and they'll end up sliding the bar
forward as they bend jared show us what
that looks like really quick
so what they're going to do is they're
going to tighten their lower back great
their knees are going to be good they're
going to bend and they're going to reach
the bar forward in front of them that's
cool
unfortunately it actually moves your
center of gravity forward that can lead
to a little bit of a loss and balance it
can lead thus to lower tension
production in the hamstrings and
sometimes by really trying to reach
forward your pelvis ends up on tilting a
little bit your knees might bend so you
can really reach forward it's not a
great thing the way to anchor all of
those in place and really make sure
you're exposing your hands while being
in a position
biomechanically to produce a ton of
force is to think of your butt as moving
back through the movement so watch
jared's butt scoot back back back tons
of tension on the hams the bar stays
really close to his body everything is
flawless so when you think of stiff
legged deadlifts yes think of your
pelvis tilted think of your knees braced
and move your butt backwards instead of
just bending at the hips so just a real
quick demo here one the okay one is
bending at the hips and everything's
good notice i'm already on my toes not a
ton of force production the better one
is the same initial bend and then you
push your glutes back tons of force
production the bar is nice and in my
center of gravity and i get a ton of
tension in the hams so if you have
trouble feeling your hamstrings the
first thing you do is make sure your
knees aren't bending too much the second
thing you do is to make sure you're an
anterior pelvic tilt
the third thing you do is try to move
your butt back towards an invisible
object behind you what that object would
be that you're moving your butt to
listen that's for your imagination
the next mistake is another two-parter
insufficient range of motion or
excessive range of motion excessive
range of motion what i can't believe i'm
saying this it's really a thing so
insufficient range of motion can be a
very great setup in a stiff legged
deadlift you do all the right things
anterior pelvic tilt you're pushing your
butt back knees are nice and solid and
you do one of these where you're like
okay
yep good enough okay cool did you feel a
painful deep stretch at the bottom of
the movement in your hamstrings if the
answer is no you're not getting enough
out of the movement it could be one of
those things where the hamstrings never
really receive that big of a stretch a
lot of the movements powered by your
glutes oh sure you're doing stuff but
it's really not exposing your hamstrings
to the stimulus that we want which is an
eccentrically based lengthening
contraction at long muscle length
stimulus so
ideally how do you know you're doing a
stuff like deadlift correctly if
everything is locked in you go as low as
you need to to
feel a real painful stretch i can even
feel this without any weight right now
that's really good news now with weight
i would actually be going a little bit
lower than this so on and so forth but
find a place
where you know for sure that with your
working weight doing everything
correctly you feel a painful stretch in
your hands
the cool thing about this is that almost
like a tip to let you know when you're
doing it right or wrong because a lot of
folks will be like well how do i know if
it's deep enough do you feel a deep
painful stretch in your hamstrings
nothing crazy but like a wow okay i
definitely feel it something like with
the chest and chest vice if the answer
is no you can probably go deeper and or
tilt your pelvis more powerfully and or
keep your knees more stable so those
definitely come first but once you have
them locked in go deep enough to really
feel a painful stretch the opposite end
of that is folks to think they get bonus
rounds by going super deep there's
nothing wrong with going super deep
except
a lot of times you end up
entering the end range of motion for
your hamstrings they can't actually do
any more bending for you they can't
stretch any further so what happens is
people get their range of motion through
other structures
most commonly they're they're back
around and or almost always at the same
time their pelvis will enter posterior
tilt so what ends up happening here like
yeah ideally you go here but one of your
friends is super flexible and they go
low and you're like that i'm gonna
do super deep stuff like a deadlift and
you get to here and you can watch
yourself or other people do this they'll
get to their actual end range
and then they'll continue down notice
what happens with my back
am i training my hamstrings anymore once
my backgrounds know and a lot of times
with my backgrounds i lose a lot of
tension producing ability
i incur an extra fatigue with every rep
that isn't fatigue specific to the
hamstrings which ends up just hurting me
so go as low as you need to to get a
painful stretch with everything set up
well and no lower than that and if
you're going lower than where you get a
painful stretch just arbitrarily don't
do that you might be in a position where
you are only flexible enough to get
right really to your knees and you feel
a painful stretch with your working
weight don't worry about that you'll get
more flexible as time goes on i started
doing stuff like a deadlift maybe 12
years ago going to here and now
with 25 pound plates on the bar i can go
all the way to the ground with a
completely tight lower back it took a
long time but to be honest that's the
last thing i'll say on this topic who
gives a how flexible you are you're
not a gymnast you're trying to
get jacked so do whatever it takes to
stimulate the hamstrings don't worry a
ton about becoming the most flexible
person in the world
the next mistake in the stiff leg of
deadlifts is not controlling the
eccentric descent of the movement a lot
of folks think that the movement works
by you generating concentric tension
with the hamstrings which it does but
the biggest most effective part of the
stiff-legged deadlift is the controlled
eccentric contraction a ton of
hypertrophy is signaled through that
pathway
but it's tough to do you can't use as
much weight it's painful you have to be
patient through the pain you have to
focus on your really good positions
during pain it sucks so some people end
up sort of taking a shortcut road and
just doing these from the ground often
as just normal high speed reps jared
show us what that looks like
people will set up all nice and then
they'll do a fast concentric and then
they'll sort of just drop the weight
back down and they'll do a fast
concentric stuff like a deadlift they
did it and come back down not a good
idea jared do it right this time okay so
boom
slowly centric and up
and then super slowly centric and it
doesn't have to be like 10 seconds but a
good three second eccentric is probably
a real good idea for most people that
really lets you target the hamstrings
not only from a technique perspective
but a mind muscle connection if you do
these really fast someone's like did you
feel your hands like i don't know but i
got the work done we're not in here to
get the work done we're in here to get
the work done in a way that is the most
hypertrophic so if you can do three
second eccentric or something like that
you're like wow okay
i couldn't push my knees back a little
further oh there it is i feel my
hamstrings every single rep can be an
exploration of better technique better
mind muscle connection and you get all
the eccentric benefits that's the proper
way to do stiff legged deadlifts
next mistake on the stiff leg of
deadlift is one that's committed on a
bunch of exercise it's not having a
consistent range of motion wrapped to
wrap to rep the big problem with that is
you don't know how much stimulus you're
imposing and also you don't know how to
track all of your progress if you say i
did 315 pounds for three sets of eight
and stuff like i did this last week well
like yeah three sets of eight what like
one of us a half rep one was a full rep
one was an extra credit super deep rep
and if you do 320 pounds this week for
three sets of eight did you really get
stronger did you really progress well
maybe the reps were cut short you need a
standardized way to do the rep so here's
what it looks like if you don't have a
standardized jared you know might do one
rep in some kind of fashion okay he says
okay that's you know pretty decent went
to mid chin on that one and then the
other one he may be like oh i don't know
stopped at the knees and then he's like
 i feel bad about that so he's gonna
go all the way down and oh i'm gonna go
go all the way down to the the last
position how many reps is that who the
hell knows the best way to do it is to
standardize your technique going all the
way down to the ground is a very good
idea so jared's going to touch the
ground every time notice there's no
lower back rounding his knees are very
stable so every time he gently touches
the ground and comes all the way up
that's a rep do you have to do that no
jared can you demonstrate just to the
knees so jared's not going to be super
flexible he's going to go to his knees
and come back up and he's going to go to
his knees again
and he's going to come back up if that's
the case go ahead and rack if that's in
fact the case of how flexible he is
that's totally fine so
pick a position whether it's mid-chin
whether you can see yourself in the
mirror or not maybe you can put some
plates down or if you're flexible enough
put the 45s or even less uh even smaller
plates whatever you need to hit where
you hit right around where you feel that
awesome painful stretch that way all you
need to focus on is making sure your
positioning is good when to come up is
something that wherever you touch will
let you know power acts are great for
that sort of thing highly highly
recommended to have an end stopper yeah
you can totally do stuff like a deadlift
just by aiming to hit mid chin or aiming
to have a mind muscle connection and
tell yourself okay oh that's when the
tension is coming great but i think once
you find that point with free weight
with no stopper
work in such a way that a rack or plates
or something some boxes in which you
have a stopper and look if you get super
flexible after several months the
stopper's too high you could always
lower it
next mistake is
doing the eccentric very very well
but then sort of cheating the concentric
and hipping in on the concentric which
takes tension away from your hamstrings
makes you stronger because you're using
more glutes and your mechanical
advantage is better but we're not here
to just do the reps we're here to get
the eccentric isometric and concentric
tension through the hamstrings so a good
stiff leg a deadlift jared do a good one
is going to see you do a really good rep
on the way down notice all the good
positions and you're going to use your
hamstrings to do a good rep on the way
up but if you want to cheat the system a
little bit you can even do a good rep on
the way down and on the way up you're
like f that and you hip in and do more
of a deadlift coming up and sometimes
the hipping in doesn't occur until after
the knee is passed try that one jared
and then you whoop you hip in that's not
really a stiff legged deadlift in the
best way it doesn't use the hamstrings
completely which you want to do the
entire time
super quick mistake we see for a lot of
other lifts too letting your grip limit
you the stiff legged deadlift puts the
super giant super powerful hamstrings up
against your grip which is just not
going to be that great
almost no one can actually train their
hamstrings when they're sufficiently big
and strong
and get a good workout with grip
limiting them it's not like oh you're
weak you need to work on your grip
that's nice that muscle is never going
to get strong enough to really bear with
what your hamstrings have going on so
you have three options in ascending
order of being better one is chalk at
least have some chalk on your hands two
is regular straps pretty good choice
three the best one by far are versa
grips not sponsored to say this they're
just amazing get some versa grips
tighten them up and you'll never have
any grip limiting problem which gives
you two advantages actually advantage
number one is you can actually go close
to failure for your hamstrings instead
of your grip which is the whole point
advantage too is once you don't have to
worry about your grip anymore your
ability to execute really good technique
and have a good mind muscle connection
will radically escalate because you're
not just worried about losing your grip
when you start to worry about losing
your grip that's all you can think about
in your reps turn much worse
all right super controversial mistake or
rather point of confusion
rdl versus sldl stiff like a deadlift
versus romanian deadlift okay it turns
out that when the romanians invented the
romanian deadlift a bunch of people all
over the world were already doing that
exact same exercise they just called it
the stiff legged deadlift but some folks
were impressed that the romanians were
doing this exercise and they were like
hey that's a new thing and it just
started being called back turns out it
wasn't new but there is some nuance
there there are fundamentally two
extremes in which you can do a
stiff-legged deadlift one is if you take
usually a relatively closer grip but the
grip doesn't matter a ton you let your
scapulae protract in your upper back
round with your lower back still neutral
and everything else in the chain your
knees
and your hips and your lower back still
good in all the positions we've been
talking about that's the first option
show us that option really quick jared
what that really looks like
so it's a good setup anterior pelvic
tilt the knees are still in a good
locked position but the upper back tends
to round over no big deal the shoulders
as you can see are sagged but notice the
lower body still has proper mechanics
tension is still being generated by the
hamstrings okay that's option number one
option number two
is what many people would call an rdl
it's a weightlifting style movement from
the sport of weightlifting in which you
keep everything
lower than then you're essentially
midline is the same as in the other
version but your upper back is arched
and your scaps are pulled back jared
give us a look at what that show uh
looks like an actual barbell
boom scapulae go back they stay back and
they never really dip forward and
usually that means your range of motion
as far as the bar is concerned isn't
going to be as great
perfect go ahead and rack so the
question is which one of these
are a good stiff-legged deadlift it
turns out both are 100
fine jared feathers favorite quote
because it doesn't matter you're
training your hamstrings so as long as
your lower back is neutral or arched it
doesn't matter much
as long as your hips really are anterior
pelvic tilt and your knees are just
slightly out of lock and don't really
change a whole lot during the movement
you're checking that box if it's really
comfortable for you
to relax your scaps which it can be they
don't have to be a limiting factor
anymore because sometimes they get tired
first you can't do that anymore and then
your technique breaks down if you're
more comfortable this way and you can
actually tighten your lower back while
rounding your upper tough to pull off
for some people you're totally fine to
do it just like that on the other hand
if it really helps you to pull your
scalps back if you like the extra added
upper back work it gives you and if this
really helps you tighten everything and
feel your mind muscle connection better
with the hamstrings absolutely do it any
variation between is totally fine the
constantine konstantinovs round back
style stiff-legged deadlift that jared
showed first versus the weightlifting
rdl style are just on a spectrum a
continuum of scapular position and upper
back rounding do what's comfortable what
lets you lift the most load with your
hamstrings what zaps your hamstrings the
most and what feels the most safe that's
on you feel free to experiment and
there's no dogma on which one is better
or which one is worse
next mistake or rather sort of myth is
thinking there are magic grips or foot
positions that optimize the stuff like a
deadlift it turns out there's a huge
range of effective ones that just should
be individually customized number one
and number two can be used as sources of
variation if you haven't stuffed like an
elephant before you really want to clean
up your technique and just go from a
basic template i would say that keeping
your feet just inside shoulder width
with your toes pointed just a little bit
out is a really good place to start and
then your hands would just drop neutral
from where they are and you grab the bar
like that that's a good place to start
is that the best no can you have a wider
grip absolutely can you have a narrower
stance you bet can you do sumo
stiff-legged deadlifts absolutely 100
totally fine if and only if you're
feeling a lot of stimulus to your
hamstrings during that time and you're
not getting a lot of fatigue especially
joint and connective tissue distress for
example if i try wide stance stiff like
a deadlift and grab all the way out here
and i realize that i can't really feel
my hands a ton it hurts my hips like in
a way like the deeper i go the worse it
is i tend to round over and also i'm
using a ton of my force and mental
connection to pull my shoulder blades
back because otherwise it just hurts my
shoulders maybe that's not the greatest
thing in the world and if i go back to
the standard if everything feels really
good and natural there that's awesome
but if you go to the standard and
everything feels like dog and it
turns out the wider stuff gets your
hamstrings better without
inconveniencing you as much that's the
way to go start here
shoulder with hands essentially slightly
inside feet point it a little bit out
give that a shot first if you haven't
really done these before really etch
them in and then after play with some
variations to see where you're the
strongest where you feel your hamstrings
the most number one
and where it feels most comfortable for
your shoulders for your back for your
hips for your knees and for your hams
next mistake is to worry too much about
exact head position
for the love of god people have
snowballed the about head position
to an extreme extent apparently you've
got to have your head like this or pack
your neck or some weird or you
gotta look up or some other stuff it
depends every five years it changes you
got these amateur biomechanists or pts
online so you've got to do this here's
the thing you have to do things that
essentially
two check marks one do you feel
relatively comfortable and two can you
produce a high degree of force with the
intended muscle ie the hamstring so
if you think that you gotta look down
and all of a sudden when you do that you
feel like total and your technique
breaks down and your neck feels weird
don't do that if for you if for everyone
looking relatively neutral works but for
you looking down is way better that's
really great you should probably look
down remember during the actual stiff
legged deadlift there's no force passing
through your neck the forces are passing
south of your shoulders okay so don't
worry about you're not gonna break your
neck just you know angling your head a
little differently here's another one
people say don't look up the vast
majority of chinese weightlifters who
are stronger than you right and me and
damn near everybody else when they do
stuff like developed they almost always
look up when they are coming up on the
on the concentric sometimes looking up
activates all of the extensors of your
body which your hamstrings are involved
in the activates the entire posterior
chain and can let you do a better job
here's the thing don't worry about head
position don't think about it too much
the best place to start is relatively
neutral which usually means picking a
spot like lower on the wall and just
looking at that so we start like this
just look at that spot
and then come up and look at that spot
and then come up no big deal if you find
that looking down on the way down and
then if you're starting to struggle
looking up helps you it's totally fine
don't worry about it you're not going to
crack your neck open by looking up too
much or looking down too much find
something comfortable it allows you to
produce a lot of force start with
neutral
i will say there's some anecdotal
evidence that looking to the side when
you're very heavily loaded might not be
great and might actually lead to some
neck problems so
when you're doing heavy weight don't do
two things don't look at yourself in the
mirror that's stupid set up a
camera on your phone you have a cell
phone for sure and it has a camera so
you can check your technique later and
if someone yells your name or something
something hot walks by guy or girl who
knows then don't be like
you might hurt yourself so keep your
neck in line but whether you look up
down or anything in between is a super
personal choice
the last mistake is to use an
inappropriate rep range for stiff-legged
deadlifts for most folks stiff-legged
deadlifts are going to be the movement
that they use with the highest possible
forces for the hamstring if we want a
lower force higher wrap movement we have
tons of leg curls to choose from so
stiff-legged deadlifts are great in the
5 to 10 rep range in addition to that 5
to 10 reps is probably the best range to
optimize technique because if you want
to optimize technique at higher reps you
just get so tired of doing that many
reps a lot of times technique breaks
down just from a lack of psychological
commitment to still be awake enough to
be a perfectionist but for five to ten
reps you can totally do it that's the
ideal range you can just definitely get
deadlifts to up to 15 reps per sec no
problem anything north of 15 20 25 and
30 reps your lower back
your scapular retracting muscles are
going to fatigue usually before your
hamstrings which means you're never
going to reach close to failure with
your hands you're just going to trash
those other muscles not get the best
hamstring workout so hamstring
work with stiffer legged deadlifts my
personal recommendation do them in sets
of 5 to 10 maybe sometimes as many as 15
reps depending on where you feel the
best combination of stimulus and fatigue
but save the 15 rep plus stuff for
variations of leg curls seated leg curls
lying leg curls that's the best stuff to
do high reps with folks that's it for
stiff legged deadlifts there's tons of
other nuances we can get into maybe
we'll do that later video but for now
that's it uh two quick things first
we're gonna have a good morning video
eventually
but a ton of these tips almost all of
them apply almost identically to good
mornings so the knee stuff the hip stuff
the chest stuff almost the same thing
hitting an exact support versus
eyeballing it almost the same stuff a
good morning really is a stiff legged
deadlift with the bars on your back so
if you haven't seen a good morning video
from us yet you will use a bunch of
these tips for that
second thing is thank you so much for
watching the video feel free to
subscribe hit the like button whatever
all youtube stuff and if folks in the
comments have questions feel free to
answer it for them if you know what
you're talking about get a little
conversation going and lastly uh if you
want us to do some other exercises and
you really want us to profile them and
do the mistakes and fixes shoot
something in the comments we always look
at the comments and we're always doing
exercise videos folks see you next time
[Music]