[Music]
hey guys dr. Marcel here back for
lecture number three in the training
principles course the overload principle
the subtitle here is kind of cool it's
why the best training will always be
hard training yeah it kind of good news
bad news let's see what overload entails
today's lecture we're gonna go through a
very simple definition then we're gonna
go through a technical definition to be
very precise it's actually a two part
definition for overload which is very
interesting is a couple of really
interesting implications we're gonna go
through some examples of how to properly
execute the overload principle how to
mess it up and we're gonna go through
some implications just kind of basic
takeaway points on okay granted the
overall principle is important how do we
change our training how do we make sure
we're attending to interim training now
a really big point there is overload as
principle number two it is the most
important principle of all second only
to specificity so in other ways so put
put in another way and so long as your
training is specific the most important
thing about it is going to be how
overloading it is or rather is it
overloading with me so far
so specificity is number one overloads
number two which means as long as
training is pointed in the right
direction and checks all the parts about
being specific checks off with a
specificity principle it being
overloading is the next and most
important part by a long shot
what does the overloading mean well
simple definition is to improve the most
that your training has to be both hard
and getting harder or time that is the
easiest way to define the overload
principle so going back to the
arrangement of specificity and overload
the most important thing about your
training is that needs to be specific to
what it is you're training for once
we've checked off that it is specific it
has to be tough and getting tougher on a
regular basis so to put us a real simple
example
you want to be the best marathon or you
can be you're training us to have a lot
of running of long distances and all of
the other sub system training that
you'll do and those distances have to be
challenging the paces have to be
challenging and they have to get more
challenging over time if you are a
weightlifter then your training should
have a lot of movements that look like
the weight lifting movements and the
movements themselves and of course the
subsystems specificity but the weights
you lift should get heavier and heavier
over time because that is going to be
overloading and they should start out in
any particular session on average be
pretty heavy already and get heavier
from there that's where we get into the
technical - the definition of overload
so all that is a two part definition
training is considered overloading if it
meets both of the following conditions
completely okay so then training is
considered what I would term completely
overloading training can be partially
overloading and still accomplish some
measure of good things for us it can
give us adaptations but the best kind of
training is training that is completely
overloading means it checks off both of
these conditions not just one or the
other but obviously if it checks out
dear of them well it's not going to get
make you much better at all condition
number one to put simply is the training
has to be hard-put technically it has to
be within the maximal threshold of the
train system some examples for volume
how much training should you be doing
well it should be above what we term
minimum effective volume it sounds like
a super fancy term it's actually really
simple the smallest amount of training
that actually gives you some sort of
results right you're not gonna pretend
that after years of lifting one set of
lifting a week for your chest is gonna
get your chest bigger as a matter of
fact it's just gonna keep making your
chest smaller and smaller it's not
enough to even prevent losses you know
that only maybe above ten sets per week
do you actually see growth and you see
growth all the way up to 20 sets per
week and then it's too much to recover
from you don't see any growth past 20
just again more decline
overreaching and overtraining but maybe
about ten sets per week or something
like that you're gonna see some kind of
significant results so training can be
overloading on volumes only fits above
your minimum effective volume if it
takes ten sets a week to grow your chest
but your training chest six sets a week
you're just not gonna grow your chest
you're too far away from that threshold
of overload which is ten sets and above
to actually make any meaningful gains
for relative intensity we have another
way to define this overload threshold so
relative intensity more or less means
how hard you're trying at any one time
basically any set in resistance training
that's done further from five
repetitions in reserve or more is
probably not likely to be in the
overload threshold and thus promote any
sorts of meaningful gains for anyone but
beginners what does that mean that means
if you finish your average set and you
could have done five six seven eight or
more reps before failing that's probably
not challenging enough relative to your
abilities to make you progress very much
thus it is not overloading if you're
going to rep shy of failure one rep shy
of failure three even four up shy of
failure that's challenging enough now
notice for up shot of failure does meet
our criteria it will get you some growth
three rep shy failure might get you a
little bit more growth two reps a little
more and one rep even more still at any
one unit of time but anything past about
five reps away from failure probably
isn't challenging enough even if it's
heavy relatively speaking to get you
what you want for example if you take
your ten repetition max and you do sets
of three with it how overloading is that
to the system G you know doing sets of
eight or sets of seven is gonna be
pretty tough buts it's a three that's
kind of just like a progressive warm-up
not even progressive it's just a warm-up
that keeps going every set of three you
do warms you up and then you get cooled
down between sets then it warms you back
up you're not really disrupting the
system to any meaningful extent
especially if you're well-trained you're
not likely to get a whole lot of benefit
from that certainly not as much
so that's overload as stated in relative
intensity terms what about absolute
intensity well for hypertrophy it's
probably about sixty percent one around
can you get games on hypertrophy from
below sixty percent one hour I'm
training yes although you have to go
about things in a bit of a different way
really pump up the volume and really do
something else challenge to get really
close to failure knock one of the other
ones off but if you're doing 60% 1rm or
above for hypertrophy now you're
probably in that over low threshold
where it's enough weight to cause
hypertrophy if you want to get stronger
you should probably use weights that are
at least 75% of your order at max or
heavier on average those tend to be
heavy enough to be in the overload
threshold within that threshold now that
threshold goes all the way up to a
hundred percent of your one rep max but
anything below much below 75% 1rm it
could make you big or if you did enough
volume with it but it's probably not
gonna do a whole lot for making you
stronger especially if you're more
intermediate or advanced athlete lastly
for peak power and velocity so for power
and speed it's been shown that if you
drop off below about 90 percent peak
power and probably even a little bit
higher for speed training so if you're
running sprints and you're below 90% of
your fastest sprint if you're anything
but a beginner novice you're probably
not gonna get a whole lot out of that
training it's just kind of work being
done and it's kind of being done right
you know you you grabbed your pencil and
you write with it but for some reason
that hasn't given you a world-class grip
yet is it because you don't write enough
with your pencil you write all the time
with your pencil but the resistance that
is being provided by the paper and the
graphite touching together it's just not
enough force to make you much stronger
good and making you endurance and
writing but not much stronger so just
the same way if you are doing snatches
and cleaning jerks and you're starting
to slow down so much you have to put a
lot less weight on the bar your start
your velocity is starting to drop off a
lot then you're no longer training for
power you might be training for strength
because you're still doing reps or for
size but it's not power so overload is
specific to the actual thing we want it
to overload what we want
proof so everything we want to improve
has a set of maximal thresholds and if
we want to be the best we can we've got
to make sure to be within those maximal
thresholds notice that does not mean
being at the top of those maximal
thresholds yes
everything from 75% or so of your 1rm
all the way to a hundred makes you
stronger when you lift it but that
doesn't mean we need to be training at a
hundred all the time especially when we
talk about in the next lecture fatigue
management principle training super
close to the top end of overload all the
time is a bad idea because it fatigues
so much we can't sustain that training
why sustaining training important
because of the second part of the
overload definition part two this
training to get you better has to be
progressive aka higher in magnitude then
most recent training so what does that
mean
training can't just be hard and be the
same level of hard or very
counter-intuitively training can't be
hard but be getting easier through the
weeks training on average has to get
harder usually that means you go from
the bottom end of your overload
threshold closer to the top end and then
recycle all the way back down and then
keep pushing it and push it and push it
and get better and better in waves
but what progression really means is
that if you are starting at a certain
level and it's challenging good
challenging means we've hit point number
one then maybe not the next workout but
maybe the one after at some point soon
you've got to go even higher still and
then even higher still because overload
is applied your systems get better and
now that they're better what used to be
incredibly challenging is just merely
challenging and to be more challenged to
continue to get gains you have to add
workload or intensity or relative
intensity make things harder over time
that has some implications and it
actually deletes a bunch of different
training that doesn't follow them that
we'll talk about in this next section
under examples of applications so proper
application example Susie today held a
hand
and for 15 hard seconds it was hard for
her to hold a handstand for 15 seconds
we're going to assume that that's in the
overload threshold next weekend oh she
does all kinds of different kind of
training this week and next week when
she tries to go for handstands again
she's shooting for 20 seconds notice
it's a hard to do both are hard to do
but she's shooting to go up that's a
proper application oral illness is just
two micro-cycles of training overload
fundamentally is really occurring at the
micro to micro level of training one
week or one session the next week our
next session shoot on average be harder
right now there is such a thing as way
too much overload specifically when it
starts to interfere with other
principles particularly fatigue
management if you apply overload
religiously all the time no matter what
even if your fatigue is an issue or if
your injury risk is high then the net
balance is negative so the
over-application example is says no
matter what bill shoots for more weight
on the bar every leg workout technique
be damned I think we all know somebody
like bill that we've seen at the gym
like I thought I hit this PR of 385 and
a squat and you watch them you know hit
365 right before and their spine bent
and their knees caved in and they cut
their depth half way and you're like
you're really sure 385 is a good idea
they say overload man you gotta lift
heavy or otherwise you're backsliding
bro yeah but maybe there's a time to
bring fatigue down to clean up our
technique so that we can continue to
present overload safely and effectively
in the direction we want as opposed to
just more more more without any other
regard for anything remember all the
training principles have to work in
concert with each other to produce the
best way of training you can't just take
it a look at them alone it's like saying
you know I want the biggest possible
engine in my racecar but parts of it
stick out and ruin the aerodynamics of
your car you know is it good to have as
big of a nation as you can yeah but
that's limited by the aerodynamic
constraints the weight constraints of
the car that kind of fuel it uses so if
your only goal is a big engine you're
actually gonna slow the car down an
average even though your engine is big
so or allured has to be seen it's just
one of the principles of the many all of
which can't be violated if overload us
to be applied
now that's over applicational overload
under application can be done in three
distinct ways we can under apply the
threshold condition we can under apply
the progression condition or we could
just mess up completely and under apply
them both let's check out an example for
that so oh and first before I say that
failing at both of them is worse than
just failing at one so if your training
is at least difficult maybe even if it
wasn't as difficult as it was
historically because it's in the maximum
threshold it will still make you better
if your training is not within the
maximum threshold but it's better than
last time yeah you're not gonna get
better from that but at least you're on
your way to getting better later if you
keep that up eventually you'll end up in
the in the maximal threshold hopefully
so failing that then both definitely the
worst thing you can do so for example
failing the threshold condition so
Alex's squat max is 500 pound that's a 1
RM he does 4 sets of 5 with 225 pounds
as a strength workout this week and then
four sets of five with 235 next week so
to 2500 by 5 this week ok to 3500 we'll
have next week he's got a progression
and it's going in the right direction
the problem is sets of 5 with 225 or 235
when you're a 500 pounds squatter can be
considered a warm-up and pretty much
nothing else he's a way outside of his
overload threshold which probably for
strength is something like oh man at
least 360 ish pounds maybe closer to 400
pounds is where he really needs to be to
get stronger
luckily Alex fixed that problem for us
but he created a new one so example
number 2 of under application failing
the progression condition Alex goes okay
I know I need to lift heavy I got him
does 455 pounds 4 sets of 3 in week 1 ok
great and then the next week does 445
less also for triples now is it true
that for 35 for triples is not
overloading in a sense that is not
within his maximal threshold for 445 for
triples with a 500 max squat is
definitely
right in that strength range certainly
higher than the minimum it's in the
overload threshold for sure but it's not
as much as 455 for triples she's getting
plenty of strength enhancement here but
very little here if he keeps that up not
only will he exit the overload threshold
together but that reverse sort of
progression has been shown directly in
literature ch nobody's surprised works
much worse than progressing upwards
right yes it's good to be in that
overload threshold but going up in that
threshold is better than going down and
after our shoulder just kind of staying
the same in that threshold Alex we tell
him about this and he really
misunderstands us so he just applies
both conditions poorly to the next time
he goes I got this
this time I'll fix it he does 225 four
fives this week and then next week he
does 215 four fives so not only is our
overload threshold up here and he's down
here but he's applying a reverse
progression a regression in load the
entire time that's failing both
conditions what can you take away from
this anytime you see a program that's
designed a certain way take a look
through its progressions especially over
the meso cycle because sometimes week to
week is not instructive there are light
weeks and down weeks just over the
entire mesocycle is there a progression
up it doesn't have to be linear it can
be a little jumpy
but is there a progression up and is it
the bottom end of that mesocycle still
hard enough to make some gains for us is
even the bottom end within the overload
threshold because if the bottom end is
within the overload threshold the top
end sure is and then the whole med cycle
is and then we're good to go because
we're making games all the time checking
off the overlord principle to its full
extent of its use right so program
design implications from this we'll get
into way more implications when we check
off specific abilities when we talk
about how to train for power lifting or
weightlifting or rugby or all these
other sports and then we'll thank you
figure out exactly what overload means
but just the general stuff over here
implication number one is the training
should regularly be hard and it will
hurt on occasion okay there's no way
around this at a fundamental level so
accepting it is a good idea what does
this mean
if you're looking for quarks or advanced
science or advanced wisdom from people
that have trained a long time to get you
away from the fact that training is hard
and it's heavy and if you're not a
strength athlete if you're an endurance
athlete training hurts your lungs and it
hurts your body and it hurts your soul
if you're looking a way to get away from
that maximal threshold that's really
tough you're also looking for a way to
get away from either the best rate of
gains for beginners and novices and
beginners and you're looking to get away
from games altogether for intermediate
advanced and highly advanced athletes
training must be regularly challenging
it must get harder and harder and it
must be hard period to get you your best
rate of gains if you make peace with
that in fact if you make I was gonna say
make love with that but that means
something entirely different if you make
peace with that and make friends with
that idea and you chase overload
intelligently in the context of the
other print training principles
especially fatigue management then
you're gonna have a really great time
because the very thing you like to do
train hard and harder is what makes you
better but if you have a mindset of off
like I really want to get better but I
got a hate training hard and it's gonna
get harder if it's already super hard if
you're gonna try to avoid harder and
hard in general you're not gonna see
much success in sport nearly to the
extent that you would if you accepted
those things number two so number one is
training is gonna be hard number two I
kind of already said restate really
quick training should chronically get
harder it also sucks is also unavoidable
so psychologically try to get used to
Maine making that it doesn't suck and
then it'll get better so for example
what what does harder really mean well
you know in Brazilian jiu-jitsu which is
a sport I do I roll with other people
which means more or less like live
combat I didn't you choke each other and
try to do all sorts of joint locks and
as I'm getting better there are fewer
and fewer people around that can give me
a challenge but does that mean that I'm
going to continue to get better and
better if I don't seek out challenges No
to make my training harder and harder
still which means that I have to come up
to people during class enroll with them
that have really high ranking belts that
are incredibly good that are very
dangerous people
because my training has to get harder
when you used to be ok with for me was
you know maybe rolling with other very
novice individuals isn't gonna make me
better anymore even if it's a tough rule
it's got to be harder than ever so I've
got to go seek out those people get my
feelings hurt get literally hurt trying
to win against them because only going
up against them is now going to make me
better and eventually imagine you're the
world champion at Brazilian jiu-jitsu
something I'm never gonna accomplish but
imagine the world champion that's a
tough situation in some sense because
who the hell is he supposed to roll
against to get better he's the best
everyone's a step down you gotta get
really creative in the sense that you
gotta try to make ways to make training
harder because the world champ knows I
guarantee you that if training is not
getting harder he's not going to be or
she's not going to be getting much
better does that suck yes if you're
loading 385 pounds on a bar after
you know just today go up before you
watch this video and the bar started to
bend by itself and the rack that's kind
of like a pas a rite of passage that
some lifters will go through in the bar
bends on its own when it sits in the
rack you know Jesus Christ is gravity is
bending steel I'm supposed to be getting
under this thing what does that hold for
you that means that months and years
later you're gonna have to put another
20 or 30 or 40 or 50 100 pounds on that
bar and still do what you do if that
scares you good if it makes you gives
you pause and makes you reconsider
training you got to come to peace with
that because if you're trying to avoid
harder and harder training it's not
gonna happen a common question you get
from me the some of the clients you
personally train or certainly some of
the ones I've trained you know does this
ever get easier
no it doesn't if you're doing it right
it doesn't get easier but you get better
so the same absolute level of stuff
lifting the 20 pound dumbbells used to
be hard for you now is a sick joke but
now you gotta live the 80s and they're
not a sick joke so making training
harder is indispensable and if again
just like making trained hard period
making training harder something you're
interested in avoiding you're also
interested in avoiding gains at some
level now that being said the key is
some kind of regular overload
even though training might not always be
harder and harder and harder every
single session so at some times training
might just be barely overloaded so at
the beginning of a mesocycle for example
because you have to leave room for
progression if you just give it your all
what the hell are you gonna do next time
and other times especially towards the
end of a mesocycle training has to be
maximally overloading me literally going
as far as you possibly can to failure if
necessary to get all the last bit of
overload before de loading at some times
it's going to be progressing very slowly
for example how much weight you add to
the bar drawing a hypertrophy phase may
be very incremental a couple of pounds
here and there maybe you add sets one
week and add weight the next and
alternate like that and other times
it'll be pretty rapidly progressive
during a strength phase or peaking phase
you can add 15 pounds to the bar every
single time that doesn't mean one of
those is necessarily better than the
other there's a time and a place for all
of them it's a long as those two general
principles are held tight on average
over the course of several weeks
training should get harder and it should
begin already within the maximal
threshold and just get harder through
that threshold lastly not every training
session in succession should be
overloading not every training session
must be overloading but most should be
some training sessions are designed to
bring down fatigue or work on your
technique some training sessions are
parts of D loads which are designed to
bring down your fatigue a ton but most
of your training should be overloading
and only occasionally at strategic times
should you pepper in easier sessions so
if you are on average only lifting heavy
weights that challenge you once a month
and all the other sessions not super
challenging in any way unless you're
ultra super advanced then it takes that
long to drop fatigue there's nobody like
that you're probably not training hard
enough but does this mean you have to
train every single session has to be
away newsroom 4d loads active rest
phases recovery sessions that bring down
the fatigue so that you can do what so
you can come back to the next time or
the time after and overload further
still keep going up and up and up and up
until eventually you're as powerful as
the universe itself and you crush
Superman between your very fingers folks
I'll see you next time fatigue
[Music]