all right so I haven't done one of these
types of videos in a while if you guys
do like these sort of non fitness
mindset type videos then let me know in
the comments but I wanted to talk today
in this video about the idea of
overcoming setbacks so you have a
certain goal that you're trying to get
to it might be Fitness related or it
might not be and things are going
smoothly and you're making progress on
paper and then something happens some
obstacle pops up and maybe you regress a
bit you lose a bit of motivation and you
have a tough time getting back on track
so how do you deal with that how do you
overcome that
now you could basically write a novel
about this topic but I'm just gonna give
you one perspective that I've always had
that's helped me a lot with fitness with
business and just with other general
life stuff and that mindset is to
recognize that they're ultimately is no
such thing as a setback in the first
place because to think of it in the
traditional way of it being a setback
that assumes that success toward a
certain goal is supposed to be linear
which it basically never is at least if
you're talking about bigger life goals
so things like you know going from
skinny or overweight to being in great
shape or going from zero to having a
successful business or even being really
shy and introverted to having an awesome
social and dating life none of these
things happen linearly you'll constantly
be taking a few steps forward and a few
steps back and all kinds of difficulties
are gonna pop up along the way that's
just how it works for everyone it's
inevitable and you see these people that
have success in a certain area or in
multiple areas and all you see is the
end product and then you assume that
this person is just some kind of special
breed and it was just smooth sailing for
them the whole way but you really have
no idea about all the behind-the-scenes
 that that person probably went
through to get to where they are and so
when those setbacks happen to you and
maybe you feel you feel down and you
lose motivation you just start to think
well I guess I'm not cut out for this
maybe I don't have what it takes without
realizing that everyone goes through
that the only difference is how you
frame it in your mind so the way to
overcome setbacks at least the way that
I have done it is that beef
or you start working towards something
you already acknowledge in advance that
your progress toward that thing is not
going to be linear there will be these
apparent setbacks along the way and
there will be times when things get
really hard this is completely normal so
if you understand that before you start
then when those things that look like
setbacks show up you won't see it as
meaning that something is wrong I mean
yeah take you know take the feedback
that you get from it and see how you
might need to adjust your approach
moving forward but you won't interpret
it as meaning that your journey is
somehow flawed or that everybody else is
just sailing toward their goals while
you struggle obstacles and setbacks are
the normal course and if you recognize
that that's the normal course then
assuming that your overall motivation
toward the school is strong enough in
the big picture then when they happen it
won't really faze you you'll just see it
as being a normal part of the process
you'll just stay calm you'll stay
focused and you'll just continue forward
you'll take whatever information
whatever lesson that that period of
difficulty gives you because
interestingly enough that's usually
where you will learn the most and you'll
just use it and keep pressing on and
actually you won't even look at setbacks
as being a form of regression because
you'll know that it's all just part of
the one single process so as long as you
are continuing to move forward in an
intelligent way and you're putting in
the hard work and you're just adjusting
based on the feedback that you're
getting then every single thing that
happens throughout your journey is
ultimately progress even things that on
paper look like regression there's still
a form of progress because again they're
an inevitable part of the process and as
long as you keep going then you're still
ultimately progressing toward your goal
and by having that attitude I can
honestly say that things that would
normally look like setbacks really don't
bother me I don't lose enthusiasm I
don't question myself I never consider
quitting because I already know that
it's what I signed up for way back when
I first got started I didn't expect
perfection I expected it to be a mess
even a disaster at certain times and it
has been everything
that I've worked towards in every area
of my life has been a complete mess at
times but you know I just keep going and
every time that you just keep going it's
gonna reinforce that pattern in your
mind that when difficulty shows up I
keep going and that will make it even
more likely that you'll continue on that
way and it will spill over into other
areas of your life as well and on the
other hand if a setback does show up and
you know you just crumble and give up
that's also going to reinforce that
pattern in your head and it's also going
to affect other areas of your life
so bottom line it's simple advice but if
you just accept beforehand that the
journey is gonna be up and down and that
it's gonna be really challenging at
times then there's no real question of
having to overcome setbacks in the first
place
because you'll already be prepared for
it and you'll understand that they're
just one part of the one single path
toward your goal so thanks for watching
guys I hope you found this helpful the
official website is Sean now come you
can follow me on social media here links
are in the description and make sure to
leave a comment like the video and
subscribe to stay up-to-date seeing the
next one alright so I haven't done one
of these don't don't interpret that
setback as meaning that your journey is
somehow flawed or that everybody else is
just sailing toward their goals even
things that on paper look like
regression are still a form of progress
because again they're an inevitable pop
then there's no real question of having
to overcome setbacks in the first place
you'll already be prepared make sure to
leave a comment and subscribe and like
the video and