yes you can go to allout failure and
Beyond every single week but the
stimulus to fatigue ratio there is not
as good and thus mostly you should train
between three repetitions in reserve two
reps and one rep in reserve that's the
golden range that gives you your average
best stimulus to fatigue ratio there are
ways to finagle around that adjusting
other variables so that you can train to
failure but then you're really kind of
just adjusting other variables so that
you can do the fun thing of train at
failure you're not seriously approaching
this as of what would someone do to try
to get the best growth overall in the
long-term period that would be somewhere
like one to three reps in reserve in
addition the suppli of volume your
maximum recovery volume in a given week
is the most volume you can do and still
come back and have maximally productive
workouts the next week if you exceed
your maximum recovery volume in one week
you're going to come back next week and
underperform on reps and on load and
that means you will still grow in that
next week but significantly less than
you would have if you didn't just overdo
it