what's up folks it's me Dr Mike from
YouTube oh no wait we're on YouTube so
hello
this is the first video of a probably 12
part series on how to build your muscle
growth training program
so I'm going to do two things I'm going
to talk you guys through the theory and
practice of how to arrange your training
program and then because your boy
needs a Lambo we got this whole training
app business coming out RP hypertrophy
app to be specific it costs money
because the money goes to the
Lamborghinis you guys already know how
that works and I would like for you to
consider buying it and I will be
illustrating
right there Scott the video guy right
there yes excellent excellent synergy I
will be illustrating how you would build
a hypertrophy training plan with the RP
hypertrophy app which will be out very
soon oh this is the first time we're
saying in public around mid-may 2023. so
if you're watching this video
in uh up to mid-may 2023 then hit the
link in the description because it's
going to take you to a mailing list
where we take all of your information
Social Security all that shit Grandma's
getting bunked off we're gonna take her
money no wait wait I said that wrong we
are going to sign you up you just click
the button and there's voluntarily sign
up for a promo list where you get tons
of goodies and then a huge discount
price and First Look access at the RP
hypertrophy app when it comes out in
mid-may like the 15th ish which don't
hold me to that if you are here later
which maybe you are because your
traveler from the future
then you want to still hit that link
same link but what's going to happen in
that case is it'll just take you right
into a purchase screen for the app where
we trick you with all kinds of pricing
and positioning to buy anything you hate
but um once you buy it you learn to love
it that's how I've been telling myself
um about the RP hybrid app I've been
using it in my training actually so has
Scott the video guy and we both love it
love it love it he loves it he knows
what he's supposed to say corporate
chills tell everyone what to do so
enough about that enough upselling let's
talk about how to make a split
the first thing you need to know
is
how many days a week you want to train
there's a couple of things that factor
into that equation
number one is you just take the number
of days in the week
divide by 18 multiply by time just
kidding take the number of days in the
week and you pick out the days or a
number of days that you can for sure
make it into training regularly because
picking a five day a week program
because again I'm gonna get chat five
days is what it takes great
but if you make the unfortunate error of
overestimating your adherence abilities
you end up being like only available
three days a week some days some days
six some days four you will fall back on
your plan you'll have a bunch of missed
days that kind of sucks now truth be
told the RPI Purge free app completely
covers you on that front so you can just
go at your own pace but like from your
own personal karmic perspective it's
annoying so when you're building your
own program whether you do it with the
app or without this video by the way
every tip I'm going to give you Works
without the app it's just super easy
with the app you're paying money and
then it becomes much easier uh if you
are building your own plan it's good to
be able to have high adherence because
that you know basically guarantees that
you'll be the most successful possible
and you won't psychologically debilitate
yourself this is nothing like
um
letting yourself down and it doesn't
matter what goal you set
if it's set or goal high enough that's
out of your reach you're going to feel
disappointed when you don't reach
so um like you know if you if you have a
goal of making a million and a half
dollars but you only make a million
that's human psychology you're gonna get
upset so if you want to train four days
a week but you only make it three just
do the right thing and say okay I want
three days a week
okay cool
second
ask yourself the question of what your
training age is are you a beginner
intermediate or advanced
if you're a beginner
two to three training days a week like
if you've been training for zero to two
years
and you're still gonna get your new
gains two to three days a week is going
to hook you up with great results
and it won't overwhelm you because a lot
of training for a beginner can be
physically and psychologically
overwhelming it's like I just like I
just didn't sign up for this you know
like if you go to the gun range and you
want to pew pew a little bit that's cool
but if your first trip to the gun range
is you end up just getting off a truck
and you're in World War Three and here's
like here's a gun you fucking maggot go
shoot these aliens you're like what the
fuck these are real aliens I can't shoot
a real gun I'm out of here this sucks
like it's it's a bit too much too much
too soon and that absolutely can happen
tons and tons of people I'm not just
saying this to bullshit with you guys
and get an opportunity to joke about
shooting aliens in World War III which
we all know will be against the aliens
I've seen enough movies it's just that
I've seen so many people I mean I've
been training for I've been lifting
weights for 25 years now I've been a
professor for uh about as long I'm
getting a little shorter than that uh of
sports science I've just gone through a
lot of stuff and I just seen so many
people be like yeah man five days a week
and there's the first month of lifting
and then they just burn out you just
never see him again so don't do that two
to three days a week maybe four days a
week if you're a beginner but I get
something better even for that two to
two to three for beginners in most cases
intermediates have been training two
three years to you know five five to
seven years you you know training you
know your body anything like three to
five days works really well and if
you're Advanced seven years plus really
you're in the groove really know your
body anywhere between four and six days
or even four and two a days uh a week by
two a days I mean like you train six
days a week but three of those days or
two a day so it's really nine sessions
that works as well
if you are beginner or intermediate and
you for the first time are training with
a certain frequency let's say you're
usually used to training twice a week as
a beginner now you've been Lifting for
two years you bump up to three days a
week you're you're training for three
days a week for a while
if you have a couple of mesocycles a
couple of programs about a month long
each in which you have the distinct
situation of
I want more training I want more results
I love training and I can recover from
this no problem and on the days I'm not
in the gym I'm just like ah just doing
your mom knocks me you're like what Mom
she's like just go train you're like oh
but the program says if that's you then
you're ready for another day of training
but what I'm saying is dip your toe in
first give it a couple months of just
training with Whatever frequency is on
the low end you can always add more and
training frequency is one of these
things that the low frequencies work
really really well your level of effort
ratio to results is really high when you
train low frequency like two or three
days a week as you go four five six days
a week your effort multiplies by a lot
but unfortunately your results only add
by a little bit so it's worth it to you
and it could be but you got to make sure
that it's worth it if you've got amazing
results from three days a week don't
change anything
and that you can recover both physically
and psychologically and you want more
because you could be in a position where
you're training three days a week
recovering physically no problem
psychologically no problem someone's
like what do you think four days a week
next month and you're like nah
I'm good man I I just I'm getting great
results and I just don't want to train
anymore I prefer to do other things with
my time like
video games
book reading
loneliness
oh uh girls
that's nice to do girls ooh
did that come off right or wrong Scott
the video guy
[Music]
nothing's got the video guy would know
anything about girls gee whiz Mr you've
sure been with a lot of pretty girls
before
it's got the video guys a chat everyone
knows this in any case
that's the deal
third
so first we got how many days can you
for sure train second is pick the number
of training days roughly corresponding
to how advanced you are in training and
your training history and third
you pick the number of days you actually
want to train per week and ideally pick
which days you want to go on like you
don't have to do that you can do what's
called a floating schedule where you
just like show up train
peel train again
heal two days later or one day later
train again no problem uh usually better
to label your training days so
we're gonna try a 4X split just for
illustration purposes I got actually
Scott the video guy's laptop here I'm
going to pawn it off after
um hey uh Scott's Vega how much money am
I getting for this laptop oh it's like
33. 33 not bad it's got a microchip and
everything
so let's make this plan we are right
here this is the real this is the Alpha
version not even the beta version the
open paid beta is coming in mid-may
um and then of course Advanced versions
after that that will recognize whether
you're a machine Ally or not
scanning they'll do all that but for now
there's the Alpha version so feel free
to judge the interface but it'll be
getting better
we have an option here
so we can choose a preset mesocycle
that's kind of dope
and or we can create a custom mesocycle
so
they got a question here what is your
sex there's no option for yes
it's not it's not that easy to get
sexual I'll say male I'm a passable male
and since this is an Apple computer I
have no idea how to click on things okay
and if we are on choose a preset
mesocycle if you're not into all this
mumbo jumbo of creating your own plan
which would be curious that you clicked
on this video at all you can absolutely
hit one of these presets and it'll just
load everything for you and you can also
hit a preset and then change what you
like and don't like and then go to town
but just for the purposes of this
demonstration we are going to want to
say create custom meso all right so we
are doing a four day split but since we
hit custom we get ported in to the
custom program Creator screen which is
super cool this is only currently two
days
so we are going to add a day and we are
going to add a day
and it says No Label but we are going to
pick our days so I'll say Monday and
we're gonna say this is labeled as
Tuesday
and
Wednesday
I always say the word as it's spelled so
that I can help remember how to spell
actually that was dumb we need a day
break so actually Friday I'm going to
change this Wednesday Thursday that you
know this is organic because I'm making
mistakes on the spot
and then we get to the point
where we have four days laid out and we
can begin to add muscle groups
when you're choosing muscle groups here
are the rules and this is if you're
making your own program on your own time
or if you're using the RP hypertrophy
app first
in most cases you only want to choose
like four to six muscle groups maximum
per day
to train
why
you can do more if you train only two or
three times a week but if you train four
or five six times a week four to six is
plenty
because you're gonna get so tired after
training a bunch of muscle groups
imagine training seven muscle groups per
day
after you've trained a sixth muscle
group that day what stimulus are you
really going to be able to deliver
I'm the seventh muscle group I mean fuck
if you're really just mailing it in at
that point someone's like will you
trading next you're like biceps they're
like yeah you ready to get that bomb
you're like I am barely alive anymore I
don't even know if I'm standing up or if
this is a dream so I would say if you
want to hit it hard keep the quality
High keep the number of muscle groups
relatively small well normal and that's
why you can have Monday Tuesday Thursday
Friday you can have an upper body lower
body that whole thing and get everything
all of your bases covered through this
kind of split
number two
before refilling these exercises
or pick the muscle groups rather
whatever is most important to you goes
first
that is huge huge huge
because you
have the most energy when you start
training
and whatever you have the most energy
for at the beginning you have the most
stimulus drive to
if you really want a big back but you
train back as your fifth exercise or
fifth movement or fifth muscle group of
that day really what are you how much
back growth are you getting
on the other hand if you train back
first you can we warmed up properly
connect with that muscle group thrash
that shit violence type energy and then
really really good things happen
point three is you want to try to split
up the same or similar muscle groups
such a way that they're trained
symmetrically through the week and
there's enough time between them to
recover more so for example if you want
to train chest in a four-way split or a
four-day split rather it's cool probably
to change train chest Monday and
Thursday or Tuesday and Friday but if
you train chest Monday and Tuesday you
run into two problems problem number one
is that you're supposed to be recovering
and growing on Tuesday from the stimulus
you put into your chest Monday but your
interfering with that growth and
Recovery by training it hard again
and secondly when you're supposed to be
training hard on Tuesday for your chest
you can't because you're tired fatigued
is sore and less able to produce force
and thus present an overload on a
stimulus because you're fucked up for
Monday it makes sense no way that you
slice it now if you reduce the volume
sufficiently of each one or at least the
Monday you can go back to back then what
the fuck do you do with the rest of the
week you generally want symmetry
spreading muscle groups apart as much as
possible
lastly and this is fancy but you guys
get the fancy because this is
Renaissance fertilization we try to get
you all the science
is you want to avoid gnarly muscle group
overlap that isn't obvious but will
screw up your ability to have a good
training stimulus for example if you do
chest Monday and chest Thursday but
triceps Tuesday and triceps Friday that
could work
but it could not work
because your chest is something when you
train it Monday Thursday if you do
pressing it could leave your triceps
tired and sore
for the Tuesday Friday workout which is
not ideal for the stimulus end of those
workouts
when you train your triceps Tuesday
Friday
very shortly after the Friday thing is
fine because you have two days to
recover no worries but if you train your
triceps Tuesday and you gotta hit your
chest again on you know Thursday it's
kind of like you might still be not so
fresh because your triceps are still
fucked up and then you gotta train chest
again and then because your triceps are
really tired the limiting factor becomes
triceps and more than likely you just
are going to start to get elbow pain and
stuff like that so those are the rules
you want to use
and uh that's the deal
now about to make this uh sample workout
split here
as I said before if this all sounds
really intense and you're like bro what
the fucking science Jesus just build a
fucking program great
we have programs for you preset into
this app already if you simply go and
click preset instead of custom and then
you pick the number of days you want to
train per week and it's got you doing
all the lower body upper body whole body
chest and back arms and shoulders etc
etc and these are already loaded with
muscle group selections for you I
personally made all of these right so
the upsides are that you already have a
structure
and first of all you pay nothing extra
with these yes every single of these
are every single RP hypertrophy app has
25 plus programs in it already you pay
nothing extra for them it's not like
unlock this program for a dollar fifty
fuck that is just in there and it will
always be in there
you can choose one that's as close to
what you need or ideally exactly what
you need and there's tons of options for
two day three day four day five day six
day everything all the different muscle
groups prioritized and lastly you can
run it verbatim you're like fuck
thinking click workout boom I'm jacked
or you can say you know I really do like
this whole split
don't like the biceps is on this day or
I kind of want it on this other day you
can click and drag anything you want
around I'll show that in a sec
or delete or ADD and thus you can take a
basic split that's good from Dr Mike
household name and
modify it to exactly what you need it to
be
right and if you fucked up a little bit
too much try to modify something and
you're like I don't even know where I
began fuck it
click the back button delete that
mesocycle or just leave it alone and you
can create a new message cycle anytime
you want
super super fucking dope right
so I'm going to go ahead and add some
muscle groups here see what the options
or chest is first hell yeah you guys
know bro's made this shit
so chest and it asks asked me to select
an exercise but we will be doing that in
the next video because which exercises
you select is entirely a whole different
topic so let's say chest and then we do
back
watch this this is going to piss off a
lot of people let me go to Tuesday
and we go
biceps
triceps
oh yeah I'll wait for it shoulders and
traps
but wait there's more
Thursday
we're going to do back and then chest
kind of cool to give one priority over
the other both have a day in which
they're pushed and ones on which they're
not and then Friday we start with
shoulders and traps
we go
biceps next
and we finish up
with triceps
and if that's not the perfect plan for a
bro physique I don't know what is yes we
could have trained ABS but fuck that
so
that's the split
and
that basically takes us
to a point where you are ready to
potentially click and create the maso
cycle
however
we will not be doing that because the
Nuance of what exercises to pick
takes its own video and we will see you
guys next time
for that video and if you're excited
about the RPI perfect app or it's after
mid-may 2023 and you're also excited
about the app but it's already out
either just go in the description click
on the link either sign up for the Beta
release with tons of goodies in the
bundle and tons of emails full of free
stuff or just click on it and you'll be
taken right to a pay screen where your
money comes in
my Butler's buying Lamborghinis comes
out
that's the machine we're building here
folks we'll see you next week
for exercise selection talk you through
principles Concepts Theory and
illustrate on the art hypertree app see
you then