[Music]
boom dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization as noted folks at home
workouts now that we're in this funk
even if you see this video later we're
not in the funk anymore training at home
can be kind of cool
you can save you tons of money and
sometimes you just can't make it to the
gym or just don't want to deal with the
gym how do we get hard training at home
it is possible and to prove it to you
we've recruited the coaching manager at
Rp Doug against his will to demonstrate
some brutal at home workouts because you
boy is tired from bodybuilding training
I'm not gonna do this stuff Doug here
it's gonna have to take the brunt of the
matter so here's the deal we're gonna
show you a sample chest and triceps
workout today just two exercises but
they're done my rep style brutal will
tell you about what that is in just a
second if you want more workouts like
this we've got other videos but if you
want an integrated periodized
at-home workout plan check out the links
below we've got them at Rp but if you
just want to follow along with the
videos you don't have to buy anything
folks let's get to it and see how Doug
fares when we're training at home we're
gonna assume you only have dumbbells at
your disposal probably not very heavy
ones how in the heck are we going to be
able to train super hard with just light
dumbbells one is creative exercise
selection of design the other one is
making sure we take a couple of things
to know first of all is to go really
close to failure probably just to
all-out failure technical failure which
means we can't do another rep without
sacrificing good technique brutal brutal
stuff and work also because the weights
aren't super heavy and because
systemically we're not gonna be
alternate Ungh we're gonna use really
short rest intervals introducing vert
give Fagor rallies my reps recipe into
the equation and sometimes doing
compound alternating super sets as well
here's the deal with my reps you do your
first set probably somewhere in the 2030
rep range we'll need that bandwidth
because we just don't have super heavy
weights 20 to 30 reps to failure on a
first set then all you do is you take
like a three to five second three
your lactic acid and all the metabolites
flushed mostly out of your muscles and
then you hit it again all the way to
failure again when all of these workouts
were going to be demonstrating for my
reps which means one intro set that's
super tough 20 to 30 reps and then of
three more sets of roughly 5 to 10 reps
each but really we're at physiology
decide we're going to go all the way to
failure on those we're gonna use one of
those 4 set sort of clusters to do one
muscle group and then we're gonna move
on to another and if you do that it
saves a ton of time and it makes
training so brutal at home you're gonna
wish you were at the gym to coddle
yourself so the first thing we're gonna
do is we're gonna give Doug a little bit
of a warm-up and then as soon as he's
nice and warm
ready to go we're gonna get right into
our first set of chest
[Music]
first exercises medium grip push-ups
just right outside shoulder width we
don't just want to get right into the
push-ups though we want a little bit of
rumps we're gonna do like something like
three or five push-ups just to get the
blood flowing one warm-up sets probably
good enough for many people if you feel
like you need more take more Doug go
ahead and get us five push-ups going
you'll notice this technique is no joke
it's all the way up and down and he
pauses for a little bit at the bottom
and at the top there is no BS here
notice that control eccentric when we're
training at home we can't use weight to
make up for our lack of effort
perfect Doug good enough just relax
you're gonna do that you're gonna rest
for Oh thirty Seconds to a minute and
they're gonna start the brutality of
your first my rep for sense it's time
for the first real set taken to
concentric failure which means you
cannot do another repetition any more
and you gently plop back down to the
ground but this has to happen with your
entire back flat always with good
technique we're not sure to rush
we heard it impact the muscles of tongue
Doug you good to go alright as soon as
you fail just feel free to roll out of
it cool hit it up one excellent
two twelve phenomenal keep going
thirteen this is where you find out how
hard at home training can be 14 up up up
good keep those hips up we don't want
any partials go more you got it this is
what pushing to failure really feels
like go go go more keep those hips up go
go go go go go one more go right away no
time for rest up up up control the way
down go control and up that's it very
good failure perfect now what Doug is
gonna do he's gonna roll out of it and
he's gonna take three to five deep
breaths all right nice and easy let us
know when you've taken three to five
this is live okay no cuts no edits we're
going right into it it literally takes
five to ten seconds of rest to get going
you get to go you're in your Zen zone
right away push-ups
set it up go right the whole point of
Maya reps is sequester tons of
metabolites in the muscle and that's
gonna happen if we take short breaks and
up good let's get five at least up good
up last one dawg let's do it keep the
bots up push yes and one more slow try
another go go good job very good rollout
three to five deep breaths again we're
halfway done we only have two sets left
pretty tough how do you feel indecent
yeah you're a good shape what kind of
training needs you you ever hear of RP
before oh yeah you work for RP that's
right
ready to go hit it excellent position go
ahead beautiful these are all gonna be
tough that's the point get your shit
together last one push down slow try one
more go go go go go go go that was ugly
that's failure good enough very good
relax
don't even bother getting up you can
just keep sitting three to five deep
breaths deep breaths you're ready hit it
last set let's get at least five dog at
least five excellent technique folks now
is the time that you get real tempted
good you get real tempted to cheat this
is not the time to cheat this is the
time to be strict a little shorter pause
at the bottom touch pause and go yes
let's get two more at least five here
control it and op good one more dog
let's go finish up strong big push Go Go
Go Go Go that's it
good job that's it perfect folks dog
luckily is still alive that's it for
push-ups feel free right now to take a
minute or two water break shake it out
and we're gonna move up for our next
exercise which is tricep extensions
so Doug has finished the push-ups now
it's time for lying try some extensions
we were gonna call them skull crushers
what what a scary name and technically
speaking you can't crush your skull with
a dumbbell unless you really really
screw up so here's the deal we got the
dumbbells these are cool they're like
power blocks or something any kind of
dumbbell works we're gonna do or rather
what Doug is gonna do these are gonna
touch the dumbbells all the way to the
ground by his ears and extend strictly
on the way up we want this to be only
triceps do not turn this into a press so
dougie give these a shot we got number
one we got number two notice we're only
using like 10 pounds for these these are
very very difficult go ahead and touch
right close to your ears notice that
elbow Bend just a warm-up set and a big
press very good
elbows stay pointed down instead of out
and a big press very good and two more
just to make sure we're nice and warm
and really not just warm but familiar
with the movement notice his control on
the eccentric and his use of good force
on the concentric critical to excellent
execution very good I'm gonna relieve
you these we're gonna rest like oh one
minute or so maybe 30 seconds and then
the brutality of our for my reps hits us
super hard when you do these workouts do
you have to do four sets of everything
like we're doing no absolutely not if
you're not used to training you've been
out of the gym for a while it's just out
of training for a while start with like
two of them literally one big set with
lots of reps and then just one set after
three to five you know deep breaths you
take five to ten seconds of rest if your
seasons and if you've been doing these
dumbbell movements except at a gym now
we have even lighter dumbbells and
you're good at them geez try five or six
of these sets and then every week that
passes if you're not getting a soreness
pumped as you were and you're recovering
which means your reps are going up then
continue to add sets you can eventually
do up to 10 to 12 sets of each one of
these and get a brutal brutal workout so
before just sort of an average
recommendation if you're new to this
stuff would you like something like too
if you're experienced do something like
six and always work into your abilities
if you bite off more than you can chew
reduce the number of sets if you're not
getting really much anything at all
increase the number of sets per session
working set number one strict technique
we're gonna go all the way to failure
dog whenever you ready it's on your pace
excellent
tons of bend in that elbow touching
right by his ears where exactly you
touch is a matter of comfort you just
want to make sure you're feeling your
triceps get stimulated considerably
excellent this is where it gets tough
we've crossed about 20 reps now good
keep pushing it slow and controlled and
right up and slow and controlled and
right up beautiful and slow and
controlled and right up that's it
failure perfect he couldn't do any more
unless he was gonna break his technique
so now he's gonna take a bit of a break
literally three to five deep breaths
about five to ten seconds and as soon as
he's done with that he goes into my rep
number two for my rep set number two and
elbows together loving the extensions
excellent pace big push three one up
well that's it that's faith Lee here
that's it good just rest right there you
don't even have to take them off
boom three to five deep breaths dog is
working super hard folks for an extra $1
in $0.99 per hour you can have me come
to your home and yell at you while you
do these while supplies last
oh look that joke took up three to five
seconds Doug hit it elbows elbows and up
two more Doug let's make this count
we're at home press elbows Oh up that's
it that's technical failure that's it
very good we got one one one left right
three sets done notice this does not
take a lot of time you feel a tricep
pump hell yeah right at it let's get at
least five many of you will find that
after you've done your first set of 20
to 30 you're gonna get sets of about
five to ten but don't try to get sets of
five to ten try excellent technique and
go all the way to failure
big press one last one at least at least
one push one more to clean up your
technique elbows in in in big push up
that's it
awesome folks Doug is gonna remain on
the ground because he's pooped that's
the whole workout see you guys next time
for another muscle group workout where
we do the same kind of stuff try this at
home and if you don't hate the workout
it might be super effective for you to
keep doing how do you progress one last
thing you add reps if you have super
cool dumbbells like these where you can
put in weight you can't add weight
overtime for sure but that's probably
every month you put on a bit more weight
because it's a big difference dumbbells
20 pounds versus 25 that's like
squatting 200 and then going right to
250 next week maybe every month you want
to increase the dumbbell weights but
every week you want to try to add reps
it's a good idea to write down these
reps that you get so you get 23 comma 10
comma 8 comma 6 alright next week you
might do 5 sets of set of 4 and add 1
rep to everything see how it goes folks
best of luck see you for the next video
[Music]
you