yeah you can just crank concentric and
then dump concentric and then dump you
can do that and it'll grow your muscle
that missing out on the Ecentric phase
seems to be you're missing out on some
really really good
stuff Dr Mel here for Renaissance
priorization and today's video is all
about repetition speed for muscle growth
now super quick if you are new to the
channel and you have not yet subscribed
I'm Dr Mike iSell I am a professor of
sport and exercise science I'm a
competitive bodybuilder I'm a
competitive Brazilian jiujitsu Grappler
and I'm a co-founder of RP and the
co-creator of the RP hypertrophy
training app and the RP diet coach Diet
app I'm also a Lamborghini Enthusiast I
have 73 Lamborghinis I'm a man of many
Butlers I believe I have 156 Butlers
though it's not an exact figure and this
channel here that you're watching is
designed to teach you about how to train
how to eat how to recover and how to get
in the body you want with the smallest
amount of BS and for those of you who
already subscribed first of all join our
members area folks I need money
Lamborghinis are unfortunately not free
despite me messaging my congressmen
about it incessantly the hell are we
talking about on to the topic repetition
speed is also known as
Cadence we can Define cadence in
hypertrophy training with a four-part
definition one is how quickly you do the
Ecentric lowering part of the exercise
two is what you do with the bottom pause
is it a quick reversal or is it slow is
there a pause next is how you handle the
concentric pushing back up is it quick
is it intermediate is it really slow and
then lastly is how you handle the top
pause the very top paw do you just come
up and write back down do you wait and
lock out do you take a breath in how do
you handle every single section of that
lift that is a holistic discussion of
cadence in this case specifically for
hypertrophy we've talked about it in
strength regards at other times in this
Channel today is just about muscle
growth how quickly should you move the
weights any of these phases any of these
four top Ecentric bottom concentric top
again can be between 0 seconds long is
almost instant and even up to six
seconds long which has been vetted in
the scientific literature as being
generally roughly able to promote
hypertrophy I was cold earlier I'm not
as cold taada oh no I'm
bald so because we have these giant
question marks as to how long should
these phases be we would like ideally to
have some
rules that can lead to the best outcomes
for muscle growth for each one of these
phases so let's take them one at a time
first the Ecentric the lowering process
in most cases it seems that some control
is better than no control for at least
one reason the Ecentric contraction of
muscles the contraction of your muscles
as they are being lengthened is
hypertrophic it promotes muscle growth
so if we just dump the bar in our chest
for example the muscles aren't very
active or active at all during that time
you're kind of missing half of the
repetition of growth so that doesn't
make a whole lot of sense we definitely
want to keep some kind of slowing in the
Ecentric just for the activity by
itself
now there
is good muscle growth to be had
just by activating muscle growth in
general but the Ecentric phase
specifically that lowering seems to have
a very good hypertrophic yield it grows
muscle currently we can't say it grows
any more muscle than the concentric
phase but the best guess is that it
grows a little bit more unit for unit
however there's another big Advantage
when you are concentrically Contracting
muscles shortening them against
resistance like coming up part of the
bench
it requires a lot of nervous system
stimulus to make that happen and you get
quite a bit of muscle growth out of
every single rep so the nervous system
fatigue you generate is here and the
muscle growth you generate is here for
the Ecentric phase it's been shown time
and time again that the amount of
nervous system activity to lower a
weight is some small fraction of the
amount it takes to raise the weight
Ecentric muscle contraction seems to
occur more at the muscle level and not
at the nerve level as much your nerves
are like hey just slowly lower this and
your muscles kind of do the rest of the
work which means they get a really good
stimulus but the nervous system caused
and mediated fatigue is lower for
Ecentric reps so that's an argument in
saying that if you're going to break up
every part of a rep into what gives you
the best ratio of stimulus to fatigue
just on nervous system tiredness alone
the Ecentric phase isn't one you want to
skip because potentially the stimulus to
fatigue ratio of the Ecentric part might
be a little bit higher than even we
would predict than the conent which is
kind of sweet I don't want to say it's
free gains but man it's like real cheap
gains it's like you go to the airport
you're kind of hungry and you see a
burrito and normally the burrito costs
15 bucks but there costs five you're
like I mean I don't want a burrito
ideally but fucking five dollar for this
thing nor only 15 I'll take one just the
same way yeah you can just crank
concentric and then dump concentric and
then dump you can do that and it'll grow
your muscle that missing out on the
Ecentric phase seems to be you're
missing out on some really really good
stuff lastly there's an injury
management situation the absolute risk
of injury from weight training of any
kind is very small but relatively
speaking if you slowly lower weight you
are much less likely to get hurt than if
you rapidly lower the weight especially
if it's not under control adding all
those things together gets us somewhere
to the point of where I can share a best
practices idea with you and that is you
should have ecenter control on every
single repetition of muscle growth
training that should last between
roughly one and 3 seconds so you could
do one second Ecentric which is like
down and up and then down and up or you
can have as many as three seconds in
Ecentric as there one two three and push
and one two three and push anything
between one and 3 seconds generally
seems to be like a good answer
technically speaking and they've done
this in research you can get near
maximum results for muscle growth by
going up to as many as six seconds just
on the entric let me try that out one
two three fuck that I ran out of
patience I can't even do it right here
right now it's a long time you can do
that and get great gains but you got to
follow two rules to make sure you're not
getting screwed one you got to get close
to failure if your Centrics are slow
enough at some point you've done 10 reps
and you're like I guess I'm done but you
got to get close to fail so at you let's
say it's 10 reps the ninth
concentric needs to look like that
because otherwise if you slowly lower
weight enough the perceived difficulty
of that can be quite extreme and then it
turns out you're like five or six reps
away from failure you could have been
going at the slow rate for longer you
have to use such light amount of weight
that you can always just crank more reps
but you don't because you're like ah
this is hard enough but then you're
training so far away from failure and we
already know from good research that
anything much further than four or five
reps away from failure just doesn't
cause a whole lot of muscle growth we
really want to make sure that if you're
going to go that slow in the Centrics
still make sure you're powering up your
concentrics enough to detect when
failure is closing don't quit any
earlier than that and the second thing
you have to consider if you're doing
these very long eccentrics is the load
on the bar is heavier than roughly your
30 rep Maxs because people will say like
okay sixc Ecentric okay
dope I want to do a set of 15 reps okay
but for traditional rep Maxes in which
the reps are basically done at a just a
very quick Cadence any you know 225
bench press bench press test for the NFL
like it's up and
down if you have a 30 rep m
with normal Cadence and you take that
set and you modify it to instead of 1
second Ecentric sixc Ecentric you have
just made every single rep six seconds
longer you cannot do your 30 rep max for
30 reps anymore the real question is how
many reps can you do it for it depends
on a few factors endurance practice and
really is it really six seconds on the
Ecentric what what the lift is which
muscle groups but generally speaking
feel free to cut your shit at least in
half which is to say that with 6C
Ecentric if you can do 15 reps that's
probably close to your 30 rep max here's
the kicker if you do sets of 18 19 20
reps with 6C Ecentric you're not lifting
a weight that is substantially lighter
than your traditional 30 rep max which
means it's not heavy enough to as
robustly stimulate growth as weights
that are heavier so my recommendation to
you is make sure that you know know what
weight you're using as far as rep max
for traditional Cadence so if you're
trying to do really slow Centrics on
pull Downs before you put in your
working weight for pull down ask
yourself is this heavier than my 30 rep
max with traditional pull down fresh
just say Okay so 120 I've done for 28
reps to failure
cool I'm gonna click 120 and I'm going
to do slow Ecentric 6sec Ecentric and
I'm going to get let's say 9 reps very
close to failure and someone would be
like wait you just did nine reps isn't
like couldn't you have done more reps no
because to do more reps I would have to
go and pick a weight even lower than my
30 rep max so sometimes with the very
long Ecentric the good news is that you
don't have to do as many reps because
the bad news is if you do a lot of reps
and each one takes forever the weight
has to be so small that you're just
pissing away a ton of lifting on weights
that are not sufficiently heavy to
stimulate you so again if you do the
extremely long Ecentric make sure you go
in heavier so that that total amount of
weight you're using is under or is
heavier than your 30 rep max so if your
30 rep max for pull Downs is 120 pounds
don't you be using 100 pounds yeah but
it's 100 pounds but like it's a slow
Ecentric like nope too light doesn't
cause enough gains I don't give a shit
how slow that acentric is is just not
heavy enough but as long as it's 120
pounds or above in that case shit use
160 do sets a five with slow Ecentric
look set a five with a whole rep takes 7
Seconds that's 35 seconds that's the
typical amount of time it would take you
to do 10 or 15 reps now you're doing
just a few reps totally no wrong answers
just make sure you don't go way too
light by saying some magical bullshit
about oh the Cent are taking care of
like uh they still need heavy
weight all right so we figured out the
entric generally anything between one to
3 seconds is good if you're going to do
longer Centrics you make sure you use
nice and heavy weight what about the
bottom pause so I'll say one thing it's
not mandatory to pause at the bottom of
every lift it's just
not however more time in that stretched
position like at the bottom of a bench
PR with your pecs are tearing off can
increase growth so if you want to pause
at the bottom it's probably like a lot
of upsides just to hang out there for a
bit in addition to that one of the most
high Force now actually the highest
Force pulse in any lift is almost always
going to be that reversal from Ecentric
concentric bloop that little bloop at
the
bottom that means you're stretching
tissue to their maximum with the highest
possible forces at the same time that
multiplies out into the highest
probability of injury of any point of
the
lift you might want to take that into
account and especially if you're bigger
and stronger and more advanced pausing
at the bottom is going to be distinctly
safer for you than not pausing at the
bottom is it worth it on the margins
maybe maybe not just remember that so
more time in the stretch bottom pause
means it's good for that and bottom
pause probably at least on the margins
reduces your probability of injury so
what I would say is general advice for
best practices for most people and the
very most do a gentle reversal not a
spastic bounce you see someone benching
like like that they're fucking doing it
wrong I don't give a shit who you are
you're fucking wrong you're sure a shit
not benching for powerlifting because
you got to pause in that motherfucker
anyway it's part of the rules you're not
benching for hypertrophy at least not
well because you want a controll
Ecentric and then at least a gentle
reversal where you come down and there's
no pause pause but you come back up in a
way that's gently reversing you don't
want to do any kind of spastic shit and
if you'd like you can consider a 1 to 3
second bottom hold at the pause and then
a gentle reversal after that we'll get
to at the end of this lecture I'll say
for who this one to three second pause
really is and for who it might not be as
important but those are the basic rules
so just to reiterate the bottom pause
not mandatory but time at the stretch
can increase growth so it might be a
good idea it can increase the
probability of so you decrease the
probability of injury which could be
another good idea sort of sort of a a
compelling case um and the best practice
is at the very worst to do a very gentle
reversal and potentially do a one and
three second pause it's like um you know
what I'm saying it's like someone's like
hey like you want to go on a date with
Sally and you're like well do I have to
like no no no no like you don't have to
Jesus Christ like it's you're a free
person Sally doesn't even know about
this I think she wants to date you and
then you're like what are the upsides
it's not all upsides but bitch has
saying big ass lips and she loves to
you feel me so we got two reasons for
you to go and you're like oh shit well
uh no I'm good okay fine go on a date
with Kelsey or whatever that's other
white bitch name but uh I'm just saying
Sally got it popping just like that
bottom pause you think about it in any
case we did the lowering we did the
pausing time for the re raising the
concentric
part if you want maximum power and
athletic development in sport I just did
uh Scott did you see what I do with my
face I did an accidental Andre Tate all
right ready here's my shit Andrew Tate
impression I haven't practiced this at
all what you want to do is make sure
that you're always a leader the
best why does he do
that Scott I've never sold prostitutes
until it was my career two years ago and
then I sold them
all I'm a professional anyway Mr Andrew
trade if you're watching this don't beat
me up in real life in any
case hi speed on the concentric whoosh
is amazing for maximizing power and
explosiveness for athletic performance
so if you want to become a great athlete
in any other regard absolutely you got
to rock out accelerate your concentrics
don't pulse off the chest that could be
a little bit increased in injury
probability but or whatever chest or
whatever curls whatever squats you're
doing out of the bottom accelerates you
start off slow and then you fucking go
fast whoosh like that if you want to
improve sport performance however that
does not seem to confer any advantages
for muscle growth so it does not make
you any more jacked so if you don't have
to consider yourself an athlete in
another sport don't worry about it you
can go fast on the way up but you don't
have to on the other end an
intentionally slow concentric speed
where you come down and you're you're
strong enough to do this but you come
down and you're like just trying to milk
it out outside of reducing injury
probability by the teeniest amount if
you have the pre you know history of
pre- injuring the muscle or something a
slow speed on the concentric has no
upsides for hypertrophy sure a shit has
no upsides to sport performance and it's
kind of annoying to have to pace
yourself with like if you already got
down to the bottom of the lift it's
easier to just kind of return the bar up
at a normal athletic Pace it's annoying
to be like okay now up and you're like
yeah I got to count the seconds to go
back up so I've got to stop myself from
trying remember the slowing of the
Ecentric means the more you slow it the
harder you're trying it's an auto
incentive structure
the slowing of the concentric is like
it's actually harder if you go faster so
you have to make it easier on yourself
like but there's no benefit slowing
intentionally the concentric is
something you do very very rarely if at
all mostly with injury stuff like yeah I
would go fast but my Peck will pop off
so I'm just going to go nice and slow on
everything totally fine so my best
practice advice to you is to do an
athletic concentric but nonetheless a
controlled one focus on good technique
and not necessarily Cadence SL pacing so
what that means is say e cental control
let's say pause at the bottom and then
woof back up and E Center control and
pause at the bottom and then woof back
up we're not talking about super
explosion we're not talking about super
slow just athletically return the bar
focusing on the right muscle activations
and the right bar path on the way up
that's probably the best way to handle
like concentric so no avowed Cadence
they're like okay so like because people
will ask like come in train with me and
they'll be like all right so we we're
doing one 121 And I'm like the fuck I
don't know Morse code the fuck are you
talking about and they're like Ecentric
concentric and I'm like I I don't know
how long my concentrics take and I don't
care I just put the bar back up to where
it's supposed to be in an athletic but
measured Manner and that's what I would
recommend for most
people all right the top paw the fucking
PE contraction fellas hey Scott do you
want to come touch my muscle while I
contract it head oh my God uh oh which
head doesn't matter everybody having fun
though all right the top pause
the
lockout whichever lift you're doing it
cross the body fucking one arm tricep
extension the most hard core movement in
bodybuilding I might add turns out
there's no direct muscle growth benefit
either in research or in theory to doing
a top pause nothing direct like this for
sure works so because remember the
bottom pause is more loading at the
stretch that's confirmed by science to
be a thing that's fucking good it's just
better the top paw doesn't make a whole
lot of sense now there are at least two
two things you can get out of a top
pause so normally you don't have to top
pause but there are two good reasons to
try a top pause in context and the
context isn't Universal so sometimes
these things are real sometimes like
it's not the time for them first reason
you can rest at the Top If the top is a
relatively unloaded position for example
if you curl and your curl ends here not
here if your curl ends here are you
resting here fuck no that's maximum
gravity here you can't just rest here it
fucking so if you're top pausing here
you're just pissing away a lot of energy
but if your leg pressing you lock out
your legs in a leg press it actually
takes the entire muscle completely
switches it off and it's just bone on
bone which by the way your joints are
made for don't worry you're not going to
die but now you can actually rest your
quadriceps at the top and if you can
rest your quads at the top what you can
do is give them some time to recuperate
couple of seconds and then you do
another mini set you hit them again for
a few reps you get TI your lock out
again you keep doing that within one set
you get more approaches to failure
typically one set just has one approach
to failure you almost failed and you're
done but with leg presses maybe with uh
Skull Crushers on a Smith machine where
you can lock out and rest for a second
let the machine take up the slack you
can go go go rest at the locked couple
more go go go and then you have maybe
two or three or four approaches to
failure in one set those are Mega gains
again that's not on every exercise in
addition to that sometimes pausing at
the top can let you rorm your Technique
in a way that allows your technique for
the other reps to be better because
typically what happens especially for
definitely for beginners for sure for
intermedia it's less for advance but it
happens nth less is as you do more and
more reps of a lift your Technique
generally you get out of position you
degrade like if you're benching with
proper Arch and retraction at first
couple reps you're doing great but then
you're shoulders start to slide forward
you lose your arch and you're just kind
of benching like a normal idiot again
and you're like God damn it so sometimes
when you have the top paw you can use it
to rearch get set into position and go
so sometimes pausing at the top is good
for technique renorming a really good
example of this is if you're doing
machine presses because sometimes with
machine presses just locking out letting
the machine take the rest of the slack
you got some time there you're not uh
getting drained of energy then so you do
machine presses you lose your position
lot out the eighth rep really pull your
shoulders back chest up and then you got
a couple more really good reps if you
hadn't rored the next reps would have
been shitty the sfr isn't that great it
hurt your joints a little more your pecs
aren't exposed anymore so the last
couple reps are like ah shit those suck
whereas if you rored at the top you
could have gotten a couple more reps
that were excellent excellent reps so
definitely an idea about why you might
be able to do a top pause and actually
get some really good benefit out of it
another good example is you start to
lose your mind muscle connection
situation let's say say with curls and
let's say it's your curling to the face
so at the top here is actually an
opportunity to rest you do some curls
and after a while you're just kind of
moving around like I'm not in touch with
my biceps you go to here rorm technique
okay control and then biceps biceps
biceps biceps biceps and then next
couple reps because you took that time
at the top to rest a little bit to
remind yourself of what the technique
was your Technique is just
better however if you're pausing at the
top of a lift in which there's no
unloading of the muscles it'll you to
sap your energy so all of the renorming
that you're doing directly has to fight
against the number of reps you're losing
because your energy is leaving you and
the number of reps you're losing is
potential growth opportunities because
the renorming top paw itself doesn't
actually grow muscle it ostensively set
you op to grow more but if you piss away
all your energy it's a real stupid idea
it's like stopping to get gasoline while
you have a hole in your fucking tank it
just keeps leeching it out you got the
fucking plug in there you're putting in
the gas and it's just going right out
you got a hole in your gas tank just go
until you can't go anymore and then
maybe I don't know if you can't fix the
hole so what's an example of this in
real life you guys ever see people squat
they'll come up for rep number six and
then they'll try to re archery
nor they go again holy fuck you do that
at the top of a squat you just cost
yourself one two or three repetitions
from the weight just crushing you the
entire time as soon as you on rack ay
Squat and walk out you're on a fucking
clock of how many reps you could have
done you got to get to it you just got
to do those reps uh what's another a
good example of a lift um I was going to
say pull-ups top Paws is the hardest
part of the pull-up so definitely not a
good idea to do it in that regard
there's a bunch of other lifts um in in
which dumbbell lunges you pause at the
top of dumbbell lunges your hands are
being fucking opened up by the dumbbells
or if you got Versa gripped in your dumb
your traps are getting stretched out
you're like okay this is a trap workout
now your back is being rounded some
exercises are not unloaded and relaxed
at the top Paws for them renorming and
top pausing is a really really bad idea
for them use the top pause as just a
quick opportunity to return back and do
another one right so best practice for
most lifts practice l a split second
pause until a descend you come up on the
bench click and down just hit the top
and come right back down no rush you can
pause for a split second and then go
back down but don't hold it at the top
for a long time unless your Technique
greatly stabilizes as a result of
pausing for a second and reasserting
yourself and that's not a very laborious
process so that it doesn't cost you a
lot of reps in the back end so if you're
doing something like my reps pausing at
the top and resting is totally cool but
again only works in lifts in which you
can lock out and the weight isn't
burdening you and you can actually rest
at the top paw so the top paw make it
quick make it snappy don't spend too
much time there unless you have a
compelling reason for renorming your
Technique that works or doing
essentially my reps rest pause sets that
actually works for
you what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now we wrapping this all up something
new I'm trying on the channel here I'm
sure this will have its way and it'll
suck and you guys will hate me and then
I just won't post anymore that's it see
my South thought
main points for this video so if you
were in a weed and de stuper this entire
time hey hey wake up we got main points
but we're going to do main points for
beginners for intermediates and for
advanced in other words if you're a
beginner or intermediate or Advanced
what is it that you want to get out of
this video I got it all summed up main
points for beginners move smoothly and
slowly through All Phases zero rush
because it's the technique you want to
get down and you're so growth sensitive
you don't need to worry about Cadence at
all the path of the bar slash weight in
your hands slash your body is 100 times
more important to you as a beginner than
katans so if I'm looking at you lifting
as a beginner I just randomly walked
into the gym and I know you started two
days ago because I follow you on
Instagram and in real life and you have
nothing to say about it I'm usually in a
trench coat you know the usual and I
watch you do excellent external
technique but your Cadence is a little
funky I don't give a shit about it but
if I'm watching you do dog shit
technique but you're
like like really specific Cadence but
your bar path sucks dude forget about it
you're doing the wrong shit so
beginners good technique don't worry
about
cads intermediates try to slow down your
Ecentric become more aware of them and
keep your concentrics athletic it's that
easy if you're an intermediate you come
up to the in gym be like can you watch
my reps what do you think I should do
first thing I'll tell you about bar path
technique how your body looks but if
that looks good and you're like what do
you think of my Cadence I'll be like
yeah like uh just as long as you're
keeping that Ecentric a little slower
and you're being athletic on the
concentric that's really all that
matters like we can nitpick but then
that's Advanced so lastly Advanced folks
what can you get out of this video first
decide which lifts for you make the most
safety sense and stimulus to fatigue
ratio sense to implement bottom pauses
on and then start doing those so maybe
it's lunges for you maybe it's squats
maybe it's rows maybe it's
whatever you can use different Ecentric
speeds as different variations
essentially new lifts you can have a
squat in which you do one second
Ecentric traditional speed you can have
another squat you do months later which
is a 3C Ecentric and you can do some
body weight squatting in which you do
sixc Ecentric sorry that's going to hurt
a lot but is just variation so there's
no right or wrong answer for you anymore
there's a bunch of right answers
sometimes you choose one months later
when that becomes stale you choose the
other and you should know which lifts
for you can be myt which is top paw
breathe a little bit do a couple more
reps top Paws breathe a little bit or
which ones benefit from technique
renorming top paws are really Arch and
retracted again and keep going know what
lifts those are for you try them and use
them until at the very tail end of your
Advanced Career you know exactly the
Cadence you're doing on every single
lift and why and then you're truly
Advanced and then you get a delivery
from the mailman once you become this
Advanced and it's a box and out of this
box come puppies panda bears and kittens
confetti cake and U women of sexual
reproductive age that are attracted to
you
and uh I'm still waiting for a lot of
that in my own
life see you guys next time yeah why not
see you then