is obesity a choice this is a tough
question and a lot of people seem to
think about it something like this where
you have an obese button on the left and
a not obese button on the right and
anyone who is currently obese is obese
because they made a conscious decision
to press the obese button but i don't
think that's how it works i mean for
starters if you selected 100 people at
random and gave them the option my guess
is that almost every one of them would
press the not obese button people know
about the potential health risks and
social stigma that can come with being
obese so virtually no one would
consciously choose to be obese in this
simplistic sense but maybe it looks
something more like this where you have
this lifelong continuous series of
choices to pick certain foods over
others like whether to order fried
chicken or grilled chicken regular coke
or diet coke a small fries or
super-sized fries and certain behaviors
over others like whether to get up and
exercise or stay on the couch and over
time maybe it's the cumulative effect of
these many individual choices that
causes someone to become obese i do
think this is a bit closer to reality
however even this analogy is still very
incomplete consider this graph taken
from a 1990 study where 24 subjects were
overfed by a thousand calories per day
for a hundred days or just over three
months all the subjects were under 24 7
supervision by the research staff so we
can be confident they were actually
following the protocol each one of these
bars represents a single person and the
height of the bar represents how much
weight they gained in response to the
same 1000 calorie surplus this person
over here on the left only gained an
extra 10 pounds while this person over
here on the right gained an extra 30
pounds while eating the same 1000
calories extra per day this could be due
to a number of factors but a big one is
genetic differences in metabolism
looking at this later study from 2018 we
can see that just like there are large
differences in weight gain there are
also large differences in how many
calories people burn at rest just
sitting on the couch doing nothing at
all this lucky person over here burns
about 150 calories more than metabolic
equations predict and this person on the
left would burn 250 calories less than
metabolic equations predict in other
words if none of these people exercised
at all this person would still burn
about 400 calories more per day than
this person so going back to the buttons
a small fries from mcdonald's has about
200 calories and a super-sized fries has
about 600 calories all else being equal
that's a 400 calorie surplus if you
choose to supersize but this person also
burns 400 calories more so through no
action of their own they could choose to
supersize every time and their net
caloric balance would be exactly the
same as this other person who chooses
the small fries but this only considers
resting energy expenditure the number of
calories you burn at rest people also
burn calories through exercise the
thermic effect of food and something
called non-exercise activity
thermogenesis or neat and the neat
component of metabolism can vary
dramatically between individuals even
more than resting energy expenditure
neat refers to the calories you burn
from daily activities that aren't actual
exercise so stuff like fidgeting tapping
your feet etc and even though you can
somewhat modify your knee levels by
making an extra effort to move around a
bit more throughout the day neat is
still largely subconsciously regulated
in the brain and it's dynamic so if you
have a genetic predisposition for low
need you aren't very hyperactive and you
don't fidget much and let's say you
tried to force yourself to fidget more
in many cases your brain would simply
find a way to lower neat someplace else
so neat is to a significant degree
outside of your control and it can
differ enormously between individuals
this study from levine and colleagues
overfed participants by a thousand
calories per day for eight weeks and
found that neat levels ranged from
negative 98 they actually moved around
less to plus 692 calories per day this
means that while both of these subjects
ate an extra thousand calories per day
this person quite literally fidgeted off
about 700 of those extra thousand while
this person actually fidgeted less
meaning their body had to deal with all
those extra 1000 calories eaten plus a
little more so clearly anyone who's been
genetically blessed with a high resting
metabolic rate and high knee levels can
choose to press the junk food button
many more times and still maintain a
lower body weight compared to someone
who's not as metabolically gifted and
this matches with our everyday
experience we all know someone who can
eat whatever they want and remain almost
inexplicably thin and we all know
someone who's tried every diet book on
the shelf yet remains overweight now
most people would be quick to praise the
thin person for their discipline and
critique the overweight person for
simply lacking willpower and making the
wrong choices not realizing the many
baseline genetic factors that could be
making it very easy for the thin person
to stay thin and making it very hard for
the overweight person to lose any weight
at all but that's just metabolism
there's another big factor here which is
hunger research also shows that some
people simply experience more hunger
than others in response to dieting some
people feel like they're constantly
fighting their body's urge to eat more
while others feel more normal hunger
where it's low after meals and picks up
as it gets closer to meal time just
consider this hunger study from 2013
which looked at the difference between
eating a high-fat meal and a low-fat
meal now turns out both the high-fat
meal and the low-fat meal were able to
suppress hunger very well on average
however when that average trend was
split up into individual subjects you
suddenly see this huge disparity between
individuals some people were still quite
hungry after eating the meal others felt
very full and since hunger is what
naturally drives food intake for most
people we once again see that someone
who still feels very hungry after a meal
will have a harder time stopping
compared to someone who feels full so
we've covered two genetic factors
explaining why weight gain happens to
some people more easily than others even
given the same food and exercise choices
but there are still so many other
biological factors that can play a role
such as whether or not you take certain
medications that can increase appetite
and water retention there are also
neuroendocrine conditions that can
impact weight gain through hormones and
metabolism then there's pregnancy and
menopause which have hormonal and
metabolic impacts and physical
disabilities which makes burning
calories through neat and exercise more
challenging now of course all this
doesn't mean that calories in calories
out only works for some people it is a
simple fact that obesity results from
eating more calories than you burn
tightly controlled metabolic word
experiments repeatedly confirm that
caloric intake is the driver of both fat
loss and fat gain so this means that
anyone who is obese got obese by eating
in a sustained caloric surplus over time
it's just that avoiding that sustained
surplus is so much harder for some
people than it is for others and for
reasons that are beyond their choosing
and this is why i think it's incorrect
to reduce all of these factors down to a
simple choice to be obese or not because
if that were the case why would obesity
rates suddenly start trending up in the
1970s do people just suddenly start
choosing to be obese or is there yet
another layer to this well no i don't
think that the spike was due to more
people choosing to be obese but rather
from the fact that high calorie foods
became so much more readily available
for cheaper prices meaning more people
had more access to delicious highly
processed high-calorie foods and this
leads us into the whole other side of
this which is the environmental factors
so entirely apart from the genetic and
biological factors that we just went
through there are also environmental
factors that can impact your
susceptibility to obesity this includes
stuff like the food environment where
apart from the spike in availability we
also see better flashier marketing for
high calorie foods that promote over
consumption and large portion sizes
there's also the fact that junk food
tends to be cheaper meaning it's more
accessible for people of lower economic
incomes then there are social factors
like the type of diet your family and
friends eat which can make it a lot
harder or in the case of dependents like
children virtually impossible to make
so-called good choices then there are
the lifestyle factors like how much
sleep you get and while it may be
tempting to tell people to just get more
sleep that isn't always feasible
depending on work and other
responsibilities in fact this 2017
meta-analysis found that night shift
work was associated with a 23 higher
risk of being overweight and this 2019
meta-analysis found a dose-response
relationship between sleep duration and
obesity risk less sleep meant more risk
of being obese with seven to eight hours
being the sweet spot on average then
there are psychological factors like
stress and depression this 2010
meta-analysis of 14 studies found that
stress was a risk factor for weight gain
and this other meta-analysis from the
same year found that depression was
predictive of obesity risk so coming
back to the original question is obesity
a choice
well i think the answer is no at least
not in all cases and certainly not in
the simplistic sense there's just too
much of an influence from genetics and
environment to shift the blame entirely
on the individual for their circumstance
but that also doesn't mean that no one
has any control over their health and
their body weight clearly if people want
to lose weight even if there are many
factors working against them such as low
metabolic rate high hunger and so forth
it's still possible to lose weight if
you sustain a caloric deficit over time
and i can link another video here
explaining exactly how to do that which
goes beyond simply eating less calories
and delves into behavioral modifications
that most people will need to make to
have long-term success ultimately though
i think the is obesity a choice question
comes back to semantics perhaps what i
mean by choice is slightly different
from what you mean by choice but i think
that if you did want to argue that it is
a choice in some sense i think the best
you could do is say that it's a complex
series of choices intertwined with many
other complex contributing factors and
so as people in the health and fitness
space i think we should make an effort
to be more understanding of these
factors and more compassionate toward
people who are struggling rather than
making assumptions about their choices
and their characteristics and then
instead of blaming them for their
circumstance instead focus on pointing
them in the right direction with good
sustainable nutrition advice when they
ask for it now i want to give a quick
shout out to dr mike israetel for the
button analogy i first heard that from
him and i thought it was great and also
go ahead and link all the articles that
i referenced in this video down below
and before we go i want to thank
skillshare for sponsoring this video
skillshare is an online learning
community that has thousands of classes
for people looking to step up their
creative game whether that be learning
about video editing or photography
marketing business and everything in
between over the years i've used
skillshare to help me learn more about
video production and video editing to
the point that i'm able to do any step
in my own content creation process
entirely on my own even though i do
think that outsourcing can be helpful
for certain things i think that if you
are in a creative line of work or if you
want to be in one i think being able to
do these skills on your own gives you so
much more power and control over your
content skillshare is amazing because in
addition to giving you access to
thousands of classes taught by fellow
creatives it also gives you access to a
learning community of people who are
also developing the same skills as you
one of the things that's always been
really important to me as someone who
runs an online business is letting
people know what it is that i have to
offer without coming across as salesy
gimmicky or cheesy and if that's a skill
that you're also looking to develop i
strongly recommend this course taught by
jesse forrest about how to write web
copy that sells without being cheesy and
to help you guys get started skillshare
is offering the first 1 000 of my
viewers to sign up using my code or the
link in the description a free one month
trial of skillshare so you can start
exploring your creativity today so make
sure you're one of the first 1 000
people to get a head start on that skill
that you're looking to master all right
thanks again to skillshare for
sponsoring the video i really do
appreciate it thank you guys so much for
watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
i'll see you guys all here in the next
one