training for hypertrophy or even
bodybuilding is just for looks you may
have heard this being said by either
your local 400 lb strength athlete some
random strength coach or some guy on the
internet who says that I want to be
functional I don't want to just have all
this muscle for show I want to be able
to use it that's like having a sports
car that goes fast but looks good but
doesn't go fast or something even the
analogy doesn't make sense which sports
card looks good
and doesn't go fast or looks I don't
know I don't get it I mean there's
plenty of cars that look great perform
great and can combine everything and
that's exactly what hypertrophy training
is especially for natural athletes Dr
pack here straight from the UK Medical
Association board terms and conditions
apply UK Medical Association board may
have been the room next doors which is
not in any way shape or form associated
with the medical association board in
the UK and I am not a physician don't
sue me if you want to sue me Sue these
and on to the video so you hear that a
lot people will tell you that oh I want
to train for function I want to train
for strength I don't want to just train
to look good bodybuilders or people that
train for hypertrophy usually just look
jacked but they can't really use that
muscle all that muscle is there just for
show now is there a grain of Truth to
that when talking about ifbb Pros at the
highest level sure but with an asterisk
next to it even then but when it comes
to your average individual who may even
be genetically blessed and who is
engaging in consistent resistance
training with a focus on maximizing
muscle hypertrophy this statement could
not be further away from the truth yes
the bald fso who is not a bodybuilder is
here to defend bodybuilders and
hypertrophy enthusiasts across the world
and tell you that it's totally fine to
want to train
purely for aesthetic purposes without
caring about your strength or anything
else when engaging in progressive
resistance training and wanting to
increase muscle mass you essentially
have to be in the gym multiple times per
week perform multiple different
exercises across multiple different rep
ranges do enough training volume and
essentially push yourself over time on
all those exercises in order to maximize
adaptations all that is not just making
your muscles look bigger while making
useless you are getting healthier from a
plethora of standpoints from a
cardiovascular standpoint from an
aerobic standpoint you're also getting
more flexible because you're moving
through different planes and you're
you're I assume you're at least getting
a great stretch on most things but for
the majority of people who still use a
full range of motion that is going to be
adding to your flexibility so from that
end you're functional as well if you're
doing a leg session with a bunch of
exercises where you're squatting or
you're
deadlifting that is literally you
getting better and more functional at
all the BS that people are saying you
should be doing you are also getting
stronger the same way that a powerlifter
will still get relatively jacked even
though they're not training specifically
for that the same way a bodybuilder or a
hyperthrophy Enthusiast who has watched
the latest Dr Milo wolf video wolf
coaching shout out subscribe send money
Etc and who wants to distrain for size
that individual is likely making a whole
lot more than just muscle size gains
training even in the 10 to 20 repetition
range is not going to be ideal for
strength but you're still going to
increase your one repetition maximum
strength and of course your strength in
those rep ranges additionally you're
going to increase your muscular
endurance and your overall Fitness
Levels by engaging in sessions that are
high in training volume we're literally
talking about benefits that span from
your health all the way to mus muscular
strength and endurance so why is it that
we often hear this now this may stem
from again very high level bodybuilders
who are literally 120 kilos of meat
walking on PDS they are dice to the
socks when they're on stage so they're
unable to perform and people tend to
take that image and make it synonymous
with hypertrophy training when in
reality that couldn't be further from
the truth so if you're somebody who
wants to train purely for Aesthetics you
don't care about your deadlift strength
your squat strength whether you overhead
press x amount of weight whether you're
functional whether you are trained to Go
War Ready whatever the term is if you're
engaging in strict hypertrophy training
and you're trying to maximize muscle
growth you will be more functional uh
fitter stronger than the majority of the
population out there even when looking
at gym populations strict hypertophy
training can be an amazing way for you
to stay fit stay healthy have a
relatively interesting goal and also
look absolutely amazing and feel amazing
next time you hear somebody calling you
out or calling out hypertrophy training
or shaming you for just wanting to train
to look good tell them hey bro I train
to look good because that Bal Fatso who
doesn't train to look good on YouTube
told me he okay don't question his
authority he does have one of those
fancy medical degrees oh wait a second
is it a PhD he said he's a doctor who's
a doctor these days answer we are the
phds citation this paper right here so
on that note thank you for watching the
video don't forget to like
subscribe or dislike reverse psychology
the algorithm I'll see you guys next
time keep it real and don't
forget to stay active stay hydrated stay
hydrated or SD my brother fix it do a
better edit please good camera two
angles I'm still talking yeah peace
subscribe