until recently I was doing Zone 2 cardio
to improve my health here's why I
stopped a recent paper on the effects of
Leisure Time physical activity on health
specifically all cause mortality risk
over 30 years really changed my opinion
on this the first big finding was that
the surprise of basically no one
exercising is good for your health right
so what they saw is that the more
physical activity you performed the
lower your risk of dying the important
thing here is that how much exercise you
did very much played a role so the
relationship between how much activity
you do across a week and how much of a
health benefit you get is linear it's
not the more you do the more regaining
you see linearly it's actually a heavily
diminishing returns slope what you see
is that the first about 150 to 300 myths
of vigorous activity and the first 300
to 600 minutes of moderate activity
across a week that's where you see by
far the biggest Returns on your health
improvements importantly there is no
meaningful additional benefit if you're
already doing sufficient moderate of
adding in vigorous cordial in other
words if you're a recreational lifter or
even a competitive lifter who's getting
a good amount of steps in and do lifting
a few times a week there's a good chance
that actually adding in cordial probably
won't benefit your health or at least
not to a meaningful extent
[Music]