hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I have a cool
technique for you to try in the gym
maybe today maybe tomorrow maybe the day
after uh that didn't roll off the tongue
in any case it is my rep match sets some
of you may have heard of them please
help in the comments to describe to
people who have questions then some have
not what are they so we're familiar with
Maya reps and my reps invented by Burger
Fargo I think I said that mostly okay
he's from Norway he's got a funny
Norwegian name it's a form of rest pause
training where you do a set of 10 to 20
repetitions pretty close to failure you
rest for oh three to five seconds or
something like that sometimes even five
to ten and then you continue doing a few
more little mini sets called Maya rep
sets where you get just five to ten reps
and then another five to ten reps then
another five to ten reps you can do one
more of these sets or two or three even
four of them
what they do is because you come close
to failure on the first set you can
start the next set in a pre-fatigued
state and get more failure approaches
without having to do as many what are
called lead in reps and this is a pretty
good way of training in many instances
and something I use a bunch
but
here's a limitation of my websites
typically
what's going to happen is
you're going to do one of these or you
do 10 to 20 sets
and then another
set of eight and on the set of six
another set of five and then you're done
with little mini breaks in between and
then like that's what you do for the
exercise
and that's totally cool but you may need
more volume more stimulus because some
muscles particularly ones that are
smaller and thus need to be bigger and
are very fatigue resistant and
hypertrophy resistant they just don't
grow much
just a few my rep sets or four sets of
10 or 12 it's just not driving enough
disruption and enough growth
if that's the case you can pull a rabbit
out of a hat and do my rep match sets
and here's what they look like you do
one set straight normal straight side
let's say it's going to be something
usually like 10 to 20 reps
whatever reps away from failure you are
in your hypertrophy training app uh your
RP hypertrophy app that week three or
two or one reps in reserve whatever it
is just stop there so let's say it's the
first week it's you know you're two or
three reps in reserve
you stop and you get 18 reps set one
write down 18 reps right into your
little little tracker there right and
how many reps you got
you rest a normal amount of time
two or three minutes whatever check the
four Factor rest time box
and then you do the next set and you
pre-type in advance into your RPI
purchase app 18.
you're going to get 18 reps there's a
hold on Dr Mike are you nuts what if I'm
too fatigued to get 18 all in one
stretch what if I get 15 and then I'm
like at failure or I hit two reps in
reserve for sure and I'm like I should
stop you should stop stop hit your 15 or
whatever you can
stop rest three to five seconds
it's a Maya rep set now and then finish
the set with as many reps as it takes to
finish the set so if you got 15 rest a
few seconds and then crank out the last
three
first set was 18 straight
the next set is 18. how if you can get
there with a straight set and get your
failure proximity cool if not you'll
need a Maya rep rake the next set and
the next set and the next set however
many my match sets you want to do you're
going to be using Maya reps in every set
as many breaks as needed and thus as
many many my wrap sets as needed in each
set to match the first rep number you
hit in the first set so if 18 is the
number you hit in the first set the
second set 18 reps the third set 18 reps
and if you do a fourth or fifth set it's
18 and 18.
which means as you do more sets and you
get more tired each set's first mini set
goes from 15 to 13 to 10 to 9 and then
the number of mini sets you have to do
after to get to 18 or whatever your goal
is for the first set that was
established
then the more of those sets you have to
do and the more failure proximity you
get so as you do more and more work sets
the number of times you come closer to
failure increases as you do more and
more work sets
that means that the stimulus that you're
driving in
becomes incredibly High very fast
volume is a big deal
just doing
three sets of 18 is going to give you a
whole lot of repetitions and that's a
really good thing what is that like 54
or something like that yeah 54 total
reps
doing 54 total reps in any other
capacity is going to give you almost the
same stimulus but not quite
because if you did three sets of 18 and
rested so much between all the sets that
you went fresh each time and you got
1818 or if you did let's say oh I don't
know five sets of ten and then a set of
four
that means you got six failure
approaches or in the first one when you
did 18 18 you got three approaches to
failure and approaching failure getting
to that last few episode for failure
above and beyond the stimulus you get
from just doing all those reps the
volume
you get an extra bit of stimulus just
from getting closer to failure there's
something more hypertrophic about that
in a migrant match set in the first set
you get one approach to failure still
seems like the same as any other normal
set in the second set you may get
another two approaches to failure not
just one two so you're already ahead in
the third set you may get three
approaches to failure and in the fourth
set you may get three or four approaches
that's like more than 10 approaches to
failure whereas in the other conditions
it was either three approaches to
failure if you did eighteen eighteen
eighteen
if you did five by ten and then a four
that's only six approaches to failure
the total volume between all three
conditions is the same
but in the my rep match condition you
make the relative effort harder
because you are driving close to failure
all the damn time especially in the
later sets this method of training
allows you to first of all need a little
bit less time to do all the stuff
because you don't have as many sets to
rest between many of them are Maya rep
sets but also it takes about as
difficult of training as you possibly
can do and squeezes it into as few sets
as you can do short of just doing
everything as a Maya rep set which can
get insanely exhausting and here is
another thing in a my rep set if you
just do every set my website so the
first set you do 18 and then four and
then three the second set you do another
set of three Meyer upsets your 16 and
five and three
the goal is just to do my reps and that
can get really overwhelming
psychologically because you have to keep
trying there's kind of no end of sight
like just try your hardest go to 2ri
like oh my God like it's really easy to
to slack off as you get more fatigued
but in a Myra match set your first set
is the only one you really have to
psychologically try try in a sense
because the second set you already know
how many reps totally going to need so
all you need to do is push as close as
you can to get that number and then you
get a little few seconds to rest and you
go again and if you need two approaches
to failure or you need three approaches
to failure it kind of doesn't matter it
takes the pressure off in a big way in a
certain sense
the use of wire up match stats is kind
of like every set after the first is a
little bit of a combination of my rep
set and a giant set it's just a total
rep number you have to hit and you can
only rest a few seconds between many
attempts as you go
this is a big deal it is totally
pointless to do this for muscles that
are very big very strong generate a lot
of systemic fatigue and require a huge
cardiovascular component like with
squats and bent rows you will gas the
fuck out way before you need that much
stimulus if you do this to hamstrings on
stiff-legged deadlifts you're going to
do three sets and you'll never walk
again it's overkill for most
applications it's just way too much
volume and way too much relative effort
way too many failure approaches
but
with muscles like the side belts
sometimes calves for some people
especially small calf motherfuckers
rear delts because who can over train
those biceps for some people forearm
curls for some people
and even isolation exercises like tricep
push Downs
leg extensions sometimes leg curls
when you need to cram a crap load of
stimulus in and you don't want to take
forever to do it
Myra match sets are a great way to go
and they also have another bonus
that first set is a true straight set
which means you can use it to Peg your
performance to compare from session to
session week to week and know if you've
hit your maximum recoverable volume or
not because there's a problem if you
just do only my rep sounds
last week you got you know 27 total reps
on your first set and it took you three
failure approaches this week you got 28
total reps but it took you four failure
approaches are you weaker or stronger
it's really hard to tell you could be
tanking and you could be overreached
already it's time to deal it but you're
like I'm gonna still always do more my
rep sets and if you're not counting them
very formally which doesn't make them
higher upsets really anymore you're not
constraining yourself to certain rep
numbers you're all over the map
but an Amira match that that first set
acts as your anchor in two ways one it
tells you how many reps you're gonna
have to make for all the other sets
total and two it's the really the set
that purely measures your objective
performance so if this week you got a
hundred pounds for 18 reps and next week
you got 105 pounds for 18 or 19 reps hey
you're not underperforming you're good
to go feel free to overload another week
or another session but if in another
week that first set is 110 pounds but
now you did 14 reps and you went to
failure like okay I'm not I'm
underperforming not funny enough there's
a lot of mental math you can do where
you don't know what you're sort of
similar but the weight is up but the
reps are down does that balance out
here's a really cool thing the RPI
hypertrophy app link in description by
the way I need Lambos it actually does
that math for you totally internally
uh using an algorithm we call the rep
points algorithm and it's top secret but
basically it can tell you whether or not
you over underperformed and it'll flag
you it's like yeah this is you're not
doing so well so maybe take or a
recovery week or even just a recovery
session
so that rep point system will identify
when you're off track and it can do that
really really objectively if you do my
rep match versus just regular my reps
because there's fewer degrees of freedom
look if you can't not up and do that
first set and hit a little mini PR
you're done it's time to deload or at
least time to think about it
have huge advantages the only thing I'll
say is this
they are really really a huge amount of
stimulus
and unless the muscle can take it and
unless the systemic fatigue is
relatively low I would not recommend to
just go and do these because you can get
really carried away here's an example
if you go and do leg presses and you
normally do three or four sets of lag
press couple sets of squats and your
quads are cooked if you do four sets of
my rep match lag presses you can get up
to getting like
80 reps on the leg press really fast
I did that once not so long ago
and
I was getting a tour of a strength
training facility actually the
University of Michigan strength training
facility and this is a big ramp they
have there where the athletes do like
ramp work like run up and down the thing
and I get to barely walk up the ramp and
I was like uh oh I did a bad thing and
then it was sore for like seven days for
sure overkill for sure too much damage
not enough growth not great news
so use this wisely and over the course
of a mesocycle you can add in another
Maya rep match set but remember this
adding another Myra match set means
especially if you go from like two to
three sets or three to four you're not
adding one set in the traditional way
you are adding a set of another three or
four approaches to failure within it
that's in a certain sense like adding
another two or three sets so sometimes
what I like to do and this is real bonus
points advanced level stuff if I have
hamstring curls and I do a set of 18 and
then a set of my match 18. and I get
pretty sore and healed just on time next
week I made to 18 18 and then like 10 or
12. and that last set is not a minor at
match set it's just a regular straight
set and I've been asked this question
before because I post my training on
social media by the way uh Dr Michael on
Instagram if you want to follow me I
post a bunch of my actual day-to-day
training
a few people were like why this is my
right match you did you forget to do the
other six repetitions there why is that
the 12 and not an 18 and my answer is
bro if I do another two failure
approaches which is what it would take
me to get to 18 from 12 at that rate I
would just never recover my hamstrings
would be super sore the next time I try
to train them half a week later and that
would be bad news so something you can
do is maybe ease in half a mirror
matches at a time if that's the case but
if you have a really hypertrophy
resistant muscle they can take a lot of
volume like side delts or something
start with two my rep match sets like
one straight set and then a Myra match
set just two sets and the next week if
your adults seem fine add a third one
the next week add a fourth one and
cramming a crapload of volume in
actually a pretty short time it turns
out and a way that you can
psychologically really compartmentalize
and be like I'm locking it in 18 reps
come hell or high water and if I need a
little rest break I can take a rest
break and just finish them it works
super well I've been using him a ton in
my training Trevor Fulbright the uh
manager of our team full ROM group has
been using them a ton Jared uses him a
ton it works it's super super super
works it's really effective and for a
lot of muscle groups
I came from the perspective of like my
arms my biceps which I've seen a ton of
growth in lately actually using the RP
hypertrophy app if I may say
but for real for real
I saw a ton of growth in part because I
figured out how to put my muscles at
long muscle length so now I do a lot of
curls from behind the back and stuff and
not a whole lot of curling up here but
in part because I stopped thinking of
just straight sets only
because like if I wasn't getting a pump
or very uh much stimulus from five sets
of biceps like you know real talk like
bodybuilding's the shit and all fuck
that I'm not in the gym doing seven sets
of fucking curls
what
and then stand around for two minutes
not have a pump my elbows hurt why am I
doing this
it can be brutal
but for my match sets each one getting
me to 15 or 20 curls
unreal pump so soreness in my biceps for
the first time in years and mega gains
because it can take a crap load of work
condensed living crap out of it organize
it for you allow you to progress with it
it's amazing and uh if you're using the
RPI Purge fee app what you do is you
type in
you just regularly pick your exercise
let's say uh cable curls cable bicep
curls and then you pin a note to it and
you type in the note Maya rep match you
know 18 18. check Chuck the next week
you come in it'll say cable curl and
it'll be like it wants you to do 19 reps
all across the board with you know the
same weight or something or an increase
in weight on the same same 18 reps and
then you see the note says buy a rep
match you're like ah okay that's why it
was Strife forgot that's why it's all it
looks like straight sets but it's really
my rematch and you don't need to count
the number of match sets that's the best
part about my rep match with my rep you
need to like write down how many my
breaks you have potentially can be
helpful but because you know you need to
know how much overload to percent but
with my reps all you need to do is write
that first rep number down and then 18
is the first rep number for first set
and that is 18 18 you don't need to
write 12 comma three comma whatever you
don't have to do that because we all
know it's as many as it takes all the
way to get and you can say Hey listen
don't you want to write them down
because you want to match performance no
because the first set anchors
performance and if you underperform on
the first set you know you're fucked and
if you perform well in the first set
doesn't matter how the other sets go
your body is ready
and I've only said your body is ready to
three other people now they all ran
that's how they do
well that I try to be friends with
humans never understand me and my
immortality
can you relate maybe if you can tell me
in the comments if you can't tell me in
the comments if you want more nerdy
videos we have a whole section a ton of
extra goodies
for just a little bit of your
hard-earned money
in the members area team Forum Forum
Google it join it and uh other than that
RP hypertrophy app and I'll be saying
that a lot because it's the real deal
folks thank you so much for tuning in
see you next time