what are the best and worst quad
exercises for muscle growth well in this
video I'll be ranking 20 of the most
popular movements on a tier list from s
for super to F for fail and at the end
I'll Crown one exercise as the best of
the best and one as the worst of the
worst and for a quad exercise to get
into s tier it needs to tick three boxes
first High quad tension especially in
the stretched position second it needs
to feel good that means it doesn't cause
knee pain and it has a smooth resistance
profile third it needs to have a simple
progression that means you can apply
Progressive overload by either adding
some weight or a rep from week to week
now as I'm sure you all know there are
four heads of the quadriceps hence the
quad prefects actually one recent
Anatomy paper suggested that there could
be a fifth head but if it does exist in
some of us I don't think it changes
anything training wise the foreheads are
the vastest medialis also known as the
teardrop muscle on the inside the
vastest intermedius which runs down the
middle the vastest lateralis on the
outside and finally there's the rectus
femoris which is a long flat head that
also runs down the middle on top of the
other heads all four heads contract to
perform knee extension which is when you
straighten your knee out so every
exercise we cover performs knee
extension however one head that long
flat rectus femoris has a second
function it also performs something
called hip flexion which is when you
raise your leg up to the front keep this
in mind for later all right let's get
the worst out of the way so you guys
don't waste any time on them let's see
squat combination exercises like the the
squat plus press and the lunge plus curl
are going straight to F tier that's
because your quads are way stronger than
your shoulders or your arms so your
upper body is always going to fatigue
well before your quads bosu ball squats
are so bad I didn't even film them the
problem is because they're so unstable
your ankle ends up doing a lot of the
stabilization work and that severely
limits the amount of tension that your
quads receive they might have some
utility in some athletic contexts but
for building muscle bosu ball squats are
going straight to F tier all right so
what about the most popular quad
exercise of all time the barbell back
squat well let's see it offers high
tension on the quads deep in the hole
when they're most stretched they should
feel good especially once you lock in
your bar path and they might be one of
the best exercises for Progressive
overload period you can always add a
little weight or a rep each week as you
gain size and strength now because it's
a free weight squat your spinal Erectors
will have to do some stabilization but
that's not a deal breaker in my opinion
your quads are still the prime movers
and if you need any proof that squats
can build some monster quads just go to
a powerlifting meat all the biggest
squatters will have some massive quads
and I don't think I've ever seen an
exception to that now some Anatomy
enjoyers will point out that the rectus
fous head is not maximally activated by
the squat because unlike the other three
heads it's shortening at the knee while
lengthening at the hip this is true
however studies still show pretty solid
rectus femoris growth with squats and as
long as you include one other exercise
in your program that will get to this
concern completely goes away so while
the mild Anatomy concern almost pulls it
back to a tier I just can't take the
barbell back squat out of s tier without
a guilty conscience the barbell front
squat has all the same upsides of the
barbell back squat except it actually
shifts even more tension to the quads
that's because where the barbell Center
of mass is shifted forward in front of
your neck you're forced to keep a more
upright posture so you don't fall over
this increases the moment arm to the
knee joint placing more tension on the
quads that said the forward bar Position
will also force your upper back to work
harder and some coaches argue that this
causes your upper back to become the
limiting factor I don't fully agree
unless you're going super heavy you
really should be able to keep your
elbows up and you should be able to get
your quads close to failure without your
back giving out first now front squats
will lose a few points in the feels good
department for some of you but remember
that for bodybuilding you can use the
two-finger grip the crossed arm grip or
the strap grip whatever feels best from
there just focus on keeping your elbows
up squatting down between your legs and
standing back up with a tall chest I'm
going to put these in a tier because
despite activating the quads a bit more
I find enough people just hate doing
them or find the bar position awkward
and I don't think there's enough of a
tension shift to Trump that if you can
do them comfortably though I'd have no
problem if you bump them up to S tier
Okay so we've covered a high bar back
squat in a front squat what about a low
bar back squat for a low bar squat you
shift the barbell Down 2 or 3 in so it
sits on your rear delts instead of your
upper traps and research shows that
while this technique will allow you to
load more total weight it actually
shifts some of the tension away from
your quads and onto your glutes this
isn't a complete deal breaker though
because you you still see extremely high
quad activity as long as you're
squatting to a reasonable depth low
breath squats are going in a tier as
well the hack squat is a longtime
bodybuilding staple and it ticks all the
same boxes as the barbell squat plus it
has a few extra benefits you can
generally get your sets done a bit
faster because there's less setup you'll
be a bit more locked in meaning less
stabilization work and potentially more
direct quad tension and you can play
with your foot position to find a
comfortable spot without worrying about
your balance contrary to popular belief
the latest science shows that on average
free weights and machines can both build
muscle roughly equally as long as you're
pushing your sets hard this is truly a
brilliant quad Builder and it's
obviously going an S TI the pendulum
squat is similar to the hack squat
except the weight moves up and down in
an arc I actually find this resistance
path feels more natural than the linear
hack squat so these movements just keep
getting better and better that said most
gyms don't have a pendulum squat so not
everyone will be able to do it I still
think it belongs in s tier though all
right last squat type movement for now
the Smith machine squat seems to be a
bit more accepted now than it was for or
5 years ago especially as more top
bodybuilders gravitate to it I think the
best thing about the Smith machine is
that you can actually push your quads
close to or to failure without that same
fear of falling over or needing to dump
the bar and other than potentially redu
stabilizer involvement it really is the
same basic movement pattern as the free
weight barbell Squat and so for
hypertrophy it also has to go in s tier
all right let's move on to the 45Â° leg
press since you're also flexing and
extending the knee the quads will of
course receive high tension however I do
find that a lot of leg presses don't
allow me to get as deep as I can get on
a squat again as far as hypertrophy is
concerned the deeper you can get the
better so if you're not able to get your
calves cheer glutes you might not be
getting as much out of a leg press as
you would out of a deep squat outside of
that though leg presses do generally
feel good and they are good for overload
I'm going to put them in a tier now the
horizontal leg press is worse in my
opinion because they almost always have
even more limited range of motion so
it'll be harder to get high tension in
the Deep stretch and once your legs get
decently strong you'll probably max out
the machine which means overload is
going to be more limited for
intermediate to Advanced lifters the
horizontal leg press is going in C tier
the lunge is a better glute Builder than
it is a quad builder in my experience
even though it will grow both you get
some stretch and some tension on the
quads but not as much as you get on the
glutes they do feel good but if you're
doing them right you should feel your
glutes more than your quads you can get
the quads more involved by taking more
shallow steps and there's nothing wrong
with that but I think they're best
utilized and best thought of as a glute
Builder as a quad exercise they're going
in B tier but I'd say they'd probably be
a or S tier for glute growth all right
the leg extension this is a surprisingly
controversial one some people say that
they're bad for your knees but this has
been thoroughly debunked now if you have
bad knees or they give you knee pain you
should go easy on them but there's no
convincing evidence that they cause knee
issues any more than any other quad
exercise but the great thing about the
leg extension is that your hips are
fixed this means that unlike squat based
exercises your rectus femoris will
actually stretch and contract here this
makes it the first exercise where all
four heads of the quads will be highly
engaged this is even more the case if
you set the seat back in fact a brand
new study found significantly more
overall quad growth and especially more
rectus fous growth with the seat back
leg extension position that's most
likely because it places the rectus Fus
under more stretch or it at least trains
it at a longer muscle length assuming
you're leaning back and you've got a
machine that stretches your quads well I
think they're good enough to get into a
tier they don't have quite the same
overload potential as squats do and even
though some studies do show similar leg
growth between leg extensions and squats
those are short-term studies and I'm
just frankly doubtful that doing leg
extensions will net you the same quad
gains as doing squats over the long term
that said they're still a staple on my
leg days and they're an exercise I
definitely think is worth including all
right the reverse Nordic is the same
basic movement pattern as a leg
extension except they have the added
benefit of being more accessible you
don't need a leg extension machine to do
them you can also get a much deeper
stretch on your quads here the slight
negative though is that they are really
tough meaning beginners might struggle
with them and they can be hard to
overload with weight so you're a bit
more limited on your overload options
you can still add a rep each week though
or try to get a bit deeper and because
the stretch is s tier on these and
they're so accessible I'm going to put
them in a tier overall but if you find
them really awkward I'd be cool if you
drop them back a tier or two all right
let's knock out three final squat
variations one that I love one that I
hate and one that's just okay goblet
squats are biomechanically very similar
to a barbell front squat so they will
highly activate your quads but because
you have to hold a dumbbell in your
hands they're actually a lot harder to
overload once your quads get decently
strong you'll be able to squat a lot
more weight than you'll be able to
comfortably hold so the goblet squat
will quickly be limited to high rep sets
only these days I generally only use it
in two contexts for teaching the squat
to beginners and as a high rep finisher
exercise these are just okay for me and
I'm putting them in C or B tier I guess
B tier since they definitely can have
their place jump squats will burn some
calories and they aren't terrible for
building explosive power but as a muscle
builder there are just too many other
better options out there that'll provide
more more tension and more overload I'm
not a fan of these for hypertrophy so
they're going in F tier Bulgarian split
squats are brutal but they sure do work
you'll get a huge stretch on your quads
and doing each leg unilaterally can be
very helpful for preventing any left to
right muscle imbalances but because
they're so fatiguing and psychologically
challenging I usually only program two
sets of these per workout your quads
will get more sore doing these than on
almost any other exercise and while
soreness isn't a onetoone predictor of
hypertrophy in this case I think it is a
good indication that hitting the right
muscle I'm putting Bulgarian split
squats in s tier deadlifts do activate
the quads but not nearly as much as
squats do that's not surprising when you
look at the side view as far as the
quads are concerned a deadlift is
basically a quarter squat you'll get a
bit more quad involvement if you
deadlift with a Sumo stance but they
still don't hold the candle to squats
for Quad growth they're a much better
glute Builder and they're an excellent
overall strength Builder but for
quadriceps and muscle growth deadlifts
are going in C tier step-ups are equally
not fun as Bulgarian split squats but
also less effective because you get less
quad stretch and they're less stable
they do offer a pretty solid glute
stimulus though especially if you avoid
lifting off your back foot and they can
have their place but overall I'm feeling
C tier on these pistol squats are an
impressive movement if you can do them
but the lack of stability and overload
limitations knock them down quite a bit
for me if you're limited to at home
workouts or body weight training I think
they're great but assuming you have gym
access there are just so many better
options I'm going to put pistol squats
in C tier as a quad Builder squats
are similar to reverse nordics and that
they get a huge stretch on your quads
and don't let the name deceive you these
are very challenging that said they're a
bit harder to load so I find them mainly
limited to adding reps when it comes to
Progressive overload and I find that
they have more of a learning curve than
the other squat options people can also
find it awkward going up onto their toes
and getting their knees all the way
forward but if you can get the technique
down I do think they're probably the
best squat option for getting into a
super deep stretch on the quads so
despite some limitations I'm feeling A
or B tier on these I do find them a bit
awkward though so let's go with B tier
all right and if I had to Crown just one
exercise as the best of the best for
Quad growth I think I'd have to go with
a hack squat I personally find the
pendulum squat feels better but because
most gyms don't have one I'll go with a
hack squat the one issue with hacks is
that on some machines you can't get to
full depth without coming up solid if
that's the case for you try adding some
yoga blocks on top of your shoulders and
then you'll be able to get all the way
down and if your gym doesn't have a hack
squat I'd say a high bar barbell back
squat would be my alternate go-to as a
number one quad Builder and if I had to
pick one exercise as the worst of the
worst I guess it have to be the bosu
ball squat just get rid of the bosu ball
and it immediately becomes more stable
more safe and more effective now do you
know the best and worst triceps
exercises if not you got to check out my
new video on triceps training over here
and that's it for this one guys don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one