the pointer would you stop asset during
training as a topic commonly debated in
the fitness world usually revolving
around whether set should be taken to
failure what does the research say a
recent 20/20 study by Australian
colleagues aimed to determine whether
taking sets to failure was essential for
maximizing hypertrophy 10 untrained men
had one leg assigned to a failure
condition while their other leg was
assigned to a non failure condition the
unilateral leg extension was used to
train each leg each participant trained
five times per week for 14 weeks however
only one leg was trained each workout
meaning that on one week they were
trained the failure leg three times
while the non failure leg was trained
twice but the following week the non
failure leg was trained three times
whereas the failure neck was trained
twice over the 14 weeks
this meant that both legs were trained
the same amount of times during weeks
one and two three sets with 50% 1rm was
performed for both groups during weeks
three to eight three sets with 60% owner
and was performed for both groups during
weeks nine to fourteen four sets with
60% ranarium was performed in both
groups also after the third week one rep
max was retested every two weeks to
ensure the accuracy of load for the leg
that trained to failure as you'd expect
each set was taken to failure for the
leg assigns at a non failure condition
the total number of reps completed in
the last failure leg session was added
up and divided by the number of sets
performed this number was then used as
the number of reps performed in each set
for the non failure condition if this
confuses you let me use a hypothetical
example let's say a participant during
one of the workouts with a failure leg
completed nine reps on the first set
seven reps on the second set and five
reps on the last set if we add these
numbers up which is 21 and divided by
the number of sets performed which is
three we get seven so in the next
session for their non failure leg three
sets of seven reps were completed with
that load this design essentially meant
that for all participants the non
failure leg would have been roughly
leaving around two to three reps and
result on the first set one to two reps
in reserve in the second set while the
third or fourth set would have been one
to zero reps in reserve ultrasound
imaging was used to measure
cross-sectional area changes in the
rectus femoris
and vastus lateralis or both legs what
the researchers found was that increases
in cross sectional area for the rectus
femoris vastus lateralis
was statistically similar between
conditions although the percentages do
overall slightly favor the non failure
condition something pretty cool about
the study was they presented their
individual data responses for increases
in rectus femoris cross sectional area
for individuals responded better to non
failure training three individuals
responded better to failure training
while the remaining three responded
similarly to both conditions
for increases in vastus lateralis
cross-sectional area for individuals
responded better to non Paleo training
while the remaining six responded
similarly to both conditions this data
highlights the importance of
individualization some individuals may
respond better to failure training while
others may respond better to maintaining
a few reps in reserve
also some intra individual variations
may exist that is to say for a certain
individual some muscles may be more
responsive to failure training while
others may be more responsive to keeping
a few reps in reserve needless to say
knowing this can be quite difficult but
in the long run through maintaining a
training log experimenting and analyzing
it will definitely gain a greater
understanding of what works best for you
when looking at the rest of the research
on training to failure the study
detailed at his video seems to summarize
it quite well overall training with a
few reps in reserve so around 3 or less
appears to produce similar results the
training to failure as we can see
studies that have the non failure
training groups using a higher number of
reps or reserve so around 5 class
ultimately find training to failure to
be better although the study by Karin
and colleagues does disagree with this
their findings were likely because what
all subjects perform sprint training
twice per week at the top of lifting
weights training to failure is more
fatigued than maintaining reps in
reserve but sprint training and training
to failure results in even more fatigue
therefore there's a case to be made that
the failure group was under recovery and
it's possible that if neither group was
print training the failure group would
have superior results however a major
problem with the current research is
there isn't enough research looking at
trained individuals we already know that
training responses differ between
trained and untrained individuals it's
possible trained individuals may on
average response similarly to
maintaining a few reps in reserve and
training to failure but it's also
possible they respond better to training
to failure or even maintaining a few
reps in reserve we unfortunately just
don't know at this moment
moving on a lot of people actually
underestimate the number of reps they
can perform a 20-17 study by Hackett and
colleagues demonstrated this very idea
eighty-one adults with a varying
training experience performed five sets
on the chest but with 70% warner ham and
five sets on the leg press with 80%
order ham with these loads on these
exercises you can typically perform 20
reps or less during each set
participants will stop at a tenth rep
and asked how many further reps they
think they could achieve then the
participant immediately went back to
performing reps the failure looking at
the results for the chest press it's
clear to see that participants
underestimated the number of reps they
could perform for example it appears
that was common for individuals to feel
they could only perform five or six more
reps when in actual fact they could
perform ten this was the same story for
the leg press surprisingly training
experience didn't actually have much of
an effect this is important as if you
were to train with a few reps to reserve
you might underestimate the actual
number of reps we left and reserve given
this it might be a good idea to
occasionally train to failure so you
consistently remind yourself for how it
feels to go to failure thereby helping
to keep you more accountable when you do
leave reps and reserve the context of
the particular exercise you're
performing may also play a role in
determining how close you train to
failure with multitronic exercises such
as squats and bench presses maintaining
correct form is integral to not only
minimize the risk of an injury but to
also efficiently train the intended
muscles for some especially beginners
taking multi-joint movements the failure
can result in the breakdown of form
mainly due to fatigue causing a lack of
concentration and awareness therefore it
may be a good idea to maintain a few
reps in reserve with such movements with
single joint exercises such as bicep
curls and tricep skull crushers it isn't
as much of a skill component with it
therefore fatigue is likely to have
minimal effects on form and so training
to failure is viable with such movements
thanks for watching if you enjoyed the
video the right could be awesome
also let me know how you train do you
like to keep a few reps in reserve or
train to failure or do you even do a bit
of both I have lots more videos planned
if you think you'd enjoy my content
subscribing would be appreciated
[Music]