this video will tell you how to finally
get lean enough to see your abs and how
long it'll take
you welcome back Dr Milo wolf here today
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
to lose belly fat and cabs there's a few
keys that you need to focus on the first
one is diet and more specifically
getting into a calorie deficit it turns
out that weight loss is mostly diet
related not so much exercise the old
saying of you can't out Trin a bad diet
is true when it specifically comes to
seeing your abs for the first time to
give you an example of this a study from
2012 by Foster schuon colleagues
compared four groups one a control group
that did absolutely nothing two a diet
group that was put on a low calie diet
three a cordio group that performed 225
minutes of moderate intensity cardio per
week and four a group that did both the
low CI diet and also engaged in 225
minutes of cardio per week the results
well while just exercising did cause
some weight loss much larger weight loss
was observed in the group that was
simply put on a lowy diet however the
largest weight loss was observed in the
group that both did the diet and also
engaged in consistent exercise so just
focusing on working out and outworking a
bad diet won't do it by far the main
thing to focus on diet wise is to
establish a calorie deficit a calorie
deficit is when you're in taking fewer
calories than your body is burning
because your body needs more energy than
you're consuming through food it will
need to break down some of its tissues
in this case fat in order to provide
more energy and that is what a calorie
deficit achieves it causes your body to
break down some of your fat tissue
leading to Fat Loss however we
specifically want to lose fat in order
to reveal our ABS we don't want to lose
muscle and if we lose weight too fast we
do risk losing muscle and importantly
yours are actually a muscle called the
rectus abdominis so if lose weight too
fast and lose muscle in the process you
may reveal a six-pack that isn't as
muscular or impressive as you might have
hoped conversely though if we slow down
weight loss too much we are risking
wasting time as we could have lost that
fat more quickly so what is an
appropriate rate of weight loss well
based on a recent review paper losing
about half a perent to 1% of your body
weight per week is an adequate Pace
losing much faster than this might risk
muscle loss importantly I would urge you
to consider your overall life style and
your circumstances when considering how
fast you should lose weight for instance
if you're higher in body fat you might
be able to lose weight faster and a
little bit closer to that 1% of body
weight per week on the other hand if
you're quite lean already losing a
percent might lead to muscle loss and
you should stay closer to half a perc of
body weight per week another huge
consideration is your lifestyle if your
lifestyle is conducive to losing weight
for example you live on your own your
lifestyle stress is pretty low you're in
control of your food environment you can
dictate what you ingest every day pretty
easily then you might be able to lose
weight a little bit faster however on
the other hand if you're busy you have
children you have high stress you're not
really in control of your food
environment at all times some of your
foods are harder to track in terms of
calories and macronutrients you might be
better off aiming for a slower rate of
weight loss at around half a per of
weight loss per week in my opinion if
you're in any doubt stick closer to half
a percent a week losing half a percent
of your body weight per week is still
plenty and will result in plenty of
weight loss if you stick to it for long
enough ultimately you need to aim for a
rate of weight loss that is sustainable
for you that you can stick to for weeks
and months until you reach your goal now
you might have figured out how fast you
want to lose weight the question is how
many calories should you be consuming in
order to lose weight at that pace well
here are three easy steps you can follow
to determine your target calorie intake
step one calculate your maintenance
calories this is essentially how many
calories you need to consume to just
maintain your body weight essentially
it's an equilibrium between how many
calories you consume and how many
calories your body Burns so you'll
neither put on weight nor will your body
have to break down fat tissues for
example in order to release more energy
to determine your maintenance calories
use any of the total daily energy
expenditure calculators available online
while none of them are perfectly
accurate they will get you in the right
ballpark importantly before you do this
step make sure you stick around in this
video and watch your training part so
that you can accurately fill out the
calculator step two determine how large
your deficit should be take your
percentage of weight loss per week goal
and multiply that by your body weight
for example if you're aiming to lose 1%
of your body weight per week and you
weigh 200 lb multiply 200 lb by 0.01 as
a rule of thumb to lose a pound of fat
you need to be in a deficit of 3500 kilo
calories over time or for a kilogram of
fat that would be
7,700 kilo calories so to lose 2 lb per
week multiply the number of pounds per
week by how many calories it takes to
lose a pound of fat and you have your
week calorie deficit in this case that's
2 lb * 3,500 calories giving you a
weekly deficit of 7,000 kilo calories a
simple approach is just to divide this
weekly deficit by seven there are seven
days in a week and that gives you your
daily calorie deficit and finally step
three establish your actual calorie
intake simply subtract your target daily
deficit from your maintenance calories
and you have your target calorie intake
for each day congratulations you've
established a calorie deficit and you're
on your way to losing fat and seeing
your abs let me give you a few more tips
on diet to make sure that you're
maintaining muscle mass as best you can
and to make the diet a little bit easier
my first tip is to have enough protein
this will help with both muscle
retention and potentially with staying
full and not being as hungry duramed a
diet as a minimum aim for 1.6 g of
protein per kilogram of body weight per
day this is based on a met regression
from 2017 by [ __ ] and colleagues
finding the best muscle growth at this
protein intake or above ideally spread
this protein out across three meals per
day at least my second tip is to have
plenty of fruits and vegetables within
your diet generally foods with a lower
energy density and with a higher fiber
content will one both be healthier for
you and two make it easier to stay full
during a diet and tip number three is to
try and set up your food environment for
Success try and establish a daily
structure within your meals that you're
happy with and can consistently stick to
building habits makes weight loss easier
alongside this make your diet foods the
foods that you're supposed to eat while
you're dieting more easily available
make them visible on your kitchen
counter make them easier to see in your
fridge make them easier to have by
cutting down on the time spend cooking
for example Pick convenience Foods
wherever you can which cuts down on the
amount of time you spend cooking making
it easier to stick to your diet and
conversely if you can try not to have
the foods that typically throw you off
your diet around the house by not having
them around your house you're making the
barrier to entry to going off diet a
little bit higher making it less likely
so without relying on Willpower quite as
much it'll make it easier for you to
stick to your do the second big key when
it comes to finally losing fat and
seeing your abs is working out working
out has two primary objectives when it
comes to seeing your abs the first is to
keep your hard earned muscle around the
ABS are a muscle like any other and
specifically they are the rectus
abdominus muscle the second goal of
working out is to increase energy
expenditure making your calorie deficit
larger going back to what creates a
calorie deficit this can be achieved
either through reducing how much you eat
lowering energy intake or through
increasing energy expenditure increasing
how many calories you burn or a
combination thereof to maintain your
muscle dur your cut try training each
muscle group at least twice a week maybe
two full body sessions in the gym with 5
to 10 sets per week per muscle you can
certainly do more than this and it will
probably help with muscle retention but
especially for beginners this is a great
starting Spot while protein intake can
definitely help with retaining muscle
and keeping you full lifting weights
actually has the single biggest impact
on how much muscle you retain during a
diet additionally consider doing
exercises specifically targeted at your
ABS growing your abs will make them more
visible just like any other muscle Group
by and large there are two ways I like
to walk out for fat loss and they need
to fit within your lifestyle the first
is to download a step tracker onto your
phone and aim for a specific step count
each day ideally somewhere between 6 and
12,000 steps daily your exact goal will
depend on how much time you have how
busy your lifestyle is how generally
Physically Active you are already in
daily life and more the important thing
is to set a feasible sustainable goal
walking has many benefits it can be
socialable you can go for walks with
friends or family or you can even take a
call while walking it exposes you to
sunlight which helps with Cadian Rhythm
regulation and there are plenty of
studies finding that more walking is
generally beneficial for your health and
importantly doing more steps can have a
really meaningful impact on your weight
loss going from doing next to no steps
per day for example to consistently
doing 10,000 steps per day can result in
a roughly additional 4 to 600 calories
burned each day adding up to around a
pound or more of weight loss per week
week if you wanted to calculate how many
calories you burn through walking A good
rule of thumb is 1 kilo calorie per
kilogram of body weight per kilometer
walked the second way I recommend
working out for fat loss is helpful if
you don't have enough time to get a lot
of steps in and need to boost activity
overall in this case I would recommend
formal cardio sessions generally when it
comes to Pure fat loss I would recommend
cardio forms that are Ecentric L and
impact lless But ultimately whatever you
can consistently fit within your
lifestyle is going to be important it
needs to be sustainable so that you
repeat over time and it can have an
impact on your fat loss my
recommendations are to set a calorie
goal for each time you walk out
especially on gym machines like the
elliptical machine or a rowing machine
that can be very simple I think the best
forms of cardio that you can do within
the gym or even outside of it are going
to be the elliptical machine and the
cycling machine as neither of these have
a meaningful Ecentric or impact
component alternatively any sort of
group activity like a team sport or a
group class can be a great way to get
more physical activity in and boost your
overall energy expenditure this is
helpful because you also get to be
sociable at the same time and overall
boost your health one good
recommendation might be to do four
cardio sessions a week each time aiming
for about 300 kilo calories burned this
could lead to an additional third of a
pound lost each week which doesn't sound
like much but if you repeat that over 3
months for example that would be an
additional 4B lost ultimately though the
impact of working out on weight loss
itself is secondary compared to diet
however in general increasing physical
activity has many benefits for overall
health for instance a recent met
analysis on the impact of moderate and
vigorous physical activity on overall
health has found benefits reaching up to
several hours a week so working out a
little bit more is going to have
positive impact for your health and also
a positive impact on your weight loss
take those recommendations and
incorporate them into your diet and
workout regimen now the final question
that you want me to answer is how long
is it going to take for you to see your
abs before we can answer that question
we need to answer the question of what
body fat do we need to be in order to
first see ABS well for most men in my
coaching experience you will need to be
around 15 to 20% body fat to first start
seeing some decent AB definition but to
have very solid ABS you'll likely need
to be closer to about 10 to 12% for most
women they will typically start seeing
their abs around 25% body fat largely
owing to differences in body fat
distribution between men and women women
generally store less fat around their
waist but most women will need to be
closer to about 16 to 20% body fat in
order to have a solid set of ABS in both
cases besides simply losing body fat
direct AB training will help you in my
experience it can make your abs visible
at a few percentage points higher so we
need to reach down to these body fat
ranges for men and women respectively to
cabs the final question we need to
answer is what body fat percentage are
you unfortunately most readily available
body fat assessment methods that you
might have at home or that are easily
accessible aren't especially accurate as
a very rough estimate take a look at
this body fat chart which body do does
your body look closest to I'll give you
a few seconds for you to figure this out
now that you've decided which body looks
most like yours here's a rough estimate
of how long it'll take you to get a
visible set of ABS this is assuming you
lose around 0.5 to 1% of body weight per
week as I outlined earlier in this video
before I end this video let me give you
a few broad takeaways first lose body
weight at a pace of about 0.5 to 1% of
body weight per week depending on your
lifestyle and initial body fat have
plenty of protein eat plenty of fruits
and vegetables and this will help you in
your journey the way to lose weight is a
calorie deficit establish your
maintenance calories and then eat below
that weigh yourself consistently to see
whether or not you're losing weight at
the desired Pace if you're not consider
decreasing your calorie intake by about
1 to 200 instead of looking at
individual weigh-ins look at 7-Day
averages this will wash out normal
fluctuations in body weight that you
have day-to-day to help with weight loss
be physically active and lift a couple
of times a week as well step count
targets are great to help with weight
loss but if you're pressed for time
cardio sessions can work great too in
order to make your abs more visible
include direct AB training within your
routine 5 to 10 sets a week per muscle
is going to be a great starting point
for most beginners and finally depending
on your starting body fat getting abs
might take longer than you think but do
not let that discourage you provided you
do it right and maintain your weight
loss afterwards you only need to lose
that weight once that is the video broke
down the science on how to lose fat and
finally see RS and how long it will take
you if you enjoy the video please leave
a like down down below comment and
subscribe I know a lot of you aren't
subscribed and I would really appreciate
your support if you'd like me to cover
any other topics leave a comment down
below letting me know what you'd like me
to cover if you'd like me to coach you
to lose weight and finally see your abs
take a look at the link above and we can
enter a coaching relationship and with
that being said have a phenomenal day
and I will see you guys next time peace