[Music]
folks welcome back I am dr. James he is
the man the myth the legend dr. Mike
this is the weekly webinar how are we
doing dr. Mike sup homie sup y'all sup
indeed alright folks I have one quick
housekeeping item my god I've been doing
this webinar for years and I could don't
I don't even think I can count on my
hand how many questions we have not
answered there was one question that did
not get answered this week and I just
want to be very transparent about it so
you guys are all comfortable going
forward there is kind of a limit in
terms of some things that we're willing
to talk about and particularly things
like drug use which in the United States
is illegal and many other countries is
illegal and we've talked about it in the
past but there's kind of a threshold of
like personal discussion and kind of a
threshold of how much we want to talk
about it as individuals and representing
RP that we think is appropriate so there
was a question that got excluded today
it was related to that issue I don't
want to shame this person but I just
want to let you know and be transparent
this is why we're not covering it it's
not a good look for us it's not a good
look for RP and we encourage you to keep
listing questions we want you to ask
questions but this is kind of one of the
few times where we're gonna say sorry in
advance and I hope you can understand
yeah and specifically it was actually a
very very good question about some
observations about drug use for
competitive body builders and sort of
advice that they give to other people it
might be wrong this probably is and then
asking our insights into what's actually
good idea as far as how to use drugs you
know that's well outside our scope I do
have a youtube video I've done with
omurice oof Eric Helms and John Meadows
where we cover some of that ground and
that gentleman actually who missed much
the question did see that video but if
you want any more insights on this kind
of stuff then I would go on Instagram
find team evil GSP that's Broderick
Chavez and he's got a whole Pei site we
go and ask as many questions as you want
he has a free Facebook forum and he's a
curmudgeon he character it was pretty
persnickety but he knows his shit and
his coach two ton of pros and this is
his passion and his expertise so if you
want really good answers go to him if
you want shitty answers that you won't
actually get come to us yeah and we hope
you understand and thanks for your
patience in dealing with the issue so
we're gonna answer all the other ones it
just as we usually do and we'll get
started
boom let's do it
so first off is fictional funkiness says
I'd love to hear your thoughts on
isometric training normally I wouldn't
consider it with so little equipment
available until local gyms open the only
way it can generate a significant load
how would you program it and one Jean
joint angles would you emphasize so
there's a couple weeks ago about
isometric training one is using
incredibly heavy loads or fixed
implements and getting into joint angles
that produce the maximum amount of force
which is generally an intermediate angle
somewhere in the middle of a range of
motion like halfway up and a curl
halfway but a bunch things like that
that is a wave isometric training it
works and you sort of just uh maximally
contract and play with time under
tension but you know you still need
equipment for that kind of stuff you
know like you power rack for example so
I'm not really sure how to do isometric
training with out equipment jeans you
know frankly I would just say this is
largely a waste of your time I don't
want to like just I'm usually want to
try and give it some cred but the
bodybuilding stuff in this case is the
way to go I don't think isometric
training if we're if we mean it in the
purest sense of like literally like
contract and hold for a prolonged amount
of time I don't think it's a good use of
your time I think you can include always
manual resistance isometric training
yeah I think like yeah that's tough yeah
and it's just not a good bang for your
buck in terms of fitness fatigue and and
and payouts that you get I think having
like an isometric element in some of
your movements like doing a pause kind
of doesn't it's not true isometric
training but it touches on that just
enough where you may be benefitting from
it I'm not really sure that at this
point but other than that my friend I
don't think it's a good use of your time
and I wouldn't fuss too much I think you
might just have to find other creative
ways to get a heavy load like for
example unilateral stuff is an
alternative if you don't have a lot of
stuff around the house that you can use
like do it with one arm do it with one
leg you know like one arm push up there
you go like it's not easy but it's not
meant to be so I would say following
alternatives all right rafael Sundra
we doctor my blowing up in Brazil I
don't know if this is a recent thing but
we've had many many Brazilians we cough
is orange alright he says dr. James dr.
Mike I thought about starting with a
ninja turtle joke but we are not that
close and I would like my question
answered so I gave up on that by the way
Mike almost ignores always ignores me in
Instagram lol as he should he should no
snack more slack Raphael kidding aside I
have serious question I want to get very
lean and maintain that as lean as I can
function as a normal human being of
course normal by our deranged standards
I start dieting with 2400 calories and
drop 200 calories each 21 days I'm now
at 1,800 calories so as the quarantine
progressed I started doing a lot of
cardio a lot like three four hours a day
for five days of the week of course the
fat is melting for now this approach has
been very sustainable amazingly I really
enjoy walking I'm very comfortable for
now been doing this about a month the
cardio craziness that is my questions
are I have planned more 80 days 80 more
days of dieting body fat is about 1450
or some body water is crazy of course my
original plan is to drop after this
current and take 100 calories each 21
days until 15 or kcals number one
question with my current calories and
this amount of cardio is it possible to
get very lean very physical ABS without
any changes with the same time period
yeah it's possible I'm not sure if it's
gonna happen but it's possible yeah hard
to say there's a lot like if you don't
like for example if your abs aren't very
big then the answer's no right that's a
simple one if there's plenty of other
other strange things that could happen
number two how should I structure my
reverse recovery diet to stay as lean as
possible metabolic or healthy and oh I
know I know I know what you're gonna say
there's no such thing as a reverse diet
that's fucking oh damn it I didn't know
oh I thought you were gonna say RP diet
2.0 I thought that's worse well yeah so
are the Erasmus diet book 2.0 is really
at telling you what to do but the short
answer is what you want to do is
essentially like as soon as you are done
dieting get into what you think is a
maintenance now your meeting this is
gonna be lower than usually is gonna be
because the metabolic adaptation so get
basically find your a number of calories
that you have been eating before like
let's say take the calories that you
were eating at the beginning of the diet
see the calories that you are eating now
and go in the first week you're done go
halfway between those two and hold and
maybe it'll be a little bit much and
you'll gain a little bit weight but then
you'll very quickly stabilize or it'll
be not enough and you'll gain a little
bit of weight then you'll lose again or
you lose again and lose again and then
if you lose for longer than a week
straight increase the calories again a
little bit maybe about 250 calories or
so and see if you maintain and then it's
just gonna as your metabolism speeds up
you're actually gonna be a lead more and
more more food over time and you're
going to not be gaining weight which is
great
and if you do end up gaining weight over
a few weeks then reduce the intake a
little bit of them play play within that
realm right there basically the key is
to find your maintenance rather quickly
rather than slowly going back up because
rehearse dieting for the first you know
weeks of it is still you're still losing
fat except now at a very slow pace so
it's all the worst parts of fucking you
up without actually like healing
anything so fantastic answer I
completely agree all right number three
well my metabolism dropped more than the
calories that I'm consuming or will stop
at the calorie intake with which I would
drop all the cardio at once not
pretending to you don't drop all the
cardio at once keep doing at least after
already that you happen and will your
metabolism drop more than the calories
that you're consuming know you know in
Tamil ISM will never catch up for the
kind of deficit you're subjecting it to
otherwise hunger wouldn't be a thing
that everyone in Africa would be fit and
healthy so you will continue to lose
weight it may be masked by water and
hormones but you will continue to lose
tissue absolutely number
oh sorry he says considerations about me
I am one point six eight centimeters 71
kilograms with with body water I the
otherwise would be a dry wait a forty
percent of that when I'm driving fairly
muscular foreperson by science not like
Mike muscular I'm natural I do not want
a specific matter percent just to see
visible abs I have very big ABS been
doing for twelve years consistently with
weights that are very protuberant
excellent probably helps but I store
what the fuck
protuberant yeah like you juts out the
ABS jut out oh look at Pro I see like a
protuberance hmm I use a scale and food
scales track of devices so far so good
on a diet doing legs on mev but they
grow fast and my nuclear dummy will help
not worried I think my metabolism is
very adaptive I can gain a lot of weight
very fast if I need to but losing it's
not the same I don't get too much hunger
but I feel the effects of cows friction
and I can eat a lot on massing
paradoxical I know that's very
paradoxical I got lead before but have a
bro mentality and in game go harder go
home and always diet to the dirty so
that's really your biggest mistake right
I'll tell you that right now
if you do dirty bulking actually no such
thing cuz foods usually don't have dirt
in them what people mean what people
think they mean when they say dirty bulk
is a bulk with lots of junk food in it
but that's still an appropriate level of
calorie surplus what they actually mean
is their calorie surplus is like a
thousand or 1500 a day they just get fat
as fuck so yes don't do that go to
maintenance right and you'll find that
you are pretty good at maintaining your
very lean physique and you could even
gain muscle after multiple phases just
don't go crazy and gay you know if you
gain like four kilos over as many months
you're just not gonna be fat ok at worst
you'll gain no muscle will be four kilos
of fat which is right right not that
much but you'll probably gain a lot of
muscle not so much fat and then dieting
is just a matter of losing 3 kilos or
two and a half kilos of fat which is
like an eight week diet at best so it's
the dirty bulking that's getting you
into this problem so I would highly
recommend stop doing
yeah I was gonna say the same thing the
dirty bulk is just like when you're not
controlling calories anymore and being a
fat slob and I agree like I don't really
have much dad actually sorry yeah yeah
and then he says now is the first time I
have a clear cutting plan but I'm
confused in the reverse strategies after
I put that amount of cardio on the table
and yep he quote you could be a lion
doesn't mean you have to bite the cage
hooks himself very nice fucking sweet
Rafael you're the fucking man
you might even respond to him on
Instagram next time see it every single
at him and Felipe Machado would have the
same Brazilian sense of humor which I
actually fucking love it's like wildly
absurd it's amazing you guys have to
come indoctrinate us here in Brazil we
train like hey man dr. James I need your
specialization great results got 40
cents for each in a week biceps triceps
and side laterals yes I was so glad when
that was over I was just like what am i
doing today 1 million sets of arms all
right here we go yeah fuck that
he said dr. Mike you can send me a hug
as the least you could do after ignoring
me to go for two years old dude - I'm
right now he's coming after you so hard
about Instagram
oh look ovid zoom hug covet hug and they
says thanks guys keep up the great work
you guys are changing the paradigm and
fitness I would like to subscribe but
the dollar is 6 to 1 no chance hahaha
I'm not that rich fair enough I'm
feeling that thank you for your
excellent questions how best of luck
don't dye it away all of your gains
Michelle
Simmons I wonder if she is related to
Richard Simmons Richard Simmons was his
name
James Simmons pronounced Simon's I guess
he's the founder of Renaissance
Technologies the hedge fund that mm
that's 30% a year all right she says hi
it is a she yes I'm not sure
we're stuck on the gender now cialis yes
got it he's you know French
motherfuckers out there hi I'm so
excited about our people opportunity
since that discovery had begun using the
app quite a few books and have completed
two lecture series and I'm almost done
with my third I also listen to more than
half the podcast Malkin for you
fantastic I'm looking for something
Aging in the gym well good news it does
happen in the gym so you found it I'm 45
years old and I'm a total meathead I've
been lifting since I was old enough to
sign up a goals 27 years ago that's
really I'm stronger and healthier than
I've ever been I've done everything from
holy lifting CrossFit bro splits you
name it I'd like your opinion on style
of training for aging females
respectable hormonal fluctuations that
can occur pre during and after menopause
of course I'm looking to maintain both
muscle mass and lower levels of
adiposity
and also respect form density changes
splits volume intensity coaching or
template do you have someone who
specializes in aging females while I do
believe it's just a number there are
some significant realities after so many
years of lift again it's also age is not
just a number it's a highly highly
important variable thank you for
attention Michele so I just gave you
some general guidelines your ability to
recover from high volumes in intensity
sequentially is not going to be the same
as used to be when you were much younger
so be realistic don't try to chase your
old volumes and also make sure that your
movements that you're performing
continue to be performed with a full
range of motion because maintaining
flexibility as you age is highly
important and perhaps
limit the amount of dumb shit explosive
shit you're doing and do you know still
have a still good shit still close to
failure but controlled movements that
make sure to keep you on the not hurt
side because there's two things one
people who are older tend to get hurt
more because they're a little bit more
fragile just a little and to the real
big one is after 27 years of training
you're all fucked up and your pre
injured in a variety of very important
ways
somebody's just hanging off strings so
making sure you don't push it super hard
is is more important now than what you
were younger so don't do anything stupid
like really fast changes of direction
maybe a little bit more body building
and powerlifting the fan Olympic
weightlifting or something like that I'm
saying that but that is the reality and
as far as templates and stuff I don't
think
anything James we can we do any better
than that no that was great
recommendation here's the thing I mean
this comes up in in both genders where
people say I'm you know in a middle-aged
man or middle-aged woman getting a
little older like I need someone to help
me train for my particular age group of
my gender group and the reality is is
that whether you're you know 45 year-old
female or male the considerations are
largely the same outside of any specific
issues that you have run into right so I
mean like with females you have issues
of like childbirth which could have
affected some of your lower extremities
or your hips or anything like that for
males we don't have to deal with that
but after that outside of those kind of
individual considerations really it's
just a manage of issue of managing
volumes intensities and frequencies
which is what you're supposed to do
anyway right so you're just not quite as
good and as resilient as you were when
you're younger and you just have to
scale back a little bit but after that I
think Mike's recommendation of mostly
doing bodybuilding style stuff maybe
dabble a little bit more into the
strength side of things every now and
again is a very good recommendation I
would really I would cut back on doing
the Olympic weightlifting any kind of
sport training unless you were doing
something like CrossFit and in that case
I would say you know CrossFit is a great
way to stay fit and be social but I
think the the risk to reward calculation
has to be considered a little bit more
strongly when you kind of get into your
40s 50 60 something like that not I'm
not saying it's a nothing you're gonna
get injured doing and I'm just saying
you have to think about it a little bit
more but other than that there's no
there's not like a whole lot of
age-related stuff that we can say is
very definitive outside of just managing
those things like you normally would and
you're just not as resilient as you were
when you were younger that's really it
same same shit different day all right
Leonard Morrison says hey docs is it
possible to come out of a hypertrophy
mental cycle within that quad growth if
I only train quads at over loading
volumes every other week or so well not
training them at all in off weeks or
well I just end up not growing or Zeus
forbid losing size my quads are quite
and large relative to the rest of my
body and take quite some time to recover
and training them week after week and
overloading volume steps so much of my
recovery capacity while they're a little
priority muscle group for me so I'm
considering and bringing them down to
meanness forms in the future as I
continue to train the rest of my body
from a VM RV but squats being such a
taxing exercise I'm wondering if it's
possible to do something like the
following instead of six sets of high
bars
every week with no growth to show for it
week one ten sets of deep high bar
squats week Juneau quad War III and
required work week for eleven sets of
deep high bar squats t load week repeat
there's a possibility to work for such a
program with two weeks off every now so
and end up losing me some size in the
long run also what is the lowest quantum
be observed in the wild I think anything
that quad volume requirements won't be
lower than the norm possibly even lower
than my hamstring volumes of 75 to 80%
of my hamstring volumes good morning
variations have you ever observed
athletes with higher hamstring of RVs
than bottom RVs I don't think so
as always thank you for your valuable
service well it's a great question a
Leonard I would be averse to
recommending such a plan for one very
good reason that acute to chronic
workload ratio is the worst ever and you
will fuck your shit up this is like a
plan to get hurt yes will it maintain
your size probably if you have good
quality medics like you say it's almost
certainly gonna maintain your size will
you gain size a driver would better but
you probably maintain it the thing is
this is like the most risky way to
maintain quad size ever and with the
lowest in the wild quad mb that I've
observed
I haven't observed this personally but
I've heard and I have every reason to
believe branch Warren took one year of
leg training off and his legs deflated
enough to where it only took him two or
three weeks to get back all the size he
lost
now he was in a surplus
more or less that entire time but so are
you so yeah but he has maybe the best
blend kinetics of all time or certainly
is in the top five so yeah sometimes
your quad MV is pretty close to zero I
honestly think if branch Warren did one
hard set of leg hack squats and on
Monday and then one hard set of leg
press or barbell squats on Thursday he
could during his peak a completely
maintain his quad size indefinitely with
two cents a week absolutely that's a
perfect segue to what I was going to say
so is this the only quad work you're
doing per week my man because I think
the most obvious thing to do immediately
if week one you just do 10 sets of deep
are bar squats I don't know if that's on
one day or one session or what but I
would immediately if it's I'm assuming
that sounds like like one session to me
I would break that up that break that up
oh you also do like four sets LUN day
that's way above MV so if you really
look at an MV especially in a hyper
caloric phase like you're saying
I mean honestly three sets of squats on
a Monday three sets of hack squats or
leg presses yeah talking about like sets
of five to fifteen reps for each of
those like and that's it like three by
eight squats on Monday and three by
twelve hack squats or leg presses on
Thursday bro that's all you got to do
and fuck if you have good quadrant X you
might even do something easier like a
new tune or something like volume it's
like really crushing I mean the reason
why you're getting crushed on those and
your quad workers because you're doing
all this muck at squats do something
else that's why we that's why we're
talking about SFR so you don't have to
like be crushing yourself all the time
and also another thing is like during
those weeks that it was really gonna
fuck up the rest of your program I mean
eleven sets of deep high bar squats and
yes like I want you to think about like
not dying for everything else yeah maybe
you can clarify that for us next time
but it from the way I'm reading it it
looks like you just kind of have like a
quad day that you kill yourself on and
then you have a hard time recovering so
might be good to break up the frequency
a little bit into smaller bite sizes all
right silver Garza what a fucking sweet
name okay sorry
another housekeeping note folks I don't
know if you're trolling me at this point
but please when you post in the forum
just use like the the most simple
formatting possible so I don't have to
go through all these things and always
unform at them just use the base
formatting please you'll help help a
brother out all right fill regards oh
sweet fucking name says hello dr.
Michael James a quick question about
calories based on my work our
construction my calorie expenditure
varies drastically day to day some days
I'm digging for hours and caring here on
80 pound bags of concrete other days I'm
installing decking and handrails
standing on in one place not lifting
much at all before recently moving and
starting working construction again I
was pretty easily able to calculate and
adjust my calories to gain or lose I
recently did a 16 week fat loss face
going from 210 pounds to 163 only five
yeah I've been at 160 coats amazing by
the way I've been at 163 basically since
the beginning of the year and I was
making taking a maintenance phase before
growing now that my gym is reopened I'm
ready to go into a surplus but I'm not
sure I should vary the surplus daily
based on my smartwatches estimates of
calories burned it's actually relatively
accurate from what the scale says
pretty good or if I should pick a
generous surplus and just stick to one
number
any thoughts would be welcome and needed
thank you so honestly like I think it's
very simple for you to potentially just
do like you can vary your intake day to
day but you might find that when you're
working physically you can't make meals
cuz it makes you sick and also you might
actually be hungry because you have more
of a sympathetic Drive when you're
working a lot you might not be super
hungry so you may actually eat a
greather of the same amount on days on
which you're working a lot or not
working a lot and I think you'd be fine
so I would probably just I wouldn't say
generous but take a normal guess at what
your surplus would be over the week and
then spread that over the week as you
like can you eat more on on training
days or drink days in which you're
higher activity you can't or you can eat
more on the lower activity days that way
on the higher activity days you're you
just need protein bars and a shaker
there you actually can be varied
hypocaloric on those days burn a little
bit extra fat and then on the days in
which you're not very active if you get
a huge fucking and fun food festival to
fill all the time in which are not very
active so you know either way it's the
average and it's super important and
it's not very important to eat more on
the days which are more active if you
were an athlete and that activity was
like you had to be on yes you would eat
more in the days in which were more
active because part of that eating is to
recover from session number one and then
part is to get juiced up for session
number two and so on and so forth but
because this is work it's a really not
an important thing whatsoever yeah I
agree with dr. Mike and the other thing
too is like if you're trying to base it
based on the tech that you're wearing
you're gonna find yourself having to
adjust at the end of the day quite a bit
it's gonna be something or you're gonna
be reacting to what you did instead of
programming right so then what's gonna
happen is you gonna look at your
watching you feel like oh shit I ended
up doing a lot more work than I thought
today now I got a iifym the rest of my
meals and da da da da it's a big fuss so
what I would say and kind of paralleling
what dr. Mike was saying consistency is
usually greater than accuracy
now if you can be consistent and
accurate that's that's fantastic right
but I would generally pick on what you
can do
reliably and in this case using kind of
like an average number is something that
you probably can do day to day very
reliably versus doing something that's
so varied I would I would be worried
that your consistency and how you apply
it
would be limited and I think the
consistency is way more heavily for me
personally then if it actually matched
your daily activity 100% perfectly
another thing is you use the tracker get
an excel file opened on your desktop at
home and type in at the end of the day
or the next day with your watch stores
data the calories that you are expended
and take a running average of that and
if at any point the running average
falls under your goal the next day or a
few days later you're gonna want to make
up some calories or just you know if
it's always running under you're gonna
boost your daily calories a little bit
so basically like maybe meet like 2000
or you burn like 2,000 calories then you
burn like 3,000 any bro 3500 then you're
done 30 103 over 2700 you may average
that all and after 4 days let's say it's
like 2800 calories an average would you
notice that eating over the last 4 days
has been 2600 so you're like oh I
thought it's gonna be 26 but I was wrong
so I'm gonna bomb my eating to 3,000
because I want to be in a 200 calorie
surplus you bumped to 3,000 and then the
next five days it turns out your average
of expenditure was 2700 okay sweet 3
Andrew short loss we I'm just gonna dig
that surplus down a little bit I don't
want 300 over 200 and then you go
forward and that that's the way to make
that really really good adjustment so
the day-to-day is not super important
but the running average week to week
month to month that is yeah and it's
easier to implement so it's a win-win
all right ting Dunn says what's up guys
I really appreciate your last input on
how to progress with the to add a
template coming back from vacation and
can't wait for the structure approach to
attack in the entire body
you all did interest me with a deep dive
you did on cold Nino's two-part question
that tackle different rep ranges in
frequency for best results over mezzo
the main difference being that he as
will I be primary my own mezzo based off
the two and a template as opposed to MPT
and therefore not using the exact
formulas and progressions say the theory
but not exactly
my question is if you would recommend
differing the rep ranges of each body
part well then this given template to
the frequency that all muscles have hit
I believe I see all muscle groups being
hit four times a week if so can you
please give me an example prescription
of how you might mix up the rep ranges
and your reasoning why I am very much
looking forward to your response thank
you as always free and say well great
question
Hayden what I would say is this so what
a four-four session split for the week
the average and if this is gonna really
change a little bit based on specific
muscle groups and how in exercises and
how you like to do the frequency for
them Jack I can say five to ten reps for
chest and you could just like that's
just pure tendon pain and no pump and I
can say twenty to thirty reps for quads
and you're like that's just vomiting in
blood and air and there's no muscle
going on but generally speaking a
four-day split what I would do is a day
number one would be sets of five to ten
mostly day number two would be sets of
ten to twenty on the heavier end
probably like ten to fifteen day number
three so you see how many of y'all
muhfuckas nostradamus can predict where
I'm going James is sets of ten to twenty
again but my a little bit bias towards
the lighter side of fifteen to twenty by
the way their exercise selections start
from more compound and hard core barbell
based and get progressively was here to
machine dumbbells been machines dumbbell
flash machines machines ledge dumbbells
on them cables and dumb shit you make
fun of your friends for using the last
day would be sets of twenty to thirty
reps so that way you start with your
happiest you go incremental lighter and
then next week and start to basically
start heavy go later and the next week
starts up here and pop up like that and
you can kind of you can kind of think of
it as like scaling it with the fatigue
and intensity relationships right so you
you have your most intense things done
early when you're most fresh and
recovered and as you accumulate fatigue
throughout the weeks you're a resilience
to that fatigue is gonna go down in
terms of intensity so you move the
intensity down a little bit as you
increase fatigue throughout the week you
keep moving that intensity down but
you're still in a stimulative range it
just kind of works a little bit better
in your favor then being beat to shit at
the end of the week and then being like
alright time to load up some some sets
of six on squat like well plug this is
some people have written program so I'm
like you've never really done this have
you it's like you know imagine you know
Monday you're fresh after a weekend of
rest
what do you
what can you do for your quads you can
do heavy squats what can you do the next
like Tuesday or Wednesday you do squats
squats again let's say like you're not
gonna go as heavy because you're sort of
fucked up but you can always do some
lighter squats in the day after like
you're just not squatting anymore
because like this just a bit too much
squatting so you might do leg press or
hacks block you know like a little bit
lighter - but you're not still pretty
heavy and get a good pump and then what
are you gonna do in your last day I mean
like your hips and these are all they're
not fucked up but they're like you don't
want to just go to the bank on them
anymore so maybe you'll do some walking
lunges or leg extensions super high reps
no problem you could even do that when
you have a little bit of Dom's left in
your quads you do those that's the
beginning of the healing process cuz
it's not even that stimulative obsession
what it's very not fatiguing you go home
you rest for two you know two days and
then at the end of that you're fucking
ready to blast it again because you're
super recovered super compensated and
ready to go and there's no I don't think
there's any four-day examples but if you
guys go on the hypertrophy hub there are
three three times examples at least
there are four-day examples and some is
there auto body parts absolutely some of
the muscle groups the last message cycle
is before they split so you can look
that up and actually yeah fuck good call
James hey just go there and fucking end
of each document of the updated muscle
guides there's an example often three
and sometimes four sometimes five
session periodization feeling like it's
been like a year since I looked at those
yes it actually has been a year and
we're uh I'm still sending those two to
get put up on the site every now and
again we by the way just for you
insiders to have this information people
ask when the next guide is gonna come up
we slowed the release of the guides to
be completely honest only for one reason
we don't want to put out guides of how
to train at a gym when gyms are closed
so one like a week or two and most gyms
are reopened we're gonna send more
guides out through the summer it's just
it was just kind of like LeBron don't
seem a Cobb you know what I mean like it
was just kind of like like I don't know
that's fucked up
I wrote a traveling piece that turned
out really good and then it was like
Ovid and I was like hey Mel you want to
finish editing that traveling piece she
was like dude no honestly oh yeah well
just put it in the bank for later yeah
Kyle man Chou says hello docs
dr. Mike I saw you had a very successful
cutting phase recently with the great
results Congrats thank you
I was curious and how you're able to
keep your recovery up as high as you did
despite doing
two-a-days and added jiu-jitsu well I
was doing a whole lot less jujitsu
because the fucking quarantined shut
that shit down so there's part of your
answer I'd assume increased sleep at
very specific carbs and proteins would
help to a certain extent ah nothing
specific on the diet edge a very regular
die I always get eight to nine hours of
sleep per night sleep is something I
don't fuck with it I don't think James
fucking fucks with it either no I
actually was really guilty in school
where if I procrastinate on a project or
studying or whatever I would not do
all-nighters that'd just be like this is
my I have to sleep I'm gonna do the best
that I can and I'm not gonna stay up and
get three hours of sleep I'm just gonna
take it on the chin not saying that's
what you should do I'm just saying I
don't fuck with the sleep but as Mike
said yeah they said I used to play rugby
oh there you go come back
I think he's it's like coming up to
Stalin and he'll be like hey I also
killed a whole lot of people he's a good
yeah what do you think I used to play
rugby and found that even if I increase
calories and sleep it's still affected
my training a ton
I don't play rugby Morgan I notice
there's a lot of clients that are
interested in conquering trainers
wondering if you both had any
suggestions either increase the
penetration and decrease trust things
well if there is a go on youtube and
watch my jujitsu and strength training
video so one hour and 15 minutes of
exactly how to combine them to in the
best possible way I didn't have to do a
whole lot of OWSLA dad was in the
quarantine but I definitely used some of
the tricks for other diets before and
work really well and honestly like you
just you know how they put you this room
and however much training I did I could
always have done more just under
recovered so I never trained more than
my MRV I'm very keen on what my MRV is I
always take my tricks and that's it
I mean yeah and actually I can refer you
to the recovery pyramid if you guys have
read recovering from training we
actually have a hierarchy listed and so
it's a really interesting way that you
phrased it like should I get more sleep
or should I try and eat more well
there's going to be diminishing returns
on how much food you eat in terms of
like how much is gonna actually affect
your recovery versus like how badly is
it going to affect your body composition
sleep is really good but sleep is
important in in that it's very
consistent so you can maintain your bow
rhythm so you don't necessarily want to
be like having large fluctuations in
your sleep schedule so then they clear
answer at that point becomes the
training volumes and then it's a matter
of autoregulation right so you literally
went all the way down the pyramid on the
recovery pyramid and then it's really a
matter of Auto regulating your training
volumes so that you're able to get some
level of productive training in both
things both endeavors without it zapping
all of your recovery resources and
that's just the way it goes I mean if
you're doing a sport like jiu-jitsu what
rugby or anything else you those things
tend to be a little bit more fixed
unless you you know have like a
one-on-one coach that you're working
with if you're like everybody else you
go to classes or you go to practice and
that practices is what it is and then
you kind of have to auto regulate your
training around it and that's really the
only thing you can do you're serious
about your goals and the RP diet AB is
here to help it creates a diet for your
specific needs let's you choose your
favorite foods and tells you exactly how
much of them to eat and when expert
system AI guides you along to keep you
on track to your goals for less than 15
dollars a month you have one of the most
powerful diet coaches in world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today all right mark Conway says all
right Mike and James Mon it's the
favorite Jamaicans you're in here based
on your last advices that's an Arnold
coach by the way Isis was to say to give
him the wrong advice based on your last
advices I decided to make the sensible
decision and just maintain my body
weight during another metabolite phase
at home since I'm sitting at 20 a 25
percent body fat and only have 9
kilogram dumbbells its sons however
wants to drop it again I will go through
another recent cessation phase and
maintenance before starting a cut great
my questions are should I train as hard
as I did during my bulking phase
progressing from - from fail fail
increasing long or five weeks or since
my goal is simply to maintain row to be
just as beneficial to keep the volume
lower a bit starting a three from fail
all the best well so if you just want to
maintain you can absolutely keep your
volume lower and go for finish from fail
if you wanted to drive a little bit more
on a per trophy and sometimes you can in
maintenance also there's a delayed
hypertrophy you can experience even if
you train in maintenance with basically
sort of the restructuring of our various
cellular structures hypertrophy actually
occurs on very long timescales we're
finding out sometimes weeks and months
of delayed adaptations so you can train
very very hard right now you might not
see it on yourself but later you will
actually have gained lots of tissue
especially if you start eating more etc
down the line that being said so you can
opt for that it's not as much not very
exciting lots of muscle but what I would
say is because you're in the quarantine
lockdown situation you might just want
to do that last one just for some sole
work you know like training at
maintenance it's fucking boring and you
might just want to get a little bit of
gains while you can not a recommendation
for some options James yeah since your
plan is to resent eyes anyway I would
just train hard at that point like you
don't have to go like super cray-cray
MRV training but I would train hard I
don't see why not if you're gonna resent
if you're not gonna resent to ties then
there's another discussion that he had
but I think told you at this point just
train hard
all right Lucas Carlile hi dr. Mike -
James thanks for answering my prayers
previous questions oh just to be clear
completely agree with dr. James on the
powerlifter thing you're only a Power
laughter if you compete which is why I
use the quotation marks for sure I know
I know you were I know you were
cognizant of that it just triggered me
and sorry I wasn't I wasn't coming at
James gets triggered I get triggered
number one just to expand on something I
asked two weeks ago if a lifter decided
that he wants to compete five years from
now and would do everything to
absolutely maximize those results should
he even do strength phases for the first
one two three years
what'd he just be better using the first
few years to make sure he had the best
body composition for a class he can fill
up and then realize strengths needs
later on this question as soon as a
lifter won't even try competing at all
during this five years or won't care
about the results during these years um
I think that a strength phase every now
and again can really help you with
technique help you consolidate your
technique as you change in your body
proportions and can also be something
that you do while you take your low
volume maintenance phases so like for
someone that eventually wants to be
really strong maintenance phases would
be more like strength training and less
like maintenance and then it would take
some active recovery and repeat and
because you need a three to one or four
to one or five to one maintenance or two
volume or volume to maintenance approach
hypertrophy anyway I think that no
strength phases is not the answer
but I think strength phases only when
you need only when you have exhausted
your your volume grinding is it probably
a good idea but what I would also say is
it the vast majority of that person's
training even during the volume phases
should be in the 5 to 15 rep range not
in the 5 to 30 rep range because we want
a very very functional hypertrophy the
most specific hypertrophy to strength so
that would be a bit of a difference than
it James yeah so I I agree with dr. Mike
I would like you to consider that
although powerlifting is a little bit
more straightforward in terms of skills
and tactics than most other sports there
is still a lot of skill and experience
that needs to be learned and experienced
star use the same word twice but you get
what I'm saying where
imagine trying to say the same thing in
a different sporting context or say you
said I have somebody who's thinking
about playing rugby so we're gonna have
them to work capacity training in the
gym and we're gonna have them that's
doing cardio but we're never really
gonna have them doing rugby for the next
five years right we've got weight
lifting there's a simple example yeah
just get more jacked and strong we're
like well you probably want to practice
some of the weight lifts you saw exactly
you want to learn the techniques and
part of that technique is learning how
to do it under some heavy loads so I
would say then it takes you years to
perfect technique yes and I think also
gaining competitive experience is also
something worthwhile and I'm not saying
a beginner should spend a lot of time
competing that's not what I'm saying but
to not compete at all during that time
and not do any kind of specific
preparatory type training I think would
be a mistake I think the answer what
Mike already already said is you just do
less of that right so you spend a lot
more of the year doing kind of more I
don't wanna say body complicating
stronger and some of the main lifts and
then eventually transitioning every now
and again over to some strength work and
that might be like a 75 25 kind of split
throughout the year not necessarily in
that order but I would it would be a
mistake not to include some powerlifting
specific strength work and maybe even
like a mock meet every now and again
just so that lifter gains the experience
the skills and I'm really big on the
competitive experience they need to know
what it's like to do the competition
itself and again it kind of also is like
a good psychological benefit like why
the fuck are you doing all this training
for five years if you're never going to
get a taste of what competing is like
it's just kind of silly to me so the
person wants to have that desire to
train they want to have the feel for
competition so don't overlook that boom
number two what do you do when you
forget to take your daily dose of
creatine you just keep taking it the
next day like nothing happened or
compensate that the Dave Hook double
dose the next day and how forgetful can
the left would be and weekly monthly
basis before actually starts to keep you
from saturating yourself you don't
compensate those missed days um well I
think I don't know anything is fine if
it happens regularly but it shouldn't
have it regularly if it doesn't happen
regularly and you don't have to
compensate I would say if you take your
creatine five out of every seven days
it's almost the same as I could take it
seven out of her some days um even just
the regular amount so I wouldn't I
wouldn't double up or anything like
but another thing you can do is become
an adult but not forget to take your
daily dose of creatine you can even put
a reminder your phone crazy as that
sounds so like for me let mine on
training days is when I tend to forgive
I'm gonna forget it's because I just put
it in my shake all the time when I work
out so it's an easy like I don't mess it
up but then if I don't work out then I
have to make a mental note but at the
end of the day like if you have a casein
shake or something you could be like oh
I forgot my fate my creatine just dump
it in there boom done yeah number three
how to plant a blocking face for someone
with type 1 diabetes are there any
differences in nutrition timing no clue
science of portions macros no clue
good food options a normally stable
fatha - no clue sent person of being a
novice lifts around 5 8 132 pounds etc
body fat etc ah this is something only
registered dietitian was allowed to do
in the United States we have a few
coaches actually quite a few coaches at
RPI registered dietitians if you are
doing this for the person with type 1
diabetes do not do it with a person with
diabetes because they'll miss dose their
insulin on fucking die on you and then
you'll go to jail worst part about that
is it that person the second worst is
you go in jail so on a serious note man
I would leave that to registered
dieticians yeah yeah I don't know if an
MD can work with that kind of person to
ask somebody like Spencer Spencer Nadal
ski would be a good reference on that
one number 4 what do you do if you've
reached local MRV in your lower body but
didn't in your upper body and didn't
treat your stomach MRV just by the way
doesn't just apply to lower body it
applies to any specific muscle group
same question if by either not knowing
you're a medium RV for certain muscle
groups progressing too slow too fast and
some of them you reach a point where
you're sure you can still progress in
your upper body but can't can't can
barely replicate your previous week or
can't even do that for your lower body
should you just deal with everything and
then plan on xml cycle being better no
or as a partial do you load of thing you
could do yes
and if so would you fully d load lower
body while progressing normal upper body
no or just cut enough reps slash weight
on lower body to buy yourself another
one two weeks before whole deal a bingo
so that's probably the best idea is to
essentially take one to several recovery
sessions so James and I have a couple of
things a recovery session is when you
basically do the end of your D load
in one session so that's half the reps
half the sets have to wait for every
single exercise in that so let's say you
have Monday in Thursday legs this Monday
your legs just shit that's it MRV
everything at the fan everything else is
going well this next Thursday instead of
doing 100 kilo squats you do 50 kilo
squats instead of doing success you do 3
sets and instead of doing sets of 10 you
do sets of 5 I mean it's fucking
ridiculous it's super fucking easy then
next Monday you lower the volume that
you were progressing by 2 by a 1/3 so
let's say you're doing 6 sets of squats
in that previous Monday the next Monday
after he starts quatrain Authority was
the recovery session you do 4 sets of
squats but you go up in weight and lower
in our er whatever just the same just
keep pushing in in same reps and an
increase in load but just for sense
right just 2/3 of the sets you were
gonna do and that buys you
yeah GC could buy you a few weeks it
could buy you definitely one um which
you can also if you're really fucked up
in this example the recovery session and
half week we're the same thing but James
I also have a concept of recovery half
week which is like if you train biceps
Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday and your
biceps are really fucked up by Tuesday
they're like one day is not good enough
then both Thursday and Friday is
basically the second half of that week
you take at half half half like super
easy everything and then you start the
normal progression again two thirds of
the volume in the next week you can do
that so James and I are working on a fun
project which is still super secret
we'll tell you about it later but we had
to sort of codify these things and sort
of try to describe them formally and you
know it turns out that there's no real
good for red teaming ourselves and shit
testing ourselves to see if we're
fucking up and James and I were trying
to come up with really good reasons why
you couldn't go through a couple of such
cycles with mini meeting with recovery
Catholics and recovery sessions and we
really can't come up with a good reason
at some point the systemic overload and
spillover will just mean you're taking
recovery half weeks and D loads for
everything every other fucking week and
then it's just time to do a systemic D
load but if you're really in a situation
where your upper body's fucking crisp
and golden and everything else is great
but your quads are really fucked up you
absolutely can do this in by yourself
another half mesocycle or it you may be
able to do this one to two times I think
if you're doing it three times per mezzo
something's fundamentally fucking wrong
with the way you're training and you're
just biting off one
James yeah and this is an example how
you have like a pre-planned strategy
going in and then your auto regulating
as you go and then they you have like a
feedback and a feed-forward mechanism
you have the feedback to address the
thing that's wrong right now which is my
quads are overreached so you can address
that with auto regulation and you have a
feed-forward mechanism where you go okay
let me take a look at what I did this
last time I got MRV on week three it
wasn't supposed to be an hour veto week
five let me go back and look at what I
did and adjust my pre plans for the next
one so you kind of get the best of both
in this case so people are real caught
up on this like Auto versus pre-planned
it's like do both you can absolutely do
both and when you do both
it makes the whole system more robust in
terms of how you can address things that
come up so I think it's a great way to
do it and also just on the feed forward
stuff to a great point James the other
feed-forward thing is the chopping the
volume by one-third because like a big
mistake is people take a recovery
session and I go right back Marvy
already what do you think you're gonna
go from there no where are you gonna buy
yourself a little bit of room absolutely
and I do think what you said is also
another important point where you don't
want to find yourself just doing half d
loads at the end of every massive cycle
going back and forth back and forth at
that point that's a poor use of that
strategy but yeah like you're on fire
it's time to jump in the bath number
five to make sure the question for issue
doesn't happen again what you deliver do
if his weight and under up choices or
jumps from week 1 to 2 of the meza were
too high to the point he knows that by
week 3 it will be too close to failure
in a muscle group she did just keep the
same reps and wait for week 3 and hope
that the performance increase makes it
so the RR drops or at least stays the
same or she just dropped the weight and
the reps to reach slash beat the plan
reps at the plan are for the week and if
the latter is better would you drop a
rep sweet or both so let me see if I can
to make sure the question for is she
doesn't happen again
what should also do if his weight and or
rep choices for jumps for week 1 to 2 of
the meza were too high to the point
where he knows that by week 3 so he's
saying like he's figured out that he's
fucked up he needs to do some damage
control
when did he figure that out is what I'm
unclear yeah it sounds like about
meeting week 1 to 2 or probably during
lady where's this any mess
cycle lay by the way I'm interpreting it
it's like somewhere along the lines in
weeks one to two he knows that week
three is just not gonna go very well
what I would do to be honest is I would
do the recovery session at the end of
week two and then restart the
progression that's owed restart cleans
to clean yeah like clean break yeah
percent but just cuz you know one
recovery session or half week at the end
of week two should clean out almost all
the fatigue anyway and then you can be
like alright clearly I've been off too
much more than there can chew I'm gonna
reset the progression with maybe a
little bit less load or honestly could
you just be the same load but a few less
fewer reps a little bit further away
from failure and then this okay now it's
much more logical and then you make it
the rest of the three or four weeks but
also the another thing is to make sure
really doesn't happen again is is to
learn for next mesocycle like Jean said
that register okayed this was too high
of a start and there's no way I'm gonna
make it yeah
oh boy oh boy - and again from Finland
says hi mister doctors don't know if
there's more of a gene skew a type of
question so you'll do the choosing I
glanced at it I said look I thought
let's just do it on this one yeah yeah
all right I'm just about to finish a
book about recovery reading through it I
think I have been an or fatigue state
four years in a row as for working out
in bad life habits and I'm now still
suffering from the aftermath of those
I've had word sleep problems for years
which sleep specialized doctors can't
seem to figure out the way men issue is
almost always waking up mid to early not
being able to continue to sleep equals
means I'm tired and would want to sleep
on unable and we're sleeping seemingly
for eight hours but still always being
costly tired for example Yannick through
the day not related insulin spikes etc I
have self studied and improved my sleep
and sleep hygiene a lot but never been
able to feel rested I focused on my
recovery - I live my life pretty
stress-free and mostly healthy I think I
trained pretty diligently four or five
day weekend Pt in use almost two years
now and also eat healthy according to
your advices i I've never had an easy
time gaining muscle but I used to be in
better shape but I used to be in better
shape then you got major shoulder
problems and nowadays I'm rid of those
for about a two years already but I am
still not able to reach my previous
condition recovery without adaptation
hits home really well oh and yeah my
Tufte levels are on the lower end but
not under the limit I am only 33 years
old I would say I'm missing some three
to five kilograms a muscle on my tall
166 centimeter body I used to be maybe
75 kilograms at around 17 percent body
fat I did since by 100 benchpress with
no bouncing 140 kilogram a little
parallel squat so a front squat and 200
kilogram deadlift that's really good for
a single nothing great but clearly
better shape both muscle and strength
wise then now I used to train much more
powerlifting style but no peeking ever
rep range was 3 to 12 well he your
metrics very powerlifting or later so
because he used to train more
powerlifting style it makes sense that
used to be stronger power with new style
so there's something to that just real
quick and then he says where's to say
this but I've been training in the gym
practically for half my life already hey
is a training gym more than half my life
so as my conditions sound like something
is wrong I know I could try aggressive
bulking under train harder but since I'm
not even able to get my old muscles back
the situation seems stupid something
else is needed I think is there some
good ideas or what to try a feeling and
won't be able to get any help for
medical doctors well there's nothing
medically wrong with you that's clearly
evident so it lead on someone who sports
a fatigue understand like you do you
your colleagues offer a consultation
with situations like this uh yeah maybe
could hire a coach what I will say my
best advice and then James will take it
cuz it's really a specialty is if you
really suspect that fatigue is
excessively high I would take two-week
active rest phase and basically just not
go to gym hardly at all and then start
training at like four sessions a week
with very low volumes really eat plenty
really sleep a lot and get into a small
surplus and see how things go for a few
months and if all of a sudden you're
much bigger and much stronger and
gaining momentum you knew you were
overdoing it if that's not the case then
you can pretty much rule out the
overdoing it because there's one very
very clear thing if you have been
chronically overdoing it and you're
really back off seriously then you've
only very slowly edged in you will
almost always see very very very
impressive progress if you weren't
overdoing it then under doing it later
is not really the thing that solves the
problem
so James yeah I agree with Mike I don't
think there's anything wrong
with you I am kind of curious about the
sleep stuff but like if you haven't been
able to get a diagnosis from a sleep
doctor man I certainly won't be giving
you one one thing that has helped me and
I hate going this route because we
usually sit up our nose at these things
but I have had some good success with
zma in terms of sleeping throughout the
night and just being fucking out cold I
the normal dose is to take like three
pills whatever that ends up being I only
take one one pill gives me like wild
vivid dreams and makes me just sleep
they throughout the entirety night like
I'll just wake up and it's just the days
it's over I never have any events
throughout the night the one thing I
will say though is it does make you feel
groggy like when you wake up you feel
you you feel the wear and tear the first
like 20 minutes after waking up you feel
like absolute shit but once you get up
then you wake up and you're like aw man
I feel much better I feel great I've got
a good night's sleep so I have had good
luck with that I don't like peddling
supplements cuz I think it's a generally
a waste of time but in this case if it's
something where you're waking up or
leave it earlier than you want to I
think zma is actually one that could
help you with that however if you've
ever used something like ambien or any
prescription level sleep aids I don't
think it's gonna do anything that those
bad boys wouldn't cover I would I would
be more interested in hearing if you've
ever gotten a prescription drug and if
that's helped you at all I don't I
certainly don't know anything more than
that but I don't think anything's wrong
with you in the end I think it's just
one of those things early there's a lot
wrong orally yes it sounds like you're
doing good on your sleep hygiene for the
most part it sounds like you're doing
pretty good with your lifestyle and it
sounds like you're at least very mindful
of your training I I don't really see
anything wrong there I don't know that's
all I got I can't really think of
anything else just for your best you
know what like who cares if you're not
at your all-time peak just do the best
with what you got keep making progress
where you can I don't know yeah try that
really much easier approach for a bit
and see if that's really good I think
that's definitely a good recommendation
alessandro zu g who are you know why you
know why you know guy is my my-y favor
second is probably my favourite meme
base of all time
but my favorite actual name of all time
is one does not simply mean oh the one
of the Rings
yeah the what's this actor's name yeah
Sean Penn
John pan yeah because my favorite is my
favorite remove all time I laughed so
hard at this I couldn't believe it
hey he's like at the top it's like one
does not simply at the bottom I got away
with these he's in so many goddamn
movies
he's an autonomous bro his filmography
must be like 50 fucking pages long I'm
gonna look at his IMDB are you god damn
and you forget that he was the bad guy
and my Goldeneye like crazy stuff he was
in a really shitty movie I watched the
other day - I was like Oh Sean Penn and
then I watched it I was like I regret
watching his mom he's like Irish or some
shit right I think so yeah
so his natural accents I can't his fuck
right he's been in like American 80s
high school movie he doesn't have an
accident fuck does that work today's a
real acting bro you know sometimes
people say like oh man like American
actors their British accents are fake
like no they're not I guarantee you
British people can't tell the difference
when fucking what's the name Wolverine
with Oh Hugh Jackman Hugh Jackman is
fucking Australian I just where to God
his Wolverine is a classic American like
is American as apple pie if you never
told me it was Australia every x-men
movie it'll be like where's she
Jacqueline from and be like what do you
mean he's from the United States like no
Australia be like what nobody ever saw
Tom Hardy got me - there was a movie
where he D speaking he was speaking with
his British accent and I was like wow
his British accents really good somebody
was like dude that's his normal accent I
was like oh is that American I thought
he was Henry Cavill Superman yeah and
I'm not when he does the British accent
like man you better off speaking
American he's man you sound tougher he
looks American ease he looks like he's
my favorite Superman by a long shot cuz
that good day god damn is that good
casting because he had walked on screen
and I was like Superman
either say they're gonna release the
Snyder cut of the Justice League film
you know I heard about that what the
fuck is the Snyder cut anyway apparently
there's like it's like four hours I
think they went into
more of the storylines was I don't know
I don't know what it is I don't want us
to get it wrong we're gonna shit like
that well I think I think they may be
like did more like it might have gone
into like apocalypse kind of stuff I
don't know oh that's great
see that that's great I think that's
pretty I would like lad li you wash that
I I didn't I wasn't super thrilled on
the DC movies but I the part that really
got me was when Superman comes back and
they're all like trying to talk him like
hey man everything's cool and the flash
tries to get the one-up on how many
eyeballs them and he sees them as he's
moving fast and flashes like oh fuck
yeah I also like flashes hilarious that
he's like he's like God we're gonna
bring him back to life though I get was
like like cemetary back to ya comes back
to life and he's like starts freaking I
was like I told you guys or what are you
head butts Wonder Woman you're like oh
damn amazing amazing you're like you'll
see it coming today Superman has that
name for a reason you feel me yeah it's
like it's not gonna hit her nope it sure
did alright Alessandra says hi Ducks
would relate to here in our project that
I'm going on during these last weeks
I've really begun to appreciate the
flexibility the opportunities I'm
training at home as well as possibly as
well as the possibility of training
twice a day as a matter of fact I really
enjoy watching the home workout videos
that might post regularly on Instagram
ready transfer Jared and Charlie nice
roof gym and been growing on my mind the
idea of building my own garage gym since
I have limited space and experience I
would really appreciate if you could
tell me which piece of equipment you
believe are must-haves when it comes to
home training
I know Rack barbells dumbbells and
weights are coarsely dispensable but I
was wondering if you had some tips or
advice
do you believe home training can give
you the same results of a commercial gym
I think gave you great results if not
the same I know that having a lot of
machines it's like the sphere in terms
of stimulus and also still mister
fatigue but I also find really
beneficial for me personally and be able
to train twice per day thank you so much
for precious help I would give you one
piece of advice that segue to James
actually has a home gym I think you
should get a cable station where you
could do lat pull-downs
and at the very least rows and
everything like push downs every variety
and any kind of curls and upright rows
so you basically get a lat pulldown
station with a pulley on top and a
pulley on bottom and you could sit down
on bottom and do cable rows and do
everything it's like 100 exercises out
of one piece of equipment it is in if
you have some dumbbells or selectorized
dumbbell and if you have barbells on a
cage
gee whiz like you're really well on your
way to basically everything you ever
want to do unless you want to be like a
pro bodybuilder or something not
everything at home right there
you can even rig it up to do about
squats potentially so it's it's a it's a
big deal and also there it's super cheap
to buy different attachments and
automatically in Christian variation
like you have different three different
pulldown bars three different push down
or cable rope stuff and like some
cambered stuff for rowing and all of a
sudden fucking crazy crazy new exercise
variation so that's what I would say
yeah that's really good you know I have
a lot of clients who say like I'm
thinking about doing home gym and I'm
like home gyms great don't get me wrong
I think it takes you most of the way
there I don't know if I was gonna throw
a number out there I'd say probably like
85% of the way there like most of the
way there but there are some things that
are handy to have that you can't get in
a home gym and I mean let's face it the
gym is made to be the most SFR
applicable place ever it's designed to
be that way but that being said home gym
squat rack adjustable bench barbell
that's like your first first stop you
can that's like all everything that you
need to do can be done with that after
that get some adjustable dumbbells they
make the what's it called the Norra
t-track ones or whatever that are go up
to like fifty two point five I have
those those are really good if you're
strong and you need a lot heavier
dumbbells they actually make plate
loaded adjustable dumbbells that you can
get I have those too
saves a lot of space and then after that
it's more of a footprint issue of like
whatever you have room left to fit and
if you have a little bit of extra room
then I think like Mike said having like
a multi station cable would be
phenomenal on that note I'm gonna screen
share because we're gonna get to youtube
but I have someone to share with you
guys who you should follow on the home
gym front so can you guys see that yeah
George Mother Niang he is a guy who
trains and he said that's a weird
machine thing I always see him okay so
this is it right so he has this fucking
machine in his garage I don't know what
it is follow George message him ask him
what it is because like so for example
he's got like all these bars right but
hold on he's got the ability for this
machine thing like look at these things
move on the side right and he can attach
any kind of cable
so he's doing cable flyes and then he's
doing the second he's got these pressing
attachments where he can do machine
presses but it's better than regular
machine process because you could
literally descend below your chest and
then he's resume push-ups here and then
he's got the same machine has the
fucking every kind of cable attachment
you can want and then he's talking to
the same machine still saying they're
doing push downs and then that same
fucking machine like a little attachment
off the side he's got leg extensions on
the shit and then he's got fucking belt
so independently he has about squat but
I guarantee you he could rig he just has
a picture but he could rig a fucking
belt one on that on there crazy psycho
machine no problem same crazy cycle
machine he's got fucking hamstring curl
on there it's one universal machine and
he does everything on it it's fun look
at this shit it's insane okay fuck is
that
that's crazy it's just like one psycho
machine for everything with this I don't
know who invented it it looks like it
would be like from space it's from the
future days any look at this he's got
this shit on the side what the fuck he's
got like a whole gym and he's got these
fucking handles like double dildo it is
really impressive and I don't I can't
endorse the machine but it looks coolest
fucking I would at the very least follow
his ass than message him and he's gonna
be super confusing me I have a hundred
feet why did I just get a hundred well
asking me about hey hey dr. Mike Master
Shimin also ask him how dr. Mike yeah
ask him how it felt to be whole Notley
for the Spectras fixture especially good
the evil villain in the mummy and The
Mummy Returns after brendan fraiser beat
his ass The Mummy been working out
uh-huh
nobody's trying to get fucked up by
Brendan Fraser anytime soon bring it on
wait what's that one we spent over there
what is he doing oh yeah look what is
this fucking machine Rose bro are you
fucking kidding me
why'd you lose it it's crazy there's
nothing look at that look at that ROM on
that look at this shit what the fuck is
that he's got a pulldown thing that
looks like a piece of a transformer it
seriously is what is that like it's
honestly ask him cuz what the fuck I'm
glad you noticed that tooth is this I
see his on my stuff too and I'm on
what the fuck is he using hundred
percent it's it's wild this wild alright
alright here we go let's take a look at
what Greg just an assumption Oh God how
to lose
oh look he's up how to lose your mind
belly fat yeah he's like we're done that
let's see we got team Ritchie I don't
know what that is big laws I like I like
big laws
jakka willing i've watched one of his
videos and it won't leave me alone about
this mountain dark and awesome
nick's strength and power half-door
responds to cheating video / retires and
high green photoshop controversy alright
that's something yeah anyway YouTube
YouTube alright so Milo wolf says time
stamps Milo that's not a question
alright gen pop Joe says hi RP Docs I
just have 12 questions three comments
and a limerick and the actual question
is why do I see stars after a brace for
I have a compound movement and what do I
do about it thanks so much I get that
tight actually I've heard it's like your
retina mini detaching for a second but
it's just a blood pressure phenomenon
there's nothing much to do about it what
you can do is put it in your belt brace
hard layer down without any weight on
your back just right there on the rack
and then you'll get all the stars on
crazy shit and then breathe out relax do
that one more time after thirty seconds
of rest like five or ten seconds we
really get the stars relaxed and then
when you go under the weight it'll
happen much less cuz your body gets used
to it I I do that sometimes cuz I get
really close to passing out under heavy
loads so I'll brace brace and then go in
the real one and it's much better that's
good yeah I do I get them all the time
from squats and I just like in my right
eye
I'll be get it in the periphery but I
don't I just deal with it doesn't
doesn't really bother me too much
alright aim Brown says does a deal at
week provide more recovery than taking a
week off and lifting and doesn't apply
to all types of recovery such as muscles
connective tissues in the nervous system
with this even less lifting provide more
recovery in some areas dealings are only
contrasted against an Oracle trading I
would love to hear your knowledge
and opinions where they contrasted it
gets even less training so this has been
investigated in a variety of other
sports and endeavors it's been shown
that a reduction a great reduction in
training volume
it actually helps you recover more than
complete total rest I know it sounds
crazy but getting active pushes blood
through the muscles it to some extent
enhances reliability it also keeps your
skills sharp for lifting and moving
around James what else do you have to
say well so this is this is kind of the
point of contention so that this comes
up a lot and Mike's totally right um it
has been shown that doing slight
exercise a some combination of time off
and light exercise is better than
complete rest the other reason why
that's true is because you D condition
less throughout that time right so one
of the problems that you run into with
complete rest is the issue of D
conditioning which starts happening
immediately and continues until you
start training again that includes your
fitness your skills tactics whatever it
is that you're doing and so in the case
of the D load you have not only the
benefit of slightly enhanced recovery
now I mean is it is it going to be
something that's like a tangible
difference every single time maybe maybe
not maybe for some people like taking a
D load and complete rest gives you the
same recovery benefits but the guy who
or a girl who did the D load preserved
their fitness and their skills better
than the person who took complete rest
and I think that's like a one-two punch
so I think taking complete rest is only
necessary when you are in dire straits
or when you have to because you have
some weird koban situation where you
can't train or whatever but other than
that I think deep load always wins out
over complete rest yeah last question
salad snake salad snake weight where
like silent snake butt salad snake where
you go hey doc Slough watching these I
was for scientists lmao while I cook or
do cardio thank you for the info I've
got three I particular as was planned
after running to strength meadows before
heading to college hey College is it
your first time going to college where
car you are you actually going to
college or are you doing zoom classes
for fall that's what I want to that you
can't you couldn't you can still wear a
condom on zoom classes might as well be
safe
yeah totally never know what's going
around at Kovan digital
oh look it's a TED talk that some
asshole did I'll okay five percent of
the comments and they're like this guy
is a steroid addict what about his info
and they just never respond he's
addicted to steroids
I'm gonna say something so he says I've
got three hypertrophy hypertrophy mezzos
planned after I achieve strength mezzos
before heading to college in terms of
powerlifting specific I hurt retraining
should we get to lower enter the
frequency in volume for body part
ramping up as much as progress 2x 3x
works or should disturb evolving based
on my way triple teacher in my strength
blocks three times three to four times
bench four times settles to your three
things in advance um I would say
something between those team is probably
pretty good
generally the 2 X 3 X + 4 X works well
but I wouldn't stick to those numbers
exactly you should have a good
hypertrophy plan based around something
that is reasonable for hypertrophy but
also integrate some of your competition
lifting and you can't absolutely
increase frequency every mezzo but don't
increase it as fast as you would a fried
perch because here's the thing
in traditional imperfect reigning for
just building muscle you can increase
your frequency because all the stuff
you're adding is less and less hardcore
compound heavily loaded exercises in the
5 to 10 range when you're doing
powerlifting specific hurt retraining
you don't actually go lighter and
lighter lighter with every mezzo you go
heavier and heavier and heavier in the
same fraction of essentially sets of six
to ten or six to twelve reps is included
so you can increase frequency if you're
able to recover but it'll be very small
increase in frequency and the total
volume won't go up a ton most of
hypertrophy training for powerlifting is
being in the hypertrophy range but
increasing the load on the bar not
nearly as much increasing the number of
sets session to session the session yes
you will increase sets you will increase
frequency over the mezzos but mostly
you're adding hypertrophy is going to
come from load increases so keep that in
mind don't try to do the traditional
bodybuilding that was in your honor
nice don't try to do the traditional
bodybuilding progression because you
will burn and it's fucking hell and fall
apart to pieces if you try that shit
with tons of hardcore
and piggybacking off of that idea you
have to be using hypertrophy training
within the context of powerlifting so
what that means is you're probably not
going to be doing frankly not really
doing I would say probably nothing above
15 reps I mean 15 would be like your
light light earth sessions for
hypertrophy at that point if you're
dipping into the 20 30 reps for
powerlifting you might end up doing
yourself a massive disservice so in what
I would end up probably recommending is
doing something more like 2 3 3 instead
of like 2 3 4 because if you're going up
to 4 that means you're probably moving
into more metabolites or very high rep
type training which really doesn't serve
you very well in transitioning over to
powerlifting so keep that in mind there
are some specificity considerations for
strength sports in in hyper and
hypertrophy training you don't want to
be going super super light boom
real quick on my TED talk video we've
got can you talk about stairs as well
dude is on here tell us about your
steroid use please thank you person was
not even a real name and the less a
person is on peds the more I can take
their advice on healthy eating we're not
even done yet health tips from the trend
man I like this in Spanish that's a
request for Spanish translation and then
someone said learn English oh yeah
Yolanda getting after it get it girl
alright stop in the share no more
sharing all right that's gonna wrap it
up for this week Mike you got anything
to plug or announcer folks I hope you're
enjoying all the other YouTube content
we're coming out with we're putting out
a lot of live videos there's no like
just actually finished recording an EP
for you guys it won't be up for a little
while but I just finished all 16
hypertrophy made simple youtube videos
where basically we talk about
hypertrophy program design in each video
is 3 to 5 minutes long it's the simplest
fucking way I can talk about program
design each video is like the first
videos like selecting an exercise the
next one is like how to do good
technique and then blah blah blah blah
I'll be really cool stuff and hopefully
they get some views and hopefully folks
will be interested enough in some of the
simple videos to get under are these are
PE plus webinars and ask us more
questions that should be really really
fun interesting we do have quite a lot
of stuff on our YouTube page sometimes
it's funny cuz I'll post like a video or
whatever I'll be waiting for the webinar
to post and I'll refresh my the RP
channel and I'm like god there's like
five videos I got posted just today
alone fuck me there's a ton of stuff
guys so if you're enjoying all this
stuff there's the RP podcast
Mike and I do the weekly webinar we have
mike has a whole bunch of other separate
videos I have some separate videos they
do they've they've integrated a lot of
our RP plus videos into YouTube so if
you're enjoying this kind of content
please make sure you subscribe and we
really appreciate you guys engaging with
us on our P plus and on YouTube so with
that we'll talk to you guys next time
peace