I think he's like in his early 20s he
probably doesn't give a fly about
staying super healthy at this point what
Sam is doing here is what I would just
call colloquially moving weight around
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here creator of the RP
hypertrophy app and professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College and I'm going to be taking look
at Sam suluk's training videos he's all
their age on the YouTubes and even
though a slight misunderstanding in the
law prevents me from interacting with
people in their early 20s especially
young men uh weird locker room
experience I won't get into let's uh
take a c uh take a look at how the new
generation is training and see if we can
give some old helpful tips alright roll
it this Hammer Strength machine
it only holds six plates okay so it
looks like we have back up first on the
menu he said the machine only holds six
plates let's find out why that's a
problem you know I've been known to
throw around seven especially when
you're fresh I mean when you're fresh on
back you're pretty fucking strong so
I'll just go out and say it uh on most
machines especially that particular
rowing machine if you're using much more
than four or five plates culinary
curious I'll say I'm giving the
skeptical eyebrow here uh for how is
this technique gonna look because if you
say you need six plates on a rowing
machine uh the smart money is you're
using it wrong or you could be using it
better but I'm pre-judging literally so
let's judge away after he actually does
this
instead of doing the seven plates and
then like trying to jerry-rig this shit
like a fool kind of to make it harder
right for the first set I'll grab this
handle that's in the lower position so
that's actually really smart if you grab
the handle high up the leverage
Advantage is yours you will have lower
internal forces to your muscles given
the same amount of load on the machine
you'll have higher internal forces if
you grab the handle lower because the
leverage Advantage is no longer yours
that being said the different grabbing
position makes the movement Arc shorter
and it potentially doesn't give you as
much of a stretch so if you're
considering doing this yourself try to
experiment to see where you feel the
exercise the best get the best stretch
get the best Arc In Motion lock in your
lats at the very top of the movement
some something to think about right I
don't know how much you know about
torque and mechanics torque and
mechanics two of my expertise areas
maybe the closer something is to the
point of rotation right the more uh the
more Force you're gonna have to exert
it's
the lower handle is harder bro Sam just
passed like a very basic gym IQ test
this is looking up a lot of bodybuilders
would not have said all that and it made
any sense this is totally valid three
cheers Sam amazing
somebody who went to school at least
some time so the first settled with the
lower handle
depending on how strong I am I'll stay
there until I think the higher handle
would be better
[Music]
okay
this isn't terrible
but for better results safer I have a
couple tips for Mr Sam one is to control
the eccentric the downward motion
considerably more it's very growth
promoting and because controlling it
more asks your muscles to work harder
it's harder to control it provides a
great deal of hypertrophic stimulus
another thing is to go as deep as
possible for the biggest stretch it's
been shown time and time again now with
good theory and empirical support that
big stretches under big loads grow the
muscle more than if you stop a little
shy you want to really let your tire
back and fold it out and then crunch it
back in is he going high enough at the
top not a major concern he's going high
enough for a very good effect but the
control on The Eccentric is not a lot
and the Big Stretch at the bottom is
just not happening if you change those
two things good news he would have to no
longer use six plates he could use about
four but the actual muscle growth
stimulus would be at least as high
probably higher for any given unit of
set any given number of sets he performs
in addition to that the impact on the
joints and connective tissues would be
lower so it would actually keep him
healthier musculoskeletally for longer I
think he's like in his early 20s so he
probably doesn't give a flying about
staying super healthy at this point it's
some shit that really comes in handy
when you're getting into your late 20s
early 30s and someone's like all right
you're on ifb Pro stage time to gain 15
pounds of muscle to really push the big
boys and you're like but my joints are
all broken and I can no longer lift
heavy or hard enough in order to make
that happen something you wish you would
have done when you were younger is
establish excellent technique first to
stay as safe as possible for as long as
possible with maximum effect slowing
those eccentrics and getting big
stretches every time is a real big deal
oh
thank you
yeah another problem with such
inconsistent range of motion is it's
very difficult to determine where
failure is he seems to just be like when
he's really really tired he gives up
which is also totally cool but it can
create some variation training session
or training session and ideally what you
want to do is have as little variation
as possible but for the variables you
control the load you vary
repetition number you vary the Reps in
reserve you vary everything else should
be as consistent as possible to deliver
the same exact kind of stimulus over and
over that leads to predictability it
leads to awesome consistent gains
minimizing injury risk if your failure
point is kind of like ah when I stop I
stop that's not terrible at all but it
could be done a little bit more
precisely all right I'm moving up to the
higher handle
much better stretch on this one very
good uh still lacking that slow
essential control how slow two to three
seconds is really good on a movement
with this kind of amplitude that much
range of motion just something like a
squad or leg press even three to five
seconds can work because it's so far to
go down for something like a bicep curl
even one second controlled eccentric can
be good enough because it's such a short
amplitude movement but uh yeah I would
like to see him control The Eccentric a
little bit more ideally no actual lap
hold down at this gym not awesome but
that's fucked up how the fuck and this
is not a critique on Sam at all this is
a critique on the gym he's at how do you
not have a lat pull down I mean holy
shit
that's like the top five machines you
would ever order for a gym that's kind
of insane I wonder if they have an
assisted pull-up or something maybe it's
broken good God single and pull Downs
especially with a stack that is heavy
that's this heavy I mean you're getting
the stimulus you want
okay so we're doing single arm instead
Wise Choice
yeah same critique uh as before The
Eccentric is very rushed in the single
arm lap pull down especially because
you're off center to the Machine by
reaching up and across like coach Kasam
at N1 Advocates often very validly I
might add you can reach up as high as
possible and let your lat get pulled out
get your shoulder really up there really
stretch everything out and then come
down for that Crunch at the bottom can
really optimize this movement what Sam
is doing here is what I would just call
colloquially moving weight around it's
fun to be young and jacked and strong as
fucking just like Bully the weights it's
dope and it's effective too but the
ratio of stimulus to fatigue and the
ratio of stimulus to injury probability
isn't ideal
not so close to Ideal this is good it's
okay but it can be done better by
milking that slow eccentric
controlling the weight at all times and
a big stretch maybe even hold for a
second let your lats really tear apart
at the top and then crunch down totally
good to do that powerfully and
explosively that's awesome you got a lot
of an energy in the gym great you don't
have to do it explosively but it sure
shit doesn't hurt it's just that back on
The Eccentric you want to control and go
a little bit slower and get that full
range of motion like I said you know I'm
gonna do something upper back biased
so these are going to be
essentially seated rows
right one can one handle for each arm
it's not just pulling towards my body
right the cables are kind of wide so not
only am I getting like a good rowing
sensation I'm also kind of pulling it
towards my uh like my median line of my
body right so it's like combining uh I
don't know what it's like combining
right but it's basically instead of
doing a row just straight towards myself
the handles are wider so I'm pulling
more like this that's kind of cool you
know some machines are designed uh most
machines are designed to row in a
straight line I've seen some machines
that are designed to pull apart that
tends to engage the very high area of
the upper back and the rear delts a ton
I have seen very few machines that have
you pull in uh it's a little bit awkward
but I think if you're pulling in you can
get a little bit more lat activation
than normal because the lats kind of
tend to pull in as well as back the rule
with these kinds of setups and
modification and specific angles is it
all boils down to sfr as king stimulus
to fatigue ratio what does that mean
science man shut up and use American
words
you feel the crazy amount of tension
where you want it for that exercise if
you're getting a crazy burn in the
muscles with High Reps that you're
targeting in that exercise if you're
getting Mega psychotic pumps and if it
gets you sore and really beat up in that
area and your joints feel good about it
there's kind of no wrong answers like if
you're doing some kind of lunge that
someone says doesn't Target the glutes
but your glutes get crazy tension during
the movement they get a burn in High
Reps they get psychotic glute pump which
of course instantly go and take pictures
in the back ideally you hand someone
your camera in the locker room and you
go can you uh take a picture of me real
quick they're sure I'm not expecting you
hit a front double back just turn around
drop your pants anyway if the stimulus
to fatigue ratio is good then your
glutes are getting sore and your joints
feel great whenever that person said
about those lunges don't hit the glutes
is actually just wrong it's empirically
wrong it's obviously wrong so I could
critique Sam celix set up here in the
row as much as I want but if he can
check all those boxes it's golden by
knee can he get even more out of it by
putting control The Eccentric more
getting more of a length and contraction
yeah almost certainly but uh you know
that's just me being nitpicking I should
probably stop giving random strangers my
cell phone at the gym with which to take
pictures of my ass
yeah I'll just keep doing it if you guys
like uh this stuff a whole lot the
extended much less edited edition with
raw footage is available in our members
area give it a click and join up if you
like
yeah I was curious the range of motion
is very low if he grabbed closer
together automatically this is all range
generated for the back musculature so
that's a reason why in many instances
though not all you want a little bit of
a closer grip than a wider grip to
Target the back a wider grip is gonna I
think do less overall mechanical work
making it not as efficient it's also
going to hit the rear delts in in uh
sort of middle upper traps a little bit
more but uh I'm not convinced this is
the greatest setup in the world
definitely something for you to try in
the gym but when you try it if you're
like and you go back to the closer grip
more long-range motion version and
you're like oh yeah that's great uh
don't be surprised
the interesting thing is doing is he's
doing some spinal flexion and extension
I think for cable row that's actually
really awesome again as usual I would
love to see him really fully Flex into
the motion almost putting his head sort
of closer to his knees really rounding
his whole back and then as he comes up
arching back and putting that chest Sky
High literally putting his shoulders
behind his glutes with a huge Arch belly
out that's going to be extra tough and
it's going to hit the spinal Erectors
like crazy I'm sure you guys have seen
some pictures of my spinal Erectors kind
of look like two people running up my
back which is what they always told me
that in jail I don't know why oh my
fellow inmates you guys but um that
would be dope I've been on a barbell
kick for the last few months and then
maybe incline Smith I might just be done
with incline pressing with barbell do
maybe five or six sets it's interesting
that he's really organically assembling
his workouts I think at his age and his
level of development this isn't the
worst idea in the world because you
really should be exploring a lot when
you're younger I do prefer a more
methodical approach something like the
RP hypertrophy app you pre-program all
of your stuff and you can always change
exercises on the fly but we're really
trying to push people into doing kind of
the same exercises they started out with
in week one and finishing them all the
way through week four five and six this
is totally cool to do at his age
um I would like to see him as he gets
older and progresses more to take a more
formalized approach to writing down all
of his stuff there's lots of guys that
do this Jordan Peters does this Justin
Shire does this that consistency week on
week on week allows you two things one
allows you to track your progress which
is awesome and two it allows you to see
if the exercises you chose really are
hitting the muscle groups like you want
them to and learn from it let me tell
you eyes about the RP hypertrophy app
with over 28 preset programs already in
the app you can choose to make your own
you can modify an existing program or
you can just run the programs exactly as
they were written by me personally this
app programs everything for you
exercises weights sets reps frequency
the whole thing after every single
workout on every single week the app
adjusts to your unique parameters with
every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about
technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
thank you
yeah not ideal bench press technique
here on the incline hand positioning
looks very good the lockout at the top
or close to lockout is totally fine The
Eccentric is notably faster than the
concentric which is backwards you want a
slow controlled eccentric and then a
slightly more explosive or normal speed
concentric and again huge gains are made
when you stretch a muscle under load a
ton and so if he could slow down that
barbell reach all the way down to his
chest gently pause at the bottom for a
split second and then come back up first
of all he would probably only need like
275 pounds not the 335 that he's doing
it would result in better joint health
and a much lower risk of injury while at
the same time minimizing systemic
fatigue because you don't have to handle
as much external load is it as
impressive no in a certain sense on
video but in a certain sense it's even
more impressive because you are exposing
yourself to the weakest possible
position at the bottom at the end of the
day impressive or not you just want to
grow as much mass less you can and the
way to do that is not to skip out on
that last few bottom inches if you know
what I mean huh ladies am I right anyone
okay
[Music]
yeah that he's dropping that eccentric
real fast quick reversal uh man Peck
injuries are real folks especially when
you're on steroids pot calling kettle
black but it's just true um especially
when you're young and growing really
fast your pec muscle size can outpace
your tendons temporarily and uh doing
rapid eccentrics on an incline barbell
has in Prior cases resulted in
devastating PEC injury I would not want
to see this happen to Mr Sam who seems
like a real small guy so uh slowing The
Eccentric and and going all the way down
for a Big Stretch and a nice gentle
pause is probably Super Wise so
obviously
I didn't jump straight to
three plates and a ten
I'm not a fucking fool very wise you
don't just want to get in there and do
that when I was his age just to put into
perspective how big of an 80 I was it
was 20 years old this is how I would
lift I would put 315 on the bar on the
flat bench and I would do a set of like
15 push-ups I would rest two minutes and
then I would do my first set working set
of 315 for like 10 to 12 or something
fucking moronic so when I critique Sam
sulick and folks like him please
understand that I've made all of these
mistakes and more but now I'm old and
gray and maybe wise so yeah I've done
worse than this so it's great that he's
warming up at all
you know I did like a 15 minute cable
warm up 15 minute cable run because it's
excessive I take back everything I said
tricep push Downs like Facebook stuff
rows a little bit of like crossbody
single arm cable presses that's just a
gigantic waste of time I'm completely
honest
three plates again
way too fast on The Eccentric and
cutting that range of motion at the
bottom seems to be a pattern for Mr Sam
and and most lifters I would say
[Music]
oh there we go using those supports that
was close let's say for whatever reason
you like doing something slightly
unorthodox in the gym
right you know slightly counter uh
intuitive to the general populace to the
point where people might look at you and
say what is that guy doing
if that works for you and for whatever
reason like if you're doing some kind of
weird bicep curl or some kind of weird
something I can't really think of
anything right now but you can feel some
crazy fatigue in the targeted muscle
you're working at I love it preach the
good words sir Andy get a crazy pump and
in the long term you're making gains and
guess what that's perfect for you right
there is no right answer I'm on on board
with that 100
foreign
yeah again same critique The Eccentric
is way too fast I would love especially
on these machine flies for him to
control the eccentric slowly and then at
the bottom really push his chest up and
sit there for two seconds that fucks
your pecs like you wouldn't believe and
then come all the way either to touching
or until whatever desired range of
motion he cuts his set off at that would
just require the same or less load the
same or fewer repetitions for just more
gains so it's I think pretty close to
objectively a better idea
good
[Music]
you'll notice at the on the way up he's
kind of throwing his whole body forward
that's not as much chest as it is like
abs and stuff nothing terribly wrong
with that but if he sat straighter and
really lifted his chest up he could
really isolate the packs and make them
work the most
oh my God
so in terms of the stretched position
my ears are fluttering go on love pec
deck that wasn't the stretch position
Sam
maybe for him it was I'd love to see
what his technique would look like well
Mr Jared father got a chance to train
with him really push him in that
direction that would be really fun all
right so that concludes the Sam sulik
video review I think Sam seems like a
very intelligent person he seems like
he's super excited about the gym and
making gains and just living that good
life and I think that's that's fucking
great I think much of his training is
very sound I would love to see him focus
on a slower more controlled eccentric
and just in every position bigger
stretch and a pause at the bottom I
think that will just Elevate his
training to the next level then he's
gonna weigh 380 pounds with zero percent
body fat and we're all truly be able to
bow to our new king if I were to rate
this workout
um it would get a 1.79 out of 2.35 feel
free to grab your calculators and turn
that into a letter grade that's right
I'm flipping the script see you guys
next time
[Music]