all right hello everyone in welcome back
to another episode of the ice cream for
Pierre's podcast my name is Jeff knit
bird and with me as always is my co-host
Robin going it hi and joining us today
we have a very special guest his name is
Brian Whitaker and Brian really probably
needs no introduction but if you guys in
case you aren't familiar with him he's a
six-time world champion natural
bodybuilder and brian is actually the
first guy ever to win both the WNBA
worlds and the IFP a orton cup in the
same year so we're really honored to
have brian on the show and thanks for
joining us right absolutely just my
pleasure thanks for having me on thanks
for that awesome introduction there yes
so how about we get right into it why
don't you just tell us a little bit
about yourself your training background
kind of when you got started sure so
I've always kind of you know been in the
weight training I think like a lot of
your listeners I got into it and in high
school and kind of enjoyed it since then
never really got into competitive
bodybuilding until I was all the way in
grad school so kind of a little bit of a
late bloomer kind of late 20s is when I
first learned about competitive
bodybuilding and so I was in graduate
school at Virginia Tech and there was a
couple guys in the gym there that said
hey we have this local show want you uh
you know give it a shot you seem to
Train pretty hard and so I did it and
that was my first show and we had you
know there was a total of six people in
the entire show
and you know won that one and then
haven't looked back since then you
definitely you know caught the bug and
that was again I think 2003 you as my
first show and ended up turning pro in a
couple different organizations in 2005
and have just been going at it ever
since
so mostly competed with the wbf this
year is my first year also stepping
stage on an IFP a and so I've you know
been really fortunate to have a great
year honestly it's been better than I
could have hoped for
yeah that's awesome and just to touch on
your
competition season this year I I don't
think a lot of people realize that you
were even prepping for the HOH shows and
you kind of drop the bomb on us on
Facebook anyway kind of last minute and
then maybe took some people by surprise
I know you took me by surprise and then
you ended up kind of kind of writing
history by taking you know taking on the
the the orton cup and then also the WM b
f worlds so congrats on that I thought
you looked absolutely fantastic
congratulations thank you guys I really
appreciate it and you know I've gotten
some people that have asked me they're
like why did you you know kind of hide
it hide away before that the the the
first show and I just kind of see it I
didn't think I was hiding I'm not one of
those you know people who's really
active on social media and so I didn't
even see any reason for me to announce
much I was just gonna show up and do it
and then uh you know I got some some I
usually talk to a couple close friends
as I'm prepping to you know get feedback
on pictures and things like that and
they were like you know you really
should probably post something that
you're doing this show people might want
to come see you and so I actually you
know just a couple weeks before I did
and it was kind of cool you know there
were there are people with that first
show that came kind of just to see me
and that kind of is just overwhelming to
me that you know people actually care
what I what I what I do in terms of
shows so that was that was pretty cool
so Brian as I understand you you're a
PhD in economics is that right that's
right yes right I'm sitting here in my
office at Oklahoma State University
right now so with regard to this
competition season do you think that
this was your best shape that you've
brought to the stage um I do and and you
know I had a really good year in 2013
that was the last time I competed and I
only did one show that year I did did
wvf Worlds ended up ended up losing the
overall by one vote that year to to
Siobhan Cunningham and so I thought you
know previously that was my best shape
and I you know had I did really hard for
that one
this year was different because I did my
typical 26-week died to the first show
and then
had another two - your turn and another
three - world so it was a total of 31
weeks of contest prep and I think that
you know it did make the difference in
terms of bringing my absolute best
conditioning to stage I think I was
probably a little bit fuller in 2013 and
I had some injuries over well during
this contest prep basically that limited
you know what I could do in terms of leg
work but oh ma this is definitely my
best overall package I'm really pleased
with it and again I think I can still
improve in the future in terms of you
know adding mass and maintaining
fullness and that kind of stuff but
condition wise I definitely think this
is my best my best shape yeah it really
was
and again I'm lucky that I have a very
supportive family and a job where I can
kind of call the shots and set meetings
and you know set my own schedule so
that's very important for this you know
hobby that we have and and I'm in a very
good environment to be able to prep in
the way that I need to how do you manage
your work family and prepping for a
bodybuilding show so well because you're
saying there that it's like you're lucky
to have a life that or like a job and a
family that's really supportive of you
so how how does that work for you
because I know us being new to competing
sometimes it's difficult for us to
manage all of that so yeah great
question and this is something I
actually really pride myself on and in
fact I'm sure you guys know Blaine
Norton I've actually given a talk at
lanes camp about you know tips for mesh
meshing the real world with with
competitive bodybuilding and so my kind
of rule of thumb is you know I have
probably basically you got to prioritize
and my order prioritization is first
thing is family and second thing is job
and then after that I've put in
everything I can into contest prep and
so you know I love bodybuilding but it's
not gonna interfere with my family life
and that's that's just the way it is and
you know I have to travel a lot for my
job I go on you know I take airplane
trips and a lot of the times those are
in the middle of prep and training at a
hotel gym is certainly not optimal but
that's what I have to do given my job so
you know I'm gonna continue to optimize
everything I can in terms of you know
bringing my meals with me the best I can
you know training the best I can but
it's constrained in some way by you know
what I had the commitments I've made to
my job and again
family's always first on that list so it
really comes down to prioritization and
that doesn't mean you can't give natural
bodybuilding you know your absolute best
but you can just within constraints have
you always been able to manage so well
or is this is something that you got
better at over time oh you certainly
learn things over time so you know again
as I've gone on these road trips I've
learned how to pack three days worth of
food and in a carry-on cooler and you
know plan in advance to find a local gym
that's within walking distance and you
know talk to my family about and what
they where they need me to be that week
so I can have you know I can have my
meals planned out and have my workouts
scheduled around their events so you
definitely learn over time but you know
again it's it's something that was I
guess kind of ingrained in me as an
academic I like to have a very scheduled
you know way of doing things and so
that's it's part of my personality too I
think but it's definitely something you
can you can improve on sure so basically
you're saying it does help yeah so Brian
like this is gonna I'm gonna come out
youth like probably a like a flurry of
questions here they kind of all relate
to one another but like you as you
probably know have if not the best
conditioning and natural bodybuilding
certainly you bring some of the best
conditioning natural bodybuilding is
that something that's always been easy
for you or is that something like you
kind of found got easier over time or
you were able to hit better conditioning
as you got more experience so first of
all it's never easy
31 weeks adonys is not easy it's and you
know I say that hey oh he has great
genetics for getting lean and stuff like
that into something somebody said that's
true
but I work really hard at this you know
I put a lot of effort I put a lot of
thought into my contest prep into my
workout design and things of that nature
so shorter answer is it's not easy and I
do get better at it as I get more
experience so if you look back at you
know when I first won my pro card in
2005 you know look back at those
pictures it's it's kind of embarrassing
what my conditioning was like at that
point and I didn't really understand
what true contest shape was what true
conditioning was until really I first
turned pro and really went at the diet
for a full 26 weeks that was the first
time I gave it a 26 week diet and you
know I got down into pretty close to
what I would call actually true contest
shape in 2006 which is my first pro show
and I you know actually won that and
then did pretty well at Worlds that year
and then from then on out I said okay
that's what it takes to do well at this
level because I'm not gonna have the
mass to hang with with with you you know
genetically that can just you know put
on sighs by walking by the gym so you
know even though I train hard and I you
know we can talk training here later on
I deadlift and squat with the best of
them I'm never gonna be a mass monster
so I absolutely have to nail the diet
get lean and show you know my
conditioning that way so so you said
this time it was a 31 week diet so you
you're pretty much your minimum standard
is like a 26 week diet or something like
that that's right I'll never go less
than 26 and again I'm not you know full
blob mode in offseason how do you lose
what's your usual offseason weight that
you like to stick at
so I compete right around in the in the
low one 60s I was probably in 164 ish
165 at the Orton and I think it was
right around there maybe 163 for worlds
and my offseason weight is right around
low one 90s so and I've gotten up to 200
before and that was just really not
pretty so it's it I feel better in the
in that kind of mid-1999 ts I can move
some pretty good weight for me and so
that's where I'm comfortable so again
that's less than 30 pounds that come off
in 26 weeks and so again you know I you
know I was in shape at guess boy which
was the first show I did for 26 weeks
and I'm full on you know contest ready
but those next five weeks I just you
know got slightly slightly harder and it
it makes the difference you know
and I did you know after the guest
Borean after the or and I went out and
had you know one or two cheat meals but
that was it and you know I was right
back on the diet you know that Sunday
after you know have one cheat meal it
did you know the night but then I after
the show and then basically the next
morning I was right back on it which
again to me is something you've got to
do and just again my comparative
advantage speaking as an economist here
is gonna be conditioned and that's what
I have to absolutely nail every time yes
O'Brien as I understand it you follow a
set meal plan so you said you had a
cheat meal do you do you follow the same
meals every day or do you take more of a
flexible dieting approach so you know
don't really understand I guess when
people say meal plan I do eat a lot of
the same meals but it's more it's
definitely more geared towards what are
my macros and what can i you know what I
want to make sure I nail my numbers
every day is the bottom line so even
though I do eat a lot of the same things
every day I wouldn't say it's a your you
know stereotypical meal plan where
someone says you can only eat these
foods you know I'm not that's not what I
- I definitely very the the food intake
that I have but what I really manipulate
is my macros so again when I'm you know
I train daily undulating periodization
with with Mike's or dos you know so we
have a lot of days where we're squatting
and dead lifting and so I'm gonna have
higher carb intake go in those days and
then the days where I have you know or
either off or just some you know form of
cardio I'm gonna do roughly you know my
carbs
significantly lowere and my fats gonna
be well my fats pretty pretty pretty
darn low again I'm a trick kind of
traditional low fat guy and in terms of
my prep but uh you know I definitely
manipulate those and and it's based on
my experience and you know scientific
evidence and the feedback of people that
I that I trust but it's not I wouldn't I
certainly wouldn't call it a meal plan
where someone says you can only eat
these these foods you know I definitely
vary those and I definitely manipulate
them as I see fit but it's you know what
I know works for me
and it's just kind of way I approach it
so basically you take macros and then
you meal prep with the macros so it's
like a meal prep macro it's just like to
have everything ready ahead of time you
kind of just like will eat similar
things on a daily basis exactly exactly
and for me you know it comes down to
efficiency because I can cook a lot of
the same food at the same time and for
me that's crucial because I have three
kids under four running around the house
and so I don't have a lot of time and so
that's it makes it very efficient to be
able to just cook everything and then
that way if you know my wife says hey
you know our four-year-old has a soccer
game today we need you there I'll say
well just grab one of those Tupperware's
that already has you know 45 grams of
protein in it and I'll tell her to put
1/2 cup of rice in there and then just
meet me at the field and then that so
you know it's easy that way for her if
she has to help out to grab something
that's pre-made rather than okay now I
need you to weigh this and then potatoes
but so it you know like I said you
figure this out over time and it's just
one of those things where for me it's
all kind of about you know planning is a
big part of it but just being efficient
and trying to be optimal at the same
time so I think we heard that you
delivered a presentation on bodybuilding
and economics did would you mind kind of
sharing the topics that you covered
there because it sounds interesting and
you've kind of alluded to it a few times
during this interview so
yeah no that's cool thanks for asking
about that yes sir Lane always you know
he has this awesome VIP camp that he
does every year and I've been fortunate
to present there a couple times in this
last time I put together a presentation
on you know what what economics can
teach us about bodybuilding and so I
have kind of five different economic
concept it was kind of cool I went
around the room when we were having this
having the presentation and I said how
many of you guys have taken a class in
economics and almost everyone had taken
at least you know kind of an intro class
in economics so I went through what I
thought are some basic economic concepts
that really can can benefit physique
competitors and so I'll give you the
list here I'll and then I'll talk about
just a couple that that I think are kind
of intuitive to hopefully people that
have had a little bit of economics
training and so the first one is
diminishing marginal returns and so if
you guys are familiar with that concept
that basically means as you add more and
more of an input you get less and less
of a bang for your buck so the you know
the the common kind of way people think
about this is you know too many cooks
spoil the broth so you have one cook and
he can do some things and you bring
another cook and he can do a lot of cool
things in the kitchen but you get to
five or six cooks and then just kind of
get getting each other's way and you
start ruining the meal and it's kind of
the same thing so I kind of make the
same you know correlation with a couple
things related to body building and that
is you know in terms of training don't
just abuse your inputs and do all kinds
of force reps and Plus sets and and
change your rep variation you know every
single time you know you're not going to
go out and do a four you know four plus
sets in the same workout is it really
you know is that is that is that really
better than just one and the same thing
you know in terms of supplementation or
dieting you know as ten grams of leucine
really better than in three or four you
know it's 20 grams of creatine really
better than you know four or five so
it's to this this thing that you know
don't just go out and abuse your inputs
understand what they what they can do
for you and how you can you know take
advantage of just I ate what we call a
marginal impact you know the the one
unit impact and I think a good example
of that and I call this you know
thinking at the mall
you know if you think about in terms of
training you're always seeking that
constant improvement so when I work with
with doctors or dos and his his
programming you know he always does a
nice job of ok we're we're gonna add
five pounds this week you know just
marginal improvements to to your squat
into your deadlift every week and we're
gonna try to hit those same reps but
just 5 pounds heavier and then you do
the same thing next week and you reach a
point where hey I couldn't get the reps
this week okay let's step back D load
and re and kind of reevaluate and it's
the same thing if you think about diet
so I know you know I think you guys have
talked about reverse dieting and lanes
big on that too so when we come out of a
contest prep like I'm doing now you know
I'll start to reverse diet and I'll
start to add my fat and carbs back in
and we'll look at ok what happens when
we add you know 10 extra carbs this week
or two extra grams of fat it's a very
incremental changes and see how your
body responds and then you you know you
can make adjustments from there so it's
those incremental adjustments that are
that are big for kind of this marginal
returns that we're talking about don't
over complicate things for the sake of
over complication right yeah don't just
throw everything you have in at one time
and see what happens let's take it step
by step so that's one of the economic
concepts that I had on if you guys want
me to walk through I have five of them
here do you want to walk through them
all quickly or just give you an overview
or what yeah just I'm just curious to
hear what it is that they were so so
yeah okay a sentence or two about each
one yeah that was the first one the
second one is comparative advantage and
so that one is know what you're good at
and what you're not good at so for me
like I've already kind of alluded to I'm
I know my comparative advantage is in
condition I'm not gonna be a mass
monster and I kind of kept a you know
example here that when we're on stage
I'm not gonna be pointing at my calves
and saying look at these things because
they're terrible
so I don't do that but I do you know
call attention to my condition I make
sure I'm flexing my hands and glutes in
every rear shot you know slowly build
into a rear lats ready to show condition
that way so just know what your what
your advantages are in what your strong
points are and emphasize those when
you're on stage so that's one I also
talked about enough talk briefly about
this with you guys already constrained
optimization so that's oh sorry that my
phone's going off here when we talk
about you know meshing contest prep with
the real world that is an example of
constrained optimization so again the
first thing you know I want to optimize
my contest prep but it's gonna be
constrained by my commitments to my
family and my job so that's just simply
constrained optimization that's that's
one way of thinking I'm you know in
economics we actually have mathematical
models we can set budgets and that's our
constraint and then we have to optimize
subject to those constraints and stuff
like that but you know we don't we don't
really do too much economic modeling
here in a survey of all your listeners
and then construct a data set that'd be
awesome yeah cool so number four was
this concept of opportunity cost which
is basically the next best alternative
so I give the example of you know if you
go to college the opportunity cost of
doing that is well you gave up a lot of
income because you would have been
working those four or five years and you
know you gave that up to go to college
lost people a lot of people say hey
that's a trade-off worth making because
I'm gonna you know improve my income
opportunities later on down the road but
that's still my opportunity cost and so
when we talk about bodybuilding
opportunity costs you know everything
you're doing has an opportunity cost and
so I give the example of okay you can
either select to do squats or you can
select to do risk curls you know what is
going to be your your best selection
their you know the opportunity you still
you're spending the same time
Jim but I think most people argue it's
better for you to do squats than to
focus on wrist curls and again I'd say
the same thing about the real world you
know the opportunity cost of spending
time with your family you could you know
spend that time in the gym instead maybe
you'd be a better bodybuilder but your
family would you know not appreciate it
as much and so I kind of try to get the
real-world correlation there as well and
then the last one we have is the long
run versus the short run that's a big
deal in economics you know we talk about
interest rates you know what are the
long term versus short run short-term
interest rates and things like that but
if from a bodybuilding standpoint we can
say that you know in the short run that
would we define that as one input is
fixed and so that's different from the
loan room because everything is variable
so in the short run you know the contest
prep here your goal is losing fat you're
trying and trying to preserve muscle
you're not gonna be gaining muscle as
you go through a contest prep and so we
can consider the amount of muscle you
have is fixed and there's a lot of
things you can do to try to accomplish
your goal through training cardio diet
supplements etc and so that's kind of
the short-run view of things the long
run through things is your whole body
building career and and also the rest of
your life so you know what I went
through some pictures showing you know
my twenty six week prep and that example
of fat loss but then you know in terms
of bodybuilding career you know I showed
pictures from when I first stepped on
stage as a pro until this last prep and
so you know I've made some pretty good
progress over that you know nine ten
years as a pro and so it is adding
muscle in the long run it is meshing
your real world with contest prep and so
I've certainly taken some years off you
know during that time and I plan on
doing that again in the future and and
you know again I've had some injuries
this prep so I got to think hey you know
I want to be able to run around when my
kids are ten eleven years old I want to
be able to coach soccer and and play
basketball with them and stuff like that
so I need to take that into account too
as I get older so those are the five
tips that I had and again I appreciate
Lane letting me let me talk about that
at his camp and you know it's a kind of
a cool talk I think and its message to
the two things that I'm very passionate
about so
yeah thank you guys for asking about
that yeah thanks for sharing that right
so I've got to ask you like like you get
really really lean so like for the
gaspari
for the disparity show which was your
first show like you were more shredded
than you know I've ever been in my life
and then you continue to diet for
another five weeks after that which is
crazy
so like psychologically do you feel any
of the things that you know like most
people will feel when they're prepping
like you feel like a zombie or like your
energy is just chronically low or you
know really bad cravings any of that
stuff yeah it's it's absolutely not easy
and this honestly was a very very
difficult five weeks for me to hold on
for that long because again like you say
you're in shape five you know after 26
weeks and then another five weeks of
dieting and again I do a low-fat
approach and there are days when my
carbs had to get really really low and
those were not fun so absolutely it's a
struggle I mean I don't think anybody's
immune to that I pride myself on being
you know mentally able to handle it and
being mentally up to the challenge I
don't have really really bad cravings
I'm I'm not a sweets guy certainly I
crave burgers and pizza like like
everybody else but for me again the
mental aspect of this sport is where I I
think I have a comparative advantage and
I pride myself on not ever missing my
macros you know through that entire 31
weeks I didn't miss my macros one day
because I said hey I've got to nail this
if I want to come in at my best and so
sure you get cravings and you want to
have you know another handful of almonds
and you want to have another half cup of
rice and some days you know again if
you're if you're sitting on 250 grams of
carbon you say you know what I want to
have 260 because I had a good training
session or whatever that's that's doable
you know I can do that but I'm not going
to go up to 350 or something like that
so you know it's it's being very strict
with what I know I need to do but at the
same time you know there are some some
adjustments that can happen as you train
and if you're again getting light head
in the middle of the day and you know
you have to plan this around
that's the what you have to do for work
and stuff like that yeah absolutely you
can you can make adjustments so again
I'm not immune to the challenges of
contest prep I do think I have a pretty
good handle on how to how to deal with
most of them but it's not easy it is a
mental challenge so like you talk about
playing basketball with your kids and
coaching soccer and all that kind of
stuff and like I'm not a father so maybe
that motive the motivation for that just
comes in like your love for your kids or
whatever but I just find that like me
personally like my mood is just so
depressed all the time and I just feel
like a zombie I can't imagine going and
coaching soccer or like you know what I
mean so like is there any strategy that
you have for like pushing yourself to do
that things or like just you know
staying true to your values because like
when you're when you're starving or like
when you're feeling like crap you know
sometimes it's difficult to remind
yourself of what really matters most
that is a great point and and it is
difficult and so it comes back to
prioritization so when I'm done with
work everyday and I go home
you know before I go through the door
and again some days I'm like oh geez
I've only got 30 grams of carbs left
today I'm gonna be miserable the rest of
the night you know what before I step
through the door I think my kids don't
care you know they just want to see
their dad they just want to play with
him my wife has had she's had the three
kids all day she needs a break so you
know take a deep breath before I go in
go in the door and I'm in dad mode and
you know so I it is hard sometimes when
you've got cranky twins crying and
you've got one on each arm and your
four-year-old you know grabbing at your
leg and you're like oh I just want to
eat but it comes it comes back down to
those kids are much more important to me
than any bodybuilding contest for it
will ever be and so on absolutely
absolutely so again it's not easy but it
comes back to what is my priority gonna
be here is it gonna be thinking about
food or is it gonna be trying to be a
good dad to my kids or you know trying
to be the best person I can and you have
my job or wherever the case is so it
really gets back to that pro
organization I think daily reminders to
yourself for like every
like like you think about your values
before you step into your house so it's
kind of like reminding yourself of what
really matters to you absolutely
so like another good thing Jeff you used
to be this with reminding yourself of
your goals but maybe if you had some
people might help them with little
flashcards that they can read to
themselves you did that yeah I used to
do that like I would put a little note
to myself and my phone like you know
saying things that were most important
to me or you know my reasons why it was
important for me to achieve this goal in
this way or whatever because like when
you're just going through it and you're
there in the day and you know things are
just happening to you like if you're not
constantly reminding yourself of that
it's easy to fall in the trap of just
you know that letting you know falling
to the whims of your mood or whatever
you know absolutely that's it yeah
that's a great example you know I've
also heard of people like putting sticky
notes on their mirrors and in their gym
lockers and stuff like that to remind
themselves of why they're doing this so
I think that's a great example if you
don't mind answering this Brian like
another thing that I like I personally
struggle with and I know some other
people struggle with on contest prep is
like assessing your own conditioning and
feeling good about where you are and
like you get you get more conditioned
than anyone so like do you ever feel
like you're not conditioned enough or
like do you feel like in your eyes like
you kind of have that like distorted
body image or anything like that
does that happen to you or you just like
very objective about how you look and
you kind of have done it enough now that
you know yet okay now I'm shredded now
I'm ready well I have been through this
what a bit and again one of the things I
always do is take progress pictures
every year so I can compare back to okay
let's look at my condition back in 2013
how am I it you know 14 weeks out
compared to then but everyone struggles
with that so there's no doubt and I'm
fortunate enough to to you know have
some friends in this sport that I trust
so the few people that I will send
pictures to are guys like Doug Miller
and Layne Norton and my buddy Kurt
Widener who I trained with back in in
Virginia for a couple years and he gets
as lean as anyone so you know I will
send them 14 weeks out ten weeks out you
know and be like where am I you know am
I in shape and of course Doug gets in
contact like you know 10 weeks early so
he's
like I think you're a little behind but
so yeah you know I definitely struggle
with that and and it's it's nice to have
those additional eyes that can say
you're on track or you need to push a
little bit more and so I definitely
recommend you know having an external
set of eyes to look through but also
those past progress picks are very very
helpful thank especially once you've you
know gotten into pretty good shape and
you can say okay here's what I look like
13 weeks out when I really did get into
shape now what am i what am i you know
where am I at he doesn't want to get
that feeling that he thinks he's behind
yes and honestly you know the first
pictures that I took during this prep
and not to actually just give an
interview for inside natural
bodybuilding I've talked about this a
little bit I almost called it a season
because I had had an injury with my leg
and I hadn't been able to squat and one
of the first set of pictures that I took
I was like oh my lord my legs have
atrophied and you know just comparing
them to where I looked like a couple
years ago I was like my legs look worse
I was like I don't want to do
bodybuilding when I'm gonna come on
stage with a with a worse physique and
so that was very very challenging for me
but luckily I you know I was able to
push you know put a setback for a couple
weeks and you know kept dieting and
everything and said okay I've got to
think more about how I'm training and
how I'm doing my diet because I couldn't
do cardio that way I wanted to and that
kind of thing so you know it did take a
lot of thought to get through this prep
but I'm happy with again you know the
way everything turned out and I think it
all it all finally did work out but I
had some good people in my corner again
Zorro's worked with me I couldn't squat
but we did some other leg works we did
some some hack squats and and were able
to deadlift quite a bit to make up for
some of that and I you know implemented
some cardio that I hadn't done in the
past and so it but again you know it's a
it's not just a and you know a meathead
just go in the gym and lift things you
got to put a lot of thought into this if
you want to do well
um I'm just wondering like in and I
actually posted that we were gonna be
doing the interview on Instagram and
yeah there was the question I was
wondering about this myself like you're
you're not particularly active on social
media or whatever they're kind of quiet
on that front is there any reason for
that like because I used to be like that
myself like when I first started
competing I just liked competing just
for competing and you know I didn't feel
like I had to share that you know with
anyone or whatever I just enjoyed doing
it for what it was and yeah just
wondering if there was any reason why
you were why you tend to take that
approach or if you're just too busy or
what well yeah the the time aspect does
play into it you know I'm not big on
Facebook you know before this contest
prep you know I'm lucky if I get on
Facebook maybe once a month or once
every couple months but for me I'm you
know I'm more of a kind of a laid-back
person I don't see the need to promote
myself on social media I you know I
absolutely see the value for of social
media if you're running a business and
you're you know trying to get people to
to interact with you and things like
that you know I'm not I'm kind of a
relatively private person I guess so
that's one reason the other thing is you
know for it kind of irks me when I see
people just promoting themselves as
bodybuilders on social media it it kind
of comes across as hey look at me I'm
great in this great bodybuilder and I'll
never see myself that way you know
that's what to me was kind of a shock
that people actually cared you know what
contest I was doing because I still
don't see myself as a great bodybuilder
I just you know again or I guess the
thing I don't like about social media is
it can come across as very egotistical
as hey look at me I'm here's what I'm
meeting today and you guys should care
and you guys should care how much weight
I lifted today and I'm much more of a
person who just likes to go out and do
the work behind the scenes and that's
what I get pleasure out of his just
putting my head down going to work and
then letting the results speak for
themselves
and that's kind of the way I approach my
my contest prep I guess so again it's
not because I you know dislike social
media or anything like that it's just a
combination of the time
of a minute eights because once you get
on Facebook man and you're stuck there
for like it's crazy how that works
so I try not to try not to do too much
of that and then again I like to you
know I'm big about not having an ego and
bodybuilding I think you need to I'm
much more about just just doing the work
and then letting the results come and I
think that's true both in though it you
know the real world you know I've had
the pleasure of interacting with some
awesome economists and they're never you
know talking about how great they are
they just do the work and then let the
accolades come to them
and that's kind of how I like to
approach a bodybuilding yeah I think
like well I think people first of all
would love to see from you like it's not
like I don't think anyone would
interpret it as you boasting or like
showing off those lips it would just be
like I would draw motivation from that
so my a part of my motivation for being
active on social media and isn't it
doesn't come from egotistical places I'm
not that I think that that's what you're
saying but it's more so of like you know
I think that other people can draw value
from this so and also we do run a
business online so it makes sense for us
but I can see why I like you as having
your profession
quite separate from bodybuilding right
you that the time spent on social media
isn't going to really help you in either
your academic profession or you on stage
exactly it's extra it would have to be
extra time spent that you might want to
use on your family yeah yeah that's a
great interpretation that's exactly how
I see it and I have to say Jeff I've
seen the videos of you cranking you know
three plate benches and that doesn't
motivate me to you know pretty awesome
stuff there yeah absolutely I get your
point about you know being motivated and
you know to someone that's why I try to
do at least a little bit of something on
social media and I am hopefully updating
my website here in the next couple
months once I find time to do that but
you know I I see that aspect of it but
again I just for the time commitment
that it takes
I'm doing the best I can I guess is why
I say you know I may try to be a little
bit more active here and again as fun
doing some interviews with you guys and
some but sure sure but again that's not
really my personality to go out there
and share every detail of my daily life
so how about we get into the to the
training stuff here yeah so you said you
were working with dr. Mike Soros is that
a new thing or have you been working it
with him for a while now so I was
fortunate to meet Mike at lanes camp I
guess it was like three years ago
and so the firt you know that the first
time he talked about this daily
undulating periodization thing I was
like what you can squat more than once a
week I was like that's insane and then
you can deadlift more than once a week
and so I thought more about it and then
you know he's also he's awesome and that
he actually shares the the scientific
studies that he you know has done and
and has based his work upon and so you
can actually go look those up and see
what the exercise split was like for
these people that were training and so I
did some of that the first year and or
that year after I first met Mike and I
kind of put together my own little dup
where I was squatting you know twice a
week I was doing front squats and back
squats and and then you know deadlifting
a couple times a week and and I realize
you know there may be something to this
so I actually got in touch with Mike
about a year after that and I was like
can you help with my programming and so
he basically has run it since then and
he has really been awesome I can't say
enough good things about the way he
works and again you know I had a pretty
bad injury this year that he was able to
work around even though he's a big
proponent of squatting and I think he
actually just published a paper about
you know the benefits of one rep max
squatting every single day which I have
not done but again he's you know a big
squatter he was able to work with me on
the fact that I couldn't squat
throughout my prep and he designed a
split for me where we were you know dead
lifting multiple times a week still
doing hack squats and then you know
prioritizing other body parts that I
thought I needed to really work on so
you know he's been great to work with
again can't say enough good things about
about Mike so you know the basics of
what my split looks like so again this
prep
I was dead lifting three times a week
hack squatting three times a week and
then kind of had one day so I trained
four days a week and so three of those
were those days you know we had some
additional work on there so you always
start off with either you know a leg
movement or a deadlift and then you go
into you know some other body parts that
you want to kind of prioritize so for me
I you know I need work on my my triceps
and you work on my my calves and in my
delts and so you know we put those in
specific days and again varied the the
rep schemes and things like that and so
it ended up being a you know a four day
a week training session and I had two
days where I was doing my interval
cardio and then a one day completely off
so that's what my that's what my prep
looked like this year do you mind me
asking I'm kind of curious now was your
injury training related did it happen in
the gym yeah it has to do with me being
old I'm serious it was osteoarthritis
and so it's basically this right knee it
was basically to the point where was
bone on bone interaction there was no
cartilage left so I was literally for
the first probably four or five months
well three or four months of this prep I
was you know limping to to every
training session I was limping around
campus limping you know as I was playing
with my family and stuff like that it
was very very challenging I didn't know
you know I could barely sit in a front
relaxed and flex that leg because I
couldn't hold it I couldn't there was
too much pain and that knee and so
obviously I couldn't squat I couldn't
get my leg down to 90 degrees I couldn't
do bike intervals which is what I like
to do for cardio so you know I went to
the orthopedic surgeon a couple times
and we we tried a couple different
things he gave me a couple shots and
worked initially and then it didn't work
and eventually we tried this kind of a
gel insert in the knee and it didn't
work the first month and I was like oh
my god I can't I don't think I can do
this you know I can't hold a pose I
can't do cardio the way I need to I had
to get more aggressive with my diet
because I couldn't do the kind of cardio
I needed to and so I was really
struggling with that and then eventually
you know maybe two months after the
gel insert I got the point where I could
actually walk normally and and get my
lace close to 90 degrees so I could do
the hack squat again that was really the
only thing I could do I still haven't
squatted this day since then and so it
was very challenging you know mentally
to know that again my legs look like
they had atrophied and and I couldn't
prep the way I normally had so I had to
put a lot of thought into okay am I
gonna just you know call it a season
which again I thought about for a week
or two or am I gonna you know find a way
to push through this and I'm proud to
say that I did did you find that you
were able to just by upping the
frequency like that were you able to get
your legs back to what they used to be
or at least close to that yeah I think
you know and I was really worried about
this and so I when I sent pictures to my
friends I was I didn't mention it and
then after that I told him I was like I
was really worried about this right leg
and in fact I think if you go back you
can see a little bit you can still see a
little bit of atrophy on the right leg
from from a 2013 levels but it's
minimized and again a lot of that to
Mike in the way he prepped me but so
yeah you know doing the heck squash with
as and varying the volume the way we did
and training the way we did I definitely
minimize the impact of this injury and
so I still don't think it was quite my
legs were quite as full as they were in
2013 but they were not far off at all
and the the the progress I made in the
rest of my body and back in particular I
mean I've never dead lifted this much
with volume in weight and so I think
that really kind of made the difference
if you look at the if you look at the
shots from the overall from from worlds
and at the Orton you know I think it's
it's my back and in condition that made
the difference and so that's something I
you know I'm really proud of at what
point do your glutes get striated like
just curious okay so yeah that's a good
question because that's something I
always look forward to um you know some
people think they're you know in contest
shape when their abs are in and that's a
long way away from
hitting from getting glued stration so
you know I contest shape for me usually
takes 26 weeks I don't see and you know
some people look turn to the side and
see a couple lines there and think they
have striated gluts that's not straight
gluts it's ready looser when you look
from the back and you have full-on lines
completely across you know so so for me
that I'm not gonna win on mass so for me
they don't come in until probably close
to 23 24 weeks and so those last two
weeks are really just just pushing as
hard as you can and in getting as much
detail there as you can so if you look
at shots you know with the guest Bari
which was twenty six weeks of dieting
and then again at Worlds were just 31
weeks you know there was a tiny bit of
improvement there but I still was in I
was in contest shape at the gas bar you
know that was 26 weeks and and the gluts
were probably fully in at you know 24 25
at 23 weeks I would not have been
comfortable stepping on stage to be
quite honest and there was a there was a
Kansas City Pro show that was way within
driving distance of me I think it was
either three or four weeks before they
guess Bari and you know honestly I
probably could have waltzed in there and
done okay but I was not okay with that
because I knew I was not in full-on
contest shape and to me again that's
what I hang my hat on when I'm not gonna
step on stage when I'm not in contest
shape and so I waited those extra three
or four weeks God in the contest shape
and no did pretty well to guess bori
yeah I think it's really cool that you
hold that standard for yourself and seem
and I was gonna note on it's kind of a
while back and we talked about this but
with the macros or you say that you hit
them consistently every day and that
you've pretty well always done that and
it's kind of you kind of build up that
trust with yourself so you know that
even though you're starving and tired
and having not a great day because all
of your macros are done or you're done
for the day you know you're not gonna go
over them because you never have yeah
absolutely
yeah I really like that you keep those
strict guidelines for yourself and it
probably takes the like a lot of the
thought and stress out of it
as if you're always thinking every
single day well I could go over buy 20
grams of carbs today because I did legs
and I'm feeling kind of tired like it
almost puts more like it puts more
thought and like anxiety into every
single day when you're worrying about
that type of stuff so that's very true
and one of the things I I pride myself
on is when I step on stage I want to
know that I did absolutely everything I
could have to be the best at that point
in time and so if I think back to 12
weeks ago when I had you know another
handful of almonds or an extra cup of
rice I can't say that and so when I
stepped on stage this time around I knew
there was I had nothing left to give
I had done everything I could perfectly
you know I had practiced posing a whole
ton I had nailed my diet I had nailed
every cardio session I trained as hard
as I could and so I literally had
nothing left to give when I stepped on
stage this last time and that's like
that's a good feeling yeah that's really
cool so Brian do you plan to get back up
to your offseason weight of 190 and what
sort of improvements do you plan to make
for the offseason yeah so um you know
last time after I prepped I work with
Lane on a reverse diet and I'm basically
doing the same thing this time around so
I'm reversing out of this I'm not gonna
do too slowly my macros are you know
still kind of low right now I want to
eat more but I'll you know I'll come out
of this fairly quickly you know within
three or four months I think oh I don't
think I'll be back at 190 but I'll be I
do plan on getting back to 190 within
you know maybe half a year you know nine
months something like that but again it
kind of depends on my comment my prep
plans for for next time around which I
still don't know and so yeah you know
one of the things I always do at the end
of every season is make a list of what I
need to improve on and then kind of
think about how I'm going to do that so
literally the flight back
world's you know I sit down I go through
pictures and I one of the things that's
cool about an elite competition like
Worlds is you get to compare yourself
body for body part for body part against
some elite come competition like Siobhan
and Cleveland so I can see hey you know
compared to those guys my chest is
really lagging compared to those guys
my triceps need a lot of work and so I
literally have a you know prioritized
list like that and so it literally goes
I think well number one is Cavs
unfortunately which it has been that way
for the past decade and then I've got a
you know I'm definitely gonna try to
bring up my chest I'm gonna try to bring
up my triceps
I need more hamstring thickness that the
detail is there but I need more
thickness and and certainly biceps need
work as well so all those things and
again I'll you know I'll talk to Mike
about this and we'll come up with a plan
that prioritizes those so I definitely
you know like I said it's it's I put a
lot of thought into this it's not just
something I just go to the gym and
lollygag a bro workout you know I think
I think a lot about what I want to
prioritize and how I'm gonna make those
improvements over the next one to two
years yeah so this this last prep or the
2013 prep was the first time I had ever
reversed dieted and so all my all years
before that I you know it came back
pretty quickly I will basically
transition right on to a full-on you
know three thousand calorie offseason
diet you know three 3500 calorie
starting the day after the show so I
still you know had a knew what I was
eating but it was just a lot of food and
so obviously the weight came on faster
and you know I don't I didn't really
have a problem with that I'm never gonna
be you know too obese in the offseason
but you definitely can see the benefits
of reverse dieting although not too too
slowly I think you know you you're but
you obviously look better for a couple
months after the contest which is good
but you always also get a feel for how
your body is using the carb sources like
I said there's incremental changes you
can say oh you know I can handle 250
grams
herbs on a daily basis now and still you
know look pretty good whereas if I just
immediately transition into you know
again 250 or 300 grams of carbs every
single day you know the weight would
come back pretty quickly and you
wouldn't you wouldn't be able to know
what those incremental changes were
doing for you like a little self-study
on how you make herb up in the future is
that kind of yeah or just so yeah or
just what your body can can tolerate and
again like things like carb sources for
me are a big thing I don't vary them a
lot but I like to know you know how I
respond to two different sources and how
you feel when you're training and so
yeah it's just like a little experiment
absolutely that's a good way to look at
it um so I know that everyone's macros
are kind of individual but I'm just
curious about like you said for the last
three or four weeks you had to dig
pretty hard like how how low are we
talking there's that private information
no I don't mind giving that out and
again I'm not a I'm not a contest prep
guy people have asked me if I'll prep
them and I'm just like no that's not
what I do
so and again you know I did work with
lean a little bit this prep he was
helpful in in setting up my peak week
and giving me some guidance in terms of
how how hard I needed to dig when he saw
my pictures and things like that so and
it was more than just the last three or
four weeks that I had to go through this
this was really you know probably two
months leading up to those last three or
four weeks so for a long time my
proteins always around the same around
225 I'm a typical low fat diet ER so you
know I usually go around right around
4045 grams this prep again because I
could not do the cardio that I wanted to
I had to get a little bit lower and so I
was you know pushing 35 for for some
parts of the prep and and basically you
know eight of those 35 grams comes from
you know fish oil or CLA or something
like that so it's literally to the point
where you're savoring every single
almond that you get you know it was it
was a very you know challenging from
that aspect so that was very low for for
part of the prep and then my carbs you
know I was pretty aggressive at the
starter prep I had them pretty high and
then
I realize I needed to get a lot more
aggressive to get down into shape so at
the you know towards the middle of the
prep there on an off them completely off
day you know they were to the point
where they were you know right around
100 grams which is lololo for me lower
than I've ever gone before but again I
was not able to squat as heavy I was not
able to do the intensity of the cardio
that I wanted to and that's why they had
to get that low and so then exactly
exactly so you know I did you know I
said okay if I can't do bike intervals
what can I do I could barely push the
Prowler thankfully we have a hand bike
here on campus that I could use and so
it's not the same doing the hand-crank
all-out as it is pushing a prowler
all-out so I knew that wasn't quite the
same I worked in battle ropes and again
those are intense but not you know
vomit-inducing intense and so that you
know again those low-carb days were or
what I needed to take me to that next
level and so on a high carb day I would
get up to you know close to 300 you know
some days probably more like 250 300 on
a typical day but and on the day where I
didn't train either legs or back or you
know I kind of had an upper body day the
carbs would be probably around maybe you
know 151 170 something like that so
you're pretty I guess pretty typical for
an ectomorph like me I think but again
you know I I don't have a problem with
if it fits your macros but when you're
only talking about 20-some grams of fat
every day there's not a lot it's gonna
fit in there so it's hard to go out and
you know enjoy or you know I don't even
like you know ice cream and some of the
things that people have on their
flexible dieting too much so for me I
don't have a problem eating those the
same foods over and over because I
actually like them you know I don't
people give tilapia kind of a bad name I
like tilapia so having that you know
tilapia and I have a cup of rice for
dinner I'll actually look forward to
that every day so yeah that's kind of
the way I looked at it so we're
approaching time here now I just wanted
to quickly touch on your cardio so
you mentioned it a couple times are you
a high-intensity interval type guy or do
you do a combination of both or what's
your approach there ya know it's it's
basically all HIIT and again that was
something I was introduced to at lanes
camp and doctor's orders talked about it
and we had some other really good
presenters talk about the research
behind it I mean if you look at the
studies it's pretty much cut and dry if
you want to maintain muscle and and burn
fat you're gonna do a chai tea and so
that's what I did and so like I said
four days of weight training and then as
I got into prep I basically did two days
of HIIT and again they were you know the
bike intervals were you know I think I
did let something like seven all out
thirty seconds which thirty seconds is
you know it's hard on about on the on
the hand bike but it's not you know it's
not the same as a recumbent bike where
you're you feel like you're gonna pass
out after every interval or you know the
Prowler can be very challenging as well
so those were tough but they weren't you
know to this standard that I guess I was
up to and then battle ropes same deal
you know he'd go all out here go do they
do it session for 30 seconds and then
recover for a minute and then do it
again and then the last thing I just
wanted to kind of go back to again is
like your length of prep so that's like
almost that's well over half a year you
know of your life you know and it's like
when you decide you're like yep I'm
gonna do this again like is is everyone
like your support structure like your
family and everyone like that and like
you know your friends and the people who
when you send photos to a lot kind of
stuff like are you kind of like okay
here we go again like this is 26 weeks
like like how do you mentally prepare
yourself to do a diet for that long
because like I just did a 20-week prep
and I just felt like towards the end of
it like I felt like I was just kind of
like limping my way like it almost is
too long for me you know what I mean it
no I didn't even get the level that you
were at so I'm just curious like for my
own sake like if I'm gonna take this on
again do I just need a really long time
to immensely prepare for it in the
offseason or like what yeah like how how
is it that you set yourself up for
success with that well definitely that
you definitely have to mentally prepare
for it in the offseason I mean and again
you know training hard and heavy getting
those you know hitting some PRS as
always
phone in the offseason but for me I
absolutely I you have to involve your
family and your loved ones in in
planning for the for the for the prep so
my wife is always involved in the
decision okay I say you know here's the
contest I'm aiming for that means I have
to start dieting here that means I'm
gonna miss you know Easter and your
birthday and our anniversary and things
like that and I mean when I say miss it
you know we obviously still celebrate we
still go out but I'm you know basically
gonna either bring my own food or we're
gonna go to a restaurant where I know
that I can make the food work so you
know they definitely have to be involved
in that decision and it is something you
have to plan with the people that are
going to be involved in your prep so for
me absolutely I think about those things
I think about what I'm gonna be missing
throughout prep and and and have to be
get mentally okay with accepting that
and so yeah I'm not gonna be able to go
to tailgates for OSU we just had a great
season I missed every almost every
tailgate but uh it's just it is part of
what you have to think about and plan
out as you go through a prep so yeah
like you said if you went through 20
weeks and you thought it was it was too
hard you know maybe don't push as hard
throughout the prep and give yourself 26
and give yourself a little bit more time
to it and so that you have to be less a
little bit less aggressive with the diet
so that's I mean different folk
different strokes for different folks my
buddy Kurt can get in shape and you know
16 18 weeks tops he's ready to go so it
depends on everybody's personality and
and your the way your body responds to
different things but yeah I absolutely
think mentally you need to involve the
people that are gonna be there for you
day in and day out because they need to
know what's good what the what the what
you're going to be going through yes for
me I think that's something I'm still
gonna kind of have to learn about myself
because I've done the shorter preps
where I just dig really really hard at
the end so it's like you know three
weeks comes and it's like oh [ __ ] time
to step it up and then I really really
dig hard for those last six weeks but
it's like our three weeks and but it's
like a band-aid you know it's kind of
short and sweet whereas then other
people like like yourself would rather
you know take the really long approach
and just kind of take it as it comes
sort of thing and yeah I think that
there are benefits and potential
drawbacks to both of those different
person and just one thing to add there I
actually bought a pair of jeans the
other day that I thought were kind of
had a came with a kind of cool thing so
it's these jeans for bodybuilders and if
you guys have heard of them they're like
relentless jeans or something like that
so they actually fit people have big
quads so the Jeff you should look into
him but they're there they came with
this little tag and I thought it was
cool because it said cherish the journey
as much as the trophy or something like
that and I was like you know what that's
pretty cool because you know as we go
through these prep you're you're right
it's absolutely you look at yourself in
the mirror like man I'm dragging I don't
want to go through this another day I
don't want to eat another meal of
broccoli and tuna or whatever the case
is but being able to push through that
and cherish the fact that you're you
know really challenging yourself every
day and again having those positive
affirmations that remind you why you're
doing it I think is an important
important component of this because if
you only focus on the end result then
basically well up until this year you
know I had nine years of failure so that
would not be a good thing for me but
I've I've I've cherished every you know
prep that I've gone through because it's
taught me something about myself and I
think that's that's important to uh to
get across to people all right Bryan
well thank you so much for coming on it
I thought I think there was a lot of
insight in your responses to those
questions and I know I learned a lot so
I really appreciate that and I'm sure
our listeners are appreciative as well
absolutely Jeff thank you guys for
having me oh man I really appreciate it
and best of luck to you and hopefully
man I'll see you want on a WMV F stage
someday don't sleep I don't don't be not
posting photos and stuff and I don't
know that's right all right Bryan thanks
again okay thank you guys