Mr Bradley Martin who is uh supposed to
be very very strong and athletic he has
one two this is about 495 lb five plate
power row no belt just pure depression I
would file Mr Bradley Martin under just
fucking strong as shit but I would file
this exercise under pure nonsense I
don't know what it trains I don't know
what it accomplishes it is not a power
movement a power clean would be a good
idea and ego trophy ments no reps were
done love you though Bradley I hate it
when people think they're compliment
sandwiching you and they just say some
nasty shit like zero reps bro and then
they're like love you though like fuck
you you don't know who the fuck I am you
don't love me get out of my face but
here I am talking shit about Bradley so
maybe I'm the same person although I
guess I'm not saying I love him he is he
is strong and jacked that is objection