all right top everyone so Prodi view is
in the books
figured I'd give you guys a little
update on how it is that how does I feel
about everything now that it's all said
and done and the offseason is under full
swing so yeah I'm going to put some
clips up here for you guys you guys can
watch the prejudging and the finals
you
you
I competed in men's lightweight so they
basically broke all the pros up into two
weight classes so the first weight class
was anyone under 172 and the other way
class with anyone over 172 so in the
light weight class that were guys from
as low as 138 pounds all the way up to
172 pounds and you know not surprisingly
the the overall winner was I believe he
weighed in at 172 so you know guys in
the middle of the pack like myself who
waiting around you know the low 150 s we
were out muscled by some of these guys
by 20 pounds so they just take you know
take everyone split them in half and
half people are in the lightweight class
the other half the people are in the
heavyweight class and it's just sort of
like an arbitrary cutoff point
mathematically it doesn't really make a
lot of sense to me so I don't think it's
necessarily the best way to do it so
that people can be fairly compared to
everyone else but it is what it is
and that's how things went so in terms
of things that I'm least with in this
show I was definitely pleased with how
my posing was that here I feel like
that's something I improved on one of
the things that I did this year was
really focused on my posing in the
offseason and for me one of the things
that I really struggled with last season
when I turn pro I was keeping my quads
engaged and flexed particularly the
Sartorius much as muscle essentially
what I've learned I had to do is just
sort of set your hips back a little bit
and Alberto actually gave me a really
good tip on this
it was to kind of think of picking gum
off of your shoe so you get gum stuck on
your shoe you'll kind of like you know
turn your foot up towards your face and
this completely engages the start aureus
muscle because essentially you're
abducting the hip and I guess externally
rotating the hip at the same time it
just causes this to really turn off and
so that's what I kind of visualize
myself doing as I was proposing that
muscle onstage and I think that that
really came out another thing that I was
really happy with was the improvements I
saw him like that thickness I think that
my back as a whole just looked a lot
thicker and fuller than it did at my
last show I already mentioned quad
posing but I do think that I also made
some improvements in just quad size in
general I feel like the addition of
front squats to my programming I have
thank Eric of 3d MJ for including front
squats in my program I think that that
made a really big difference for me what
I used for color was a product called
high def by Jan Tana I got Robin to put
a light coat on me Friday night so the
night before the show and then I just
went to bed with that coat on and on top
of that the next morning we put on a
pretty heavy coat of drain tan number
two and then on top of that right before
I went onstage we put a very light coat
of the dream tin number one which gave
it kind of like a gold sort of Sheen and
you know I have people comment in
sandals like a trophy and that sort of
stuff which I took as a compliment
and I think that having that little bit
of dream tan number one on as well help
bring that out so that was actually
three tanning products the high death is
really just in case you smudge the dream
tan so dream tan is really like a cream
and so you know I can smudge very easily
and if it does and you're completely
white underneath then this smudge can
kind of show on stage one thing that we
wanted not to do is put baby oil over
the dream Tan as it turns out Rincon is
really really good at blocking in sweat
so like I'm a sweater on stage I sweat
like crazy so when I use Pro tan or a
tan that's water soluble that's
obviously just going to run and anyone
who used protein at any show and sweats
with it will know this dream tan is not
water soluble so it locks all the sweat
in but of course that means that it's a
bad idea to put oil on top of it so we
wanted to give you know my muscles a
little bit more of a shine maybe you
know pop a little bit more on stage so
we put we squirt it a little bit of baby
oil and a little squirting bottle on my
tan and as it turns out of that just
completely makes green hand run so don't
do that I do think that there is a
product called hot stuff that might not
be water soluble and I've heard some
guys just put like a couple light
squirts of hot stuff over the dream tan
and that can give you a little bit more
of a glisten or machining or whatever
and the guy who plays second you can see
him here next to me Brad Hesse he had a
pretty cool trick that he shared with me
and that was just using a hairdryer to
sort of like dry the dream tan and what
I noticed that did was really gave him
more of a shiny look like if you compare
the two of our colors he's a lot more
shiny and I think
really helps him pop onstage and I think
that if my color was missing anything it
was it was that sort of glowing and she
ninis oh if you have a hairdryer that
can serve two purposes it'll help keep
you warm which will help keep the you
know veins close to the surface of the
skin make you look more vascular and
then it'll also help the dream tan maybe
melt a little bit or whatever's going on
there that gives it that she Neal uck so
in terms of things that I'd like to
improve on for next time
one of them is it kind of caught me off
guard but I think that my glutes shrunk
through the offseason I don't know I
don't know if it's true or not
I talked with Eric about this and he's
the skeptic
I'm not completely sure but I definitely
think that they didn't have quite the
fullness and the density that they did
at my last show so my number one goal
for this offseason is actually going to
be just make my glutes bigger again so I
do think that as a result of my work as
an online coach is that I just sit
around a lot all day so I'm seated all
the time and I know that it's pretty
common for people to get sort of like
sleepy glutes or that they have a tough
time activating their glutes in training
when they work a desk job like I do I
have noticed that like in my sumo
deadlift and in my squats
I haven't really been feeling my glutes
firing in the same way I'm going to add
back in some glute activation exercises
that I plan on doing at the beginning of
my training sessions and hope that does
the trick and then also I'll be
borrowing from some bikini competitors
Robin's been helping me out with finding
some glute exercises that I really feel
working my whole posterior chain
specifically the glutes and so I'm going
to be hitting them hard one to two times
per week and I'm expecting that they'll
come back fairly quickly I've already
noticed more Dom's in my glutes
had before and so that's probably a
pretty good indication that I've been
isolating properly yeah so this sort of
ties in with the the next thing that I'm
planning on improving and that is
conditioning if you guys look at my
glutes here I feel as though they're in
as in like they they did come in they
squared off but they're not striated
top-to-bottom by any means and there's
nowhere near where I think they would
need to be for me to be really
competitive on the world stage which is
what I have in mind next I think that in
order to really bring out the definition
and the striations and the glutes they
first of all need to be developed so I
think it is true that the glue
striations are really built in the
offseason and then you sort of bring
them through as you die and this is
something that I've always struggled
with in all six shows that I've done
today conditioning is something that
I've never really really been able to
bring to my complete satisfaction and
that stands with this show I do think
that it was probably as good as my
conditioning has been at previous shows
maybe a little better maybe a little
worse in some places and a little better
in other places it's interesting to see
that your body can redistribute body fat
from shows to shows and I found that
what happened this time was that my
upper body actually came in a little
leaner and harder and my lower body was
just being more and more stubborn and I
really have no idea why that is it
probably has something to do with the
fact that my body has a tendency towards
a so-called female fat patterning her
female fat storage patterning but I
think that the main thing that caused my
conditioning to sort of not be exactly
where I would want it to be is the fact
that I did to two shows back-to-back and
I don't think that I really gave my body
enough time to sort of recover and
completely Requa liberate through the
course of an extended offseason as many
of you guys know who've who've done a
contest prep and natural bodybuilding a
really can be only process and it can
take you know a year two years three
years to completely recover and be fully
mentally and physiologically ready to
compete again and what I found in some
of my client
especially myself is that competing in
back-to-back shows tends to cause your
body to fight and resist harder and
harder so having that period of time
where you can bring yourself back up to
your normal body fat levels and kind of
just sit there for a while and get
stronger and get bigger and make
improvements as really important and the
reason why I've really committed to
doing this competition is because I did
want to renew my pro card in the WNBA
and they have a rule where you have to
compete the year after turning pro in
order to retain your pro card so that
was important enough to me to actually
follow through on the prep but in the
future I'll be so much more mentally and
physically prepared to compete because
I'll be more so doing it I feel like for
my own reasons for my own competitive
reasons my own personal reasons and then
I'll also have enough time to allow my
body to recover to really dip into those
very low body fat percentages and then
one thing that I really really am going
to focus on doing in this offseason is
not allowing myself to set limitations
on what can be achieved naturally I
found that a lot of the natural
bodybuilding community has become
convinced that there's a certain type of
look that can be achieved naturally and
everything else is just off the table
and even though this this idea is of
course supported by some research I
don't think it's practically useful to
take this into consideration when you
know you're setting goals for your own
physique and what I found in the past is
that if I just train as hard as I
possibly can as smart as I possibly can
make sure my nutrition is where it needs
to be and that I'm continuously
motivated then focusing on the fact that
oh I'm probably reaching my genetic
limit or you know I've been training for
10 years now what can I really expect
out of you know a couple years of
offseason isn't productive so I'm not
going
set any limitations on myself I'm going
to assume that I can achieve the
physique that I'm really going after and
just be determined to get there and
simply just by not accepting that
limitation I think I might be able to
push myself quite a bit further in my
training and not become complacent
throughout the course of a long season
pretty much covers everything on how I
felt about my pro debut I'm going to do
another video sort of recapping the last
three or four weeks where I didn't do
any blogging and I actually do have some
old footage from that last part of the
prep things got really really calculated
for me I actually switched to a meal
plan and training was pretty methodical
a little bit boring so I am going to
recap that stuff for you guys and then
from there I'll be going into my
offseason training and I'm going to be
making sure that I keep keep up with the
videos throughout the course of the next
training cycle and I am doing a bro
split it's a four day back shoulders and
chest legs and then arms split and I'll
repeat that so I'm hitting every body
part once every eight or nine days so
I'll keep you guys posted on all that
stuff as always thanks for watching and
I'll see you guys next time