i think when it comes to muscle groups
owning a well-developed muscular set of
quads is the best way to earn widespread
respect especially in fitness circles
this is because not only do they create
that highly revered x-frame look and the
illusion of a smaller waist they also
imply a strong work ethic with trainees
skipping leg day being the butt of many
jokes and memes but before we can cover
the most effective way to train the
quads for growth we need to cover their
basic anatomy first
the quadriceps femoris muscle or quads
for short is composed of four main
muscles their names and form their
anatomy so most laterally or outside is
the vastus lateralis most medially or
inside is the vastus medialis with the
vastus intermedius sort of sitting in
between the two these three muscles
originate on the femur and ultimately
insert on the tibia via the patellar
tendon and they collectively function to
extend the knee or straighten the leg
like in a leg extension lying over top
of these three is the beefy rectus
femoris which functions to extend the
knee as well but because it inserts
higher up on the hip bone it also
performs hip flexion making it a
birticular muscle acting on two joints
recent cateveric studies have identified
smaller fifth and sixth muscles in this
group but we won't focus on these the
three vastus muscles are a pretty even
split of type 1 and type 2 fibers
indicating that a variety of high reps
and low reps should be used and multiple
studies indicate that the rectus femoris
is more type 2 or fast twitch dominant
meaning it may respond better to heavier
loads if i could pick just one exercise
for the quads it would be the squat
studies have repeatedly shown that while
it may not be the best group builder the
quads are very highly active in the
squat and given its high potential for
progressive overload and general
strength development the squad is a
staple front squats are often used to
increase quad emphasis which makes sense
biomechanically since torque requirement
at the knee is greater due to the more
upright lifting position additionally a
2016 study from contreras and colleagues
found that vastus lateralis or outer
sweep activation was about 21 percent
greater during front squats than back
squats to parallel furthermore a 2015
study from javascitel showed greater
vastus medialis or teardrop activation
with a one rep max front squat than a
one rep max back squat and since the
front squat can achieve similar or
perhaps greater activation with lighter
loads than the back squat it could be
ideal for those with knee problems since
compressive forces are lower on the knee
so what about squat depth well a 2013
study from bloomquist and colleagues
compared quadriceps hypertrophy after 12
weeks of training with a shallow squat
or a deep squat using mri they found
that muscle cross-sectional area was
greater at every single site measured
for the deep squat group and the shallow
squat group didn't see any increase in
size at all for four of the six quad
sites the contrairus paper from earlier
also hints toward quad activation
increasing with increasing depth
although it didn't reach statistical
significance both peak and mean quad
activation was higher with the full
squat than the parallel squat but for
all that i think looking at the research
as a whole it seems that as long as
you're going to at least parallel you're
hitting the majority of your quad
building potential and i see ass to
grass squats as a suggested but not
mandatory technique for growth in short
good advice is to squat as deeply as you
comfortably can with good form based on
your mobility and experience level so
what about stance width well a 1998
study out of illinois state university
showed that squats with 75
and 140 percent of shoulder width
resulted in the same emg activation
pattern across all heads of the quads
two later studies in 2001 and 2009
respectively also showed no difference
between one and two times shoulder width
indicating that since stance width
doesn't affect quad activation you
should squat with a stance that allows
you to reach an appropriate depth
comfortably and safely and this should
extend to similar exercises such as the
leg press and while the barbell squat is
a well-researched tried-and-true
favorite exercises like lunges and
step-ups have shown very similar levels
of activation to the squat with the
step-up actually outperforming the squat
for vastus lateralis or outer sweep
activity in one 2009 study of course
going off emg data alone the simple leg
extension would be king especially for
the rectus femoris muscle but since its
potential for progressive overload is
much lower it should be added as an
adjunct isolation exercise providing
additional quad emphasis after
performing a compound lift first
interestingly two studies independently
found that vastus lateralis or outer
sweep activation was higher with the
toes pointed in while rectus femoris
activity was higher with the toes
pointed out taken together it seems that
vastus medialis or teardrop activation
is similar with inward neutral and
outward toe positions so if your goal is
to develop an outer sweep pointing the
toes in is smart but in practice you
should use whatever foot position allows
you to feel the best mind muscle
connection a common concern with leg
extensions is risk of knee injury and
while it's true that both shearing force
and acl stress potential are high with
this exercise dr brad schoenfeld states
that the aforementioned factors should
not have a detrimental effect on someone
with healthy knee joints provided the
exercise is performed properly and he
could even make a case that it might
help to maximally strengthen these
structures to a greater extent than
other exercises however leg extensions
would be contraindicated for those with
existing knee problems particularly when
they involve the acl strengthening the
antagonistic hamstring muscles is also
well advised for injury prevention when
using this movement according to volume
expert dr mike isrtel most trainees will
respond optimally with 12 to 18 weekly
sets including squat volume with volumes
above 20 sets typically causing recovery
issues for frequency his suggestion is
1.5 to 3 times per week with 1.5
denoting one very high volume session
with one low volume mini session per
week i personally find a two times per
week frequency with one heavy day
focused on strength development
primarily in the four to eight rep range
and one higher volume light day with
reps in the 8 to 20 range is practical
for maximizing quad development for most
so if you put these sounds scientific
principles to practice with consistent
effort a strong mindset and steady focus
on strength progression an impressive
set of quadriceps femoris muscles are
waiting to be built
all right what is going on everyone i
just want to say thank you so much for
watching the video before you guys click
out just yet i have three quick items
i'd like to get to first i have to thank
squarespace for sponsoring this video uh
squarespace has been sponsoring a lot of
the science explained content on this
channel and i really appreciate that if
you guys aren't aware squarespace is the
website platform that i've been using
for the last over two years now to run
my online coaching business and it's
also the platform i use to sell all of
my standoff training programs and over
the weekend i actually ran a black
friday and cyber monday sale on all my
programs and squarespace is just so
simple and easy to use that it only took
me about 10 minutes to set the whole
thing up so if you guys are looking to
set up your own website or run your own
online store squarespace is the service
that i recommend and you can save ten
percent off your first purchase by going
to squarespace.com forward slash nipper
and using the offer code nippered at
checkout they have amazing beautiful
designer custom templates and they also
have 24 7 customer support so if you
ever get stuck on anything you can just
contact them and they'll help you out
right away number two i've been getting
a lot of requests for a lower body
specialization program but i'm not
releasing that one just yet i do plan to
release a full body program in january
that'll include every body part and also
i wanted to just allude to the fact that
i know i made a big deal out of squats
in this video and some of you may notice
that i don't actually do a lot of
squatting myself
that's due to a previous injury and i
didn't want to give the impression that
you need to squat in order to build big
quads there are certainly other
exercises you can use however if you are
going to use say a hack squat or a leg
press to sort of fill in that gap you
also need to make sure that you're
hitting the muscle groups that aren't
being targeted quite as much with those
exercises so one thing that comes to
mind is the spinal erectors and kind of
the posterior chain in general you get a
lot of work for the posterior chain out
of the squat not quite so much out of
the leg press so you may want to add in
say a lower back extension or a barbell
hip thrust or if you can dead lift
definitely include a deadlift but i
didn't want to give the impression that
it was mandatory because i think for
hypertrophy there really are no
mandatory exercises that's going to
conclude this video guys if you liked it
please give me a thumbs up if you happen
to be new don't forget to subscribe and
i will see you guys next time