two popular waste Progressive overload
are to increase load within a certain
rep range or increase rep numbers with
the same load but how do they compare
for building muscle this paper out of
the USA examined just this 38 trained
individuals were assigned to a load or
rep Group Training these exercises with
these variables in the first session the
load group attempted to increase load
across sessions while staying in the 8
to 12 rep range the rep group maintained
the load from the first session and just
aimed to perform more reps across
sessions growth of these muscles was
measured before and after the study
ultimately both groups saw appreciable
growth of all muscles and the gains were
very similar between both groups thus
you're free to select either method or
combine both however there is only so
much you can add reps we know reps
approximately between 6 and 35 are
similarly effective for building muscle
so if you manage to add reps to where
you're performing more than 35 reps
you're better off increasing load to get
back to the ideal hypertrophy rep Zone