for example if she's like fine you want
it hard like crazy mouth shit psycho
eyes and her eyes roll in the back of
her head uh you're like holy shit that's
too much all right same ideas and
training
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization
today's video topic is a little bit of
an intellectual Journey
to figuring out why we should be trying
to train harder just about every week
during a normal progression in a
mesocycle
there are some folks that say look you
know hit two reps in reserve more or
less every week you're totally fine some
folks say you gotta go hard every single
week and every single week is maximum
hard and don't worry about ramping it in
I say ramping it is a real good idea and
I have both
good scientific and logical reasons
and also a completely absurd analogy for
you at the very end so stay tuned or
just fast forward right now to the very
end and have no fucking clue what I'm
talking about anyway here we go
how hard should you start your muscle
cycle you put a new program together
it's week one of your program you just
deloaded
you could start at zero rir like pretty
close to failure or failure for
everything but that's going to come with
a huge fatigue cost
um higher probability of injury going
from 0 to 60 super fast
and the best thing is you don't really
need that level of effort to occur
because you just deloaded and spent a
week not training hard so you're more
sensitive to training
in addition to that you probably move
some exercises around introduced some
new ones got rid of some old ones
changed the wrap ranges so that the
novelty alone is going to be really
stimulative so you don't need to go to
Crazy failure all the time or in this
first week and so under these conditions
something like three reps in reserve is
actually a perfect amount of training
perfect stimulus to get you right in
that zone gets you a little pumped a
little sore a little tired and the next
week you can go up and up and up all
right
next question
why if rir3 training is really good for
week one why is it not good to just do
week two and three and four if it ain't
broke don't fix it that sort of thing
well hold on a second so why should you
scale up
a couple reasons
one you want to make sure you're not
sandbagging or training so making your
training a little bit challenging over
time until you hit an absolute limit
into how hard you can push ensures that
you're within that zero to three RAR
band because if you start at 3r and you
tell yourself you're through AR you
could be here and actually at four or
five reps in reserve and that ends up
not being very effective for especially
for intermediates and advanced so you
want to make sure you're not sandbagging
your training and regularly challenging
yourself a little bit more is basically
a guarantee that that doesn't happen at
least not for long
so what you do is you increase your
repetitions per set and or your load a
little bit week by week by week and that
means you're pushing the pace so that
you're not in a situation where like oh
am I really training harder over time am
I really getting better well yeah like
you literally are so that question is
answered
what happens is as you go a little
harder each time and as your fatigue
accumulates you end up having to drop
how close to failure you're getting or
rather increase how close to failure
you're getting and your rir start to
drop you start a three reps in reserve
then you add five or ten pounds you add
a rep the fatigue is higher next week
maybe you know some neurological
adaptations or technique is better so
it's still three in reserve then the
next week is two reps in reserve then
one then zero and then you're basically
going to failure right it has to happen
this way unless you plan on getting
stronger forever and never actually
reaching your limits that would be sweet
but if you tell yourself every week I'm
going to put a little bit of load on the
bar or add a set here and there
eventually you get to zero RAR in
Failure it just has to occur that way
but this is really good because we want
more challenge as our bodies adapt to
the previous challenge in the previous
week it's just not ideal to repeat the
same exposure think about getting good
at anything like if you have some kind
of like French language app and you're
like oh oh yeah listen complete yeah see
that's the only French I know and you're
like oh I said a phrase or a word in in
French I'll just do that again next week
and and then a few weeks later I'll be
able to speak French I gotta here that's
not how it works you learn some words
you learn some phrases you learn some
conjugation you do more complexity it's
more challenging kind of regularly until
eventually you can speak French like me
a person who studied in France for years
during the war to be a professional chef
you guys know all this already I don't
have to bore you with my history
you want to go a little bit further into
The Fray
with each successive week because that's
how you make the best gains
plain and simple so you can't just keep
that first week effort you gotta
increase effort over time
lastly
why is it at least in many cases a good
idea in that last week or the last half
of the last week before you deload to
really just go For Broke with good
technique blow it out and on the
exercises which are not going to kill
you like a machine chest press go all
the way to failure why could that be at
least theoretically a pretty good idea a
couple reasons
first that last week before right the
second to last week
was maybe one or zero reps in reserve
this next week just with the addition of
five more pounds or a rep to every set
it's gonna be basically failure anyway
so it's not like you're doing anything
super different you're just finishing
what you started first point
second point they are theoretical
reasons
hypothetical reasons
that
you can get some gains by really pushing
hard
all the way to your limits on occasions
and it's not the kind of gains that you
would get just from doing great training
it's a level Beyond
and is it possible that that's the case
yes
is it likely I don't know but I wouldn't
rule that out and if there's not a huge
amount of downsides to really pushing it
every now and again at the end of every
mesocycle I think it's probably worth at
least trying or at least thinking about
another reason you want to test your max
rep abilities to make sure you're
gaining strength for reps over last time
let's say you worked up to 200 pounds in
the squat for reps last mesocycle you
know six weeks ago then you got a set of
twelve as your top set and your average
where you know over four sets was 10
reps you're coming back up again with
squats as the first exercise
and you're at 205 or 210 pounds this
time
you want to see if you can do better
than 12 or at least match 12 so you gain
5 or 10 pounds of strength you want to
really push the pace so that you don't
have to be like well I think I got
stronger but like last time it was one
RAR this time it was like twos you try
to do that in your head just that
mathematics is all wrong sense it's just
a whole lot of pretend the only real
good way to compare performance to
Performance is if both of them were
pushed to the limits then you can say
that's equated my effort was maximum the
whole time if I did better now then back
you know six weeks ago or clearly I got
better and I'm doing something right now
if you didn't get better
something for you to think about there
is the puzzle piece of like okay is my
nutrition lacking is my sleep lacking is
my programming bad or just my genetics
really the worst ever should I just quit
should I take up tennis those are all
really good questions you want to ask if
you're not improving so this ability to
go all out to get a good metric cycle to
cycle to see if you're improving that's
a pretty compelling thing
another one is you are theoretically
going from like three reps in reserve
through the mesocycle all the way to
zero reps in reserve or pretty close to
failure
how do you know that's the case in
reality if you never push it like if you
finish your last week of training and
you're like ah yep that's a PR and it is
right you got stronger better than last
week better than two months ago you
racked the weight that could have been
three RAR and you've been telling
yourself you're training on an average
of 2R the whole time that's wrong and
you started what you thought was three
rir you know six weeks ago but it was
really six IR because it's just been
sandbagging
want to push on occasion very close to
if not two true failure itself just to
test yourself you say okay I think
because I did 11 reps last week at 300
pounds in leg press this week at 310 I
should be able to get 12 reps and that's
going to be failure if you get to 12 and
you do the 12th rep and you're like as
easy as fuck I'm gonna do three more
reps then you know you got a lot better
first second you know you've been
bullshitting yourself on what your RAR
was on the other hand if you did 12 reps
this time an 11 last time and it took
everything you had and your body had to
like stay next to the machine to make
sure you didn't kill yourself that last
rep was like 50 trillion you know extra
seconds of super slow contraction you
can be pretty sure your pushing it to
failure in that last week and thus if
you discount all the weights and Reps
before three weeks back you're like yeah
I really did start with 3r I'm training
completely on track that's a really good
thing it sets you into line to make sure
you're actually trying as hard as number
one you think and number two the
research suggested best which you know
as anywhere between three and zero reps
in reserve
another compelling reason why not that
you should do this but that it's okay is
that you have a dealer week after you
kind of have the whole fucking week to
recover anyway
so it's not like someone could be like
hey man don't go to failure today bro
you're like it's week five week six ID
load this is the Thursday of week five I
have one more training day tomorrow why
shouldn't I give my all on these live
processors like you're gonna need it for
next week brother you're like need what
dumb motherfucker I'm deloading he's a
Champion's don't do load you're like I
get the fuck out of my face you don't
know what you're talking about so you
got to deal them next week it's okay to
go all out no big deal right it's like
if you um oh this is a terrible analogy
if you go to Las Vegas
is it okay to get super fucked up the
night before you fly back out to let's
say Europe well yeah you're in a 12-hour
plane ride what could go wrong having a
hangover
that was a terrible analogy don't do
that
and if you do that make sure to at least
throw up into the person's next to you
lap
and if they get upset you're like Vegas
baby
guess whatever happens in Vegas doesn't
really stay in Vegas especially if it's
your vomit
in any case
this means that it's maybe a good idea
to do your last half week kind of all
out and at the very least you're the
second half of your last week because
let's say you have a workout a leg
workout on Tuesday and then Friday of
that last week if you all out all out
all out Tuesday and you're pretty jacked
and pretty strong Friday these just not
happen the way you planned too sore too
beat up you just fail all your PR as
everything goes to hell so maybe that
second to last leg day that last week
first part you go just to zero RAR you
know five or ten pounds heavier than
last time same reps whatever's
prescribed and then that last workout
Friday you really you know
listen to Limp Biscuit on the way to the
gym
um turn your turn your baseball hat
around before you do your set sunglasses
for the radiation that you're emitting
shit like that really really getting
fired up so some compelling reasons
there
the unifying theme Here
is that when you start your training
mesocycle your program you want to just
get the easy gains going and get that
momentum going right you don't just like
run through a brick wall your first
fucking session of of the month that's
kind of stupid
you're gonna get great results
trying not so hard
and then you increase difficulty over
time via Auto regulation that means if
your leg presses are really coming up
then you can put 20 pounds for some
weeks on the on the leg press more than
the weeks before if it's tricep
extensions maybe two and a half or five
pounds but a little bit more maybe a rep
here and there a little bit more every
single week just a bit to keep going up
and up and up and then that last week or
last half of the week you could really
just fucking pour all of your childhood
demons out and just do what it takes to
go all out as long as you're safe and
your Technique is good just leave it all
out there in the gym potentially Blood
Sweat and vomit as well chunks of your
hair on the bar okay technique you're
doing there but that's probably okay too
and may even be an advantage so the
unifying theme is you start a little
easy progressively work your way up and
end on a really high note what does that
sound like
sex
that's right
that's right so let me make an analogy
for you as to how sex is so much more
like lifting than we all thought
or some of us knew already that lifting
was exactly like sex here we go let's
see who can get the band hammer on
YouTube for this one isn't that right
Scott the video guy
uh well on our way
all right so
here's the analogy
you're in the club clearly your man of
taste
girl comes up to you at the club you're
in a dark corner just screw him by
yourself
she just reaches for your fucking dick
and just grabs the shit and looks at you
I mean that's kind of cool and all but
like a part of he's like damn bitch slow
the fucking out holy shit you're like
let's Maybe
chat for a little bit even okay that's
too prude let's make out and do touchy
touchy that shit is fun as hell and it
gets everything going and you find out
if it's the right Groove and all that
that part's so fun right so
damn hold up I'm saying grab my dick
slap fucking hand get fuck out of here
what was your name anyway in any case
such a thing as too much too soon I know
crazy it may seem that is the reality
next
probably not at the club though maybe if
you have bottle service you can get away
with this
you're let's see back at your place or
her place where there's like chains and
shit and pictures of guys with Targets
on their faces and dark you know little
little
darts on there and some of the darts
have fallen off
fuck is going on so anyway you're there
and
you're getting the beach
right the old beach Google that if you
have to and let's say she's like fucking
hitting you up and she's going like a
great pace for foreplay but like there's
a difference between like hey this is
fun and like
your boy's Never Gonna nut at this pace
similar idea here
to adding load and Reps over the weeks
is like rir3 is really cool to begin
with just like a nice slow Beach or some
making outs cool to begin with but if we
all want to try to get to the end of
this thing which means nothing that's
gonna have to be some progression
better idea is to kind of ramp it up
slowly and for an eye what the intensity
increases are doing to the receiver of
said Beach so for example if she's like
fine you want it hard like the crazy
mouth shit psycho eyes and her eyes roll
in the back of her head and remember
Satanist girls are the best uh you're
like holy shit that's too much that's a
shit that's just to play this fine line
of going a little harder seeing how
you're feeling and and going up and
escalating and so on from there all
right same ideas and training
there is no avoiding hard training if
you want to grow but if you want to grow
the most your training needs to be hard
and smart RP hypertrophy app will make
sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best results
towards the end
if you're like basically you start
nutting and as soon as you start nutting
she removes said penis from sad mouth
and just looks at you with like dead
eyes you're like
she's like what's that fun did I make
you happy and you're like man why did
you stop at the end damn it
and stopping at the end is kind of
similar to getting to that last week of
training and just not fucking going at
it you gotta finish on a fucking high
note right you can't just leave and say
oh man we're just gonna you're just
gonna mail it in so mailing in your
training is like you know the girl
you're hooking up with mailing in the
end of the end of blow jobs that's
that's not no good for anyone that's
terrible what a rip-off I want a refund
in any case I got another similarity
that still relates to sex the hell is
wrong with me we'll get to that very
shortly
in training
even if it's that last week
some exercises
have a super high stimulus to fatigue
ratio let's say you're doing hack squats
it just feels like money your knees feel
incredible your quads are blowing up
load additions have been done every
single week you went from 300 pounds to
310 320 330 but your rir isn't reducing
like you're getting such crazy neural
adaptations and such insane hypertrophy
because that exercise is so amazing for
you that like it's just about as hard
every single time like you started a 3rr
and it still kind of feels like 3r even
though you've put 40 pounds of weight
over the course of five weeks out of the
fucking shit
your pumps are unbelievable you get so
sore from this hack squat that you
barely heal on time for the next time
it's time to train legs
the question is if you do blow it out in
the last week and just go For Broke
exactly how do you plan to improve that
you're getting ideal training and when
the going is good there is a thought
that just don't fuck with it just leave
it alone
just add another 10 pounds that last
week just like you did the week before
or add a wrap to each sadness set to the
exercise whatever you do normal
additions
no need to add 30 pounds of three reps
just because you can chance of injury
there goes up and also even if it
doesn't go up what is it that you want
more of an incredible training that's
right on the money
don't spoil perfect so if you have an
exercise that's going super well let me
just add another 10 pounds and do 18
reps because you started at 14 four
weeks ago and now you're up 40 pounds
and four reps you don't have to go I get
to 23 and wow my tricep and fuck I
should have never done that just if it's
perfect and you don't need to put the
cherry on top just don't do it ride it
out right
similar in the sex Department there is
if you're getting the perfect Beach you
guys don't talk about like
oh she's doing that shit and you just
want to have like a psychic moment
because you can barely speak anymore and
you're like just don't change anything
you just keep doing exactly what
mythical weird Satanist chick shit that
you're doing and I'm gonna be there you
don't need to change a thing your boys
already think there's the orgasm
threshold I'm right here and it's it's
gone it's gonna happen
right change nothing
because the alternative if she's like
she notices you're close to nutting and
she's like oh shit I gotta run myself
I'm glad you're like oh oh fucking God
damn it you ruined it and you gotta you
know play chess with each other for an
hour so that your natural juices start
flowing again intellectual conversation
is nice maybe go out to eat I'm kidding
that night is fucking over call yourself
an Uber all right
that's the analogy what a terrible
terrible episode
why a few questions
let's do a few questions first
why not use a female stimulation uh
example Dr Mike why did you use like a
female giving a male blowjob why not
like cunnilingus a few answers first
because my cunnilingus advice is
extensive and scientific and meticulous
and well developed and not free
I'm gonna go on my own fans for that
shit
JK the real reason
is that honestly the patriarchy as a
social institution prevents us from
centering female pleasure and it's just
like not okay to do that it's like not
just kidding
I have never been with a woman I
wouldn't know what to do
and I have in theory pretended that I
received blow jobs so that's easier for
me to talk about that's really it
question number two
what happens after the BJ I mean we do
this whole stupid sex analogy why not
finish it up
here let me guide you through this
you close your eyes
right after you not you're like oh that
was the best
and then you hear from upstairs
your grandma going Bailey did you say
something down there and then you open
your eyes it's just you your dick in
your hand
paper towel stained now computer screen
again
you were never with anyone and maybe
you'll never be just like me was that
weird yes but I'm here for it all day
and if you want more of this type of
shit subscribe
notifications turn them shits on I guess
that's what people do we have a
membership thing which is much less
possibly zero sex talk and much more
scientific Nursery about how to actually
get jacked and also if you look at the
links in the description we have a whole
company that sells you stuff that helps
you get more jacked more lean and geez
dare I say even happier
but on the sexual front we got none for
you that's all you including I have no
help so I'll see you next time