hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization you desperately want
weekly tips about training and diet and
recovery and guess what i have at least
one for you today going lighter on glute
bridges and hip thrusts i promise my eye
isn't itchy i actually just started
crying because it's a beautiful tip for
you guys to take home with you so here's
the deal
to get your maximum glute growth
you may draw try a variety of glute
bridges and hip thrust to me it's the
derivative of the same movement like you
know
when the people on the videotapes i
watched do the sex it's that movement
and
some people not all when they go heavy
and heavy by our rp definition as like
sets of five to ten reps close to
failure
when they do that on glute bridges
specifically in a variety kinds of sort
of hip extensions
they don't feel it as much in their
glutes anymore as it just becomes kind
of an exercise of lifting the weight
like especially when people post like
prs like with a ton of weight like 315
or 405 pounds for like females like i
hit thrusted four or five for ten and
it's like 130 pound girl and you're like
gee whiz her glutes physically don't
look muscular enough to do that and it
turns out it becomes more of a whole
body movement at that point which isn't
a bad thing if you're doing it for
athletic performance for like wrestling
and jiu jitsu and hip thrusting is
important or if you're an adult film
actor actress maybe that's important as
well
but it becomes less about hitting the
glutes we really in a technical sense
lose the mind muscle connection
considerably in some cases now some
people they love doing sets of five to
ten it really hits them you get some
sore you get some continued growth and
progress and listen if you're in that
case you're one of those people
rock it out knock it out keep going five
to ten bread and butter no problem but
many people are not in that camp and
they just think the glute bridging and
hip thrusting doesn't work for them some
of those people it really just doesn't
work for all that great they don't like
the exercise i personally am not a huge
fan for how it works for me but for
other folks that i've seen train and
manage the supervisor training it's a
great movement if
some of those people do the following
lighten the load and do sets of 15 to 20
reps and control the eccentric and at
the top when you've thrusted your glutes
like having sex with the air kind of
motion
you contract your glutes maximally push
your hips through hold that top position
for one full second not like a like a
quick one count it's like one one
thousand down you guys see me doing you
know what i'm saying you can infer what
my hips look like down there it's it's
pretty it's beautiful so
you might get a lot more that way in
terms of mind muscle connection in terms
of pump in terms of soreness and dot dot
dot in terms of gains so if you have
abandoned glute
thrusting or hip thrusting or glute
bridging all the same then maybe
come back to it and give this little tip
a try a little just a little tweak just
for you guys just on this youtube just
around sounds periodization like
subscribe comment do youtube things see
you next week
you