I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule and choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
folks welcome back to the weekly webinar
dr. James dr. Mike here as always to
answer your questions dr. Mike how's it
goin yo yo yo check it respect
very very nice very ology mm-hmm let's
see what we have as far as questions and
our first title contender is none other
than Karl VG Vegeta vegan guy vegan guy
all right
Kostas hi Doc's number one for twice
daily training hypertrophy massing bozo
could trap confronts these shrugs and
rear side delts dumbbell face book side
laterals upright rows work generally be
split between into am/pm sessions the
same day or would this be a bad idea
considering the traps can be quite
involved knees or rear side all
movements so James don't think of this
answer um I think it's totally fine to
split them up first of all right very
fine because remember a lot of these
just don't carry a lot of 750 that's not
a big deal but if you're going to split
them up you sort of have to make a
decision of what you prioritize most and
that generally goes into the a.m. unless
it's the very end of the a.m. and then
actually you're gonna p.m. works for
example if you really want bigger traps
don't tire your traps out with a
shitload of face poles and side laterals
and upright rows and a.m. and then the
p.m. go and do traps because your traps
are gonna be tired and they're not gonna
do a great job for you same way if you
prioritize side delts and stuff like
that and you do a shitload of shrugs and
a.m. and by the time you go to 8:00 p.m.
your traps are the limiting factor and
all of your side don't worry about work
that's not the greatest thing in the
world but if for example you do at the
very end of your a.m. session you do
some side laterals or something like
that and then you do a shitload of shrug
volume in the p.m. then there's really
not a damn thing wrong with that because
that little bit of side lateral work
didn't really fuck up your traps
whole lotta thought your side belts a
little bit good so in this these are
things that you it'll be obvious to you
when you train them like when you try it
and you did way too much shrugging
before or way too much we're don't
before and it interferes with whatever
you'll realize that and you'll
restructure your plan so as long as
you're intelligent about how much of
what you put and putting the stuff
that's hardest first then you shouldn't
have any problem with it yeah I agree
the only thing is that you it's a hard
sell for me to like split a lot of that
stuff up into a separate session just
because it's so quick and you can knock
it out and it's so minimally fatiguing
like you'd have a hard time selling me
the fact that you need to split up your
shrugs into a PM session if that's the
case then that's fine but more likely
than not you can probably just get it
done without too much impact so one
thing that like Charlie Jared I've run
into is like we have to do traps and we
have to do side and rear delts
if traps have to be done inside rear
delts have to be done and we're really
prioritizing side rear delts but the
a.m. session is let's say back we're not
gonna do traps in the PM we're going to
do like just finish back traps go into
the late p.m. after heavy side belt
movements and rear door movements
because we want to get fresh there are
makes more sense yeah but if it's light
sort of mind muscle connection he very
high rep and that super prioritize side
up we're adult movements and we have
let's say cider travails and biceps in
the PM and we just go different shrugs
in addition you know so it's only two
back exercises and the bar the barbell
row is the last one that's already
loaded for shrugs you can do pull-ups
then barbell row then shrugs in the a.m.
and then come back and the PM and do
signed outs rear delts and biceps that's
totally fine as long as you don't plan
on having the greatest sight out rear
delt workout in the world and the PM
because your traps will be tired and
they will limit your ability to do side
laterals and have the upright rows and
so on and so forth just as long as
you're aware of that you can sort of put
them wherever you want
yeah all right next question from Carl
is in recovering from training and I
stated that he therapy sauna is best
applied about two hours post exercise
what do you think of you at least two
hours
yeah yeah yeah it's not best applied
it's like don't do it two hours after
4:00 maybe don't do whatever what do you
guys think of using this on a directly
post exercise for short duration 5 to 10
minutes maximum as a form of relaxation
decrease parasympathetic activity and
decrease in activity
alliteration asana directly post
exercise effect swelling and
inflammation to any significant degree
so two things the last question yes it
will so the reason why you don't do it
immediately after exercise is because it
exacerbates any swelling problems that
you have so you might not notice that
you even have some swelling going on
yeah and you go in to do any kind of
heat stuff and now it becomes a big
problem so that's one reason not to do
it number two one of the ways that you
get yourself into recovery mode and
getting like you know parasympathetic
activity is actually by lowering your
core temperature your core temperature
is directly related to like how much
stress and fatigue that you are
experiencing and so basically going into
the sauna immediately after that is
going to be at least maintaining your
core temperature to your exercise levels
if not possibly even increasing it
further so I think that's a bad move I
would I stick by the recommendations of
at least two hours I'm gonna make a
quick analogy here this is a similar
question cuz I see what Carl's coming
from I think he really likes the sauna
and it really relaxes him which which I
totally appreciate though I fucking hate
it I hate the whole goddamn thing it's a
similar question to being like hey
listen like mom walks through nature
really relax the fuck out of me should I
do a walk through nature after my
workout and it's a well really don't
want to see you walk after you workout
look if you could just the fuck down and
watch TV and have a meal and you do a
walk later like two hours later it'll
accomplish the next some total daily
relaxation for you and it's not gonna
interfere anyways yeah very very good
analogy there yeah so I would say just I
mean it's one thing to enjoy and that's
fine and no one's hating on you for that
it's just I would say the the the least
beneficial way of using that modality I
will say and this isn't something many
people do but it's something that just
works doing five or ten minutes in the
sauna before your workout is actually a
great way to warm up especially if it's
cold outside your gym is really cold
sometimes late you know James here gets
like training and you're like this is
the coldest fucking day that what talk
is going on like there's no way either
the barbells like are mewling your skin
off you fuck that like after way
Quoddy I'm like you know if I could just
warm up from a sauna I could come out
and just be fucking golden so that
that's actually an interesting idea and
and to be completely honest and just to
moderate the position James and I have
like if you really feel relaxed in the
sauna if you really just love being in
there um like some people just like to
feel the heat and it relaxes them my
sort of shortcut recommendation is to
bring with you a post-workout shake you
know let's say half of your normal shake
or whatever that you consumed in the
sauna and ice-cold drink that
motherfucker while you're in the sauna
so your core temperature begins to fall
or at least doesn't go up anymore and
you get the relaxing effects it's almost
like drinking a cool drink in the hot
tub it just feels fucking great that
really relaxes you what we don't want
you to do is finish a workout get in the
sauna and halfway through five minutes
Berger I'm dying to heat like it's just
more stress yeah so if you get a cold
drink in there you can sort of have the
best of both worlds including some
peripheral blood flow which is nice yeah
it's the same reason like that we
recommend people don't have caffeine
right after they workout same ideally
yeah even if a cup of coffee calms you
down all right Marcel laughs Leslie
Leslie Leslie let's see I like that one
layer I think he let GG uh hi docs how
would you structure a mess cycle we had
to train zeros or one rir every day
every week I know it's not your
preferred method it may not be optimal
but I'm interested in how you would do
if you have to would you still
progressed from le théâtre MRV would you
keep following constants so you would
keep volume or constant simply because
your mev would be so essentially your
MeV would be lower rubio MRV would be
lower as well um most of the time when
we do this it's because we're trying to
save time and then we keep volume or
constant but I guess technically
speaking your volume would still
progress it would just start lower and
end lower yeah and also don't expect
your progression to last as long because
you're accumulating more fatigue per
unit time than normal
so you might normally be able to do a
four or six week progression this would
be like a three or five we progression
yes we just take your normal stuff and
shift it down
basically yeah so in other words if you
ask yourself the question of like you
know usually you start a 3ri are good
for sick
weeks of accumulation if you do your
first week of zero or one hour I are
like then how am I supposed to keep this
up for six there's actually don't answer
that
you're not supposed to keep it ever
since alright a Reem Salaam says hi
doctors I lost 115 pounds in seven
months nice I didn't have a set caloric
intake I sort of ate based on hunger
mostly chicken fruit legumes and such
what would you call what you would call
clean not by choice but that's what I do
fall to tourism from what I suppose it
is by choice
my question is how come I didn't felt
hungry or had any issues while being
able to lose uh such weight with no
exercise I didn't have a lot of body fat
I remember trying to get getting some
blood work and the vein was so deep they
had three people trying to serve needle
my man I took three people to insert a
needle in there for me that was a jail
sexual assault joke and then he says I
reverse dieted from what I think was 800
to 1000 calories back to two thousand
two hundred and three months again I
lost some weight in that process as well
looks officially not a reverse diet yet
it's just so easier and easier still
diet I was young seventeen years old
five age currently more than a year
after I 165 pounds you tell somebody
that maintained the weight loss was so
easy so there's a couple things to say
about that
interestingly enough people who start
out very over fat and are put on very
highly restrictive calories typically do
not experience high levels of hunger
hunger is modulated on essentially two
things largely very largely how long you
have been dieting and how lean you are
if you're really lean and you've been
dieting for 16 weeks all our accounts
from contest prep fuck you are gonna be
hungry of shit but if you're not leaning
yet you don't get super hungry and if
you have been dieting for a long time
you don't get super hungry and when you
start out being a hundred fifty pounds
over fat you can take a really long time
for you to get hungry which is actually
sort of really funny
the vast majority people in this world
that are very very over fat and diet you
will get a hunger response in the first
couple of weeks but it often attenuates
almost completely and they just like man
the vast majority people fail diets
simply because
of the feeling of restriction the
feeling of food boredom and more
specifically the lack of hedonic
pleasure coming from food that they're
used to having food is usually really
fun for people that are variable or fat
that's how they got over fat is using
food for pleasure and it's not that
they're very displeased
they're not super hungry it's that the
pleasure they normally used to have
around food isn't coming in anymore and
they go man fuck this I want to be happy
I'm gonna eat you know ten slices of
pizza but if they actually stick to
diets they usually don't get very hungry
at all until they get very lean and then
it's all song problem yeah and to a
lesser degree
you were also eating like good f prh
food options so you were eating things
that just generally make you feel full
one yeah
that's why clean food is good for
dieting yeah I don't imagine you gain
that weight on a clean diet clean eating
is in the inner whatever general sense
low blue palatability work check dieting
gee-whiz is that like a a good way to
not gain weight and I'm easy way to lose
weight in most cases oh yeah if you eat
the basic foods are not overly flavored
super well there's so much that you can
eat until you're like that's what I
should feel like fruits and vegetables
like you just physically can't eat that
much of it you just just get full or not
all right Lucas Carlo IO or viola
hi doctor name is dr. Mike to where
potential division I'll start the
questions with a tldr and then try to
explain the reason behind the questions
my man okay is peaking slash tapering
for a powerlifter that doesn't compete a
need for even be potentially worse than
not doing it mmm I'm sorry being being a
dick be a dick first so you will see if
we can head this off of the past I think
he's already alluding to this but like
right so we can't claim I mean this with
respect I'm not trying to be a dickhead
but like you're not a powerlifter if you
don't step on stage and compete and
powerlifting right just like I have a
punching bag in my garage I don't call
myself a boxer you know same idea right
so so that actually answers the question
entirely
without even getting into it so if you
don't compete there's no need to do any
tapering outside of ego stroking right
let's see what he says I think you guys
if the lifter wants to get a stronger
possibility that has no desire to me
never knows that he won't be competing
for at least a couple of beers should he
mop he can taper all together yes I
don't think so
just jump from pressure phases in the
strength phase in the hybrid phase again
yes but with some active recovery there
because but the peaking and taper the
table part of the pinkie and taper
actually accomplishes a lot of fatigue
reduction that you need every now and
again
I understand peaking tapers correctly
when your taper you're trading off time
that you could be actually getting
stronger so I figured I'm actually
expressed previously acquire straight
for a couple of days absolutely correct
but at the cost of posterior loss of
fitness maybe but maybe an opportunity
cost of gain and fitness yeah and be
some enough time without sufficient
training volumes yep
and if you don't mean to express that
maximum strength the specific point you
should just ditch the peaking phase or
is the increase in sense the ability I
guess sensitivity for the next episode
of a still result their overall night
game over going into it from a straight
phase no it doesn't as long as you take
out the rest every now and again so I
would you like you know that's what I
was gonna per trophy strength
hypertrophy strength active rest hyper
to restrain temperature strength active
rest then you're totally fine a and
there is a little bit of a difference
between tapering and then expressing
your abilities and active rests the
tapering their Express abilities is
actually significantly more injurious
significantly more fatiguing especially
psychologically so so it doesn't
actually count as a active rest so I
wouldn't do it in that capacity
you really didn't ask your question
something that James talks about a lot
in Enzo the formal approach of peers
ation for sport this is why it's really
important to choose how many
competitions are doing per year and
which ones are important in that
important because there's an idea of
training through competitions or just
not competing as often and people say
like well why would you compete as often
and you know everyone does this a lot of
people do this even subconsciously oh
sorry they don't even know periodization
is a science like a ton of bodybuilders
will say you're not taking I'm taking
the next two into a regular person that
sounds like nonsense they go you know
I've been competing a lot I'm taking off
the next year to make improvements
they'd be like James mention regular
person here and that'd be like wait
you're taking you're off to make
improvements on the 5:00 news poses yeah
that's insane but bodybuilders
understand that competing doesn't make
you better it just shows you off so
that's definitely a thing in the
tapering dovetails exact
into that we gauge she's better off
trading yeah and I think there's nothing
that you'll gain from tapering that
active rest wouldn't cover and in fact
you could probably get more out of the
active rest since you don't have happy
and you don't have to funnel your
Fitness adaptations into like a very
narrow scope so and then one B we
already answered so we're good to go on
that number two how to structure slash
combine your attrition phases we
constraint pepper treatment cycle to
maximize strength long term assume
natural lifter for this question but if
there is a difference for an enhanced
athlete would be cool to know okay
actually there is a juggernaut
YouTube video that answers that exact
question let me see if I can actually
bring it up so combining nutrition and
training RP see how my Google and works
out for me he actually uh basically
nails it in some of his notes here what
is he saying so he says should he make
sure he has had as many /all hyper
caloric phases when he is also in
hypertrophy phases leaving strength
phases for maintenance slash
hypochlorite phases very close so all of
your hyper and hypo stuff should be done
during hypertrophy and then all of your
strengths and peaking stuff should be
done at roughly maintenance calories -
any like you know like weigh-in
considerations so we usually recommend
that by the time you hit your strength
phases leading like the strength phases
that are leading into the competition
you're basically at plus or minus two
percent of your ideal competition body
weight - any again water weight
adjustments so anytime you go cutting or
anything you're masking are cutting hypo
hyper caloric that's all your GP P stuff
and then when you get your SP P stuff
like your strength maximal strength
that's all done at maintenance calories
so I found the video so at least what
you want to type in to YouTube is phasic
dieting JT s strength calm that's it and
it's me talking for a few minutes about
how to combine a diet and training for
best results
go if you want more insight that's it
yeah all right
number three when an atypical or diet
coat raining closer to your adjusted m/v
mev with higher reps in reserve be
better than reaching MRV and zr1 rir
assume an advanced natural lifter for
this question but if there's a
difference around has that fleet would
be cool to know LOL if an advanced
lifter can't gain muscle over losing
weight
his only concern is to not lose muscle
lose a little as possible would it be
better to be as far as possible from his
adjustments since the diet would change
it MRV volumes and zerah are minimizing
fatigue and stress in general while just
making sure he is not losing muscle /
looseness most money can by doing that
could he use that extra stretch /
fatigue he's not gaining from training
to either have a higher caloric deficit
or choose exercises with a better of CV
TF calories burn to fatigue lol
basically more or less cardio stuff
sometimes so the answer to that is
actually yes but unfortunately as the
diet progresses the catabolic stimulus
of the bag gets so extreme that you end
up having to go to higher volumes and
closer to failure so and in addition to
that we've got a little bit of a problem
the only way you can guarantee you're
not losing muscle is to try to continue
to match your performance weeks a week
and eventually that takes you to zero
our er anyway is there a bit of an
argument for potentially not chasing the
most optimal week-to-week gains and
biasing your volume regulation like okay
if I got a bit of a pump I got a little
bit sore I'm not gonna increase my
volume try to maximize gains yes
the downside there is that you can end
up in a situation where loops you
trained not hard enough and all of a
sudden you lost muscle I don't know
where the nuance plays into that I'll
tell you this for for-4 beginners as
they can sort of make gains during
dieting anyway so they don't have to do
that they can just go in the air Marvy
for intermediates there may be a point
where they can sort of back off the
paddle a little bit and I've done that
before and
do well because they're probably not
going to lose muscle and they can
probably elongate their diet make it
easier on themselves if they just stick
a little bit away from pushing it hard
but for the advanced I think the the
crushing weight of an RV and all the
catabolism comes down so far that you
end up actually fighting for your life
to keep muscle the entire time so you do
have to go through the whole cycle
anyway and to be honest I think that
once you've built momentum and you're
not having to deal ODE you're faced with
this opportunity right you let's say
you're you you've been dieting for four
weeks you're at two rir now and almost
you know if you know three weeks away
from MRV do you deal owed and then
restart aback at the very D and lower
rars or sorry even higher are ours and
even further away from your MB or do you
continue to diet and get another three
weeks in mere accumulation before D
learning right I mean the second option
actually seems better but it would
require you going to MRV anyway into
zero RER it just buys you more time so I
think the better answer isn't to stay
always away from it it's to when you
start a 3r and mev only walk up very
slowly in volume as slowly as you can
that will buy you more time but
eventually your walk will take you in
every mesocycle to your MRV and to 0 AR
AR
unless you want to deal owed randomly to
stop that process and then your
accumulation to deal with paradigm
doesn't improve at all and you just
pissing away time yeah I like that
question actually and I think for anyone
who's not a beginner or in advance which
is you know like 80% of lifters for
intermediate level lifters I think
essentially that strategy can base it I
would say maybe buy you one or one and a
half easier mezzos of training on your
cut and then at some point like Mike
said it just catches up to you where
even if you're doing everything right
your MeV is just gonna start shifting up
up up up and that gap is gonna close
just naturally so I think like you could
kind of pursue just kind of maintenance
volumes and that might be easier I'm
like your first cut mezzo and then
second cut mess will comes around you're
gonna have to ramp it up so now you're
kind of where you would have been
anyway and that's gonna keep getting
harder if you do a cut three or even all
right hopefully not more than that but
if you did a cut three mezzo you're
basically gonna be right in the shit
like you normally would be so I think it
gets you it buys you a little bit of
time and maybe that's worth doing maybe
not I'm not sure I still think it is at
least from a training perspective I
still would encourage people to train to
the MRV deliberately just cuz I think
that there's uh strengths benefits and
transient benefits that might manifest
down the road just from the training
side of things yeah but you don't
necessarily have to and so it's a good
point you don't necessarily have to push
that boundary right off the bat by off
the bat I mean in the first mesocycle
yeah I think that basically in the first
mezzo ii mezzo start real easy and don't
Auto regulate very aggressively up just
a little bit less than normal so you
have an option add one or two sets just
have fun for a while and it'll it'll be
better
so wait Charlie and I definitely do that
in our fat loss were like you know we
have to present a really good stimulus
but not the greatest thing ever so let's
not burn ourselves out just totally
James West says hi guys I'm a
firefighter and I'm loving the templates
in the app I wish I had used these from
the start on my training life and would
have made a huge difference my question
is about conditioning for a firefighter
I use a male physique template and I'm
really happy with them how would you
recommend a program conditioning would
be appropriate for a firefighter which
mostly involves some short bursts of
power slash strength the occasional long
duration incident I have access to sled
sandbags casualty dummies etc plus a
full gym will search for protocols would
you recommend many things in advance
keep up the fantastic work feel free to
edit my poor structure site grammar I
was just fine kind regards team's west
from the UK I will say just before James
Hoffman answers this question for us a
real due diligence of this would be
hiring a coach potentially in RP coach
that could make you a program it would
be fully integrated James can give you
the broad strokes but it's gonna be so
broad because it has to be because
there's so many specifics
can't tell someone unless you know tons
about them tons about their schedule and
so on its own zone James yeah absolutely
I think a coach would be helpful in this
situation just a like a this is like a
deja steez er but something that I have
in my back pocket that I will be working
for the next several years is I'm gonna
do some tactical training guides with
Scott how who's my colleague from
integrated periodization we're gonna do
first one we're working on right now is
for law enforcement we're gonna do one
for military and we're gonna do one for
a first responders like firefighter EMS
but that's gonna be a long time coming
so that being said we're gonna treat
conditioning for those positions like
any other any other periodization kind
of scheme for sport they're gonna be
periods where you're gonna be doing some
kind of more general preparatory stuff
and then some periods where you're doing
more kind of sports specific or
firefighter specific stuff so for any of
your GPP stuff I would say you can do
like a lot more kind of rock style
cardio I wouldn't do like traditional
jogging running sprinting stuff like
that what I would actually do is like
what we call intensity rucks where
you're actually just doing some not
super fast but just doing some
continuous work with a lot of gear
weight on I'm talking like 60 80 and
hundred plus pounds potentially ramped
up very much like a strength cycle would
be ramped up and that would be kind of
like your GPP type work where you might
just do like on your long days it might
be like a three-mile kind of ruck with a
light to moderate load and on your hard
days it might be like a one-mile ruck
with like 60 70 80 90 hundred pounds
something like that and that would be
kind of like some of your GPP stuff just
to get some work capacity and your legs
trunk your lungs and then as you move in
to like you're more firefighter specific
stuff when you kind of make your
specific preparatory transition I would
focus mostly on interval training like
high-intensity interval training because
most of the stuff you're going to do is
going to be kind of burst react burst
react type stuff I think things like the
assault bike are always a good choice in
those situations because it just uses a
lot of muscle mass but I also think in
this case I mean I'm like biting my
tongue on this one because I don't know
I don't know if I want to go there but I
think this is probably one of the few
times I would actually advocate for this
some of the strongman events might be
good kind of proxies for some of the
things you're gonna be doing because so
many of them are like lift and carry or
like lift and move to another area and
that's where stuff like the bean bag ice
not feedbacks Jesus the sandbags or
heavy lifting implements can be really
good so I would set up I don't want to
say like a circuit or something like
that but you could use kind of like some
strongman implements like heavy bags or
stones or anything like that and not do
it as heavily as a strongman would but
do it in like a conditioning kind of
circuit that interval type routine where
maybe you're going hard for a minute
like pick up the bag move the bag to the
other side put it down pick it up
something like that
anything along those lines would be fine
I'm probably gonna have more to say
about that in a little while because I
haven't really done a full needs
analysis dive on that but I think any of
those kind of like lift and carry type
activities done an interval fashion
would be very good for a fireman I
always feel bad because I always talk
shit about the strongman stuff I'm like
why are you doing the strongman stuff I
always know like don't do that and then
this is like one of those times where
I'd be like actually that makes more
sense because you have to pick something
up and move it like a human or something
that's really heavy up strip something
obstructing a walkway or you know heavy
hose or equipment whatever but yeah
that's the thing is that strongman
people a lot of times don't know why
they do strongman that's bad when
strongman is specific to your needs it's
excellent it's just you gotta know yeah
I mean especially a firefighter you're
gonna have all that fuckin gear on you
got a carry stuff around sometimes you
got to go up stairs sometimes you gotta
really have an event called the
fireman's carry like yeah exactly
actually when we um uh well this was
maybe like last year we went to Santa
Monica and it just we just did not plan
this at all we just happened upon they
had the Arnold strongman circuit at the
pier they just like happened to be doing
it there and so we got to go and watch
and they they were had the strongman
competing and Arnold was there like yes
yes he was so fun but then they had um
they had a fireman event where the
firemen competed in the strongman events
and I remember watching this the firemen
were like so fucking amped and you had
these just like regular guys doing the
events and Arnold was like right in
their face and he would just as they're
like they're carrying sandbags and shit
like doing you know the the walk and
Arnold's like right in their face like
yes you a fireman do it lift it
and I just remember thinking like if I
was that guy I would have just like shit
my pants in excitement like imagine
having Arnold cheering you on right
that's so oh man it was so cool anyway
sorry a little ramp there all right
Haden done says so I'm finishing a week
three of mezzo two for a six a template
going I really want a long mess however
I want to be able to run through this
mezzo and the metabolite nozzle
uninterrupted but we have scheduled
last-minute vacation for June 8 through
12 I could possibly bring
equipment to make this work if I had to
for the last weekend for tablets but I'm
wondering about several different
scenarios reminder I basically have five
four weeks of training available before
I go on leaking had some options like
this or a number I think these are
options yeah
option number one I finished this mezzo
a week four and five and jump straight
to metabolite week two three four you
should came in they did a ton of volume
for me to go on vacation that last week
as addy load provided I feel like nobody
can take the beating I figure since I am
massing I could probably handle that
amount of fatigue seeing it live the end
of tunnel so I would say it's a bad idea
because you don't ever want to start
something we wrote from set to from week
two three and four don't do that number
two I complete all six weeks of this
mess of including the dealer and try to
piece together what I what would be week
three of the metabolite phase on
vacation I could manage most movements
but some bigger complexes would be hard
I would have access so fear of dumbbells
and a bar letter of 2,500 possibly
suffice renews our squats adentro is
okay number three I can pick one mezzo I
can pick one mezzo to cut one week off
of but this is me cutting wheat five
four basic hypertrophy instead take a
week one for one hour instead of two and
then proceed to the four full full four
to five weeks of metabolites have ideal
it happen at the back end of metabolites
or I could finish basic aperture Fiat
entirely and pick up my first week at
week two of metabolites that's still
finished in time to reload so I would
actually recommend something go ahead
I'm what way confused is to see is he
saying that he has to go on vacation in
the middle of one of these or is he
saying that what end of one of these so
basically I love from my understanding
he has the last week of this next
whatever number of weeks is going to be
on vacation on vacation so wondering
should he do some kind of midway through
my best advice would be to finish your
current mezzo exactly as written and D
load and then do how for many weeks of
metabolites starting from week one of
metabolites that you can fit him and
instead of you know week one I would say
you know a little harder than the one
week one but really just easing in
especially towards the second
half week one I would search for rampant
a little more than you would and let's
say you have I don't know exact timeline
I want to misquote you but let's say it
was normally gonna be four weeks of
metabolite and then you would deal out
during your vacation but now it's only
three weeks and you have to deal with
before that week during vacation those
first three weeks the week one beginning
of week one relatively normal week two
or sorry week one end of Reconstruction
ramp it up week to fire of a thousand
suns
INRI three nuclear fucking devastation
and then go on vacation just enjoy your
vacation three weeks of metabolism one
thing we say about metabolite phase is
they don't really pay huge dividends if
you do them a long time
regular phases do definitely don't cut
your current normal meso and do one
extra one normal week of metabolites I
would do the other way around finish
your nose I'll take a deal out and then
however many weeks you have left before
your vacation do metabolites and you
start low but do a quicker ramp than
normal especially that last week go
insane and then enjoy your vacation D
load like crazy eat a ton of food and
you'll have a ton of really great
progress James yeah that sounds like an
excellent recommendation I was
struggling to see what the issue was
that so I was like why don't you just do
it on vacation exactly but he didn't
know lake should I should which phase
should he fully take advantage of or if
he even not dealer on vacation and bring
weights fuck that yeah all that no like
and this is something to reiterate the
Great's don't become great by training
on vacation and this is something I have
to tell myself because I'm addicted to
training and I dragged James out of his
fucking hotel room in Thailand to go
fucking lift in some gym 30 minutes away
by cab there was a great gym
he was a great job hug it was great but
like I'm addicted to training and I have
to remind myself that champions are not
made training a vacation champions are
made taking as not any excess excess
vacations really relaxing when they're
on vacation and training hard ass walk
and really really diligently when
they're training right that that's the
deal very very good advice yes I'm
advice I really need to start taking
myself alright um one more question from
Hayden is I'm very fortunate over the
next several months I'll be able to fit
and focus my job at home and online to
where I can prioritize training more
than ever for me that's uh I have been
seriously considering to attain
for multiple reasons is there evidence
to support the to add a training
disappear in any way if volume is
equated with normal session on training
there's zero direct evidence that's
never been studied but a blow load of
indirect evidence from every possible
line of reasoning that we have from tons
of different sports including
hypertrophy pursuit that if you squeeze
more training into your week than you
normally could if that training is of a
higher quality by splitting it up into
multiple sessions you will grow absolute
and that's where dr. Mike saying there's
indirect evidence because most of the
stuff that they looked at for to a day
training revolves around like intensity
based activities so that's where the
benefit seems to be is like first sports
where you have to maintain high levels
of power or speed strength etc he says I
know there are side benefits such as
somewhat less fatigue throughout
sessions possibly more focus and in
temporal recessions dietary requirements
easier to meet during massing and maybe
better routine or even hungrier walking
to and from the gym twice increases
needs I would say those last ones are
side benefits I say the somewhat less
fatigue throughout sessions is a huge
benefits is a direct benefit and more
focus on attention with shorter sessions
is a huge benefit and I said if the
world of ramadhan I think what you're
training sort of does know content
creation or research or daily to-do
lists well training is on those what
would be your all's preference once or
twice a day and why so my current and
best training program that I've ever
tried the best balance is not something
I always do because I do peer as my
training with higher and lower frequency
for me nine sessions a week works
incredibly well and it does work super
well for myself and Charlie um Jared
prefers a little more he likes ten and
sometimes even eleven sessions a week
but for Charlie and I that means six
days of training per week and three of
those are two a days three of those are
one updates and it really is a great
balance between a fuckload of amazing
training and like if we did much more
and we have we've gone up to twelve
sessions a week it is just unsustainable
and for many it's not even psyche a lot
it's accepts to some extent
psychologically unsustainable not like I
don't want to Train but like I
physically can't become aroused at this
often like it's really brutal turnout
yeah I'm hard workouts back-to-back and
then the next day you're going into your
next workout and you're like I feel like
I haven't taken a breath and I don't
even know how long so it's definitely a
thing yeah totally hear you on that
for me personally I like to only do six
days of lifting per week and then I like
to have either daily like a daily
activity where here I go take a walk or
I do like a hike or an outside adventure
that would be ideal for me it would be
the one training day one training event
and then one like outside that event
whether it's like cardio or hiking or
something like that and if you want more
info Charlie and Jared and I were just
interviewed on Steve Hall's revived
stronger podcast about this exact topic
twice daily training so really really
long serve hour and a half I think ASIS
thank you I get so much out of hearing
you to go back and forth with logical
scientific conversation as opposed to
straight bro science oh thank you how'd
you like all right Dennis Dennis won in
his name Dennis Dennis I wrote it with
two N's and I went back and looked and I
was like oh wait it's only one end mmm
or maybe it's Denny yeah ding ding wah
yeah there's a rush of the Russian
version is Denis in that virus baby
that's actually speaking of which I just
got a random thought James have you ever
seen the movie a battle throw for Los
Angeles battle it was oh my god I've
seen like parts of it I never watched it
all the way through lame I've loved the
movie did your first time I saw it and I
just saw it a second time with Krystal
who my wife we made her watch and she
was getting ready and hated and she
actually liked it so yeah it's it's a
cool concept aliens invade and they like
invade via coastlines because their
machines are powered by water and
they're just trying to exterminate
humans because they just want the earth
and its water give me your life they're
probably like in some ways they're like
15 years ahead the military technology
and in other ways they're not so it's
like a very even fight it's just very
unusual to see it's it's really it's
really kind of cool like Julie it's like
what's it like War of the Worlds style
or just like just totally pointless and
if people win with some kind of like
lovey dovey hugging each other for
miracles and heroics which I fucking
hate right like yeah like the Hail Mary
yeah I kind of want to that's not how
real life works but it's cool cuz they
get into like a gritty like
house-to-house street fight war and like
the aliens are like fuck this is hard
and they don't win and they don't
like humans don't win because of luck
they just win because of good strategy
and the movie didn't even ever them
winning it ends with like and the more
continues but the aliens are kind of
like you know having a rough speck do
this is what we look fuck yeah exactly
but it's kind of like you know because
the aliens have like some 1ups where
they're like holy shit that they they do
some really cool stuff but like it's
just it's just really River unique very
me I always fantasized about a movie
don't occur where aliens have like
incredibly like polarized technology
where like some of its really good
someone's really bad they like have
unreal transport and universal
navigation technology and they want to
come here to take our resource and kill
us all and they like teleport over but
they have like 1880s level war machinery
and they shoot a musket at it and
they're like what the fuck and it shoots
like an airship and I can't believe
these people didn't have warp drives
yeah if you guys listening are
interested there's a really good graphic
novel series called descender which is
like it kind of has like a War of the
Worlds kind of feel where it's like
there's like the Allied humanoid forces
and then there's like the alien like
extremists and there's like robots and
it's really good tech sounds great
history and it has like a surprise end
all right
[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpi app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world fun
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals
the future is here today so into this
world strides Dennis hello this is my
first time I see his questions I have
read the new book for breath igloo Kai
he promotes a lot of burnout sets at the
end of workouts metabolites stuff give
him the knee has good results do you
think females can do metabolite training
for longer periods of time than just a
mezzo I think a lot of people can do
metabolite training for a longer period
of time than just a mezzo and have good
results I don't know if that makes the
results optimal I should think the
jury's still out on that James and I
would hypothesize that the tab like
training can become quickly overused and
needs to be periodized a bit more than
some other people would remember
everyone has good results and Breton who
really knows what he's doing and he is
brilliant at the stuff
so do we but he could be wrong and we
could be wrong or not wrong but not
optimal you know somebody else could be
right so I wouldn't just say oh he has
good results like there are people who
don't know what they're doing that after
good results just by selection bias so
yeah and I would hate you lame doing
this but like if you look at like our
ghetto mev indicator so like I'm trying
to bolster my point with something that
we kind of made up right which is the
shitty weight of making a point but what
you find with metabolite training a lot
of times did you get like a false
positive where just because you're doing
so many reps or so many the rest is
condensed it seems like you're hitting
all the like you're you're ghetto mev
indicators when the reality is is really
not you're just doing something it burns
a lot you get a pump effect because
you're just doing so many goddamn reps
but you're really not getting much out
of it you're not seeing like the
progress week to week you're not getting
much soreness you're not getting much
disruption like it's just one of those
things where it when you're doing it it
feels awful no matter what but it goes
flat so quickly it ends up just being
one of those things that like Mike said
it just for the average person seems to
peter out probably after around the
metal cycle maybe a little bit more but
right around that time and it's just a
subject to that false positive as my
point is where it's like it feels like
it's still doing something but then when
you actually are looking at the numbers
and it's like try not yeah and then he
says
how much do you guys think abduction
exercises contribute to glee development
versus only doing hip extension
exercises I think that much because
abduction exercises are very difficult
to load and very gently press in and I
think they contribute some for sure but
it's just if you look at the overall
force generation by the gluteus maximus
muscle this doesn't generate a lot of
force through abducting it is a function
it's almost like asking the following
question um if I just focused on biceps
supination like you take a dumbbell and
you just rotate it against like against
a fixed point how much when I grow my
biceps versus doing bicep like forearm
flexion we like you know yeah some
supination is great but for inflection
is really the main function of the bicep
I mean we mean it produces a shitload of
force or a huge range of motion same for
hip extension I think yeah so I think
not only for the loading so that's like
the really obvious one right if you just
do like squats and deadlifts your glute
your whole glute the whole all of it is
just gonna grow a fuckload just because
it's getting stimulated a lot more with
the bigger magnitude but it also can
sustain more of that type of training
versus like how much lateral like you
know hip abduction like just isolation
type movements can you do before it just
starts to burn out like you just can't
tolerate that much loading and that
finite of a movement and so then at that
point you have an issue of intensity and
volume in which you can be loaded so no
good I mean it's not not no good it's
just it doesn't compare to do any things
like 1jz squats and that would I would
place first I suppose I know I'm late to
the party but is the research about
squats contributing way more to
hypertrophy opposite to hip thrusts true
I know it's best to do both variation
but which we should be the main exercise
so is only one research study has been
done on it and it's found that squats
contributed more I would never ever ever
in a million years invest almost
anything into one study so I would say
I'm neutral on that I think a lot of
people have grown great gluts from
squatting but I think if you turn your
squats into sumo squats and widen the
stance
I think you've returned those into wide
stance deficit sumo deadlifts and I
think if you pepper in lunges and hip
thrusts it's gonna be better glute
hypertrophy than just squatting normally
so I wouldn't expect squats to be this
magical glue growing thing that somehow
beats even more specific food exercises
so I think you doing a lot of all of
them but peppering in
what works best is there's a good idea
from Anna works best from biomechanical
theory perspective but also this is
where stimulus to fatigue ratio comes in
look if you if lunch is fuck up it looks
like nothing else I don't give a shit
what people say about squats they don't
grow your glutes as much like if your
boots never get sore squatting and get
fucked up from two sets of lunges blood
is great blues better if you have it's
unbelievable like nasty tension for
heavy reps through your glutes with sumo
you know deficit deadlifts but you don't
really feel your glutes at all during
regular squats the deadlifts are gonna
grow your glutes more if you get a nasty
glute pump doing hip thrusts and you
never get your glue to remotely pump
doing squats
I wouldn't say squats are somehow better
so I would if you know and this is like
one of those things like Jared feather
he doesn't do hip thrusts because he
doesn't really feel them he doesn't get
a pump he doesn't get sorted to get
anything when he does lunges and even
lean those squats and especially videos
deadlifts he gets all the SFR indicator
so for him that's the best way to go
glutes it might not be for you but I
would I would really look into that more
specifically yeah absolutely and you
know with some of those studies too
depending on the research subjects that
they have one of the things one of the
reasons I suspected they saw the results
that they did was the squat was probably
just easier for an easier movement for a
lot of those people to actually do the
glute one as simple as a movement it's
as it seems there's a lot of like
fine-tuning that to get it to really hit
the glutes well or is like the squats
you can just load it up most people can
figure it out just for some basic
movement criteria they can get going and
I think that was probably one word they
were just able to get a lot out of a
squat because it was an easy movement
for them to learn whereas if they've
never done glute bridges before have no
idea how they're supposed to be feeling
it where their feet are supposed to be
should they be healed down or flat fluid
or you know all these things like so
it's one study who knows but it's fair
to say that like doing the glute bridges
does target the glutes a lot of other
exercises target the glutes also and at
the end of the day like Mike said a lot
of it comes down to trial and error and
just see which one you really feel and
go from there
is hips rising too fast and squat
consider a technical failure yes what is
your best recommendation to fix this
there's a really a problem with weak
quads so actually if you had a problem
with weak quads you would fail at the
bottom of the squat you would be
completely straight up and down or you
were just not be able to stand up so
it's definitely not probably quads if
your posterior chain is relatively weak
and your quads are really strong
your knees will lock out first and then
you your button will shoot up so it's
actually a problem with Strom quads a
problem with a weak posterior chain but
really it's either one of those it's
just the fact that you may be just
genetically more prone or athletically
more prone to use your posterior chain
and or your posterior chain is very
strong even relying on it and/or it's
really weak and it just happens to be
the limiting factor so it's what ends up
working most when your quads shoot your
knees back but nothing else happens and
or just a movement pattern that sucks
so the best recommendation to fix it is
not remotely with addressing any kind of
strengths and weaknesses it is with
being diligent with your technique and
when there is a temptation to tilt
forward just don't do it
yeah or also with the along those same
lines is correcting your technique use
loads in which you can maintain that
technique yes not have problems yes but
with any of those loads I think at some
point when you get close to failure
you're gonna just regress back then when
you start regressing back don't do it
like for example someone could say like
man you know when I do pull downs I
eventually have to round my shoulders
over tongue and really like pull with my
lower back and do a swing to get the
barbel touch my chest like what's that a
deficiency because the deficiency in
laughs strength pulling strength look
well how do I fix it like just don't do
it
like when you're tempted to do it stop
there's 50 different ways to fuck up an
exercise by just using whatever comes to
mind and the real the best fix is a
technical fix most James and I are
talking so adamant about those most
fixes in any kind of movements are
technical fixes like people who diagnose
the weaknesses of muscles individually
from technical errors are almost there I
would look as close to charlatan ISM you
guys wanna hear some really good rants
on this Quinn actually has some really
fucking good rants on this really good
and he's an actual Iza PT so yeah I
think that's another reason why we like
can we say like hey mind muscle
connection and stuff is better at
lighter weights and stuff too so like
the people who wouldn't I'm prejudging
you and I apologize but what usually
when we see this happening is when
people are doing like sets of six
they're like oh my hips of my technique
so goofy it's like okay we'll do sets of
like 14 come back and tell me like how
your techniques going and like it's one
of those things where it's just usually
like you were just going to
the not controlling your technique as a
combination of like not being cognizant
of your technique and the way it's just
too heavy for you to manage it you can't
be cognizant because right this is a
survival mode
take the weight down to higher reps and
then all of a sudden you're like man
I've never felt it in my quads like this
before it's like yeah no shit cuz you
changed your technique because you could
manage the load better right leg there
you go
next question before quarantine I had my
girl on three days for recall by the
training she really got sore usually
just in hamstrings her upper body was on
maintenance her last week she did 19
sets her glutes 14 sets compounds those
four quads on eight compounds those four
hamstrings do you think she would
benefit more splitting volume in two per
week instead of three per week because
she doesn't get sore
no like training to the muscle three
times per week instead of okay yeah no
because she clearly has very high
volumes and training three times per
week is great remember the soreness is
not the goal of training so honest is
simply an indicator that you're
definitely doing enough so if you don't
get sore with a high number of sessions
that means you're winning because you
can cram a shitload of all you would
have getting sore what we would do is
keep her a three per week would just
start to raise her volumes and then she
will get sore even with three per week
with like one and a half times the
volume should get the best of all worlds
look you can get her sore real easy by
just dropping to once a week training
and doing three sets he'll get sore
every week but that'll be a road to
nowhere yes and then one last question I
just finished watching the video about
how to add weight and reps to add muscle
all cool we just put that one out my
question is if I use both volume and
load progression like you suggest I plan
to do the 401 meso
weight sorry I think I've trying to
follow along did we skip something or am
I crazy
nope he says thank you for your answers
I'm sorry for so many and then he says
hello again I just get that part oh okay
I'm sorry
got it if I plant it in a formal manner
what should I do if I'm a week four with
high volume but do not know if the
weight was really one or zero rir should
I had another week to try to match my
real are the next set um that's a pretty
complex decision I think James and I
would both usually say that if you
really don't know just be loud and start
again so Harmon that but if you really
think it was like one rir even to rir
then
and if the rest of your body is ready to
go and if you're systemically not super
fucked up yeah sure add another week but
generally between one and zero I mean
you're ready to demote if it's between
like to zero also keep in mind like I
think this is kind of the the glaring
thing that I'm seeing with this question
is like normally I agree with Mike
exactly what he said like D load and try
again next time but then the question is
like the goal of the training mezzo is
not to correctly assess one or zero are
necessarily its to hit your MRV their
systemic ly or locally so if you're not
there keep going
yeah that's more of the problem it's
like it sure that's a really good point
so that's this so I think you guys get
what I'm saying but my keep in mind the
goal is not to say like well I hit 0 RI
r now I D load the goal is to say I've
hit my MRV now I D load yeah in another
in another arrows recommendation is you
know you shouldn't be asking if you hit
like one or two RI r that's a question
one or zero shouldn't be a question
because just go to failure in your last
week you'll hit zero R anything totally
yeah yeah it's a good good question but
like maybe reframe why you're why you're
thinking about this question yeah
totally yeah
what are your suggestions for someone
that doesn't know what three RI r looks
like should they try to train to failure
from my cycle absolutely not
oh it's actually been very clear about
this inverse or the writings of videos
yeah and actually in that very video you
watched you start them at 3 RI r and you
just assume that they're doing a good
job and they could be way off and then
you increase the load and have them do
the same reps or keep the load the same
and add more reps and you just keep
making it harder until they inevitably
get to failure and then you see how far
they made it so for example if they made
it three weeks and you supposedly added
a little bit of weight or reps over time
looks like they actually were a 3r er at
the beginning if they made it like 16
weeks they're like it looks like they
were at 16 all right so that's really
the answer right you use very very easy
to tell how much are you really were at
based on how much more gift
if you can keep progressing and keep
progressing really either you were
really at three or he just adapted like
crazy possibly I was gonna say either
you know I are the best progression rate
I've ever seen yes so either you find
out the truth about how big of a wussy
were being or you get strong for a very
long time so either way you were and
that's why I like I'm really not a big
fan of people say like oh you know
beginners don't know what their 3ro
really is they also don't need to train
or so so here's the thing also doesn't
matter yeah like so people say like well
they need to train to three are are real
three are because that's where all the
studies are yeah but all studies are on
beginners you dumb motherfuckers so they
say okay beginners don't know so
beginners real three are ers six-hour
like sweet so you can change all the
studies ever publish on beginners that
show three rir works really well just as
well as failure and just replace that
with six cuz those were beginners too so
look like also they're beginners what
you worried about them deconditioning
weights Umbro and the cool thing is
about exactly about this video about the
progression that we described there is
look wherever you start it doesn't
really matter as long as it was remotely
challenging just keep increasing load or
reps from there inevitably you will
either become the strongest thing that's
ever lived and limitless or you'll reach
failure and then you'll know very good
yes that's why James like the video part
of the video order addressed was the
taking a blank slate our approach to
every week like this so the video is
based on the system we use and we
discussed these two go to the match a
match or beat system and it basically is
like James and I are not fans of taking
a raw or er approach every week like oh
okay our AR to last week I got 12 reps
this week I guess time because I don't
feel that great like yeah motherfucker
not you're gonna get 12 this week at
least and if you can't looks like it's
time for a D load but you know what I'm
saying like otherwise you can get
yourself into thinking that's how you
get like the you know the fucking the
whole anti evidence-based like just
train to failure movement RRS bullshit
like that's how you succumb to that is
because you you know that's how you
think you say say to yourself to rir but
it's with four or six depending on your
mood like if you set a nice baseline a
three or are when you
week one it's match or beat every single
week thereafter and if you can't do it
too much for teeth and you know that's
it yeah I totally agree but I still
reserved a little sliver in there to
have a little bit of a blank slate just
for fatigue management purposes where
it's like for advanced people absolutely
yeah
but I I think the Matt repeat is the way
to go for she should have that goal in
mind yes that's that yes all right TJ
Jankowski says what's up gents I know
you get a bunch of BS for it but aren't
you extremely proud of your MRV concept
ah last week you said you used it just
simplifying a described process of death
however every becomes lower and the MV
is your slowest buy all the way to the
still eyeful hahaha yeah we are proud of
it especially what's as its applied to
death you know I don't want to like do
too much ego stroking here but I am
proud of it and what makes me feel proud
is when other people in the industry use
the terms and just just freely where
they're just like so anyways MRV and
every time I see somebody else write
that a much gives me a little chuckle
that's pretty cool makes me feel good
that's definitely home alright ah number
one dr. Mike are annoying are you Dutch
neighbors just kidding I know you're too
polite to really tell us how you feel
about meadow everyone knows I hate
meadow this is public knowledge she's
still there yep nowhere fast
number two if I was to make the argument
that by far the most effective way to
continue to consistently gain mass once
one becomes advanced is to grow just a
few body parts at a time what would your
counter arguments be once sold on a
systemic versus total body and Marvy
particularly for the recreation lifter
we can't make two sessions awaits most
days I just can't see another method
coming close yeah it doesn't this is it
there are no counter arguments but you
have to earn it
if you're weighing well within your
systemic MRV why you are putting body
parts on the back burner is anyone's
guess because then you're just missing
out on growing them but if you're
pushing up into the sum total of your
individual body parts on Murphy's or
certainly get close to or over your
systemic MRB
absolutely you have to grow a few or
fewer and fewer body parts of time it's
really like a super common question we
get but we cannot possibly answer I give
us on Instagram every other fucking day
how many body parts should I be
prioritizing at a time the question is
how many do you have stomach 44 like
try all of them and tobago super team
okay so you let's say you have six
general body parts try five
Nicole I did it sweet continue until you
can't do five and then try four and then
three given two and then done zero
suppose that's when you really hit
bottom and that actually is the
counter-argument I think because most
people think they're advanced when
they're actually not they're mostly
intermediates right and so the
counter-argument is somebody who thinks
they're advanced is probably who is
overly constrictive is leaving gains on
the table whereas they take like I can
only train two muscle groups they
probably could have trained for and
there's made just as many gains if not
more now with more muscle groups that's
the argument now in the way that the
question is phrased for advanced people
I really can't think of any way around
that but the problem that you run into
is most people classify themselves as
advanced when they're actually not yeah
that's a bunch of stuff like people are
like they're the training for like a
year and a half like back priority mezzo
like what the fuck are you talking about
bro like your back beat you up at math
and you can also do chest and also do
triceps oh no Katie can the fuck out
here like you can you do everything yeah
I mean if you've been training for less
than two years it doesn't matter if you
stop training legs chest but I mean like
you just keep training everything at
that point and the thing is you only
have to train at like MeV you never even
have to go like you just just take your
MeV in two teeth go I just keep making
gains all over the place slow and steady
boom
number three I recently watch it ransom
for the concept webinars and I think
your framework behind rest periods is
incredibly simple yet very effective and
could save a lot of folks in the gyms
some time over long term if I
hypothetically Fuhrer is lifting in the
8 to 20 range or consistently to get two
or so less reps per set from their
training but rest 30 to 45 seconds
instead of 90 how much of those reps
really going to impact the lifters
long-term progress assuming that those
rep sets were stopped short because of
working muscles failure um so you have
to make up the volume somehow if you're
doing the same number of sets and you're
missing two reps per set because you're
resting 35 or 40 seconds you're gonna
miss out on a bit of gains if you were
advanced it can mean the difference
between making gains and not making any
gains at all mmm it's that that big of a
deal on the other hand if you just do
one or two more sets and still get out
of the gym way sooner you'll have the
identical hypertrophy
but with less time yeah that's it I
would say just cuz I know Tom here I
know he works with a lot of athletes so
I would say that might not be a great
strategy for any of your athletic pops
because you're gonna want to maintain a
higher intensity even during your high
plus the C type stuff but if it's just
for just talking physique then yeah just
you know add sets and that's good to go
if it's if it's more athletic base than
I would not do that
and saving time is not exactly your
number one priority of assets right Mike
that's they're there to do a good job so
alright I love this question and James
it's oh no oh no I think you're probably
just gonna beat me to it my wife
actually just got home she's gonna get a
kick out of me reading this question out
loud
listen are people ask question on e
number for biohacking
seems to be making a comeback in my
newsfeed of late is there really
literally anything to all this infrared
saunas ridiculously high dose omega-3s
tongue scraping that one it's not
scraping I haven't seen that one seen
that in adult films
Jack proteins is it all basically just
conclusions on rats studies that are
just inevitably going to be seen as
minimally effective on humans there are
science behind it but usually shitty and
usually it all gets enough when we
discredit it still it allows the
bulletproof guy to make a living and Ben
Greenfield is a millionaire
well James what's your verdict on
biohacker there is no such thing as
biohacking I mean like so there's a
there's a fine line to what you call bio
hacking and like new innovations that
are somewhat useful or do you have cool
unique so like the infrared is a good
example of that where it's like is that
bio hacking or is there actually some
merit to that there actually might be
some merit to that and I think the
infrared might be more applicable to
like physical therapy type situations I
don't know that to be true
don't don't bite my head off if I'm
wrong but that's one word for for most
of us it's a lame like you know
charlatans way of trying to do bio
hacking it doesn't have any real merit
to it but there could be situations
where that could be useful so in that
regard it's like walking that line other
things like tongue scraping a high dose
Omega threes like yeah there's the thing
is everybody's trying to find cheap
workarounds to doing the hard things
right doing the canoeing the hard
training the hard nutrition the hard
lifestyle balance like getting sleep
everyone wants to find a little fucking
way around that and the thing is there's
just not there's just no way around you
just have to do those things and you
just have to do them to the best of your
ability you might not be able to do them
at the level of a professional athlete
you just have to do them the best that
you can
right and understand the compromises
that you have with your lifestyle and
your performance related goals
there's no pill there's no magic drug
there's no like thing laser that you can
shoot yourself with that's going to
circumvent the need for hard training
reasonable nutrition reasonable
lifestyle and intersecting those things
with like reasonable mindset and
psychology like there's no way around it
there's nothing that will fix those
things I've tried this is something that
I suppose we you know now that these are
book bookmarked on YouTube it's good but
we could say something about this the
term hacking as far as I understand it
is essentially subverting the security
protocols of a system and infiltrating a
system that's high best no hacking an
additional extension to that definition
can include utilizing certain systemic
components for uses for which they were
not intended right it's a subcategory
because you need to infiltrate before
you could do that now the taking vitamin
E isn't either fucking one of those
things your body is not designed to
fight off vitamin E and vitamin E is not
making your body do some shit that it's
not supposed to be doing like well
you're like look look if you could take
a weird drug like subdermal E that's not
normally available by mixing it with
another drug and then that allowed you
to like push sprinkles out of your ass
instead of poop that would be hacking
that would be bio hacking that's not
what's going on right specially if you
can eat those sprinkles later and have
one maybe like but they came out of your
ass like look but it's not loop I'm
telling you it's like it in parentheses
it's like the Taco Bell meat it's like
98 percent Spring Hill sorry what's the
other two per seasonally has he
sprinkles may contain poop it's
definitely contained what the FDA thinks
it's we're good to go
alright James this one's all you
although our hell our quick rant before
I let you get into it oh no
finally we James actually have two
things to talk to you about after
webinars concluded and one of them was
on this point they'll get something and
oh yes UFC questionnaire it's a Brazil
ok Brazil training and do you have seen
that's what I saw okay ah finally we
hopefully maybe have some live sports
again
the fights what do you think of 21st
allegedly he just trains all day there
are videos of him kicking steel poles
and just doing a kind of weird shit
random questions thanks Adam time for
answers so my only thing I'll say before
I let James Jenness water park is
motherfucker doesn't rain all day I hate
that shit
most people in MMA don't fucking barely
wake up to train at all they don't train
at all until fight camp shows up and
then they be able to show up in the veil
engineers came all the way there are
hard-working people in MMA usually X
wrestlers I mean I believe Tony Ferguson
was an X wrestler but the all-day thing
is like out there some days maybe he
trains for a very long time doesn't rain
all day every day that's nonsense
and if he does do that I would never
copy in a million years because just
gonna fuck you up
so James yeah the man is clearly unwell
right and I mean that to be joking and I
actually mean that to be serious he does
have like some issues that he's working
on simultaneous joke yeah like funny
also serious
yikes yeah so I listen to a lot of MMA
podcasts and everybody seems to say that
Tony is like a really hard-working guy
like he's always the first one to
practice last one to leave kind of guy I
agree with Mike though it's like when
people say they're training all day
that's bullshit but everybody does seem
to think that he's like a really
hard-working guy I am super fucking
pumped I got a that reminds me I gotta
push my best I got to put my bets on I
think I think Tony's gonna take this one
I just engag okay this is kind of a
shitty thing for Tony cuz it's like he's
gonna win yet he's fighting for the
interim title which he never lost you
know what I mean so he's like he's gonna
win the interim title again having never
lost it which is a big bonus the same
classes have me better different class
same class so then the next fuckness a
need not happen
Habib's stuck who beats the champ he's
the champ champ you're that revision
thing and so this will be for the
interim which basically is like if the
number one contender more or less I see
okay so then whoever wins that fight
goes on to fight huh beep once he's not
been blocked out so the Conor things not
happening anymore
no fuck you Conor get out of here dude I
don't know if you saw the this is a
great time to be an MMA fan all the
fights on the main card are basically
headliner worthy fights I mean there's
some great fights coming up this weekend
I am so fucking pumped to have sports
back I cannot tell you I was actually
Mel and I hung out with
Marrissa the other night and we were lot
you went social distancing yeah no I
mean like we're basically in quarantine
as it is so we presented no risk to that
at least for sure and we were both like
so amped up about some sports right
because you get used to watching like
football basketball whatever I've been
watching the I don't know I don't know
if you been watching on ESPN they have a
what's it called the last dance which is
like the Bulls docu-series and that's
been given me but fucking goosebumps
getting me bleep I heard it's amazing
and I heard us not gonna be on Netflix
for a while because it's only on ESPN
stuff you have Disney Plus though right
not anymore
you got rid of it oh okay I was gonna
say then you could watch it Bob it's
really good though it's definitely
really good if you have anybody with an
account you can you know get there long
again yeah but yeah I'm sorry uh I'm
super stoked I think Tony's gonna take
it I think Justin has a good chance of
giving him a good giving him a good
clobber and maybe getting a knockout but
I think Tony is he's just on fire man
he's just can't be he can't be beat yeah
fictional phunkfist says hi box as I
mostly power l'affaire find your answer
to Khalid regarding an immediate Emory
strength training extremely useful but I
wanted to follow up to make sure I
understood thoroughly would you
recommend to be training at a median
increased intensity until mev is MRV has
reached yes correct
for Jax training Charlotte I may be an
increase load on the bar until MRV is
reached not number of sense and like
we've talked about this before look if
you're looking at a strength block of
like maybe three mezzos of strength what
you might find I'm just like week one is
like MeV right week two maybe you add a
set on a couple exercises and
low-balling it's just look cuz the
intensity was also a big change from
whatever you did last time and then from
that point on you maybe added a few sets
in week two and then at that point it's
just intensity increases for like the
rest of the block from that point on
that actually happens with volume for
advanced people in hypertrophy myself
and Charlie like are like first week we
do MeV second week we up the volume
third week a lot of times we keep the
volume the same because Eve just the
loading additions at that point are
enough to grow like shit if we keep
going like this we're going to burn out
and then the fourth week we do another
volume boost because we're overreaching
it we don't
to hear from a fifth week which was
deeper so a lot of times you'll even
have that when you're tensed all right
PS that sharpened turd James had me stab
myself with Oh - being a fountain of
cottage cheese like yellow pus makes
reading difficult I named Lyle Oh
so endearing he's a big man who's there
big bust man you're bouncing em says hey
Doc super Co question when using the set
algorithm of nutrition performance do I
only compare the relative sets for
example of mine at 10 10 9 4 R 3 and
week one and 10 10 9 7 with heavier
weights for R&R - do I exclude the
fourth set for comparison as they will
no force of the previous week yes 100%
yes tis nothing to compare - absolutely
in my mind there is no drop-off in
performance as the fourth set is in
addition and the lower reps are expected
absolutely
so I'd rate this as a 1 or whatever
adding one set would be I would of
course take fatigue into account but
thus for example I miss your name
completely recover before the next
session totally that's it yeah
absolutely
yep all right so let us move into the
land of you and the land of tube let us
go and I haven't clicked on a Greg
descent menu in about five months and
it's all I get is Greg - so oh sorry I
just saw that Eddie vs Thor thing and
did you see that they're gonna box yeah
how funny is that sure brilliant that's
brilliant angel and they're gonna gas
out and someone's gonna die or it's
gonna be highly entertaining oh that
totally agree but it's also a brilliant
PR move on their part
a brilliant PR move I speak reviews
they're gonna make a lot of money I
think it's awesome but two strongest
humans on the planet fighting it out I
will say that believe Eddie Hall has
actually been trained in boxing
technically I think you're right that
would go very very poorly for Thor so
did you see Chad's his rent on the
unforce video it was excellent
yeah he was shutting people down they're
like hey you you don't know the fucker
talking about it was awesome is that
chad has a Chad knows when he's talking
about something he knows a lot
and what other people like but he's like
no you're wrong shut the fuck up dude
totally alright let's get to some
questions there's a book uh lullaby
lifter says I have a physically
demanding job that is highly fatiguing
specifically to my biceps back and soul
make sense the worst I struggle to
organize training around this fatigue
and I would love some guidance
I have ponder of 2x daily sessions as I
have 30 to 45 minutes six days a week to
train before my babysitter realizes I'm
home but since I'm basically getting a
12-hour workday of junk volume I'm not
sure if it would have much effect
thoughts thanks
PS James favorite anime manga a graphic
novel I recommend berserk or mr. miracle
to all up for a read all right so real
quick my answer to this would be because
you're getting really really fatigued in
these areas there's just something you
can't ever get back if there's no amount
of rearranging that there's gonna rely
Minh ate that fatigue but what I can't
say to you is some to a day session
might be good for some heavy work on
biceps specifically because back you
should be prioritizing anyway and doing
fresh
but some like if you're really fatigued
already and you hit back and then he hit
biceps after and the bicycle is just all
pure drug volume so you might want to do
some two days to get some fresh bicep
work keep the volume relatively low keep
the loading relatively high to get that
like a real fast which stuff that you
just normally wouldn't get so yeah I
think that's a good suggestion and you
might even consider actually just taking
some of those muscles down to like MV
for a little while maybe just run like
two mezzos where you just not I don't
want to call like a priority mess up but
just uh you know just train them very
lightly see if you recuperate well and
kind of see how the next mesocycles go
after that because it might you might
find that actually just resent izing
those a little bit more frequently buys
you a little bit more productive
training time throughout the year
because they're getting so much use
day-to-day who knows favorite anime
graphic novel my favorite grana my
favorite manga is all you need is kill
excellent anime is hard to pick is there
so many good ones but right now I'd have
to say my hero academia is excellent
very very good if you're into it's like
it's like Venture Brothers if you guys
like Venture Brothers it's like Japanese
version of that it's funny I saw another
one good aha
Riley if MeV is 12 is doing six sets
unsession one mean that the session
wasn't able to produce growth due to
being under any D so depends on what
kind of MeV if your MeV per session is
12 yes success will do nothing if your
MeV per week is 12 remember you have to
specify how many sessions that's for if
your MeV is 12 per week and you do 6
that's on session 1 that means you're
going to get enough of an anti catabolic
stimulus to throw you through sorry
enough and anabolism to keep growth
going net positive for roughly half a
week if you do anything short of 6 again
in the second half of the week you will
drop below MeV which means you will have
no net growth at all that being said if
you do so 6 sessions in a sort of 6
that's in session 1 and then in session
2 you do 6 or 7 then those combined
sessions cumulatively add more and more
muscle over time but if you do 6 in-1
and you let's say 3 in the next one
you're really at maintenance volume
because the 6 does grow some muscle but
then the three grows no muscle and then
the muscle you grew on the first one
sort of dissipates because it's not
being reinforced and so on and so forth
so yeah and that's why I mean the weekly
use of the volume landmarks is handy but
it is you have to consider the
intersectionality of volume frequency
and intensity at that point so then it
becomes more complicated whereas like
the session would make a lot more sense
if it was easy to measure but it's not
so the weekly see just a more practical
proxy for the time being
oh here's a good one
kings in the north asks what gyms reopen
I would assume a massive change in
exercise selection mid mesocycle would
be the worst possible reaction
absolutely would you recommend
delivering and starting a fresh
mesocycle upon reopening or finished
current mezzo at home mostly same
exercises bit of a gym with this all I
teach depending on how deep into my
cycle you are so I think you can
actually change mid mental cycle but
what you have to do is realized that
because of the variation there's
actually an Instagram post I just made
that it's a cop quote out of the volume
landmarks book about novelties effect on
any Vienna Marvy and it's very large
because you're going to be entering into
exercises of so much more disruptive
periods they have just a lower enemies
to begin with and because of a huge
novelty increase the general volume
range is going to be shifted down a
tongue which means that if you're let's
say used to doing 10 sets of quads at
home in week two in a week three you're
back at the gym do not do 12 sets at the
gym of quads because that will fuck you
up
I'm novelty and the fact that you're
using the novel exercises like WordPress
is a natural way to barbell squats and
hack squats there's so much better so I
would go back to what basically what
under your usual MeV so I would actually
go let's say your week to your new at
home and week three I would go to like
six sets or four sets of stuff at the
gym and then slowly open up and do
another amount of cycle so you don't
have to deal oat but start way lower
than you think because you're gonna get
hit up much harder than you think yeah
and if you're training at home was going
relatively productively I would say just
finish out your mesocycle and then go to
the gym later like the other thing is
the first couple weeks when it reopens
it's gonna be a zoo anyway it's gonna be
disaster so maybe I guess me some people
might just be scared to go but no it's
true
my guess is there's gonna be mobs of
people that could be totally wrong but
that would be my guess and if your
training was going good like otherwise
like just finish it out and then start
starting anew and then it's the
advantage becomes a lot less complicated
yeah if it was going bad like if it was
kind of getting
like this socks and I hate it I
understand it's not what I would
recommend but I wouldn't blame you if
you wanted to go to the gym and start
kind of over for you boom that was good
that was good got through quite a bit
what does anything James any kind of
nope still working on that second
blowing Landmarks book we're hoping to
have a draft 2-0 by August and then I'm
gonna submit it to the group for some
content edits so just waiting on Chad
and Jake to finish their contributions
and that's about it for me what about
you oh that's it well wrap this one up
for this week folks keep submitting
those excellent questions if you want to
have your questions
absolutely answered our pre plus is the
way to go and if you want to maybe
answer post them in the YouTube comments
and we will pick and choose week to week
which ones we think are spicy for now
we're taking off comm zombies