hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization
our training modality video for today is
about super sets hey doesn't that sound
super
anyway
what the hell are super sets they're
actually two types of supersets we're
only talking about one here there is a
type of superset called uh an antagonist
muscle superset or an unrelated muscle
superset where you do muscles one set
for a group of muscles and then your
next set sup superseted with no rest
between is for an intentionally uh
uninvolved set of muscles so for example
you do your chest and triceps of close
grip bench and then immediately you go
into inverted rows and you do your back
and biceps with rows
that's a superset yes but it's not the
kind we're talking about here those are
antagonistic or unrelated supersets
they're designed to maximize how much
total work you get in minimum time in
the gym they're not ideal for
hypertrophy because if you do close grip
work and then you do right after your
back work a lot of times especially if
you're bigger and stronger if you don't
rest between sets the systemic fatigue
is so massive it prevents you from doing
a lot of good work on whatever that
second set is that second exercise and
then maybe it's not ideal great time
Savers a lot of you can still use it but
since this is a really Advanced
hypertrophy stuff we're only talking
about today Agonist supersets that is
you do an isolation movement for the
Target muscle let's say Skull Crushers
or triceps
and then right after you do a movement
that is compound but is still limited by
the triceps something like an overhead
dumbbell press or something like that so
Skull Crushers put the bar down get up
overhead dumbbell press okay that way
your triceps get a decent stimulus in
that first exercise but then when they
are already fatigued close to failure
they are the limiting factor you do a
compound exercise it used to be that
overhead dumbbell presses are for front
delts good stimulus and triceps great
stimulus but now because your triceps
enter that exercise as almost dead and
your front delts enter move completely
fresh more or less every single of the
five to ten reps you'll grind out of
those dumbbell presses will be your
triceps are close to failure close to
failure close to failure and we know
from tons of research and theory that if
we train very close to failure more that
magnifies the stimulus a tongue it
essentially lets us these Agonist
supersets take them muscle and train it
with an isolation and a compound but the
effect is like double the isolation
really awesome way to use compounds to
extra train that muscle that we want so
what you do is set for whatever
isolation muscles you want and then with
no rest generally or as long as it takes
translucent exercises do a compound
exercise at which that muscle is
involved it is way way ideally the
limiting factor
what are the upsides to training this of
course afterwards so it's called
Crushers dumbbell press rest a normal
amount of time and then hit it again
Skull Crushers No Rest dumbbell press
rest normal and then go again
here are the upsides first of all you
can get an amazing stimulus especially
for muscles that generally
have compound exercises that can train
them really well
and maybe don't respond as much to
isolation movement so for example if you
do lying or seated hamstring curls very
well on a good machine
that hits the hamstrings even though
it's isolation so well motherfucker you
don't need any super sensors you're good
five sets of that shit by itself is
gonna fry you the fuck up however some
people get in a situation where let's
say for triceps they do push Downs till
they're blue in the face but what they
really like to do is dips because dips
fuck their triceps up like crazy but
they also fuck up their chest and their
front delts it's a great all-around
pushing exercise what they can do
especially if they're really strong is
take that not so ideal tricep push down
and use it not so much to stimulate
growth on its own but to pre-fatigue the
triceps so that when you switch to
something like dips afterwards your
triceps are by far the limiting factor
they're closer to failure the entire
time and then they get most of the
effort because think your packs will
eventually turn on to try to help you do
as many dips as possible but they only
get to be active for a few seconds until
you fail completely your triceps are
close to failure that entire time which
is a really really big deal
because supersets
well eliminate a whole thing of rest
they can actually save you some time
generally you do lots of them to pound
the volume so it's not a specific time
saver but it's certainly less uh time
than doing all the straight sets and
then doing all the compound sets later
on that second movement on that compound
movement supersets can allow you to have
an unbelievable mind muscle connection
for example if you're using dips and you
feel the tricep pretty well but you'd
really like more out of your dips
pre-exhausting your triceps with
something like push Downs can as soon as
you start doing dips you go holy shit I
feel only my triceps which can be a
really awesome thing if my muscle
connection is a problem for you
and
lastly
you can use these in a sandwich style
which means what you do compound heavy
work
for that muscle so for example let's say
weighted dips or heavy Skull Crushers
for triceps check then
because the compound heavy work is done
and the fast storage fibers are fatigued
we need to pound in the rest of the work
then you can go to push Downs superseted
with something like old flat dumbbell
press put push down super sacrify
dumbbell press allows you to get the
heavy work in because the big critique
against supersets is if you do the
isolation movement first you kind of
pre-exhaust your muscles and then you're
not going to be able to do a compound
with much load if you do a compound
first but as a stone exercise you check
that box then a superset after lets you
check both the heavy high tension low
rep box and the metabolite super high
rep box at the same time minimal amount
of total effort max amount of stimulus
superception of the shit they're
especially good if a muscle just won't
fucking grow and not only will it not
grow but the isolation movements you're
using with it you do them and you finish
them and you're like ah yes I guess I
feel a bit of a pump I guess I feel some
tension but I'm really not pushing my
muscle to the limits if you combine that
isolation movement
and intelligently use a compound after
that still hits that muscle group that
you are targeting you can get way more
stimulus and be like holy fuck I don't
know what I would do if not for these
supersets
there are downsides of course as with
everything
if
you can't check
the four Factor rest boxes before that
compound shows up it's not a good idea
so somebody could say like okay well
let's see isolation if I'm doing lap
prayers I can do a whole set of lat
prayers and then a set of pull downs and
it'll be an awesome superset maybe but
for some people that prayer is such a
huge range of motion for such a large
group of muscles that after you finish a
set of lap prayers you're like
it doesn't feel like an isolation it
feels like you did some fucking work if
you do pull Downs right after you're
just so tired the set of pull Downs is
mostly junk volume
so the good thing about isolation
supersets is you generally start out
with an isolation movement but if that
isolation movement is so hardcore for
you that afterwards you need to rest a
really long time to do the compounded
benefit it's probably not a good idea so
this is not an end-all be-all it has to
be that the muscle you're targeting
generally covers quite quickly and
doesn't tax your systemic abilities at
all the cool thing is is we use
supersets precisely four muscles that
are struggling to develop and oftentimes
those same muscles they just barely do
hardly shit at all so it doesn't even
make you that tired right
a last set of downsides this is a very
sort of uh very insightful insightful
patting myself on my back a little bit
more of a thoughtful biomechanics
related critique
research has confirmed that if you
pre-exhaust your triceps with isolations
and then you do a compound pushing move
in which there's really only two degrees
of freedom elbow and shoulder okay then
what ends up happening is if your
triceps are really tired but you're
still pushing the bar your pecs are
actually called upon more to contract
than your triceps are and they end up
getting a good stimulus an even better
stimulus than your triceps and all the
fuck up we didn't do all those Skull
Crushers to get into the bench and have
our chest take over and get the the
biggest effects we want our triceps to
take over how the fuck do you do that
well if you have only two degrees of
freedom shoulder elbow then if your
triceps are mechanic or like let's say
chemically we just turn them off like we
just deadened the nerves for a while
just with your pecs alone you can do a
close grip bench no problem because the
pecs bring this joint here and that's
actually the only thing going on two
degrees of freedom means really just one
thing happening right it's like
extension and this flexion happening at
the same time and either muscle can be
taken over no problem so if your triceps
are too tired your pecs take over it
violates the whole purpose because your
triceps aren't even pushing close to
failure you're actually hey we got this
tries to smoke sweet take over uh I'm
done anyway I'm tired from the isolation
before no bueno we want an extra degree
of Freedom so here's the deal
instead so you do some push Downs don't
go lying down and do close grip bench
try this instead try dumbbell press
because here's the thing
how the fuck are you supposed to
dumbbell press with gesture packs if
your triceps are so fucking weak they
don't do anything watch this I tried a
bench only with my packs ready
my triceps have to turn on to do this
I'll just knock the dumbbells in and
guess what your triceps are already
tired and now they have to turn on to
extend your hands and because they have
to do it your chest is only playing a
supporting role now we're back in that
ideal version of supersets where your
chest was like Hey I'm going to help you
as much as you can triceps to cross the
finish line and the triceps like fuck I
had to do shit myself they're going to
be going super close to failure the
entire time and your
ability to press those dumbbells will be
limited by your triceps they will be the
ones that lead to the failure they will
be the ones that get the most stimulus
similar idea let's say you do leg
extensions for your quads and then you
go into leg press well yeah it can kind
of work as a pre-exhaust however
leg press again there's just hip joint
knee joint that's really the only thing
that's involved
you can have completely deactivated
quads and still do the entire leg
pressing motion no problem with your
glutes
so if your quads are tired your glutes
just take over and Dick happens and now
you have a better glute pump than quad
pumping like fuck I think I'm doing
something wrong so a better exercise is
if you do leg extensions pretty close to
failure as the first set in the superset
the isolation what do you do after uh I
would say a good idea is to get into the
squat because again if you only use your
glutes in the squat and not your quads
okay here's your uh femur here's your
upper body you're going to be down here
if you only use your glutes you're just
going to fall backwards this part here
to extend your knee has to be your quads
there's no other way out of it so if you
do a crap load of leg extensions and
then you run over to the squat rack or
smith machine or something you can't
possibly just use your glutes it's
impossible you have to actually use your
quads then their limiting factor then
they get the most benefit all right so
give this some thought if you have any
questions put them in the comments below
if you absolutely love what I'm saying
subscribe if you really love what I'm
saying just send me money please look at
how thin I've gotten I can't even afford
to eat anymore see you guys next time