is excess sugar causing the obesity
epidemic tonight news at 11.
jk dr mike here for renaissance
periodization we'll just answer this now
you don't have to wait till 11 and 11
what time zone what a stupid transition
that was here's the claim
being made
turns out it's a myth uh-oh
part of true claim
obesity has been rising rapidly in the
developed world since the 1970s and in
the developing world these all bad terms
since like the 1990s so basically like
anytime countries get a above a certain
level of wealth the people there start
to get pretty fat and then fatter and
then fatter and then fatter not forever
probably but for a lot big bump right
and the claim here is that this has been
because of rising sugar intakes
and there is a subclaim sometimes
mentioned
that the usda food guide pyramid
recommended such a high sugar and carb
consumption turns out it didn't
recommend a sugar consumption but it did
recommend a high carb consumption
that people followed it and then they
got super duper fat because of these
excess carbs and sugars and that's all
super super bad right
reasons is wrong
this is reason's not on the slides but
i'll mention it uh the usda food guide
pyramid is a total red herring of an
argument because no one actually ever
follow the fucking thing
like people sometimes for some
argumentative reason we'll assume that
people follow uh voluntary government
recommendations on nutrition to like
weave together a conspiracy theory like
yeah man the corn producing companies
paid off the usda and they made this
pyramid with all this grains in the
bottom so you'd feed the grain industry
sure let's say that's fine that let's
say that happened i'm not sure if it did
i'm sure some of that happened to a
small level
and they say and then americans start
following the pyramid they get fat who
you know ever followed the usda food
guide pyramid the shit was like the like
a picture you looked at in school where
you're like i guess
sugars and bats are just little dots
this is the worst art i've ever seen in
my life it was like if 1982 was a piece
of shitty art that's what that was no
one ever followed the shit if they did
they'd probably lose some weight and uh
body fat because it shed like sugars
oils sweets and fats keep a minimum
nobody ever did that part so first of
all red herring out of the way secondly
more specifically with sugar and obesity
for a long time
as far as i can read charts since the
late 90s
sugar consumption has been going down in
the united states
and obesity has been going up okay it's
not the late 90s anymore it's the early
2020s isn't that like a cool futuristic
robot thing to say like digital elon
musk comes out and gets the ark sword or
whatever from halo and cuts my head off
that'd be sweet i would gladly die like
that by the way but
it's 20 21 it's been like man fuck it's
been like 25 years and obesity's been
going up but sugar intake has been
falling for a while now and then
flatlined
and it's just man if you're trying to
get a one-to-one correlation or a
causation effect going one goes up and
the other one goes down it seemed to be
no relationship ugh and there was a
relationship for a long time so between
1980 and 1995 you could be totally
forgiven for thinking this fine
hypothesis nowadays data like that it's
really hard to deal with by the way um
uh
stefan
guinee guinea i swear to god i think
that's how you pronounce his name
uh he's great if you can he invented i
believe the food palatability reward
hypothesis which is the hugest greatest
discovery and nutrition of all time
amazing the guy is great if you look at
his rogue and interview i think he
debates as uh taub's character debate
didn't go well for him because people
thought he was really mean but it turns
out i think gary tobbs is mostly just a
fucking liar um
did i say that out loud i meant it
gladly debate that guy
in real life bro jk it would be a
non-violent only intellectual debate but
on serious notes to find a uh sorry for
butchering your name sir amazing person
he summarized this data that's the data
i'm citing next
just as a cursory glance
vegans especially 90s vegans who
actually ate mostly unprocessed food
nowadays vegans can eat all the same
junk and they get just as fat as
everyone else
90s vegans and endurance athletes eat a
fucking inordinate amount of
carbohydrate and a ton of sugar
and in the 90s vegans were leaner than
damn near everyone
super low weight super great health and
endurance athletes are all those things
still and continue to be what you're
saying sugar not excess calories because
the people here will be very specific
it's not that the sugar raises calories
it's something bad about the sugar sugar
is what we call independently
obesiogenic causes body fat gain just by
its own internal mechanisms without
reliance on anything else
if you're saying that we've got tons of
groups of people who eat a crapload of
sugar all the time and don't seem to
gain any weight or fat or have poor
health results which e-whiz that is
really a problem for like the obesity
epidemic now
before you anti-sugar pro fat people get
too crazy in the comments we do
encourage you to get crazy in the
comments
uh
the the same thing is true with fats
through the 80s and 90s people dietary
fat is terrible it's killing you and
saturated fats are for sure killing you
well it turns out that there's tons of
groups of people they need a crapload of
dietary fat and they're not fat and
they're out of shape they're unhealthy
why because point number three
if you constrain your calories to what
you need every day even if a huge
fraction of them is sugar and the rest
is just good uh other stuff fiber and
protein and stuff like that
you generally don't gain any more weight
than thermodynamics would predict you
don't gain any more fat um it's just
kind of the same and if you take away
all that sugar or most of it and replace
it with a ton of fat mostly healthy fat
hopefully
you still fat doesn't magically make you
fat
it's all about calories at the end of
the day in this context
so
gee you know the sugar fat thing or the
sugar obesity thing just doesn't stand
on a whole whole bunch of legs
unfortunately or fortunately depending
on your opinion now there are grains of
truth to this
extra refined sugar
can contribute loads of calories to your
foods very easily so if you have like
peaches and you just eat a peach
very few calories very few carbs very
few anything and fills you up really
nice
they do sell peaches in cans i'm told
and a lot of times it's not in water
it's in syrup which is also carbs so
it's a sugary peach in more sugar if you
eat those shits you get like triple the
number of calories with like half the
satiety a matter of fact after you eat
one if you like canned peaches you're
like fuck i kind of want another one but
after your regular peach you're like
whatever right so it turns out that if
you add sugar to stuff a lot of times it
makes it hyper tasty and it doubles and
triples the calories and that's not
great and that's why people who drink a
lot of sodas juices
taking a crapload of baked goods without
the exercise on the back end like you
folks to make sure to use that as fuel
they tend to get fatter
that's the kicker so it's not that it's
sugar is totally fine it doesn't cause
obesity if you don't break through out
of your calories but if you break out of
your calories that's a bad thing and
added sugar is an easy way to break out
of your calories if you're not tracking
your accounting and so on and so forth
and
more problematically
super tasty sugary filled foods super
tasty foods a subcategory of which are
sugar-filled ones can cause more
cravings for such foods it is not an
addiction mechanism but it's like i kind
of want more of this it sets up a cycle
of you feed and then you want more and
you feed more and you gain more weight
and then you end up significantly over
fat and voila obesity epidemic
i've turned this the pringles effect uh
whoever makes pringles frito-lay
incorporated maybe please for love god
do not sue me i love your company i i'm
a huge patron of your foods in a
calorically constrained context of
course but you know once you pop you
can't stop uh you have one pringle i've
never had a single printer no i have had
a single print in my life it was
elementary school and a kid brought them
to school he was nice enough to share
with a few of us and he gave me one
pringle and i had one and i was like
this is the worst decision of my life
because now i want infinity pringles i
want to live in a land made of pringles
i want to marry a wife also made of
pringles and have hybrid human pringle
children that's not too much to ask but
i only got one fucking chip and i ate it
and it's gone i don't even remember how
it tastes but i have this faint idea
that was the most miraculous thing ever
i wanted more the pop once you pop can't
stop thing that's a thing and high sugar
foods can you know like you eat have an
oreo cookie
can i have another one right that's a
thing but if you have like foods that
don't have a lot of added sugar like
regular fresh fruit i think you'll have
like a watermelon and you're like it's
fine it tastes fine you have another and
you're done right so added sugars can
actually help with that effect help
which just stay hurt and make you eat
way more and then potentially lead to
obesity so here's the deal at the end of
the day what are the best practices
first obesity is no longer a mystery it
used to be very mysterious now it's not
really much of a mystery anymore there
could be some other facets to this but
are probably pretty minor but here are
the major ones people are richer you go
to really poor places fat people are
rare for an obvious reason i'm literally
i'm gonna say so if you can't figure it
out
holy shit life's gonna be really
complicated
people are richer people generally like
super tasty foods and they just fucking
do they like the tastiest foods they can
get
and if tasty foods are offered for a
relatively cheap amount of money if
they're convenient and super easy to
make or require no preparation at all
then a lot of people eat them they like
them they want them more and they eat
them more and the cycle repeats and
voila obesity so the way we get obesity
is actually mostly just
a lot of junk food
right uh in the absence of lots of junk
food consumption or real hearty foods
that are super tasty it just don't see a
whole lot of obesity and that makes a
lot of sense right
now
sometimes these foods that fit this
profile are just high in sugar or
nothing else but most of the time
they're high in everything else as well
high in sugar and in fat i think about
snickers bar like i've actually you know
had a snickers bar in my hand and
someone's like aren't you worried about
sugar i'm like i thought you were gonna
say saturated fat and they're like well
why would you be worried about that i
don't know same stupid reason to be
worried about sugar
but snickers bar is loaded with sugar
and fat
and salt and flavorings that's how you
get all the super tasty foods
that is the difference between sushi
japanese style and sushi american style
which is delicious with all the fried
shit and the drizzled
you know sweet shit fuck that it's
awesome way more calories you want to
eat away more and if it's competitively
priced like almost all junk food is then
all of a sudden you can really get
carried away and eat a ton of food if
you're not tracking you're not
physically active
you're not a meathead like us
and then uh it gets to be a higher
chance of obesity that really is just
the thing
so how do you combat this by yourself
and what do you tell friends and
relatives that are asking eat mostly low
processed healthy foods lots of lean
meats veggies fruits whole grains
healthy fats for most of your meals and
you majorly reduce obesity risk because
it's just tough to overeat those things
and in context some tasty junk food is
totally fine and a ton of sugar is
totally fine as long as you keep your
calories in check over the long term
your weekly average calories are still
in check you're not gaining weight and
if you're not gaining weight hey have
plenty of treats and if you start
gaining weight control your diet to
where it's a little bit more boring a
little more healthy food a little less
junk and then you're you're well on your
way folks
i've been doctor my kisser tell this has
been so fun
see you next time