hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's topic is how to
transform your physique fast
getting
your biggest visual change
in about four to six weeks
it's a secret that celebrities don't
want you to know
well
maybe they don't know it either so
here is the purpose of this video let's
say your goal is to make the biggest
visual impact quickly
and you have between four or six weeks
to do it
what do you do
what exact things do you manipulate with
your diet your training recovery etc
in order to make the biggest visual
impact
one of the reasons i made this video is
because a while back i was actually
contacted by hollywood people that's
right famous
and um
they had a pitch for a show and they did
a pilot episode and it never got picked
up because of my involvement of course
but um
they were asking me hey listen what
sorts of workouts and what sorts of
diets are going to give the biggest
visual impact because the reality show
was like people are trying to get jacked
and they sort of follow him around
and
i gave my piece some of the advice was
taken some was not as almost always
occurs in hollywood consultation
but uh now i'm sharing with you guys
what i would figure is kind of the tip
of the spear
we have a show to film in four to six
weeks we need to get people in unreal
shape or even if it's a transformation
contest it would be the fastest way to
transform and here are the details
before we give you the how-to
there are some rules and expectations
first of all
this is something to understand
intellectually before you even enter the
process fat loss is the biggest path to
massive visual changes quickly
you can't gain muscle very fast
and
for that reason if you let's say have
five weeks and then you have to be um oh
you know at a photo shoot with your
fiance let's say you somehow
accidentally um
said the right thing to a girl a few
times and then you're gonna get married
you're gonna be getting engaged soon or
something like that
and i was like getting married soon and
the fiancee was like hey like you know
he gave me this ring and it was on the
beach this is great can we get some
photos taken of the two of us just like
fiance pictures people do weird shit
like that that's white people shit out
there
so
fine okay five weeks you're like not in
amazing shape you could sort of
hypothesize well you know if i got
bigger
more muscular i would look considerably
more different
the problem is
maybe if you do unreal things you can
gain
a few pounds
two to three pounds of muscle in five
weeks that'd be really impressive
especially if you're not coming off of
injury or off of de-training or
something like that
okay fine how much fat can you lose in
five weeks would you wish maybe like 10
pounds
right
you're not going to gain 10 pounds of
muscle and then the visual effect is
wildly widely different so you have to
remember
when i sort of open up this diet and
training protocol you're going to notice
that it is a brutal fat loss diet and
there's for a very good reason because
per amount of matter we can move moving
fat out rather than muscle in
per gram accomplishes a bigger visual
impact in the short term plain and
simple
right
number two
anything less than a month to try to
look notably better is probably too
short you can try it you can go on a
three week diet same principles as i'll
describe in a bit but you may be
underwhelmed for how much effort it
takes maybe dieted your ass off for
three weeks and and one person at the
photo shoot is like oh you look pretty
good and you're like really like i think
actually the sun is uh coming down a
different angle you look the same as
always god damn it right so i wouldn't
recommend it i would say at least four
weeks
up to six weeks okay that's how long we
can implement this exact protocol of
course you can die conventionally but
that's going to be a little bit more of
a sustainable diet and it won't be as
insane
to that point number three
it'll be brutal
the brutality is something you just have
to make peace with because
you're the person that decided to wait
until five weeks out to look good well
maybe it's snuck up on you and that's
totally fine that if you want to pull
that lever there's some shit's going to
go down right it's kind of like you know
if you're on a submarine
launching thermonuclear warheads and you
know you lose radio contact or something
like that
like you pulling that plug of launch
this has really big consequences and
before you press the button or whatever
the hell shit works to launch the
trident missiles from the sub to go
destroy the world with nukes you
understand i guess this is going to be a
very different world if i press this
button so just the same way
it is going to be brutal if you press
the button to go okay i want this fast
transformation won't be fun i mean if
you're a masochist it'll be hilarious
amazing but short of that you're getting
into some shit it's a good thing from
two perspectives one if you're doing
this it's good to psychologically
prepare for what you're gonna be going
through because you know at least then
you don't have to suffer uh supper at
least you don't have to suffer from the
idea of surprise you're like if uh you
wake up and a bug is biting you that's
terrible it's a surprise and it's
unpleasant but if you're like you're in
the middle of the jungle and bugs have
been biting you for the whole day and
one lands on you and bites you you're
just like ah fuck
right same idea as if you're expecting
the workouts and training to really
really suck the diet to really suck then
you know like day 15 you're gonna be
like yeah like it's going fine based on
how i expected if you think oh you know
i've done fitness challenges before i'll
just eat a little bit less and do a bit
more it's not gonna cut it it's gonna be
brutal and so the second reason you want
is to tell future
people that will do this through you
because many of you are personal
trainers or coaches or help people with
their fitness one way or another and
some of you may very well have friends
approach you and say hey listen you know
i gotta
i got a bachelorette party here in five
weeks and i'm not trying to look awful
so help me out i want to do as much as i
can you have to tell them look it's
going to be terrible you're going to
want to quit all the time if they say
yes then at least communication existed
point number four yes the transformation
itself the four or five weeks that you
do this
it will transform a physique
considerably
but
at the margins because it's only four or
five weeks
it's not as much transformation as it
could be and thus
the fractional difference
in how you look that day based on what
you do the day before peaking hydration
carbohydrates things like that that
makes a big difference on how you look
so for example if you're a bodybuilder
and you took 16 weeks to diet down to 3
fat motherfuck you lean one way or
another even if you miss your peak
altogether you're still gonna look lean
as fuck if you totally miss your
bodybuilding peak yeah you won't win the
show you won't take top five but you
walk out of the street with a shirt off
and people are like holy crap and i'm
like yeah i'm really out of shape
they're gonna be like what there's veins
on top of your abs and i think those
also have abs and veins on top of them
so
there's you know difficult to really
screw up a good visual appearance
fundamentally if you're already super
super lean in this case since you're
only losing maybe 8 to 12 pounds or
something like that of body fat yeah
it's a lot to lose in a short time but
if you really hit the peak right that
visual appearance is really gonna do
really awesome things as opposed to you
hit the peak wrong and it looks like you
lost only
six pounds of fat six pounds of fat is
notable but barely 12 pounds of fat is
very notable but if you do the wrong
things with your water and your salt and
your carbs you can look like you only
lost six even though you lost 12.
if however
you do the peaking
very properly you lost 12 you might look
like you lost 16 pounds of body fat and
even gained some pounds of muscle so
peaking is very important we'll cover
that in here and then lastly hugely this
is a no-brainer i'll say it anyway this
is not sustainable you do not simply
take two of these and put them back to
back and go hey there's a 12-week diet
you won't last and if you do last you'll
have such a nasty diet rebound that
you'll just get fat all over again and
the whole process will be miserable so
those are the rules let's get to the
methods and as per usual hopefully i'm
trying to make this as straightforward
as possible there's no real big tricks
here once you guys sort of hear me talk
about it you're going to be like ah shit
i could have told you that
so first for diet
in protein you eat your
body weight in pounds and grams of
protein so if you ate 200 pounds eating
200 grams a day
very straightforward
for carbs
you could keep them minimal which is to
say 5 to 10 grams per meal
okay
that sucks
and all of it usually in veggies so
green veggies especially the amount of
fullness they give you and the amount of
micronutrients they give you for how few
calories they have is the best of all
the foods so it's just going to be lean
meat and
steamed or grilled or
fresh raw mostly greens
that you know a total of 10 grams of
carbs if you subtract out the fiber
which is a lot of greens but you'll need
them because you'll be starving to death
fats are traced from proteins that means
you can even eat things like salmon
pretty fatty proteins i wouldn't eat
like
pork sausage or anything keep them
bodybuilding-esque foods but you can eat
even slightly fatter meats as long as
you keep those carbs to 5-10 per meal
and veggies trace fats come along if you
really want to lose faster and you
really like
really want to make a dent then you cut
your fats in those meats considerably so
eat like
lean fish and chicken and egg whites and
then you have between zero and three
grams of fat per meal or something like
that and you will lose fat incredibly
fast and feel competently awful
my recommendation is to do four meals
because the meals are bigger you can get
fuller from them and have more of a
psychological satiety if you have little
tiny tiny meals and you're eating like a
bird it's going to drive you insane
my next recommendation is to have the
first meal three hours after you wake up
to push more of the food towards the
evening so that you can have your last
meal just before bed not the ultra
hunger between meals and because you'll
have your last meal just before bed it
satiates you just enough to let you go
to sleep because sleep is critical and
you may be in a position where sleep is
very difficult to get because you're
such a huge deficit your body's starving
on all systems it's going to wake you up
it's going to prevent you from go to
sleep it's going to make you hungry this
doesn't solve the problem but it you
know mitigates it to the extent possible
given the magnitude of the caloric
deficit
point number two your weight training
five to six days per week of weights if
you want to present that best physique
you got to put as much throughput into
the muscles catabolism and anabolism is
possible okay you train twice a week you
look fine you train five to six days a
week for you know six weeks you're gonna
look pretty cool at the end right not
pounds and pounds of muscle but maybe a
few and maybe you can hope to retain all
of your muscle with this training volume
and if you retain all of your muscle by
losing eight to twelve pounds of fat gee
whiz you know that's notable that's
definitely notable you want to do full
body or a more technical way is you want
to train every muscle you want to keep
so if you just don't care uh like i
don't care about my calves if they get
way smaller during this who gives a shit
you don't have to train your calves but
every muscle you want to stay a similar
size and not shrink down and be pathetic
then you train that muscle so usually
it's full body
high volume generally you're pushing the
limits because you want the most
throughput possible high volume training
not only builds the most muscle it
breaks down the most muscle and requires
the most calories to repair so if you do
relatively high volume training then
your total amount of body change is very
high both on the fat burning end and the
muscle building and we want to maximize
that right
one to three reps in reserve generally
we're going pretty close to failure this
is hard training short rest intervals
are just fine for efficiency so if you
don't want to spend all day in the gym
you can do uh compound uh antagonistic
supersets like a set of pull-ups set a
bench that'll pull up set a bench a set
of squats out of upright rows and a
squat set of upper rows shit like that
it's awful it's brutal but it'll do the
job and what you want to do is try to
match or beat your reps and or load by
tiny amounts
but you're really your goal is just not
to get weaker so if you can be the same
strength in week one and the same
strength in week five right before you
peak you really won because the amount
of imposed short-term acute fatigue
through that paradigm is so high that
you probably gained muscle if you just
kept your performance the same if your
performance fell by a little bit you
probably just kept muscle if it falls by
a ton then you probably lost muscle and
that does not contribute to the best
look possible so push push it hard
desperately try to cling on to your
performance and the sets generally are
composed of 10 to 30 reps each you know
anywhere between there is good sets of 5
to 10 are fine but they tend to in the
short term cause a pretty pretty decent
level of like systemic fatigue for not
as much caloric throughput as that's a
five just don't burn as many calories
and here we're trying to burn so many
calories that your weight training
workouts as illustrated by the short
rest intervals being okay they double as
caloric burn workouts so sets of 10 to
30 reps will be brutal especially if you
do it in superset style but oh boy will
that burn a whole lot of calories for
you and helps on the other side of the
equation
cardio
the easiest way to do this is to get a
pedometer
voila i don't know who the fuck makes it
some chinese company you know what i'm
saying communist party knows where i am
at all times which is good i want them
to know
fools mortals but in any case um my fit
or something am i fit who the fuck knows
you can do better than me i just this is
a super cheap thing i had on amazon in
any case it counts steps
easiest way to go about this is to aim
for 15 to 20 000 steps per day the
entire time you're doing this crazy fat
loss challenge thing
super straightforward it'll feel like
you know you don't really have legs
towards the end of that but you will
have abs you know what i'm saying so
pluses and minuses
or you can do a baseline 10k
roughly 10k
and add roughly an hour of hard
elliptical
cardio or jogging or swimming or
whatever at a barely sustainable pace
you should be getting off that
elliptical machine covered in sweat and
like
like that for an hour each day or that's
10k steps or you go up to 20k steps
you know whichever one fits your
lifestyle and preference is the best
really just get you the same point
supplements a pre-workout will be very
helpful i don't ever take pre-workout if
i was doing one of these things i might
consider it you know because you are not
going to have a whole lot of energy
eating that basically almost no food
right protein sparing modified fast is
really what it is and you're going to
want some pre-workout in many cases
because it'll help you train hard and do
cardio hard which is really good
vitamins and minerals uh you should take
just anyway i would take a multivitamin
multimineral anyway i do every day five
grams of daily creatine monohydrates a
fine idea good boost in performance it's
anti-catabolic
and um for many people you know some
caffeine uh coffee tea shit like that uh
early in the day for most because you
know one does not operate on protein
alone
you can but it doesn't feel so great and
your mind's gonna be all uh you know
really loosey-goosey so if you wanna
still be an apt human being yeah i would
recommend some caffeine
again i don't do it but a lot of people
get a lot out of it
all right that's how you do the thing
you notice it's like really just one
mesocycle's worth of instruction because
it's just one mesocycle that you can
pull this off when you peek it's super
important to get things right if you
want to look the leanest and most full
so simultaneously leanest and most
muscular looking you just follow a
couple super easy steps the day before
you want that good look the big look
right you're taking pictures of your abs
you're uh making your fucks white
profile so you want a nice picture of
your abs plus cock you know like you
take it like this
because you get hard first
we get in trouble for this scott
all right yeah send send your pictures
to fuck swipe you know when you get in
good shape it's good it's the american
thing to do in any case
you got a big day
the day before is important the day of
you're going to look good peaks are
actually quite easy to maintain
they're very difficult to achieve
however we're going to go a very short
simple route first
that entire day let's say saturday
morning you've got to shoot with your
fiance and then after a big date and
flowers hopefully get lucky maybe at the
end so morning you got to look good for
the shoot and you guys are going to be
doing a couple different outfits beach
stuff and then tuxedo stuff so you know
you got to look good
that's saturday here's what you do
friday friday you wake up
and you reduce fluid to a bare minimum
that entire day so thursday you drink
normal amount of water friday you drink
just enough fluid to get the food down
okay
i usually have to be honest with
yourself
because if you're just drinking for the
enjoyment
don't do that
a lot of times you can get food down
with no water whatsoever um for you know
one of my most recent shows that i did
i had a whole day before i didn't
consume any water and the day before
that was almost no water but a lot of
times i would start eating rice cakes
which is the worst possible thing
because they make it super thirsty
and like immediately after you've rice
cake you're like fuck fuck i need water
but then like you keep chewing and
swallowing them they don't clean out
your teeth through your tongue and after
about 15 to 30 seconds you're like
actually i'm fine so if you can do that
great you're not going to get dehydrated
clinically there's zero fucking chance
of that happening within one day unless
you really somehow fuck up or you're
walking around saudi arabia or some shit
the sun's killing you so reduce fluid to
a bare minimum which can mean look for
you know if you had number oriented
people out there
one liter uh to half a liter half a
liter to one liter maximum if you're
doing more than a liter i don't know
what the fuck you're doing
next consume only trace sodium and fiber
very low fiber
right and very low sodium fiber tends to
store water in your gi tract it'll make
you look poofy if you lower the fiber
all that will scoot out and your waist
will look nice and tight the next day
sodium stores water under your skin
which makes you look fat
if you minimize sodium for a long time
your body gets really sensitive to it it
really pulls it in it makes you look
worse but just for a day you wake up
looking very dry and also you don't
barely take it in water so that's a
double effect
and then you think okay great i'll look
really dry but it'll look stringy
you take a normal amount of proteins in
that day
you take your carbs you do four times
your body weight in pounds so if you 200
pounds that's 800 grams of carbohydrate
in one day split over you know four to
six meals whatever makes you happy
and
half of your body weight in pounds
uh in grams of fat so if you weigh 200
pounds that's 100 grams of fat spread
evenly throughout the day and you know
whichever foods are
not very high in fluids so don't like
eat your carbs and fruit because you
won't drop a whole lot of body water
foods that have very little sodium and
fiber so we just knocked out almost all
fruits pretty much all of them uh
bananas are still fine right trace
sodium uh that's a lot of white rice you
feel me that you're eating
look at the labels pasta just normal
pasta has a crap ton of sodium not in a
bad way it's just part of the food um so
pasta's inadmissible for this so a lot
of the times this has to be white rice
and like whey shakes or chicken
whey protein puddings terrible terrible
stuff
and the fats you know like natural nut
butter is a great choice because it's
completely free of sodium
and it has all the fats you need and
very little of anything else and it
doesn't take up a whole lot of room in
your stomach it has some fiber in it but
full of god two tablespoons that's no
big deal
if you do this
especially eating more of the food in
the beginning of the day so that by 8 pm
or so you're done eating
your gi tract has time to process and
get a couple poops going so by the time
you go to the photo shoot at 11 a.m the
next morning your waist is really tight
everything looks really nice as opposed
to being like hey photographers can you
give me 15 minutes i got a little food
baby i got to deliver and then you take
a dump and they're like wow your waist
got smaller yeah you should see the dump
of course you take pictures of it you
would show everyone you post it on
instagram that's what i do
so if this blows really well which it
should there's not any magic you wake up
the next day with much fuller muscles
than you're used to having and at the
same time very little water under your
skin both in your body and your face
like right now i'm
carrying quite a bit of fluids i did not
do this yesterday right um but you know
your face looks a little thinner a
little willem dafoe type action and uh
there's your best look we all want to
look like willem dafoe in the end
all right so you did it
what do you do after because we just
really really push the physiology pretty
hard first you want to take a massive
deload
eat as much clean food as you want i
would be easy on the cheat food for at
least the first week because your
rebound hunger is going to be insane if
you get a bunch of cheap food you're
going to eat like 10 000 calories a day
and you're going to regain all your body
fat so if you keep it clean but eat
plenty of food like you know tons of
oatmeal and chicken and all this other
stuff turkey and pasta
then you know you'll gain some fat but
it'll be relatively minimal
um
a week after that you switch to normal
eating and normal heart training after a
deload week and you know you'll still be
gaining some weight back this week
probably a lot of it's fluid and stuff
like that you may get very very
waterlogged a day or two after because
you got very dry the day before it's a
feedback mechanism no big deal
and as far as results of what you're
going to look like when you actually
peak
you know if you do this process
properly
you let's say just for four weeks just
for four not for six
you could be like eight pounds less fat
cause you could lose two pounds of fat
per week no problem in many cases and
you can lose no muscle
and because of the water peaking process
dried out the mussels or sorry they're
dried out under your skin filled up the
muscles with carbs and fluid you could
look 12 pounds less fat and more
muscular at the same time on that peak
day in just four weeks a little bit more
in five and a little bit more in six
longer than six is not recommended
because
it just throws you off like crazy and
it's just like pulling a slingshot to
get you to rebound as high as possible
and it'll cause massive fatigue increase
in injury risk and increase in just
psychologically you're like just like
fuck that right if you have a hollywood
celebrity you're prepping you want to do
this with them for eight weeks by week
seven they'll be like you know what i'm
gonna look as about as good as i can i'm
done with this diet and you're like oh
shit quit early and that really sucks
if you want fat loss at a greater scale
and you want to keep more of it off
because you'll probably regain half the
fat from this that's not terrible not
the best thing in the world
if you want to lose eight pounds of fat
and keep eight pounds off you need
something like an eight week diet not
like a four-week diet
that's it folks go out there
do your peek
go be a waiter or waitress at that one
restaurant in hollywood on that peak day
just
in a jolly way handing out plates and
food and then finally that executive
producer from that one show you love is
going to notice you you're going to be a
fucking star and that happens remember
remember i was your friend before all
this so make sure to invite me on the
set so i can uh i don't know what people
scott what do people do on set creep
around
yeah i'm overqualified i'll see you guys
next time