free minimum dose powerlifting program
from the real Doctor your just for you
yes we're bringing it back doctor pack
here real doctor just finished a 3-hour
open bypass heart surgery went horribly
cuz I had no idea how to do
it I'm not sure why they La me I did say
I'm a doctor it's their fault for not
knowing what a real doctor is hey ho rip
to the poor guy on the operation
table you were a real one and I
apologize I did let him know about some
of our new studies and the literature on
minimum of those trainings so I hope his
last moments were filled with
joy joking aside I am here with a free
minimum dose powerlifting template that
you can download and make super duper
minimum dose gains and actually get your
squad bench and deadlift to go up get
your powerlifting total to keep climbing
even during periods where things are
hectic or where your recovery resources
are limited I have partnered with Boost
camp and we have the program on their
app so you can have it on your phone
without downloading the awkward sheet
I've made which is available at minimum
training.com um and actually track your
workouts while you're lifting and and in
general just enroll give it five stars
comment and say how it's the best thing
that has ever happened to you but let's
get to the program actually before we do
that a little bit of background I did my
PhD on the minimum effective training
dose for power lifting specifically
doing a bunch of studies um from
Intervention studies where we got
lifters to actually follow some of the
protocols which have directly informed
this protocol to also interviewing
worldclass powerlifters and coaches
about the concept of the minimum dose
the minimum effective dose for
powerlifting specifically is an area of
research that is very dear to me and I
have interacted with a lot of highlevel
lifters U who have had a chance to
experiment with this sort of training
concept so without further Ado let's
take out the phone and look at the
program keep in mind this is a simple
six- we program that doesn't change from
week to week but I will give you a few
tips on how you can modify based on your
personal preference however let's get
right into it so this is a 3-day program
with a fourth day being as optional
which you can do whatever you like on
that day keep in mind this is meant for
people that are pressed for time and may
not have the recovery resources
available in order to actually bang out
proper long powerlifting session so
that's the context now if you're not a
powerlifter and you you still care about
SPD strength this program is totally
fine for you you don't necessarily need
to be a powerlifter to run this you
could run it even if you're just your
general you know SBD Enthusiast that
goes to the gym and has never competed
so starting with session one we have
back Squad as our first exercise and
that would be your competition Squad
ideally all the lifts that you do should
be your competition lifts because you're
only going to be doing a few lifts per
week but it's really not the end of the
world if you choose to do let's say a
high bar Squad versus a low bar Squad if
low bar is your competition stand so we
start with a singled at RP 9 to 9.5 keep
in mind this will be a daily maxing
although the evidence on proximity to
failure and strength shows you do not
need to go that close to failure in
order to maximize strength gains and
going a bit further away from failure
may be best in the context of minimum
dose training we don't have any direct
evidence looking at lower rpu work and
just you know a handful of sets per week
and the thinking here is that by doing a
daily Max single you are being super
specific with your training you're
essentially getting better and better at
doing heavy singles and mimicking the
requirements of a powerlifting
competition um thus the selection of an
RP 9 to 9.5 single staying closer to the
7 to8 RP range may be preferable and
that's totally fine for you to do so but
you'll have to make some slight
adjustments if you decide to deviate
from the RP range that has been
prescribed and that's why I've
prescribed 80% of the single which is
similar to what we did in our studies in
the form of two backup sets of three
reps following the single so you hit
your single you lift whatever you lift
you take 80% of that and then you do a
triple at an RP of 7 to9 now if you see
that 80% is too heavy and you are unable
to hit a triple at RP 7 to9 or it's too
light adjust the percentage as needed go
85% add a bit more weight but don't
necessarily take the 80% as absolute
gospel if you decide to modify the RP
for the top singles then that's where
you'll probably need to increase the
back of percentage by a substantial
amount so if you hit your single at RP 7
to8 you may need to go 90 95% of that
single and then do triples so that you
have two triples at an RP 7
to9 mov on we have the bench press now
on the bench press we have the exact
same concept but instead of just the top
single and the two back of triples we
then have 90% of the single as a back
off single so you're doing a heavy daily
Max single then taking 90% of that doing
another single and then taking 80% off
the first single and doing two triples
thankfully I am addressing powerlifters
so this is all super understandable for
you this is one of those rare moments
where I can be like ah I can say the
things exactly as I've laid them out
without explaining too much and my
fellow powerlifters or SBD enthusiasts
will understand if you do not understand
anything please comment below and I'll
be happy to help
you now I understand that many of you
necessarily want to just do SPD without
any sort of accessory work so I have two
optional slots below the two main
exercises for you to do some hypertrophy
work or accessory SD work in the form of
a single set at 6 to 12 reps at 9 to 10
RP keep in mind that going to 10 RP is
not necessary for maximizing hypertrophy
but in the context of minimum dose
training it may make sense for you to
hit failure just to make sure that
you're getting the most out of that
set now moving on to the second day the
second day is essentially the exact same
day as the first one but instead of the
squat now we have the deadlift so we
have deadlift top single back of triples
and then the same exact setup with the
beness and the accessories the same
adjustments that I've mentioned uh for
the first day also carry on to the
second day if you want to slightly
change the top single RP and then modify
the percentages feel free to do so and
last but not least the last day is
essentially the same exact day as the
first day where you do Squat and then
you do your bench and then you do your
accessories there's an optional fourth
day where you you can do literally
whatever you want but I assume that if
you're looking for a minimum effective
training those protocol you are likely
not somebody who wants to do even more
training keep in mind that with this
sort of protocol you should expect to
make solid gains in 6 to 12 weeks I
would recommend running this for 6 weeks
as it's intended seeing where you're
going seeing how you're progressing in
the gym because your daily Max singles
will be a good indication of whether
things are going well or not if you want
after six weeks take a few days off test
your um SBD strength see how things feel
and then decide whether you want to keep
running it or if you want to skip the
testing at 6 weeks and extend the the
protocol by another 6 weeks that's
totally fine just be mindful uh with
your expectations I would advise you to
check at 6 weeks see how things are
feeling and then take it from there
worst case scenario you've hit a couple
of mini PRS and then you jump back on it
I do think that you can run this for a
few months and make solid gains but
there will come a point where you will
need to add volume especially as a high
level competitive powerlifter things
though are not that difficult there so
if you've ran this program for a few
weeks uh for let's say 6 to8 weeks and
you are now feeling like you've
plateaued sessions feel way too easy way
too manageable and you have time and
energy to do a bit more just add an
extra set add an extra triple add an
extra couple of sets on your accessory
Bo and that's about it start with the
very basic skeleton and as time
progresses make slight adjustments
change the competition squad on one day
to Squad variation um add an extra set
here and there play around with a back
of rep ranges you can be very flexible
if you're trading longterm using this
sort of protocol don't take it as gospel
and there you have it easy peasy lemon
squeezy minimum dose powerlifting
protocol for all of you guys I'll out
there who may be powerlifters or SBD
enjoyers give it a go make sure to use
the link in the description to download
it either from the website minimum do
trading.com if you like uh using a
Google sheet for whatever reason but I
would recommend using the Boost Camp app
so you can make your life easier so you
can have it on your phone and please
feel free to leave some feedback in the
comments or ask any questions I'm sure
that aside from myself there are other
people that can share their experiences
with these sort of minimum dose
protocols with that said I've kept
things serious so I'll keep the outro
serious please don't forget to like
subscribe hit the notification icon and
then hit also the pr Bell at your local
gym when you PR your squad bench and
deadlift after 6 weeks of running this
protocol terms of the supply all time
here is not guaranteed I'm not a real
doctor I am an actual doctor I am a real
doctor I messed it up there this edit
that out
[Music]
peace