deep deep hold that deep
shit
yeah Christ that hurts hurts oh shit
what's up dud we really wore that today
we did we did Father and Son shut shut
up God God damn it are we good Scott hey
folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization also known as RP strength
our new name which is much easier to
pronounce and spell this is Jared
feather ifbb Pro I want
just get right on the record about this
I don't know who started this stupid
offensive rumor Jared is not my son he's
just my friend I have no idea why you
guys started this was honestly quite
rude I've never said that he was my son
I would never insult Jared that way in
many senses he's my dad Jared and I are
known for many things but having
incredible bicep genetics is absolutely
just not one of a lot of times when you
get advice from people that have really
amazing things like you know you have
amazing
triceps you talk to the guy that has
amazing triceps he might know a few
things about how to get big triceps and
there's totally truth in that but
there's also truth in talking to someone
who has dog shit genetics but had to
work their way out of the shit really
figure out what works for them and maybe
they sometimes the folks without the
great genetics for something can figure
out maybe some really clever shit that
might work for you if you have
genetically amazing biceps you can feel
free to tune in for the laws but but
honestly you don't need to watch this
video cuz just do whatever the fuck
seems to work you don't have
unbelievable IPS genetics we're on to
some shit one extracise that I've
started doing recently uh that I
invented that's right remember me
inventing this earlier I know when you
stole it from me and Hawk Harris back in
college yeah Hulk's not a real person's
name it really is is it really Hulk is
the person I did my first physique show
with this exercise looks a little goofy
but it fucking works and is the only
bicep exercise ever to give me repeat
back to back to back session multiple
day delayed onet muscle Soros so we're
going to teach you guys how to do lying
dumbbell bicep curls a huge bicep hack
Let's uh cut to the chase we're going to
warm up we're going to do a real workout
it's our PM session we're going to do
biceps and a little bit of shoulders
we'll talk you guys through the bicep
stuff and actually show you real work
sets let's get it going long intro ever
blood onner biceps bulletproof biceps
bulletproof biceps uh Jared said it
first but uh I get I get dips I get dips
all right don't you fucking steal that
let's get on to the actual exercise
[Music]
what you want to do is start at the very
deepest
stretch you can even touch the biceps or
the dumbbells to the ground and you're
just going to curl up normally and
you'll notice perfect and then down slow
under control you have to do The Descent
slow and under control because you'll
notice your shoulder is in a bit of an
interesting position this is a position
will make your shoulder stronger but
initially it's going to feel fucking a
little bit weird if it hurts your
shoulder you don't don't have to go down
super low there is another variation of
this let me explain it real quick as
Jared is warming up recent conversation
with Dr Milo wolf is a super expert on
actual biome mechanics of actual
training actually publishes studies I'm
getting ahead of myself and a few recent
Studies have shown something very
interesting one specifically but this is
very very curious the actual physical
stretch was tested in bicep curls in a
cable not this setup but same idea and
the actual physical stretch when you're
all the way down here in your biceps are
super popping
showed really awesome hypertrophy but as
long as the muscle was in lengthened
State even if it wasn't stretched to the
maximum and the force vectors were
maximized in that length and state you
actually had a very similar degree of
hypertrophy occurring which means what
that means for this bicep exercise and
anything you do with like a freemotion
curl machine there are kind of two ways
to do it and they're probably about
equivalent so you can try them both one
way is what you saw Jared do which is
you stretch super deep I get a front
delt stretch little Peck stretch bicep
stretch come up stretch super
deep stay at the bottom for a little bit
come up you'll notice there's way more
tension at the bottom and at the top
it's much easier which is exactly how
you want to train that's totally fine
but you may be in a position where like
I don't know my shoulders feel weird
going super low you don't have to go low
you can take your elbows and drive them
up to parallel to the bench right by
your ribs and curl like this holding and
then up curl like this
holding and then up notice my elbows
don't really fall down but the maximum
Force Vector is still here at the very
bottom the bicep is in a lengthen
position and then when it shortens the
force is way way way tinier arguably
zero here because gravity doesn't put
pull that way and so you can do these
like this or you can do them with a
super deep stretch
either way it's really really good stuff
ideally if you wanted the Deep stretch
you would do them decline where you were
up with your hips and then you get that
Max Force vector and the stretch at the
same time we're really splitting hairs
if I'm doing seated or standing dumbbell
or any other machine curls no tension
here Max tension here it's fucking
backwards is it really a big deal to do
exercises like this that put the tension
in the stretch versus doing standard
exercises to put no tension down here
and a ton at the peak contraction as far
as marginal gains in biceps are
concerned especially if you struggle
with growth yeah I think it's a big deal
and I think worst case you should just
try this exercise Let's uh get to
actually training so you guys see what
this looks like IRL
[Music]
Christ in a good in a good in a good way
this is kind of a neat
way to do it Jared is pushing his chest
up to pre-stretch the bicep even
more I think that gives us kind of a
little bit this is very hypothetical at
least perceptively it gives a onew punch
at the very bottom it's a psychotic
stretch not a ton of active tension
but then as you come up through the
movement you're still very much in a
lengthened position for the bicep
because of this pre-stretch and you hit
the hardest part of the movement which
is when the forearms are roughly
parallel to the ground so not only do
you get a psycho stretch right after
that there you go you get that Mega
fucking
hit of lengthened tension which is
awesome and then at the top it's super
easy you just clip in just to count the
rep and come right back down and you get
a little bit of a rest at the top which
is cool cuz you get to reset and really
ride that shit down you guys doing this
fast is probably not a path to injury
because you're pretty strong I just
wouldn't bet on it I wouldn't fucking
roll the dice especially on the way down
take your time and if you can last a
second or two down there am I right do
it because it's going to apply a
crapload length and tension and it's
going to be a beautiful
[Music]
Christ oh yeah that was fucking
sweet oh yeah I got crazy pump isn't
that wild one set bro this is different
and there's nothing wrong by the way
with you and all the other kinds of
curls they work they're super good all
we're saying is try this try to give it
some thought and try it in the gym might
going to buy some like that brother what
oh he's flexing couldn't have told
good stuff
folks start light on these start with
two or three sets probably
two and um make sure that you're
controlling that Ecentric and not
rapidly reversing out injury risk is low
in general from weight training we're
really putting the biceps into two
positions
one is a mechanically disadvantageous
position that one of stretches the
muscle a lot and puts a lot of tension
through it and two is that position but
you're unaccustomed to it so ease into
the shit try it give it some
thoughts let us know what you think in
the comments like subscribe bye bye if
you see anything by RP buy it
thoughtlessly see you guys next time
[Music]
a
[Music]