before we head out I should take a quick
look at what we've got thing is I
actually like rarely get that much
groceries like if if I'm on a fat loss
phase which I am right now I try to keep
my cupboards somewhat bare on purpose
just because then the temptation isn't
there but we're gonna go to the book
store anyway let go so in this video
we're gonna be doing a grocery haul an
actual real one this time I promise it's
not a troll' so a couple months ago you
guys know I posted that video with bro
Jeff going through and spewing all his
nonsense
and a few people commented on that video
and we're like oh I'm a little
disappointed I wanted to see an actual
grocery haul like what you actually get
on a trip to the grocery store so that's
what we to do in this video
my primary goal right now is fat loss so
I have entered a bit of a caloric
deficit my calories are just about 2500
calories a day which actually does have
me slightly losing now I think I'm more
active now than I've been in the past
like rashon and I are playing basketball
like all the time now so I'm a little
bit more active but I'm happy to be
losing very slightly on that caloric
intake and because my deficit is
relatively moderate or really quite
small my training performance in the gym
is still really good and I feel like I'm
really in a groove with both my training
and my nutrition I go in the gym give it
my honest best effort and then I almost
feel like I owe it to myself to be
accountable with my diet as well it's
almost like I'm putting in all that
effort in the gym then I better make
sure that my nutrition is on point as
well when it comes to optimizing your
approach you can do it intuitively
especially if you stick to you know the
same meals for the most part every day
but ever since the new year came around
I've been pretty meticulously tracking
for me that just means tracking my
caloric intake and setting a protein
minimum so like I said I'm at 2,500
calories and a minimum
of around 200 grams of protein per day
and then for carbs and fats I actually
don't track those too closely at all but
I do make sure I hit a fat minimum of
around 60 grams per day and I try not to
let it go over around 80 grams but other
than that I kind of just let them fall
where they may
another thing I have been doing is just
building consistency with my meals one
way I've been doing that is having the
exact same pre bed meal so I know that
no matter what I've always got this last
meal before I go to bed to help me
finish my macros so I won't have to go
to bed hungry or anything like that so
I'll probably share some more details on
that when we actually get in there and
I'll check in with you guys over the
grocery store let's go then you see the
coin this is one way to not draw
attention to yourself without a coulis
although okay hold it in like that and
clamp it in between your thumb so when
you look at it like that it looks like
it's gone see that but it's actually in
there so it's like you're like that
you know anything okay I've got a few
bananas I wouldn't say I eat a banana
every day but I probably eat one every
other day so I'll get three two that are
quite ripe and one that isn't quite
right yeah they look like clementines
but in the pink it looks like a
grapefruit false marketing but yeah
clementines usually have these like
pre-workout I always have some kind of
fruit pre-workout and how you eat a lot
of fruit in general I'm not like the
biggest veggie guy in the world like I
know vegetables are really important and
I eat my kale salad every day but I try
to eat more fruits than most just
because they're super nutritious as well
and really high fiber and a lot tastier
so I usually stock up on some
blackberries and some raspberries
blackberries are actually a really great
source of fiber
like I think per gram out of all the
berries blackberries is the highest in
fiber so I'll have these before I go to
bed sometimes just because they're super
filling for such a low caloric value
blueberries included those in my video
on superfoods always stock up on those
and occasionally I'll just get some
mixed fruit just to switch it up so
today I'm gonna get cantaloupe
cantaloupe is a really great source of
vitamin A just in general you want to
get fruits and vegetables of a bunch of
different colors you know throughout the
week so cantaloupe is one of my favorite
and I like to get this prepared just
because if I get the whole melon all
honestly probably just be too lazy to
cut it up and they'll go back
[Music]
slim pickins here at nighttime
Honeycrisp is my favorite type of Apple
at the moment so I'll get a couple of
these again I switch up my fruit sources
a lot but I always eat some kind of
fruit pre-workout and then usually a bit
more before bed so I just stock up on a
mix every week this is another fruit I
love I don't think I'm gonna get it
today because they look a little bit
like a little sketchy to be honest just
put Asian pears have you ever tried
these bro yeah I love Asian pears
they're super juicy not the most
nutritious fruit but they're really
filling but now I'm gonna leave those
for today oh is that what I think it is
it is not so I'm looking for Kiwis I
don't think I don't think they have any
here this isn't the grocery store that I
normally shop at and it's it's nighttime
so it looks like things have been picked
over a bit but I normally do include
sungold Kiwis here
I've been eating sungold Kiwis lately
just because the regular green ones are
at a season right now so we're going
with the sungold ones but they don't
have any here so I'm going to go to
another spot for those yeah I definitely
don't seem a little offended let's keep
them moving so this is the salad I
usually get so I get the sweet kale
salad mix with the poppy seed dressing
and pumpkin seeds and then I just mix in
a little extra spinach get a little
extra green action in there remember
from like an old Greg Plitt video rest
in peace - Greg Plitt by the way he gave
the advice I think was Greg Plitt that
you should spend the majority of your
time in the grocery store on the outside
so like don't spend too much time going
down the aisles and stuff because that's
where you're gonna hit all the processed
food I actually think that's pretty good
advice when I come to the grocery store
you know I send - I tend to start with
fruits and vegetables then go to the
lean meats and then kind of work my way
down the frozen and the aisles after
nothing wrong with that stuff is just
you know that shouldn't be the focus
that shouldn't be the place to start as
far as meats go actually wouldn't say
either
of meat I probably have maybe one meal
per day that's that contains meat and
usually it's ground turkey or ground
chicken so I haven't eaten red meat in
quite a while like I'll probably only
have it maybe two or three times a year
for ethical reasons as well as health
reasons so I do try to somewhat limit my
meat intake but I haven't been able to
totally limit it altogether but when I
do get meat I usually try to go for the
free run or free-range options in which
I'm not seeing here so hopefully I'll
have some luck so ground turkey it's not
the leanest ground turkey in the world
420 grams of protein 8 grams of fat
which is okay you can get leaner stuff
in the States but I'm gonna get this for
now I just find with the lean turkey
also it's a little easier to prepare
than like cold turkey breast
I just find with this I can throw it in
the pan mash it up and then throw it in
a Tupperware and I've got it for you
know three or four days worth of meals
and I just put this together with rice
which we'll get in a minute and that's a
super easy high protein and satiating
meal
[Music]
Atlantic salmon so I usually have one or
two servings of fish like this per week
so I just fry that up and that's a great
meal with some healthy fats very
satisfying I love salmon if you guys
have been watching for a while
I'm a little bit repetitive like I tend
to stick to the same foods but I think
that is a big part of your success as
well like you need to have stable
components to your diet and also
flexible components and it's the
flexible you know 20% that I'll swap it
in and out with whatever foods I happen
to crave or want that week I'll usually
get a couple carton cartons of these
free-range eggs maybe you guys can tell
me I feel like someone in my comment
section will know would it be considered
more ethical from like an animal
treatment perspective to go with
free-range eggs or is that just like a
marketing ploy that I've been falling
for because I'm trying to look at you
know my ethical contribution with regard
to my diet and I figured eating
free-range eggs is better than just
getting normal eggs so I've been getting
them I do happen to find them to be
higher quality as well so it works for
me but I'm just curious if like anyone
has any articles or anything that I
could read on that obviously the the
best thing to do would be to cut them
out altogether but eggs or such have
been such an important part of my diet
that I I am finding that difficult so
maybe that's good as like a first step
in the right direction I should say I
don't eat that many eggs a week I
separate the yolks and the whites so
I'll have one yolk and usually four
whites
every morning but I still get the whites
from the free-range ones just because I
don't personally like the consistency of
the curtain'd egg whites that's just me
but that's why there's two cartons of
eggs
[Music]
so so this is my new obsession
chocolatey chip echoes these are so good
it's only a hundred calories well 200
calories for two waffles you can put
some like zero calorie syrup on these
it's the perfect snack like if you're
craving something sweet sit down eat it
like a meal 200 calories piece of cake
all right so this is a big part of my
bedtime meal I was saying earlier that
one of the meals that I kind of have
locked into place is my bedtime meal so
that will be a half of one of these of
cottage cheese so that's one cup of
cottage cheese which is 30 grams of
protein and then I have a full bag of
low-fat popcorn and usually like some
blackberries and some crackers so it's
just like the most filling satisfying
meal and it'll also have the added
benefit of getting a slow digesting
proteins for you're not overly catabolic
while you sleep I've been talking about
this for a while but lately I've really
been consistent with it occasionally
I'll throw one of these in the microwave
so I like the chicken Fettuccine Lean
Cuisine 300 calories 20 grams of protein
if it's a night I'm not really feeling
like cooking anything up or if I'm just
being lazy these are actually pretty
decent on the macros oh yeah
if you're on limited calories this is
the best Ben and Jerry's chocolate milk
and cookies it's so good I actually
think it's just as they're almost just
as good as any of the other ones you've
got bits of cookie dough you've got bits
of brownies vanilla and chocolate ice
cream and it's only 150 calories per
half a cup so in between meals or after
a meal for craving something sweet this
is another really good option is way
better than like a halo top or something
like that just because it's so much more
textured even though it is slightly
higher calorie it's totally worth it for
me for rice I just get this this Minute
Rice
just for convenience sake so I'll take
this put it together with the ground
turkey some salsa and sour cream and
shredded cheese which I've already got
all those at home oh and for Raja I'm
putting that on everything lately
I'm obsessed with it I always make sure
I get some kind of diet soda so she's
getting ginger ale for now die ginger
ale definitely good for eating with
meals helping keep full Stephanie
actually did a really good video on
artificial sweeteners if that's
something that you're worried about or
not sure about so I can link that down
below along with a couple articles that
I've found to be pretty helpful in terms
of weighing out like the cost benefit of
artificial sweeteners but not something
I'm personally particularly concerned
about me to get something for intro
workout so lately I've been going with
Gatorade but I like to use like the one
of the single-use bottles of Gatorade
just because they're easier to grab on
the go so I need something that can sub
in for that or in for workout what are
you feeling what do you think for some
5-lakh rule 5 Alive is good let's check
it
what's the ingredients filtered water
fruit juices from concentrate and
glucose fructose that's all we want
sugar perfect but seriously but am i
realistically going to pop out the juice
box in the gym and sip I think I will
glucose and fructose you can use
multiple transporters I think I'm gonna
go with a 5 a live on this pretty
bedtime meal where are we popcorn this
has been a definite staple for my pre
bed meal so you get a ton of volume that
takes a long time to eat and pick at it
while you watch the TV or whatever if
you go for the low-fat option it's a
super high volume meal for very low
calories and super filling great source
of fiber definitely add this to list if
you haven't already
[Music]
alright guys we made it back home this
is the grocery haul so this isn't
everything I'll eat in a week for sure
but we did still have some stuff so I
didn't get like condiments or bread or
whatever another thing that I just
realized that's a huge staple for me
that I didn't include in this grocery
haul is beans and legumes and stuff
that's because my mom takes care of that
for me so she'll make me a big pot of
chili with like kidney beans and
chickpeas and ground turkey and it's
absolutely delicious super filling meal
I have that at least five days a week as
for me I'm gonna grab a quick
pre-workout meal and then we're gonna go
smash a full body workout it's super
late it's 9 p.m.
normally I wouldn't train this late but
I try to go to the gym when it's not too
busy for filming and I try to go to the
grocery store when it wasn't too busy so
sometimes I just gotta suck it up so
normally wouldn't have caffeine this
late but I am gonna have some
pre-workout because I said I wasn't
gonna use filming as an excuse not to
push myself as hard as I should be so
I'm gonna make sure I get an awesome
workout we're gonna fire up an edit
hope you guys really enjoy it and I'm
gonna finish with the edit so I'll see
you guys in the next one let's go
[Music]
funny we're just listening to that