hydration is a misunderstood Topic in
the health and fitness space in fact the
common recommendation of drinking eight
glasses of water per day may just be
based on either an offhand comment made
by a nutritionist several decades ago or
based on the obiturary of that very same
nutritionist so not even any actual
evidence so how much water should you be
drinking for health and to build muscle
is there a simple guideline you can
follow is it even something that you
need to worry about
welcome back Dr my wolf here today with
you PhD and Sport Science with wolf
coaching talking about hydration before
we head into this video I want to give a
quick primer on tax Army being
dehydrated actually isn't the right term
when it comes to being insufficiently
hydrated dehydration is the process of
going from normally hydrated or you
hydrated to becoming hypohydrated so
throughout this video I'll be ref
refering two things as U hydration when
you have sufficient hydration and
hypohydration first off when it comes to
hypohydration and its effects on lifting
not being sufficiently hydrated is a bad
thing when it comes to Performance in
the gym this is well established across
a variety of sports but it is also well
established when it comes to lifting
specifically let me give you an example
study in 2007 by judalon and CIS in this
study they took participants and had
them perform a training session composed
of six sets of squats at 8 80% of their
Max in three different conditions in two
of the conditions they performed incline
walking on a treadmill in a highly humid
and heated room as a means to lose body
water until they reach hyperhydration
statuses of having lost either 2 and 1
12% of their body weight or 5% of their
body weight the nerd and me there
considered saying body mass because
that's technically the scientifically
accurate term but then I'm reconsidered
cuz I'm no nerd you feel me check out
the neck that ain't no Pencil Neck you
hear me in the third condition they also
perform this incline walking to minimize
any confounding effect of the exercise
but they also rehydrated so that they
wouldn't suffer any hyperhydration just
as intended walking on a treadmill in a
humid heated room did result in
hypohydration when they were trying to
do so and then they wanted to see how
that hypohydration would impact their
subsequent squat performance within that
session and guess what it turns out that
being hypohydrated it's not good for
performance when they lost either 2 and
a half or 5% of their body mass through
dehydration they performed worse and as
You' expect they performed worse with 5%
versus 2 and 1 12% and well worst
performance within the gym probably
isn't a good thing when it comes to
stimulating muscle growth long term
interestingly though the authors also
looked at jumping performance and they
saw dehydration didn't really negatively
impact jumu performance in fact almost
the opposite and as it turns out that is
also the case in a variety of studies
within the broader literature indeed in
some studies dehydration can actually
enhance performance of body weight
dependent tasks like jumping and even
Marathon running where simply by being a
bit lighter that can increase your
performance because you're talking about
losing a substantial proportion of your
body weight and so even though
dehydration and being hypohydrated isn't
ideal for performance when it comes to
body weight dependent tasks it may not
be such a big deal and in fact the
reduction in your performance strictly
speaking might be offset by the
reduction in your body weight creating
overall a positive effect on your
performance but that is only in body
weight dependent situations and equally
that is largely outside of the scope of
this video we're talking about overall
health and specifically muscle building
and strength gains within the gym I
mentioned the study by J colleagues from
2007 as an example but there is a more
recent metanalysis on the topic of 28
studies looking at the effects of being
hyperhydrated on performance in terms of
muscle strength and in terms of strength
endurance or essentially doing sets of
multiple repetitions or similar tasks
across these 28 studies hypohydration
led to a reduction in muscle endurance
of on average
88.3% importantly there were a few
things to note one that reduction in
performance was similar for upper and
lower body performance two the reduction
in performance was a little bit
attenuated when it came to trained
participants as opposed to untrain
participants and three that reduction in
performance was substantially smaller
when it came to creating dehydration
through passive versus active means and
this is an important distinction because
passive dehydration for example involves
simply restricting your fluid intake
whereas active dehydration as was used
in some of these studies involves
exercising to lose fluids and at that
point it becomes difficult to tell did
your performance take a hit simply
because you were hypohydrated or that it
also take a hit because you exercised
and exercise causes fatigue the same
results were also found when it came to
muscle strength with a reduction in
performance of 5.5% when hypohydrated
compared to hydrated and in general some
research does suggest that even mild
hypohydration is not going to lead to
good things leading to for example
higher pain perception or higher
discomfort perception during exercise
and well that begs an important question
and that is how common is hypohydration
is it something that you need to be
worried about the bad news is it is
likely relatively common it's difficult
to get a precise estimate on this but
based on a study in soccer players or
football players depending on where you
live in the world around 35 to 80% of
soccer players suffer from mild
hypohydration before going into soccer
practice as I mentioned earlier this may
or may not be desirable when it comes to
body weight dependent tasks like soccer
but for us lifters it is not desirable
and so if the prevalence of even just
mild hypohydration is that high in
athletes presumably it may be something
that you want to worry about as well and
then that begs the next question which
is how much should you be drinking the
issue with that is it depends and it's
certainly not eight glasses per day for
everyone as it turns out and that's
where a paper by Yamada and colleagues
comes in that is actually quite helpful
they use data from a database of doubly
labeled water trials to figure out how
much different people should drink and
what sort of factors impact optimal
hydration or water intake using doubly
labeled water and the dilution principle
they were able to establish mean water
turnover or essentially how much water
goes into your body and out of your body
which can then tell us how much water
you need to consume in order to remain
you hydrated across different
populations and in different
environments and based on This research
it turns out there's a few determinants
of how much water you should be
consuming in order to stay you hydrated
some of the bigger ones are climate your
body size and specifically your fat pre
maps and finally your physical activity
levels here's a few broad takeaways or
generalizations we can draw from the
research one the higher the altitude you
live at the more water you need to drink
to remain hydrated two the warmer the
climate you live in both in terms of
temperature and in terms of humidity the
more water you'll need to consume to
remain you hydrated three the larger you
are specifically in terms of fat free
mass and not body fat the more water you
need to consume four the more physically
active you are the more water you need
to consume and this also explains by the
way in large part why men typically need
to consume more water than women it's
likely mostly because they are simply
heavier and have more fat-free Mass
importantly this relationship between
temperature and how much water you
should consume goes for anything above
10° whereas between about 10 and 0° it's
pretty similar below 0° C you would also
need to consume a little bit more water
as an example of the effect of climate
on water intake recommendations in the
summer versus in the spray on average
you may want to consume about7 L more
water now you might be saying all those
factors are cool but I want to know how
much I should drink well fortunately
they give a formula you can use to
derive roughly how much water you should
be consuming based on your circumstances
or at least the circumstances that are
likely to impact your water intake needs
unfortunately this formula is pretty
complicated so I'm going to give you
some broad generalizations that you can
use that are going to be a lot more
accurate than just drinking eight glass
es of water pretty a general guideline
one and big caveat to what I'm about to
say water intake can also occur from
food when you consume food especially
Whole Foods those will contain a good
amount of water so whenever I give you a
figure just keep that in mind most
individuals within most circumstances
will be U hydrated with about 3 to 4 L
of water intake per day in general to
help with this consider having some
fluids maybe a glass or two when you
wake up once you've Incorporated this
Broad recomend recommendation of 3 to 4
liters a day monitor thirst perception
if you're thirsty drink more and
specifically in certain conditions where
you're more prone to hypohydration for
example when you're exercising when
you're at altitude when you're in hotter
environments or in particularly cold
environments in those situations try and
drink a little bit past your thirst
likewise when it comes to training in
the gym you will likely be better off by
drinking a little bit more before a
session a little bit more during the
session and a little bit more after the
session to be on the safe side I ideally
you would be drinking enough to maintain
your body weight during your session
roughly then again I don't really expect
you to go ahead and weigh yourself
during your session to make sure you're
the exact same weight than as when you
started that would be a bit really heals
on a more long-term level your urine
color can be a pretty good predictor of
your overall hydration status if your
urine is consistently darker than about
light yellow but mostly transparent it's
a sign that you may want to drink more
if it's anything past dark yellow
definitely drink more so we discussed
that altitude high temperatures even low
temperatures being larger being more
physically active all those things can
impact your hydration status is there
anything else that predisposes you to
being hypohydrated well one claim you
may have heard is that coffee dehydrates
you turns out that isn't true based on a
recent paper looking at the beverage
hydration index of different beverages
coffee has a hydration index of pretty
close to one making it about as good for
hydrating your body as water itself for
context a beverage hydration index of
one is how hydrating water is so in fact
coffee isn't dehydrating you it is
hydrating you and just about as well as
water does and importantly that makes
sense because coffee is mostly just
water yeah you added some caffeine some
antioxidants some polyphenols maybe even
some Fiber and generally coffee is good
for your health as I've made a video
about before but it is mostly still just
water so it makes sense that it's
hydrating you besides coffee and water
being hydrating other beverages that
were particularly good at hydrating you
were unsurprisingly oral Sports
Solutions orange juice and generally
just milk but ultimately most of the
beverages being tested did about as good
of a job as water or sometimes even
better so outside of circumstances that
very much predispose you to being
hyperhydrated like running a marathon at
altitude or in high heat or doing a
crossfit workout with high volumes if
you're jacked outside of those
circumstances you probably don't need to
worry much about your beverage Choice as
long as driving some fluid diet soda
will do water will do coffee will do a
wide variety of things will do provided
your overall on top of your hydration
gate hydration 101 I broke down all of
the science on what to drink how much to
drink how it impacts your performance
whether you need to worry about it or
not for disclosure when I first got into
this video I thought this was going to
be a why hydration is overrated and your
body is good enough telling you when to
drink turns out that wasn't the case do
doing some research illuminated me if
you enjoyed the video please consider
commenting liking subscribing losing
your over this sweater yet again
the sweater it's pretty cool I agree it
apparently looks good on camera for some
reason I I don't get it I have a PhD in
sports science not in optical illusions
but at any rate I know half of you
aren't currently subscribed so I'd
really appreciate it if you could
subscribe even hit the Bell because I
know many of you haven't done that as
well bars if there's any other videos
you want to see me make about any topics
whatsoever leave a comment down below
and I'll get to it if you would like me
to coach you consider checking out the
link above and I could be your coach in
the meantime have a phenomenal day and I
will see you guys my subscribers in that
next one peace