foreign
to the house of hypertrophy when you
train we all know muscle and strength
games happen you may even know tendons
and Bones adapt too yet a lesser
appreciated adaptation is the repeated
bowel effect which directly links to
muscle damage recovery and fatigue it
also indirectly links to other training
areas like exercise selection training
volume and training frequency let's dive
into the repeated bow effect and then
discuss what it means for you
[Music]
when training intensely when you're
unaccustomed to it significant damage
and swelling of the muscle and
connective tissue prolonged decreases in
muscle strength delayed onset muscle
soreness and muscle stiffness happen in
the following days after chances are you
felt this if you're brand new to
training or you've returned to training
after a break and your first session is
super intense you'd have experienced
substantial soreness and fatigue in the
days after however when you repeat the
training this time you'll experience
lower damage and swelling of muscle and
connective tissue a lower reduction in
strength and lower delayed onset muscle
soreness and stiffness in the following
days why is this your body adapts to
protect your muscles from damage and
speed up your recovery this is the
repeated bow effect but how much can the
repeat about effect help your recovery
in the long term
foreign the best study to date showing
the potential power of the rbe is from
2020 out of Greece the researchers
recruited untrained men which is great
since their muscles tend to have the
greatest vulnerability to damage the
training was far from what most people
typically do I'll describe it in then
detail why this irregular training was a
great idea subjects trained their quads
on an isokinetic dynamometer which
applied forces to bend the knee
producing their Max effort to resist it
thus loading their quads under eccentric
contractions eccentric contractions are
where the muscle produces Force while
lengthening during the concentric
contractions the dynamometer did not
resist allowing them to extend their
knee easily so the training was
eccentric only a recession they
performed 15 of these eccentric only
repetitions for 5 sets with two minutes
of rest between the sets the training
was performed once a week for 10 weeks
why they say this training was a great
idea it would have been seriously
damaging eccentric contractions are
known to produce significant damage
higher rip numbers contrary to what may
be popular belief are more damaging and
the fact five sets were performed
further adds to the damage remember
subjects also produce their Max effort
to resist the dynamometer meaning these
eccentric contractions were maximal thus
inducing more fatigue than the sub Max
eccentric contractions occurring in
typical workouts the fact each rep was
Max effort also technically means as
subjects got stronger Progressive
overload naturally took place
[Music]
right before and one two three and five
days after each training session across
the 10 weeks numerous measurements were
taken to assess the subject's fatigue
specifically the pain-free range of
motion subjects could move their knee
joint through their delayed onset muscle
soreness levels their concentric
strength
their eccentric strength and their
isometric strength were measured on top
of these right before and two days after
each training session blood samples were
taken to measure creatine kinase which
is an indirect measure of muscle damage
and C-reactive protein which is a marker
of inflammation so what did the
researchers find
thank you
foreign
weeks of training their pain-free range
of motion and delayed onset muscle
soreness continuously decreased in the
following days after each training
session by weeks eight to ten the
subjects experienced virtually no
delayed onset muscle soreness compare
this to weeks one to three where
substantial soreness were seen after
training the recovery of their
concentric eccentric and isometric quad
strength across the 10 weeks became a
lot faster in the days after training
for example by week's 8-10 very little
decreases in eccentric strength was
experienced in the days after training
contrast this to weeks one to three
where the fatigue was a lot worse both
creatine kinase and C-reactive protein
continuously decreased across the 10
weeks indicating that the training was
producing very little to no damage and
inflammation in the later weeks
these findings indicate that rbe can be
powerful training that first produces a
ton of fatigue and damage for multiple
days after no longer really did so as
you continue to train across the weeks
now with recovery of concentric
eccentric and isometric quad strength
there wasn't always faster recovery
every single week for example with
isometric strength recovery When
comparing weeks seven to eight recovery
was slightly worse in week eight so it
can be normal for Recovery to fluctuate
between weeks you may even notice this
with your training but the key is when
looking at the bigger picture recovery
becomes faster so consistent training is
needed to develop the repeated bow
effect but consistent training is of
course crucial for hypertrophy and
strength tracking your workouts and
being aware of your progression can be
valuable and our partner Alpha
progression is truly a great app that
can help you aesthetic graphs can
visually display your progression with
things like your strength levels the
number of workouts you've completed your
body weight the number of sets you've
been performing and even circumference
measures of body regions you can input
your own program or explore their
flexible workout generator where you can
specify your training experience what
equipment you have
how long and how often you want to train
a great thing is the training variables
deployed in these workouts are based on
meta-analyzes and reviews from the
scientific literature plus you can still
edit these workouts allowing you to
individualize things the app also
contains a database of over 550
exercises with excellent video and text
tutorials behind each the link in the
comments and description gives you two
weeks free of all the app's features
plus 20 off a subscription if you do go
beyond the free trial at the house of
hyperchief we don't just partner up with
anyone so you can rest assured the app
is sincerely high quality
since the rbe lowers soreness and muscle
damage isn't this bad for building
muscle this assumes soreness and damage
are strong drivers of hypertrophy but
the research fails to support this we've
analyzed This research in a previous
video anyway what could the rbe
potentially mean for your training
exercises training muscles with a
stretch of great for hypertrophy this
study by Mao compared overhead
extensions to push Downs overhead
extensions stretched the long head of
the triceps triceps hypertrophy was
Superior with the overhead extensions
another mouse study compared seated to
Lang lekos seated Lego stretched the
bi-articular hamstring muscles more
hamstrings hypertrude was Superior with
a seated Legos but exercises training
muscles with a stretch can cause quite a
bit of muscle damage which may be
unideal if you'd like to train these
exercises with more volume or frequency
yet the rbe would suggest as time passes
your recovery from stretched exercises
should become quicker allowing you to
train them more if you'd like another
implication of the rbe is high frequency
training where you train a muscle in
five or more days per week can be viable
though initially some people may
struggle to recover between sessions the
rbe can change this across time indeed
as analyzed in our trading frequency
video there are studies showing high
frequency training to be perfectly fine
for building muscle in trained
individuals likewise the rbe also makes
it possible to handle more training
volume over time indeed as analyzed in
our video on set numbers increasing your
sets as you progress throughout your
training career might be helpful for
muscle hypertrophy finally the rbe can
make certain recovery worries not an
issue some people understandably have
recovery concerns about training to
failure or even past failure with
something like Drop sets your recovery
durations will likely always be longer
when you're training to failure or past
it but the rbe may make this not a
practical issue set your training three
times a week initially you may struggle
to recover from performing a few test 2
or pass failure position but with some
time the rbe develops and performing a
few sets to a pass failure May no longer
be a recovery concern
foreign
[Music]
with the Greek study we presented the
average results the researchers
fortunately provided the individual data
as well virtually all individuals aligns
with their average results seeing much
less fatigue from training across the 10
weeks yet there were seemingly around
two to four individuals who although saw
improvements across the 10 weeks still
experienced fairly notable fatigue after
training in a 10th week thus some
individuals fail to develop the rbe as
well as others ultimately with training
experience you should be able to
determine how your recovery progresses
perhaps you'll align with many
individuals who experience significantly
less fatigue over time or perhaps not of
course factors besides training such as
nutrition age stress levels and sleep
will all contribute to your recovery
foreign
[Applause]
[Music]
adaptation is the rbe which
significantly decreases the damage and
strength loss you see from training
intensely over time it has potential
links to training in these ways some may
be hungry for more information what
about accumulated fatigue is this really
a concern what about CNS fatigue and
connective tissues I actually plan to
have future videos on these so stay
tuned some may also be wondering does
fatigue and the repeats about effect
differ between muscles and if so does
this impact training volume and
frequency recommendations also is it
possible to develop the repeated about
effect without even experiencing damage
and soreness in the first place we've
answered these two questions on our new
patreon page we have a video detailing
how it is actually possible to develop
the repeated about effect without
experiencing damage and soreness in the
first place plus we have an article
analyzing the literature on how fatigue
and the repeats about effect May differ
between muscles I'd be sincerely
grateful if you consider checking out
the patreon page I'm hoping that the
content over there will be valuable and
in interesting to you if you don't like
it you're free to cancel at any time and
you can ask for a full refund and I will
grant it no further questions asked
foreign