a lot of people could go out and try to
hack Squad and could lead presses
intermediates or could dumbbell press
instead of barbell press but a lot of
people don't do that because oftentimes
they come from a cultural background of
low exercise selection what I mean their
cultural background like if you're
raised you know Ashkenazi Jew that means
you're stingy on the exercises watch me
get canceled for that one Israel okay
no not culture culture training culture
so for example if you started with a
program like starting strength that's a
culture it really is starting strength
is like five exercises in it which is
fun sweet for beginners as you become
intermediate you may realize that low
bar squats were pretty well for me but
not as well as they used to and honestly
my hips are kind of irritated and my
quads don't really feel a fun thing
anymore and you try some high bar squats
ah different exercises illegal but
higher immediate higher not a beginner
oh it's a good time to try that