squats can create a high degree of
systemic fatigue they beat up your whole
body which is dope because you get a lot
of benefits out of it but it's also
going to cost you in some
situations hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization today's video
is to compare hack squats to barbell
squats for muscle growth seeing where
how and why you should do one or the
other by the way Dr Mike isrel professor
of sport and exercise science and I'm
here to teach you how to get jacked get
lean and well I guess live your best
life for something like that if you like
this uh Channel and you like what I'm
trying to say give us a subscription but
I think that's a good thing in YouTube
land and also if you're subscribed we
have a members area with tons of N Stuff
get after that and today's well
essentially random question for you
thinkers imagine you're at the club and
an anthropomorphic zebra that's right
standing on two legs he's kind of
fucking jacked but he's zebra and he's
like hey bro you got a problem are you
following him out outside to settle shit
or are you going to be like dude I can't
I'm good man I'm sorry whatever I
stepped on your hoof or some shit are
you going to fight the zebra or not let
me know in the comments all right to
today's topic which unfortunately is not
about zebras I could spend a long time
talking about zebras though I know that
they're sort of like horses and half
stripes live in Africa and that's the
extent of my zebra knowledge I do know a
little bit more about hack squats and
barbell squats so let's compare the two
movements let's talk about barbell
squats first we're going to have the
benefits of barbell squats and the costs
kind of like downside of barbell squats
every single thing in this world has
benefits and costs Bar None So benefits
of barbell squatting free barbell squat
in Iraq usually with a high bar position
first barbell squats train the quads
very well absolutely in addition to that
they train the glutes the adductors and
the lower back quite well also all in
one movement really cool squats can make
you really real world strong because
they're technically a ballistic movement
and they require a lot of balance so if
you get to be a strong squatter you have
a really strong pushing component of
your lower body it's going to transfer
to real life and Sport super super well
another benefit of squats is that they
accommodate essentially almost all body
sizes and proportions because the
degrees of freedom for a barbell
movement are kind of infinite there's
going to be a something for everyone
with the barbell Squad like you could
get into a machine and just not be the
right size or shape for the machine but
the barbell you're probably the right
size and shape outside of some really
crazy exceptions and in the squat the
squat isn't just one exercise it's a
type of exercise with many subdivision
exercises in it that you can use as
variations you can put bar position from
front squat to high bar squat to low bar
squat that's three different squat
exercises all with the same Implement
you can vary your stance close medium
and wide you can sit back more you can
sit down more all kinds of variations so
when you're saying Hey how good of an
exercise is the squat you're really
talking about a Swiss army knife of
exercises which is really really awesome
now the squat the barbell squat has some
costs kind of some downsides things
that's not great now first it couldn't
require a lot of technique training to
master like One does not simply get good
at squatting unless you're Korean you
just do it the first time and it's
perfect seems to be my experience
but FRFR squats is a technical exercise
it's going to take you some time to
learn a lot of machines you get in you
look at the diagram picture on the
machine and you realize the machine
can't move any other way than exactly
the way it's supposed to move
automatically like you can only do it
right with a squat there's a lot of ways
to do it wrong and it's going to take
you some time to learn how to do it
right if you get off balance especially
with heavy loads in the squat you can
get hurt free weight movements have a
potential to hurt you in a way that
machines are unlikely to do squats can
create a high degree of systemic fatigue
they beat up your whole body this
they're kind of a not whole body
movement but a lot of your body's
involved so they can really beat that
ass which is dope because you get a lot
of benefits out of it but it's also
going to cost you in some
situations for some people in the squat
especially if you're proportioned with
shorter torso longer femur if your ankle
Mobility isn't great if your posterior
chain your glutes and your back aren't
as strong for folks like that that's
very many people the quads might not
even be the limiting factor in the squat
so if you're trying to use the squat to
grow your quads but you happen to be in
a group of people for whom the limiting
factor is their lower back or their
flexibility or whatever then the squats
are no longer a great exercise for your
quads they could still be a great
allaround lower body movement but maybe
not the ideal quad
movement even if you do them right and
even if you're well built for them your
back and your posterior chain which is
really your back your glutes your
hamstrings can get beat up a lot
especially via what's called axial
fatigue the squat bar squishes down on
your spine requires all the supporting
core musculature to be active and that
drains you and it can cost you later in
the week on movements for hamstrings or
for back in which you need your axial
skeleton the the part of your skeleton
that keeps you upright your spine and
pelvis and and shoulder girdle to be
fresh and squats can really beat you up
which isn't a terrible thing but it's
like if you really gas up squats couple
days later you go to stiff legged
deadlifts and your back's like fam
that's not going to work it's sure sh
not work as well as it could it could
hurt your barbell rowing so squats beat
you up in a systemic and axial way in a
way that other exercises preview like
the hack squat may not so it's a great
exercise but it comes with some costs
and squats cannot really be trained by
most people effectively with quads as
the limiting factor for higher sets
sorry for higher repetitions anything
over about 15 Reps for most people the
limiting factor for squats becomes
breathing one of the reasons is that the
bars continuing to crush you the entire
time and so your ability to stay upright
and keep your lungs expanded really
starts to degrade so you start to Cave
over and that's such a huge systemic
cardio component that after rep number
16 you're not like oh my quads are
really feeling tight and really close to
failure you're just standing there
between reps
going and it's it's just you're going to
stop because you can't breathe anymore
not because your quads are kicked out so
anything over about 15 reps is just not
an appropriate rep range for squats you
can still do them but at that point
you're working on cardio and less on
your quad stimulus to get as big of
quads as you can so definitely some
downsides there now let's look at hack
squats benefits they train the quads
very very well machine is purpose built
for that another benefit is they train
the adductors okay and the glutes a
little bit they don't train much of
anything else so definitely not as big
of a whole body benefit or a whole lower
body benefit as squats not by a
mile another benefit of hack squats is
they leave the posterior chain alone
quite well so if you like fry the shit
out of your quads with hack squats two
days later you can do stiffle a deadlift
and bent rows till you're blue in the
face no problem and your quads are sore
they're tired but your lower back your
glutes your hamstrings generally are
going to be largely unaffected by hack
squats hack squats in addition cause
much less systemic and even axial
fatigue than squats it's especially
apparent once you lock out a hack squat
rep and you lock your knees out don't
worry it's totally safe we have videos
on that at RP talking about why that
safe and if you just stand there for a
couple seconds and take some breaths
you'll notice the Implement isn't
crushing you a ton the machine takes a
ton of the load off for you now when
you're moving you're taking all the load
but when you're locked out leaned back
into it you're not getting a ton of
systemic and axial fatigue just milking
out your fatigue like crazy it's a thing
but it's very subtle whereas if you just
stand there with a squat bar between
reps you're going to just feel drained
and drained and drained so set for set
hack squats do do not beat up your
system they don't make you tired as much
for overall training they don't drain
you as much nor do they beat up your
axial skeleton nor do they beat up you
know cause a lot of axial fatigue nearly
as much as barbell squats
do because of the fact that you have a
bracing component with the machine you
can do higher reps functionally with
hack squats with the quad still being a
limiting factor so 15 to 20 reps no
problem especially if you do them like
Mya reps with rest breakes which you
can't do with barbell squats cuz just
collapse at some point cardio is often
not going to be the limiting factor with
hack squats and you can successfully do
higher repetition work so now with
regular barbell squats you you do in
sets of five to 10 or 10 to 15 those are
really the only two rep ranges with hack
squats you can do sets of 5 to 10 you
can do sets 10 to 15 and you can do sets
of 15 to 20 so it's instantly another
bubble of variation you get from hack
squats which was unavailable to you with
squats now what about the costs of hack
squats the downsides
for many shorter people short kings and
queens such as myself for example
although I was hanging out with Jeff
nippard once how's that for name drop
and uh when I said short Kings he asked
me if I meant short gods and I was like
I I took a KNE because it's Jeff Nipper
and I was like yes my Lord and Jeff
Nipper definitely is a short God I'm
still a short King because i't I'm
saying I ain't God but Scott the video
guy am I a short God yet I would say so
my man thank you for noticing me up
there and your Skyhigh do you know what
I'm saying how how what are you 5'10 or
some shit it's true you're like an
average as well you should and
morally so short Kings short Queens
might have a problem with hack squats
because many machines bought them out
before that deep stretch that greatly
limits the effect because the Deep
stretch at the very bottom of the of the
squat movement be it hack squat be it
leg press be it barbell squat when your
quads are when your hamstrings are
pushing against your calves and your
quads are shearing apart that's actually
the most muscle growth promoting part of
the movement and many hack squats are
designed to bottom out before that
mostly for the sake of safety because
they don't want someone to pin and
fucking shoot their asshole out of the
machine they don't know what they're
doing but because of that they set the
pins relatively high and many tall
people can get a great full range of
motion especially the bottom stretch but
shorter people sometimes can't and that
means as a short king or queen you might
have to do some barbell squatting in
order to get that super uh lengthened
portion because you just might not be
available to you because the two hack
squat machines that you're May both be
uh I was going to say too tall for you
to access you to put up a little stool
and get on the machine it's not what I
mean uh they bot him out too soon that's
definitely a thing and you know what I'm
saying your boy would be bottoming shit
out here left right center isn't that
right ha and I don't mean machines
either big homies I mean girls and
they're I think I've seen an
encyclopedia about sex and they had that
in there Scott the video guy what does
it mean to bottom out in the context of
when two people are in love with each
other in the bedroom all night together
I think that's an urban myth you don't
think it happens to me I don't think
it's possible to happen not what I'm
working you know what I'm saying it's my
boy honesty is the most attractive
characteristic I just thought it
straight up Tello bitch I ain't gonna do
you dirty like that your boy ain't
packing and she's like dope let's get
out of here do whatever we can with that
whatever you got it's going to be
disappointing even then in any case I
digress second downside of the hack
squat is remember the squat has a ton of
variation you got bar positions you got
foot stances that's at least like
fucking six variations right there if
not nine or some shit in the hack
squat uh maybe foot position though wide
stance hack squats feel kind of fucking
weird so you might be able to do like
wider and narrower that's two variations
and maybe just rep range now luckily
there's three rep range variations
instead of two that we can have for
regular squats but um really the hack
Squad is the hack Squad is the hack
squat this is not much it's just one
thing you just do one thing in there
it's like more extreme example will be
like a like a low row machine like what
can you do with it like well you just
that's it but if you have a barbell with
which to do rows oh my God you can do
low you can do underhand you can do high
all kinds of stuff so definitely less
variation um so if someone's like I want
to train legs but I have a home gym
should I buy hack squat usually it's
like oh hold on no you can only really
do one thing on there do you sure you
want to spend $5,000 and you know 10
square feet of space in your gym to just
be able to do one thing you could get a
power act and do a 100 things so that's
definitely downside and because of the
frictional component like with all
machines the hacks squat um makes the
concentric phase a little bit harder
than it needs to be and the Ecentric a
little easier it's kind of the opposite
of what we would want to optimize
hypertrophy when a very very difficult
Ecentric because it grows a little bit
more muscle with a little bit less
fatigue imposed and perhaps just as easy
or easier concentric a barbell free
weight movement the concentric and
Ecentric since there's no meaningful
friction from the air thank God and it
operates in the same way up or down then
you have a really awesome delivery of
Ecentric load whereas with a hack squat
especially with an older rustier machine
the centric's just much easier and the
cont concentric is much harder and that
probably just by a small margin lowers
the stimulus to fatigue ratio this is a
very very austere very theoretical point
but nonetheless if we're being pedantic
and nerdy which Welcome to our channel
uh we got to make note of that so taking
all those cost and benefits into account
what are the best use cases for barbell
squats and the best use cases for hack
squats barbell squats best used for
beginners and intermediates that doesn't
mean Advanced people can't use them they
just have to use them in a bit more of a
nuanced way best use case for barbell
squats is for folks that just want to do
a few exercises to train their whole
body like if I've got a housewife coming
to me and they do oh boy and they're
coming oh wait that's a video I saw um
housewife trains twice a week you're
probably not gonna have her do hack
squats that's it really just targets the
quads and maybe the Adar a little and so
what do you do you do another exercise
for glutes and another one for lower
back and another one for adors how much
time do we have but if you have a
housewife that trains with you you're a
personal trainer or you're a housewife
and you just do barbell squats I mean
fuck man you just do some hamstring
curls and you're done that's your whole
fucking leg whereas hack squats are so
specific that uh maybe it's not the most
appropriate thing to do so if you just
want to do a few exercises and train
your whole lower body squats are an
absolutely great exercise to
use squats are also great and best use
case for people who want to get stronger
in the squat because that's just a thing
people do and for powerlifting or
stronger for sports so if you want to be
become better at tennis and you know the
lower body strength is important which
it is you're probably going to do more
squatting and less hack squatting
because it's a free movement
accommodates all body sizes allows a
more athletic more ballistic move and it
just transfers better to sport
performance and barbell squats are an
excellent use case at for advanced folks
who do some pre-exhaustion quad work
before so that the quads are the
limiting factor and the systemic fatigue
and axial fatigue isn't as high in the
squad so if you do a couple sets of
Haack squats couple sets of leg presses
and then you do barbell squats as an
advanced person then you're winning then
it's a good use case versus doing squats
first and realizing like your cardio is
shit your lower back hurts and your
quads aren't even that pumped and you
should have not done this first hack
squats best use cases intermediates and
advanced because beginners should focus
mostly on developing general movement
competency with free weights if you
learn how to lift your first year or two
with mostly free weights you're going to
be an unbelievable lifter with free
weights with excellent technique super
low chance of injury great results and
anytime you get into a machine because
you're overqualified for the shit
because you can control your entire body
and the movement you want any machine we
put you in after you've mastered free
weights and your own body is just going
to be like oh no problem easy I used to
coach weightlifters in some of their
hypertrophy work and I would teach them
how to do barbell rows RP style and
upright rows and they would just do them
perfectly after like rep number two and
I was like oh my God how are you so good
at this and then I realize like
weightlifting snatch clean and jerk and
the derivative lifts so much more
complicated so much more difficult
require so much more body position than
when you're trying to teach someone how
to do a bent row and they're already a
good weightlifter they're like oh wello
this is no problem and you're like well
you're doing everything you're supposed
to because they're overqualified so if
you are beginner and you learn how to do
free weight movements body weight
movements barbell dumbbell movements
you're going to be able to do any
machine you want and The Free We
movements if you flip the script it
doesn't work the same way if I teach you
how to lift in hack squat leg press
machines lap pull down machines and then
I try to get you to move out in the
world doing lunges and squats and
pull-ups you may have a very tough
adjustment period now of course it'll
still work but it's not ideal it's real
good to work on movement competency
first and a more General preparedness
which squats barbell squats give you and
save the hack squats and stuff for when
you're not a beginner anymore does that
mean beginners shouldn't do hack squats
no absolutely not but they should at
least think like in most cases barbell
squats are better use of my time as a
beginner than Hack squats are now so for
hack squats the mostly for intermediates
and advanced people they're also for
people specifically interested in Quad
hypertrophy if you want like an overall
lower body that's muscular or you want
some athletic stuff hey squats are great
but if you're like look I need my quads
to grow quads period not glutes not
adductors not hamstrings quads you got a
good argument for starting to throw some
hack squats in there because that's what
they do best directly targeting the
quads hack squats are also great for
people that want to minimize fatigue
spill over into their other training you
do you do barbell squats it going beat
that ass you do hack squat it really
just beats the quads up and everything
else is spared to a large extent so if
you're really training with a high
volume multi you know five six days a
week program and you're pretty Advanced
and your systemic fatigue is a realistic
cap to how much you can survive hack
squads start to paint a better picture
for you than barbell squats because
they're a better return on your
investment because you really just want
quad hypertrophy and to leave everything
the fuck
alone there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow
but if you want to grow the most your
training needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results hack squats are also great for
folks that have mastered excellent squat
technique and want more quad stimulus
they can't get with a good sfr for more
squatting because even if squats work
really well for you after three or four
sets five sets of of high bar squats
your general fatigue is so high your
Technique starts to not be as great it's
still a good stimulus but the fatigue
starts to get really really high whereas
if you stop after that and you move to
hack squats you don't have to worry
about the axial loading and and control
at nearly as much stabilization you
don't have to worry about your cardio
nearly as much you just go to town and
it's all quads squads squads squads so
if you've already mastered really good
squatting technique and you're getting a
lot out of it at some point the squat is
going to be like look and I ain't got
nothing much for you then hack squats
are an excellent more precise tool to
get more quad hypertrophy and a better
stimulus to fatigue ratio and lastly
hack squats are excellent um for those
who want to pre-exhaust their quads to
get the most out of barbell squats after
so a lot of times what I'll do is I'll
do three or four sets of hack squats
really pre-cook the fuck out of my quads
and then after that I'll go and do some
barbell squats I need to use less weight
because my quads are so fucked up
they're by far the limiting fact Factor
two sets of squats later with a load
that normally wouldn't challenge me if I
did it fresh my quads are like
overcooked hot dog and a microwave type
cook so combining them by putting the
hack squats first and then the squats
after is an excellent tool for stronger
Advanced people that don't want a crap
ton of systemic fatigue and really can't
afford it because they have so much
density in their program otherwise so to
recap to talk about what you should be
getting out of this video for if you're
a beginner intermediate or Advanced if
you're a beginner stick to barbell Squad
as much as you can it's not a hard rule
but it's a good
idea for intermediates stick to a
combination of barbell squats and hack
squats as needed sometimes you just need
more quad work and less adductor work
and lower back work or just purly for
variation for the next few months I'm
going to really focus on barbell squats
after that they're going to get a little
stale I'm G to focus on hack squats for
a few months and go back and forth back
and forth for advanced
folks hack squats in most cases
especially if do them well are going to
offer you better stimulus to fatigue
ratios for direct quad hypertrophy in
most cases so for training an ifb Pro on
the channel uh and we have to pick
barbell squats or hack squats and for
one video It Doesn't much matter but if
we're training them consistently in a
program hack squats most times not all
times are going to be the better choice
if it's one versus the other and if you
do still want to benefit greatly from
barbell squats which are fucking amazing
exercise as an advanced person try doing
hack squats or leg presses or leg
extensions before barbell squatting to
pre-exhaust the quads to make sure
they're the limiting factor to reduce
the systemic and axial fatigue and make
your quads grow as much as possible but
not it's such a huge expense to the rest
of your program that you now have small
back and small arms and small shoulders
and it's like you're in middle school
and everyone's making fun of you
again I'll never forget what you said to
me Kyle and I still know where you live
and when you least fucking expect it bro
I'll be I'll be
there what
see you guys next
[Music]
time