moms make Sons weak sorry sorry sorry
sorry I'm GL these are mys dude sorry
[Music]
dude this son of a oh it's a happy
truck carrying an
 like a
cat that's usually how it goes folks is
this members Channel or regular
 might be members well whatever
we'll just treat it like a whatever yeah
you guys know that in my earlier years I
was quite feun look that up if you need
to know what that means and uh all of
that only yielded me one biological Sun
standing to my left Jared feather he's a
guy with fake glasses on cuz he wants to
look smart fake glasses and uh he's like
oh I'm a nerd let's count macros and do
progressions periodization I also got my
fig teeth on oh do you really oh they
look great oh great yo so in any case
being the Jared is here and he's a uh he
was like let's do like Advanced
programming techniques I was like Jerry
 that we about to do a raw uncut
unbridled did I say raw raw again leg
workout you always tell me to use a
condom but now you said raw five times
in one sentence legs is safe to do wrong
but with the sex with people there are
diseases out there sorry I'm I'm
carrying our personal life from home my
father always telling me to wrap it up
into our videos yeah yeah listen we got
States next next month you better not be
getting anyone pregnant uh uh quote me
uh so anyway leg curls hack squats and
then some lunging and we out we out
cheer so dragons layer got dragons
everywhere the Luck of the Irish is
around or Scottish or whatever the
they Flex Flex I love you baby y
 sound the goddamn same to
me
JK sort of anyway J you got anything
wise to say with your stupid nerd
glasses let's do it let's have a good
workout oh this is cool did I ever use
this one I don't think so oh it's new
and guess what it's good you want to
know why it's not Arsenal oh you
shouldn't say that when everything
literally around us is Arsenal right
[Music]
now H your quads yeah outside of about
the 80 politically correct jokes
incorrect jokes we had to cut out of
this Jared and I are doing our first
exercise today the seated hamstring
curls that's because seated curls put
you in a bigger stretch position they're
categorically Superior to any other
hamstring exite which you should never
do which you should always do seated
curls no matter what mean like an
asteroid's coming to hit the earth don't
launch the missiles just do seated curls
cuz it's that much better JK is just one
awesome variation and today you'll see
that Jared leans back in his curls
because he can produce more power that
way I'm going to Lean Forward on mine
and grab the front that can we not stare
at people when I'm on the camera
the Jerry and the videographer
looking Scott the video guy got his eyes
on this I'm saying lot of uh lot of
attractive women here at the layer I
lean forward on this to pre-stretch
the hamstrings more but this is the only
machine in the world and wish I can do
that because all the other machines I
feel so weird leaning forward I can't
grab on anything that I just sit back
like Jared does so it's not a right or
wrong try both to preference and see how
it goes two work sets because it's our
first meso first macro first micro first
all that so two sets of hamstring
curls probably my rep match but probably
Low Reps for me 10 to 15 which you often
go higher and uh let's get it poping you
guys are hear a big Clank to the machine
es is a piece of metal at the end that
you hit telling you you're done with
your concentric phase and it's control
all the way back to a deep
[Music]
stretch
[Music]
ow
15 reps what' you get 15
 you tie someone you still talk
that no no cuz my ankles are
further down on the pad so my torso my
torso is a little shorter but my legs
are way
shorter so I did a lot more no no no no
no no you don't understand you just
don't understand biome
mechanics you guys think of angles
measurements little scribbles in a
notebook that's training parum yeah you
got like hyperbola and yeah anyway
that was good I got a good uh did you
like that yeah it was great great
machine does it look like I like that
holy why is it weird shaped at the
bottom the hamstring graft they took a
little something from you took a little
something from me you're never going to
get back like you did I never took
anything from you my childhood
all this States talk we're finally
having the conversation you a champion
it's not for everybody but I gave you
some to live for little kids going to
birthday parties eating cheesecake you
went to training camp I have to help
Mike push this thing down he'll make all
kinds of excuses the quads are too big
he juicing Jacks use your training
Partners if you need to fortunately I
just I don't need M you know what's you
need your dad hey Paul
I'm telling Mom you're hitting all on
all the girls in the gym you don't have
a mom you only have Dad States moms make
Sons weak sorry sorry sorry
sorry
Christ I'm GL these are myups dude sorry
dude
what kind of crazy will Dad saying
[Music]
next good Jared let's go let's
go oh
yeah my
be
[Music]
oh you done
yep my huh yeah weird damn first session
be like that supposed to do two sets my
R match first set whatever you can get
three away from fish second
set however many my rep sets it takes to
match that first rep count so I did 15
on my first set straight and then on my
second set I was going to do my reps but
I just did 15 straight why active rest
my body is not used to training the
warm-up effect of multiple even working
sets is so massive my neural
relearning is so massive and so
fast that my performance ability
skyrocketed even after the first set
canceling out literally all the fatigue
and allowing me to do basically the same
reps and Reserve I'll also say that
second set felt maybe even a little bit
easier than the first dope is it going
to happen like that every time no that's
pretty rare case coming back and sort of
opening up into training again but it
can happen
so for my match
sets the lesson here is I think have
like an open mind first set let's say
you do 15 second set myette match don't
say to yourself for sure like all right
10 rest five you can as a placeholder
but if you're on rep number nine and
you're a Breo and keep going get
close to fail it might be 12 it might be
15 and then you're like I'm done next
week when if three sets you'll need myup
match so give that some
[Music]
thought quads and glutes and adductor
time the hack squats going to take care
of that so we're going to hack Squat and
then hopefully do some uh dumbbell
lunges or something like that for more
glutes a little bit more quots hack
squat time sets of
5 to 10 8 to 12ish on this a little bit
heavier you'll notice a really really
good Focus I'm controlling that Ecentric
because Jared and I are a humble brag
strong enough to where if we didn't do
that we could use a lot of weight and
get ourselves a lot of hurt so uh
control decentric probably a little
pause at the bottom Jared likes to do a
quick reversal I like to do a little bit
of a pause always good technique I'll
ramble more about this as we get into it
so let's get
[Music]
into
ready yeah there's a lot of lot of
fidgeting a lot of around
finally found a way to get it to what I
like it I'm getting great depth foot
position is okay I can't really check my
feet unfortunately but uh my working
weight will be 545 usually the limiting
factor in most people as far as getting
the most amount of kn flection goes is
their ankle
Mobility there's obviously anop like
anthropometry differences so femur
length things like that where you can
stand wider point the toes out more open
the knees more hips more but most
implementations that we use require an
elevated
heel so if you can find yourself a nice
pair of squat shoes or Versa lifts which
are just
inserts uh you'll most likely get a
deeper squat hack squat anything leg
related leg press so if you haven't
bought these yet give them a try they
have all the way up to like an inch and
a half heel lift if you need a lot of
support like me mine are an inch I'm an
inch as
well
yep oh
[Music]
yeah
[Music]
nice come
[Applause]
[Music]
on
yep hell
yeah arms are
[Music]
numb
yep
nice all right I get the real short King
one why am I using more weight than
Jared is it because of my really
ridiculous short legs and thus awesome
leverages no is it because I'm not doing
soft lockouts and ly cental control also
the answer is no it's because I'm a dad
and you Poss got to beat you or some
other teach you a little bit about real
life ain't that right boy I get it
you're going to win Stakes one day again
we win States eight times you only
allowed to win it four times in I you
think about
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
that
ouch thank you so much
lunges uh
yeah now we're doing some dumbbell stuff
dumbbell lunges Jared might do his
unweighted because I think he's just
better at to keep an all weight in the
front leg I'll use a couple dumbbells
pretty light ones really try to focus
all that weight in the front leg and one
of the ways I'll do that you guys will
see this on video instead of stepping
back on my toes on the back leg I'll
actually step
on my toenails essentially vertical foot
that you you can't produce a ton of
force that way into the ground unless
you're like a ballerina or something um
and then my Pearl Officer says I can't
be within 40 ft of you but it's really
awesome for just giving you enough
stability but not really letting you
push off that back leg why the front leg
in lunges is the one that stretches the
glute out it's the one that hits the
glutes the most so in lunges one of the
goals for an advanced lifter if you're a
lifter intermediate just do the lunges
really good technique don't worry about
weight placement too much or at all but
for folks more advanced you really want
to leverage most of the weight in that
front
leg as much as you can it's it's tough
because when you're struggling on a rep
your body goes into like survival L
stick mode and it's like dude push off
everything you start pushing off your
back leg but by doing the Tippy Toe back
leg it can at least minimize that in a
first set 20 I'm going to do another
eight and then call it very short rest
so kind of
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
myy
[Music]
oh first session of the week first week
of the meso you all right you look like
you're struggling that what is that
shagma phemia you got oh alpha alpha
phemia Jerry's got a whole big box of
excuse but you know whose box is bigger
your daddy's you want to be a an
allegedly great former High School
athlete you need a stack of excuses and
boast about how great you would have
been or were like teachers still
remember your name you got talk about
how you would have won Stage Coach set
you out that last game yeah and you know
that means I couldn't go pro but my boy
All Pro I live my life through
him anyway hopefully your parents are
better than this see you guys next
[Music]
time
oh