[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today's episode is
sponsored by BTC it's better than coffee
these are energy bars plant-based
natural caffeine energy bars so they use
maca and guarana as the caffeine source
in these there's a hundred milligrams of
caffeine in one of these bars so it
actually is recommended that you
actually just start with half of one
until you see how your body's gonna
react different people react differently
to them I have had these and really felt
you know a lot of energy and mental
focus without any jitters or any of the
stuff that I sometimes get if I have too
much coffee so we're gonna put these in
a shake this morning I know a lot of you
have a shake in the morning on your way
out the door
and so this is a good one that has some
caffeine in it but you're also gonna get
your protein as well so let's make this
shake this is a silken tofu some
unsweetened chocolate almond milk
[Music]
coconut Taurani sugar-free some vanilla
and some raw coconut flakes and last but
not least add some ice so let's blend
this up
looks really good and what I did was I
took the bar and just chopped it up into
tiny little pieces sort of like
chocolate chips so we're going to add
those and just sort of pulse them in
[Applause]
that's it so it will looks like chalk
chips but you're getting your caffeine
from that
[Music]