cuz if you're really serious about
taking every single muscle to its local
mrv doesn't just end with delts you got
delts you got forearms you got calves
you got biceps you got triceps you got
pecs upper and lower you got quads and
don't forget to do some leg extensions
to get that fucking middle part of your
quad that sticks out you got hamstrings
make sure to do hip hinging and curling
you guys get my point there's so much to
do that if you are really Advanced and
really strong and really pushing it hard
you may not have a systemic fatigue cap
that's halfway to your sum of all local
muscles if you could just train one
muscle at a time you could do 20 30 40
sets for it but in the context of a
whole week of training that shit is not
going to happen that is a systemic
fatigue limit that's a systemic cap