what is up everyone so I've made it back
to Tampa Florida actually right now I'm
going to be doing a guest lecturer at
the University of Iowa I was lucky
enough to be invited to speak on skype
to class from of students about my
philosophy on training nutrition I'm
super excited to do this my first time
speaking through or by distance in an
academic setting I automatically record
all of my Skype calls so if I end up
capturing any of the presentation I will
upload the clips after for you guys to
see your upload some of them some of the
things that I say that maybe I haven't
said on the channel provide that's okay
with the professor and the students so
am i coming through there's a couple
different ways you can do it one is
through a block periodized approach so
essentially here you would have
different blocks of training that might
last four to six weeks in length and in
each of those you would focus on a
specific adaptation and you would take
advantage of what's been called the
training residual effect so essentially
an adaptation that you induce will last
even if you reduce the work that it took
to induce that adaptation to begin with
so typically you can reduce work to 50%
or 2/3 of what it took to build
adaptation to begin with and still
maintain it okay so I just finished up
with the University of Iowa lecture I do
have permission to post the clips but I
think what I'm going to do rather than
post a couple short clips here is I'll
upload the full lecture in a separate
video stay tuned for that probably be
another week or so before I get around
to posting that as of right now I'm
going to go do a retraining today a leg
workout and I'm going to get some clips
for an informative calf training science
explained video that I'm going to do
what I want to put up on the screen now
is my workout from yesterday so the
hamstrings and shoulder workout
in the voiceover
alright well I'm back for a quick
informative voiceover for this hamstring
shoulder workout first I just want to
address the seeming randomness of this
workout as I alluded to in my last video
I've been specializing hamstrings in my
current training by one hitting
hamstrings first in the training session
in accordance with the priority
principle we're in research has shown
that folks that perform exercises
earlier in the workout tend to perform
better on those movements and to
increasing the frequency of hamstrings
work by adding some volume on other days
such as this shoulder specific push day
so rather than focus on shoulders which
I've done in two previous videos now so
I'd like to try to answer the question
of whether or not it's possible to
preferentially target different areas or
regions of the hamstrings so first a
quick reminder of anatomy so the
hamstrings are composed of four
different muscles the biceps femoris
long head biceps femoris short head
semitendinosus and semimembranosus and
then you have the medial aspect of the
hamstrings which is closer to the
midline and the lateral aspect which is
further from the midline and then it can
also be divided into a proximal or upper
region and then a distal or lower region
and i've noticed that it's still pretty
commonly accepted that you can't really
target a specific region of the muscle
you'll often hear that when a muscle
contracts it contracts along its entire
length and so it's not really possible
to isolate specific regions within that
muscle and while it is true that the
muscle does contract along its entire
length for all that EMG research is
mounting to indicate that we can still
in fact activate specific regions to a
greater or lesser degree so there are a
ton of papers looking at differences in
hamstrings activation probably because
it has so much application to
rehabilitation practices since the
hamstrings are such a common injury site
in athletics so I said before that I
think that including a knee flexion
based movement like a leg curl and hip
extension based movement like a Romanian
deadlift is a smartest way to program
for hamstrings development part of the
reason for this is that you do see
regional differences in activation
between these two movement types but
2015 paper by Brad Schoenfeld Brett
Contreras and others found that the
lying leg curl results in greater distal
activation and the stiff leg deadlift
and this makes sense to me given that
knee flexion is taking place in the line
leg curl only and so seeing more
activation of the hamstrings closer to
the knees or weak sort of makes sense
and then it also helps at the short head
of the biceps femoris doesn't even cross
the hip joint and SH wouldn't be
contributing to hip extension anyway but
I found more surprising was that there
was no significant difference between
the leg curl and the stiff leg deadlift
for the proximal or upper hamstrings
because I would have expected that the
area of the muscle closer to the hip
would be more active during a movement
that trains primarily hip extension I
have no real empirical basis for making
that assumption it just sort of makes
intuitive sense and then in terms of
medial versus lateral or inner versus
outer hamstrings activation this
particular paper found no difference
between the leg curl and the stiff like
dead lifts over a 2013 paper by zaebis
ita√∫ found the Romanian deadlift to
activate more inner hamstrings while the
lying leg curl targeted more outer
hamstrings other studies have found
conflicting results in the data as a
whole doesn't really seem to indicate
any clear differences between these two
movements however what does seem to make
a difference in terms of inner versus
outer hamstrings activation this foot
position but 2009 paper by Lin and
Costigan found that internally rotating
or pointing the toes in resulted in
greater medial hamstrings activation
while externally rotating or pointing
the toes out of more lateral hamstrings
activity so a simple way to remember
this is that you just simply point your
toe in the direction of the fibers that
you want to activate and this would
apply for lying leg curls single leg
glute bridges and single leg dead lifts
alright so that's all that I really
wanted to look into for this video I
hope that you guys enjoyed the training
clips and that's going to conclude this
vlog so my next video will be a calf
training science video to pick apart a
bunch of research to do with calf
training to make sure that you subscribe
if you haven't already so you don't miss
that video please like this video if you
enjoyed it if you found it informative
or at least entertaining thank you guys
so much for watching I will see you in
my next