[Music]
if you have to pick just one muscle that
when developed properly has the biggest
visual impact on your overall appearance
what muscle would you pick your back
quads glutes I think I'd pick the
shoulders because when they're
well-developed they make everything else
just look better your waist looks
smaller and more tapered your whole body
takes on more of an ex frame assuming
you train legs as well and everything
else about your shape just seems to fit
in better so if your goal is to maximize
the development of the shoulders it's
important to first consider their
Anatomy the deltoid muscle is composed
of three sets of distinct fibers the
anterior or front deltoid originates on
the clavicle or collarbone and inserts
on the humerus bone of the upper arm the
lateral or side deltoid originates on
the top of the scapula or shoulder blade
also inserting on the humerus in the
posterior or rear deltoid inserts a
little further back on the scapula still
inserting on the humerus because the
main shoulder joint is a ball-and-socket
joint it has a very high degree of
freedom meaning the muscles that act on
it can perform a bunch of different
functions but for this video we're going
to focus on the primary joint actions
the interior delts primary function is
shoulder flexion or raising your arm up
like in a front raise the lateral delt
performs primarily abduction or lifting
your arm out to the side like in a
lateral raise and the rear delt presents
primarily horizontal shoulder abduction
moving your arms apart horizontally like
in a bent-over reverse fly and while
this video will focus primarily on the
deltoid muscle is worth mentioning that
the shoulder joint is also acted on by
four muscles of the rotator cuff which
primarily act as shoulder stabilizers in
internal and external rotators so while
they may not contribute much to the
appearance of shoulder size and
aesthetics keeping the rotator cuff
muscles strong can help promote training
longevity simply adding internal and
external cable rotations at the
beginning of your workout is one way to
improve the health of the shoulder joint
multiple lines of research indicate that
the deltoid is merely a dead even 50/50
split of type one or slow-twitch in type
two or fast-twitch muscle fibers which
implies that as usual using a
combination of high reps and low reps is
the best way to optimize total muscle
development I think that a cornerstone
exercise for any shoulder focused
routine is oppressed
according to American strength training
coach and author Mark Griffith oh the
press is the most useful
upper body exercise for sports
conditioning and if I could use only one
exercise to build the shoulders it'd
probably be some sort of press a 2010
study by TREB the towel found that a
flat or 0 degree incline led to the
worst anterior delt EMG activity when
compared with the 28 44 and 56 degree
incline each of which showed similar
activation levels although there was a
trend for more activation with more
incline and this is in line with
previous research from barnett ita√∫
showing that more shoulder activation
with achieved with higher inclines in a
later 2015 paper by la fayette al based
on this data as a whole it appears that
inclines between 28 to 90 degrees all
activate the front deltoid to a large
degree but it can't be said that one
angle is significantly better than the
others however on my analysis the trend
seems to suggest that all else equal
more inclined equals more adult
involvement so what about dumbbells
versus barbells a 2013 study compared
deltoid EMG activity with four
variations of the shoulder press
standing barbell press standing dumbbell
press seated barbell press and seated
dumbbell press using 80 percent of a
predetermined 1 rep max for 5 reps on
each exercise front delt activation was
found to be higher with the dumbbells in
both the standing press and the seated
press indicating that as far as
activation is concerned dumbbells reign
King and while the lateral and rear
delts are activated much less than the
front delt in all of these vertical
pressing movements the standing dumbbell
press did come out on top for both of
these heads as well it seems that the
front delts can be trained optimally
through the use of pressing alone such
as by including at least one horizontal
press and one vertical press in a
training routine and front raises don't
seem to be of much utility here since
not only are they often redundant they
also just aren't as good at activating
the front delts of dumbbell shoulder
presses at least according to Sweeney
2014 which showed front raises to elicit
only 57% activation relative to maximum
voluntary contraction versus the 74%
seen with dumbbell shoulder presses
scientific fitness author Michael Gundel
cited bodybuilders on average as having
five times the front delt development of
normal untrained folks but only three
times the side delts and only 10 to 15%
more rear delt size this indicates that
there's the most room for improvement
with side and rear delt components
compared to the front delts the side
delts are activated much less impressing
1 2013 paper showed the side delts to
exhibit only about 20% muscle
in the Smith machine shoulder press
compared to the 70% for the front delts
a later 2014 paper found the same basic
result the shoulder press was better at
activating the front delts than the side
doe
however using dumbbells instead of the
smith machine seem to get the side delts
more involved in effect that can
probably be attributed to a stabilizing
role of the side delts missing with use
of the smith machine so while using a
free weight press can lead to more side
delt activation relative to a smith
machine press it still isn't able to
isolate them from the front delt and you
really develop that x-frame appearance
for this I think exercises that train
shoulder abduction directly are needed
that 2013 study by button natal found
the top three heavy hitters for lateral
delts to be the dumbbell lateral raise
cable lateral raise and reverse pectus
bio mechanically speaking internal
rotation of the shoulder should lead to
more lateral result involvement on
lateral raises because of fiber
orientation and line of pull the
convention supported by Bo heck bare
hands and bus keys EMG data however many
experts suggest that internally rotating
and pointing the pinkies up increases
shoulder impingement and injury risk so
if you want to play it safe or have a
history of shoulder problems the slight
increase in activation from this pinkies
up cue may not be worth the potential
risk it presents but as a single example
I've been using this cue for 11 years
now and haven't run into any issues
personally stopping the raise at or just
below shoulder height and keeping the
scapula retracted seems to be protective
in my experience one potential benefit
of using cables over dumbbells is the
more constant resistance curved
dumbbells reach peak torque at the top
end of the range of motion and virtually
no tension is on the delt at the bottom
of the range using cables ensures
tension through the entire range of
motions and some research shows that
leaning away into the direction of the
Rays takes emphasis away from the
superspinatus and places it onto the
side delt my favorite variation
currently is the leaner way between the
legs cable lateral raise another
effective exercise for side delt
stimulation is the upright row a 2013
study by McAllister ital compared to
three different grip widths and found
that a wide grip led to greater side
delt EMG activity than a close or
shoulder width grip and for what it's
worth the wider grip also led to more
rear delt and track activation as well
however since improper technique on an
upright row has been linked to shoulder
impingement the authors of this study
recommend keeping elbow elevation below
shoulder height to minimize injury risk
I personally find that using a rope
allows for more freedom at the shoulder
joint in a more calm
mm positions I also queue myself to pull
the rope apart as a row which in my
experience turns on the side delts more
than simply rolling straight up and
finally that brings us to the off
neglected rear delts a muscle important
not only for a balanced looking
posterior but also for postural and
shoulder health generally but natal
found that the rear delts were nearly
silent in shoulder presses in other data
suggests they barely contract in the
benchpress push-up and other pressing
movements and according to EMG expert
Brett Contreras quote isolation
exercises for the rear delts kick the
 out of compound movements back to
button natal the reverse PEC tech
incline last pulldown and seated row
were the big three for the rear delts
but it's worth noting that three studies
from Frank button and Schoenfeld all
independently showed the reverse PEC
deck to elicit about 90% EMG activity
for the rear delts interestingly a 2013
study by Schoenfeld a towel found that a
neutral or palms facing each other hand
position increased immune activity of
the rear delts however co-author Brett
Contreras later commented that some
subjects saw a greater activation with
the pronated or thumbs-down grip
implying that you should play around
with both and see what hand position
feels best for you and your rear delts
and while data is limited it's likely
that other similar horizontal abduction
based exercises like reverse flyes and
reverse cable crossovers would also
highly recruit the rear delts exercises
like rows are also effective but since
the traps can take over including
isolation movements on days you train
shoulders or back is the best way to
optimize their development volume expert
dr. Mike is Ertel suggests that front
delt isolation work isn't required to
make progress since horizontal and
inclined or vertical pressing sufficient
for both side and rear delts eight
weekly sets of isolation work per week
stands as a minimum for progress with
double that or 16 to 22 weekly sets
being a pretty optimal place for
progress for most intermediate to
advanced trainees just keep in mind the
caveat that many quote isolation
exercises target both the side and rear
delts and would count as a set for both
under the scheme training shoulders at
least two times per week is supported by
the most recent literature on training
frequency however my experience working
in the field suggests that isolation
work for the side and rear delts can be
performed as frequently as four to five
times per week especially if they're
lagging behind other body parts without
recovery issues recommendations for
training volume and frequency for both
men and women will depend on your level
of advancement and Urmi
my shoulder head perfectly programs so
if you take these training principles
and apply them to an already sound
fundamental training philosophy centered
around consistency and progressive
overload a pair of 3d delts are there
for you waiting to be built what's going
on everyone don't click out of the video
just yet a few important things I want
to touch on first is that I released my
shoulder I have purchased the program
for both men and women on the website
today and the main difference between
the two is that the women's program has
less of an emphasis on the traps whereas
the men's program has some carryover in
the exercise selection between the trap
the shoulders and that's just based on
the fact that in my experience women
tend not to want to build their traps as
much as adults and the other differences
are basically just physiological ones
that I touched on in my sex differences
the science explains again and if you're
familiar with my body part
specialization programs you know that
these are better thought of as training
manuals not just training programs so
this really has everything you could
ever want to know about the shoulders in
one place it does have a complete
eight-week training program but also all
the scientific information to do with
para dyes Asian progression schemes
every exercise that's included in the
program is given a full defense for why
it's there complete with all the
scientific references you can get that
for $19.99 on my website for the first
week of launch and after that it'll go
up to $24.99 and also guys I did release
a footnote to this video that explores
some topics that I just didn't have the
chance to in this one it digs a little
bit deeper and I'd really appreciate
your guy's participation on that video
please go check that one out until next
time thank you guys so much for watching
and I'll see you in the next one