say look after my last set of strict
curls I do some cheat reps on the
concentric you know to finish off my
arms swell swell idea not totally wrong
however because you have to use a ton of
systemic drive because you have to use
other muscles the stimulus to fatigue
ratio kind of still might suck all right
so that's a problem we have to deal with
and why not Drew do a strict rest pasta
if you do 100 pounds for 10 in the curl
you can't do anymore you put it down you
could do three or four more reps by
cheating totally valid or you could put
it down for 3 or 4 seconds and then do
another three or four reps completely
strict as far as the muscles are
concerned that's really similar stimulus
but no need for cheating and all the
other risks and downsides associated
with it what