welcome to the house of hypertrophy is
there an optimal Progressive overload
method to maximize muscle growth many
think Progressive overload is training
harder than last time I actually believe
this is slightly misleading and I'll
describe why a little later nevertheless
two common ways to Progressive overload
are to either increase the load lifted
or increase the number of repetitions
performed there's been a brand new study
comparing these let us dissect this
paper and fit it into the overall
scientific research we'll also discuss
other potential training strategies you
might use to elevate your physique and
if increasing sets or training frequency
should be considered as Progressive
[Music]
overload this new paper recruited 39
previously untrained individuals for
those disappointed about them being
untrained don't worry we'll mention data
on trained individuals soon the subjects
trained four sets on a unilateral leg
extension 2 to three three times per
week for 10 weeks with one leg subjects
adjusted loads to continuously reach
failure in the 9 to 12 rep range every
set thus this leg progressively
overloaded by increasing load with their
other leg they also performed reps to
failure each set but they stuck with the
same load from the first session so they
simply progressively overloaded by
increasing reps they progressed from an
average of N9 reps per set to 15 reps by
the end note the number of dominant legs
was equally divided between the
conditions and subjects alternated which
leg was trained first to every session
the fact subjects trained each leg with
one of the conditions is great as this
means the same subjects were in both
conditions therefore differences in
genetics nutrition and outside lifestyle
are less likely to confound the study
strength gains on the leg extension were
similar between both conditions we'll
talk more about Progressive overloading
for strength a little later muscle
hypertrophy indicated by vastest
lateralis growth was also similar
between both conditions suggesting
progressively overloading by increasing
reps was as effective for muscle growth
as increasing load the subjects were
previously untrained but we have this
2022 study previously seen at the house
of hypy that was conducted on 38 trained
individuals subjects perform these lower
body exercises using these
variables a load group attempted to
increase load across sessions while
staying in the 8 to 12 rep range a rep
group stuck with the same load from the
first session and just aimed to perform
more reps across the sessions growth of
these quadriceps and cve muscle regions
was measured and overall growth was
similar between both groups so solid
data indicates increasing load or reps
can be similar for building muscle in
both untrained and trained people I'd
say there some underappreciated
reasoning behind this and this reasoning
also links to the multiple different
training strategies that are available
for you to maximize muscle growth it
also links to whether we should consider
increasing sets or training frequency as
Progressive
overload achieving a high level of
muscle fiber Recruitment and tension are
key for stimulating muscle hypertrophy
how is this achieved simply by taking
your repetitions to or very close to
failure stopping a few reps short of
failure can be fine in many cases as
seen in our last video by training close
to failure we're going to stimulate
adaptations these adaptations mean we
can do more than we could before we can
lift a heavier load for the same number
of reps or we can perform more
repetitions with the same load in both
of these cases we're effectively
maintaining being close to failure and
by extension we maintain High muscle mus
fiber Recruitment and tension so in
essence increasing load or reps
fundamentally accomplishes the same
thing thinking of progressive overload
as a cycle works well a hard training
session stimulates adaptations these
adaptations enable us to increase load
or reps and doing this maintains a hard
training session considering this
Progressive overload isn't really
training harder than last time rather
Progressive overload Keeps Us training
as hard as usual to continually
stimulate growth moreover Progressive
overload isn't a result of you digging
to progressively deeper and deeper
depths of effort instead successful
Progressive overload is proof gains are
happening now there is an important
detail we must not neglect the current
literature suggest reps between 6 to 35
provided they perform two or close to
failure produce similar muscle
hypertrophy reps low six probably
involve too little time at high tension
while reps above 35 probably involve
excessive fatigue that impairs muscle
fiber Recruitment and tension with this
in mind there is only so much you can
increase reps if you somehow get to the
point of Performing more than 35 reps
increasing the load is recommended and
overall a combination of both increasing
load and Reps over the long term is
what's going to happen in most cases for
instance
exercises involving smaller amounts of
muscle mass are harder to Progressive
overload and constantly increasing load
across your training sessions on these
is far from always possible unless you
have access to very light micr plates
but as many don't adding a rep here or
there on these exercises is far more
typical with less frequent load
increases the same logic applies as you
become more trained as the magnitude of
adaptations diminishes with more
training experience ience adding a rep
here or there may be far more common
than increasing the
load this part isn't related to
Progressive overload across training
sessions rather it's around the multiple
different training strategies you could
use in a training session we've
mentioned that on average similar muscle
hypertrophy can be seen in the 6 to 35
rep range provided you stay in this this
opens up many different training paths
the most common is to keep the same load
across the sets and to train two or
their failure in a certain rep range but
one alternative as explored in this
paper is to decrease the load across
sets all subjects trained curls to
voluntary failure with these variables
on the first set of each exercise all
subjects used a 10 rep max load that is
a load that can be lifted for 10 maximum
repetitions one group kept the same load
on the remaining sets a second group
actually decreased the load by 5% on the
final two sets of each exercise and the
third group decreased the load by 10% on
the final two sets as subjects were
training to failure they would have
naturally added reps over time but on
top of this 10 rep max strength was
retested every 2 weeks to update the
training loads all groups ended up
seeing similar biceps hypertrophy
interestingly the group that decreased
the load by 10% despite also training to
failure and seeing similar growth
subjectively rated their training
sessions as being slightly easier you
could also increase load across sets
resulting in fewer reps in fact this
study compared doing just this to
another group that trains a little more
typically muscle growth was similar
between both so the key here is there
are many different Pathways to muscle
hypertrophy
as we defined it Progressive overload
maintains training hard to keep
stimulating adaptations increasing sets
or training frequency doesn't
necessarily do this for example say you
perform this workout next workout all
you do is just add a set nothing else
the problem with this is assuming
sufficient adaptations were stimulated
from the first session those earlier
sets are going to be easier and thus
less effective the extra set you add
predominantly just increases the overall
work you're doing it doesn't maintain
hard training on the other sets the same
applies to increasing workout frequency
say you perform this same workout if all
you do is add another training session
in a week assuming sufficient
adaptations were stimulated from the
first session all these sets are going
to be easier so this extra session is
just largely more overall work on top of
this this there's only so much you can
add sets or training sessions before
running into recovery problems none of
this is to say you should never ever
increase sets or training frequency in
fact in October last year we dissected
this paper finding adding sets across
weeks to extremely high numbers led to
Greater muscle growth than performing
the same number of sets every week
although all groups progressively
overloaded by increasing load on their
sets and there were crucial details
meaning this study isn't proof you have
to add sets across weeks but as
described in the previous video someone
could experiment with this training
style if it appeals to them all in all
though it is absolutely fine and more
common to perform the same number of
sets and use the same training frequency
every week with perhaps some changes
over many months or
years if you're searching for further
guidance on programming to obtain your
desired physique it can can be tricky
and time consuming however our
highquality partner the alpha
progression app can help you generate an
Evidence space training program that's
100% custom to your needs in less than 3
minutes simply specify the equipment you
have how often and how long you want to
train for and if you want to focus or
neglect certain muscles there are even
Advanced options to periodize your
training and Implement de loads there
are over a quadrillion input
combinations on which your plan is based
and with the touch of a few buttons you
can customize things further through
analyzing your past performance the app
provides Progressive overload
recommendations during your workouts to
help you continue making gains the app
automatically generates graphs that
display your long-term progression
thereby saving you time from having to
manually track your progression the link
in the comments and description gives
you a twoe free trial of all the premium
features and if you like it and decide
to go beyond the link gives you 20% off
off a subscription I truly believe the
app is awesome and the reviews speak to
[Music]
this recall in the newest paper strength
gains were similar between increasing
load and Reps I've also yet to mention
in the 2022 paper on trained individuals
squat strength gains were similar
between increasing load and Reps however
two technical considerations that I've
decided to detail in the pin comment to
say in time tell us why these findings
are likely a little misleading my
current thinking is since strength is
generally considered as the maximum load
you can lift increasing load is likely
going to be better furthermore largely
training with heavy loads for fewer than
six reps is great for building strength
illustrating this these researchers had
trained individuals trained these
exercises one group adjusted loads to
keep training to failure in the two to
four rep range while a second group
adjusted loads to keep training to
failure in the 8 to 12 rep range bench
press and back squat strength gains
favor training with the two to four reps
as they did in this study to keep
training hard in lower rep ranges
increasing load across training sessions
is
[Music]
needed we mentioned how Progressive
overload can be thought of as a cycle
hard training produces adaptations these
adaptations allow us to increase load or
reps and doing this maintains hard
training progressively overloading
through increasing load or reps has been
shown to produce similar muscle growth
both in untrained and trained
individuals however there are a few
reasons that mean over the long term
using a combination of both is probably
most feasible increasing sets or
training frequency predominantly
increases the overall work you're
performing which has its place but on
the their own they do not fit our
definition of progressive overload for
maximizing strength gains increasing
load is likely better than increasing
reps thank you for watching feel free to
check out the alpha progression app or
our recent deep dive into building the
LS