now here's the thing I'm going to
include all the muscle groups that we
want to train but if you make this
program yourself you can add muscle
groups you can delete muscle groups it
doesn't matter it's all on you so this
is just an example but you can always
modify anything you want there are no
right or wrong
answers hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength today we're going to try
something different I want you to start
screaming as loud as you can wherever
you are no no wait wait that's the next
video for tomorrow on today's video
we're going to try to build a workout
together as a family what the hell do I
mean by that well on this channel we've
been talking about the principles of
workout design for quite some time many
of you are very familiar with them we
also talk a lot about special situations
how to troubleshoot them but we don't
really often sit down together to build
a workout cuz it's cool to know some
things about what works well what
doesn't but it's very different to say
okay now that you know that actually
build yourself a workout all of you who
train you got to build yourself workouts
or at least select workouts properly and
we don't really practice this skill
often at least you and I together that's
you Mr viewer Mrs viewer unlikely but
possible so today we're going to do just
that I'm going to walk you guys step by
step in How I build workouts and we're
going to use my favorite workout builder
of all time the RP hypertrophy app which
if you're curious about it there's a
link in the description of this video
and you can get that all to yourself now
you can absolutely follow along and
learn a ton without having to use the RP
hypertrophy app it's just a workout
Builder you guys you can build these out
of the comfort of your own home based on
the narration of my video alone so let's
get started today's workout it's going
to be an interesting one that I think a
lot of you guys will find some value in
it is a five day workout five days per
week of training and it's a push
emphasis split what the hell does that
mean it means a couple things this
workout gets you into the gym 5 days a
week which means that if you cannot
commit for sure to 5 days a week of
training this is not the plan for you it
trains all of the major muscle groups of
the body two to three times per week on
average which is really good checks the
box and it does so by trying to spread
the muscles out to give them as much
rest as possible between being hit again
so it's not going to be a situation of
Monday you do triceps and then Tuesday
you do triceps or something crazy like
that and lastly this particular workout
and we will hopefully have many others
in this series if you guys like the
video if you don't we'll just never do
this again and pretend it never happened
oh like my middle school days this
workout is going to prioritize the chest
the triceps the quads and the calves all
of the muscles of the human body that
push strange Flex Mike why is that don't
you have other workouts that make more
sense yes we have tons now the target
muscles we are going to be using today
including in this workout plan as we
start to build it is or are rather
what's up English the chest the back the
delts the triceps the biceps the glutes
the quads the hamstrings and the Cals no
we don't have forearms or adductors in
there though they get plenty of training
in an ancillary base can you add them
totally but that's not pressure I'm
going to put on you before we start
building the actual workout and going
step by step let's talk about who this
workout is really good for just see if
it's right for you and who this workout
maybe isn't ideal for because the last
thing we ever want to do on this channel
and we ever want to do as the company of
RP strength is to push stuff on you guys
that you don't need you have plenty
enough marketers doing that to you we
want stuff that you actually like so
this workout is great for folks that
meet a couple of criteria people with
around an hour a day 5 days a week to
spend in the gym you're in great workout
for you people that are intermediate or
early Advanced this is not a beginner
workout 5 days a week of training is a
lot for a beginner and the split is
quite complex so can a beginner do it
and benefit yes but not ideally designed
for them intermediates and folks that
are even Advanced but early in their
Advanced years they would benefit the
most from this workout another group of
people is intermediates that are making
okay gains training four times a week
but they think they can recover from
more and they have the schedule capacity
to do more those folks can do really
well with this program people that
prefer split routines versus whole body
routines I've written up a bunch of
other workouts potentially to include to
you guys uh in future videos and a bunch
of her whole body everyday workouts
every day you train basically the entire
body this is not one of those it's a
split routine we break up the body into
multiple components and train some
components one day and not others if
you're not into that sort of thing if
you like whole body this probably isn't
the plan for you and this program is for
folks that need more than one day on
average for their muscles to recover
this means people that are stronger
people that are more likely to be male
than female and and often heavier folks
people that weigh 200 plus pounds on
average definitely 175 plus will benefit
more from this than if you weigh well
125 and below our female are not super
strong then you recover so quickly you
could benefit from a whole body plan
every day more than you could benefit
from a split routine like this and very
specifically this actual routine is for
folks that really want to bring up their
chest triceps quads and calves and you
can be any one of those muscles or all
of those muscles you want to bring up
because I'll show you later you can cust
the living crap out of this routine
especially if you have the RPI pervy app
now who is this program not ideal for
well people who want to and can benefit
from six or more training sessions per
week very very Advanced folks usually
five days just won't be enough for them
folks who can't schedule or don't need
five or more training days if you're
like dude I could only train three days
a week this is not the program for you
trying it would be a disaster folks who
like whole body routines and not split
routines people who can recover really
fast between sessions again typically
females that are lighter and folks that
aren't Ultra strong they can recover
real quick they can train every muscle
every day and get better benefits than
waiting a couple days and if you don't
really currently want to bring up your
chest or triceps or quads or calvs this
is maybe not the workout for you all
right so if you're still with us let's
get to doing our how many steps do we
have in this process easy six step
process in creating a program and with
the RP hypertrophy app it's going to be
really super easy breeze so first we
have to choose the days on which we
train so I'm going to click in to the
Mesa Cycles I'm going to build a new
Mesa cycle hey look we can find a
template we have all kinds of templates
already premade but we're going to build
a Mesa from scratch since that's the
whole purpose choose a training day or
try a floating split I have supposed to
show both of these in the app to you so
first let's add a couple days here to
make sure that we have 1 two 3 four five
training days so if you want a regular
situation you just say Monday and then
you pick all the other days of the week
but what you can also do is is just
leave it as add a label and then in the
workout it'll present as day one day two
day three day four day five that's how
it'll show you in the actual workout
portion of the app that's called a
floating split if you have some weeks in
which you can make six sessions other
weeks in which you can make three or
four a five day a week plan is actually
quite good because you just work through
the days as they come in sequence so if
you have a bit more of a tentative
schedule you can't commit to okay Friday
at 5:00 p.m. every week I do legs then
you can totally do a floating split by
just leaving everything as at a label
and it comes up and you just do it in
sequence but today we're going to show
you guys how to make a plan with
specific days and I thought this through
a little bit before putting up this
video so for this program we want Monday
Tuesday Thursday Friday Saturday as the
training days so that's exactly what I'm
going to pick Monday Tuesday Thursday
Friday and Saturday that gives us long
breaks between everything and lets us
really put in all the work and get all
the great recovery that we're used to
all right so choose training days we've
done that hey we're well on our way we
already have the the ultra structure now
next we want to choose the muscle groups
want to figure out which muscle groups
we want to train we already did that and
leave out the ones you don't now here's
the thing I'm going to include all the
muscle groups that we want to train but
if you make this program yourself you
can add muscle groups you can delete
muscle groups it doesn't matter it's all
on you so this is just an example but
you can always modify anything you want
there are no right or wrong answers then
we have to select the muscle groups that
go into each and every single session
and ideally we want to put them in there
from the beginning in such a way that
they check a coule boxes and after we
create this plan we want to recheck the
boxes to make sure everything's in its
right place what do we want to check
first we want to make sure all the
muscle groups are trained anywhere
between two and four times a week on
average if we have like quads and it's
only once a week we're like oh so fuck
that up I think quads oh that's right we
forgot Saturday to put in quads
something like that if it's there two
three or four times a week we're good to
go that's the proper training frequency
for muscles to get their best gains in
most cases we want to make sure
additionally that all of the muscles
were prioritizing in this case chest
triceps quads and calves have a decent
chance to be trained earlier in at least
some of the sessions that when you're
fresh you're hitting them hard it's
weird to say you're prioritizing biceps
when you have four workouts a week and
the very last exercise and all of them
is biceps like but that means you're
just tired training biceps all the time
you never can get your best result at
least one or hopefully two of those
workouts a week in a real bicep priority
phase we'll have biceps trained very
early in the plan arguably even as the
first exercise we have to make sure that
all the priorities are in line and we
have to make sure that we screw anything
up and there's a symmetry to the program
such that after every hard training
session for a given muscle usually with
some exceptions we have one or two days
rest before it occurs again in other
words if you have a chest priority plan
you don't want to do like chest chest
chest and then rest rest rest rest rest
and then do that same thing again
because all the workouts except for the
first one are going to suck and even the
growth you're supposed to get from the
first one is interfered with by the hard
training you're doing right after but if
we take those three chest workouts and
we push them out to Monday Wednesday
Friday for example then we have a really
good symmetry we have really hard
training opportunities and opportunities
for rest so when I say symmetry you look
at a workout plan and you're like okay
is there anything too adjacent to
anything else as far as the same muscle
and is everything spread at an even
distance this isn't rocket science but
it really is worthwhile all right lastly
before we actually build a plan what
about extras Dr Mike where are the ABS
well actually they're just right in
front of your body between your chest
and well you know that other area the
pubic area why are they on this program
they can be in this program as soon as
you get the RP hypertrophy app and just
add add the shit add it no problem the
thing reason we didn't add ABS here is
because for most folks that are training
hard and heavy like you you'll have an
awesome six-pack and if you just Dy it
down it'll all be there dedicated AB
training is insanely overrated if you
still want to do it for very specific
reasons that make sense to you hey throw
them in if you have the time and can
train them hard what I don't want you
guys to do is do junk volume so you say
like you have six to eight exercises in
one given session some people can do
that many and still benefit but if you
got nine or 10 exercises and the 10th
one is Cavs or some shit man nobody
trying hard at that point keep your
workouts only as long as you can really
try hard for everything don't just
pepper in a bunch of crap you'll just
get nothing in return on that note let's
build the actual plan by putting all the
muscle groups where they belong I
brought my little cheat sheet here
because I didn't want to pester you guys
with making mistakes live on video but
generally this is something you'll have
to think through if you don't want to
think it through we have like I don't
know Godless numbers at this point 50
plus pre-ad templates into the app that
you just select a template select which
one you need hit enter and it already
lists all the exercises for you exactly
where you want then you can move them
around add delete replace however you
want to customize exactly to what you
need so Monday it says chest triceps
shoulders quads and calves is what we
have so I do chest I do triceps I Do
shoulders I do quads I do calves it
really is that quick to build these
works I love it I do this all day
Tuesday back biceps glutes and hams you
guys are probably starting to see that
structure making a little bit of sense
glutes and hams these are all mus
muscles that generally pull and they
don't push Thursday I'm no rocket
scientist but I'm thinking we probably
want to train the pushing muscles again
and oh yeah chest triceps shoulders
quads and calves and you can do this all
through your app but I will say if you
can open this on your desktop it's super
smooth and easy on the desktop Friday
back biceps glutes and hams okay and
then Saturday I'm no rocket surgeon but
chass tricep shoulder squads and Cavs
again again what a mystery how we build
these plans and
shoulders and quads and gves as we say
in espanol just kidding Spanish speakers
who the hell knows what I'm saying at
all all right so we figured out which
muscle groups we want to train check
we've selected the muscle groups for
each session check now we have to make
sure that all the muscle groups are
trained two to four times a week we
definitely have that but it says make
sure all priority muscles get a chance
to be trained earlier in the session at
least some days ooh that's a thing right
so we said it's a chest triceps quads
and calves priority program but chest is
the thing we start with all of these so
let's actually fix this a little bit
better we're going to go to Thursday
here we're going to take quads and put
them first Cals and put them second
triceps third chest fourth shoulders
last we flip the script entirely to do
basically a reverse of Monday and then
on Saturday I think triceps deserve a
chance first before chest shoulders can
be where they are Let's see we got quads
and calves well no let's put up quads a
little bit higher and this is a lot of
this is science some of it's art it's
just kind of getting a feel for are most
of the muscles we want to train at least
getting some time in light so we have a
portion here where quads and calvs are
in the middle on Saturday on Thursday
quads and calvs are at the top and on
Monday they're at the very bottom and
the same is for chest and triceps
shoulders are peppered in there they're
not really a priority muscle group but
uh they should work and then if we want
we can take our Tuesday and Friday back
glutes hamstrings days now technically
speaking because they're on the back
burner for us we don't really care so
much about the structure but we can do a
good job and apply diligence here we're
going to take glutes and hamstrings on
Friday and move them before back and
biceps so we have a flipped order and
now we can make sure that we have a
really decent amount of symmetry which
is awesome extras we don't need any
extras but look it's as simple as this
you say Saturday fucking training my
forearms no wait wait I don't need to
write that down cuz that's a PornHub
thing o Scott are we getting dinged for
that or no yeah yeah why not new sponsor
all right now here's the deal we have
made the ultra structure of our plan
amazing but we have to choose the
exercises notice it says here for Monday
for chess this is chest and it says
choose exercise it doesn't give us an
exercise right away what are some
considerations here let's talk this
through for beginners and intermediates
you have a lot of fatigue tolerance but
you need the most gains you can possibly
get which means High raw stimulus
magnitude exercises hardcore full range
of motion gnarly often times barbell and
dumbbell and body weight movements are
the things that grow the most muscle yes
they exact a higher fatigue cost on
average than more isolated movements but
we don't really care about fatigue too
much because you're not super Advanced
fatigue is probably not capping you so
for beginners intermediates highest RSM
movement Score first so for example if
we were to look at chest I'd say you
know what it's um hammer press machine
that ain't it machine chess press that
ain't it medium G R bench press man that
works that is a high raw stimulus
magnitude something like that could be
exercises we preper in for more advanced
folks it's making sure the highest
stimulus to fatigue ratio movements are
first that is entirely a personal thing
if you don't know what the stimulus to
fatigue ratio is or if you don't know
your own best sfr exercises you should
not be writing your own plans someone
else should be doing this for you
probably the app which I'll show you in
a sec how it can automatically pick and
dump all the exercises in here but if
you know what stimulus to fatigue ratio
is basically exercises that work best
for you as a more intermediate more
advanced person you need to be picking
what you need however every routine is
not going to be just the exercises that
you pick all the same time there's a
variation component here which means
what you can choose movements that you
did in your last program last M cycle
again but usually you pick them only if
they're not stale if your momentum and
strength gain is coming really well if
your joint pain on them is really minor
or just non-existent if you're getting
awesome pumps and awesome Soros hey you
can keep them in if you did squats last
couple months you want squats on here
for your quad work no problem squats it
is but if squats are feeling off they're
hurting your joints you really hate them
they're really tiring Etc then you can
do do squats you can go for quads and
you can select any number of exercises
we got split squats belt squats front
squats hack squats the whole deal you
can pick whatever you want so variation
is awesome to use and you should be
using it as long as something isn't
stale and don't forget to experiment
with exercises we have hundreds of
exercises all with video Demos in the
app if you're just doing all the same
stuff all the time you're just setting
yourself up for stainless and if you
think to yourself look these movements
work for me and nothing else does you
don't really know that I tried an
exercise just last week I'm 40 years old
I've been training weights for 25 years
and I have a PhD in this shit and I
found an exercise I've never done before
last week this probably the best bicep
exercise I've ever done hint it's it's
lying bicep curls how the hell do you do
that we'll have a video about that at
some point that means that when you look
through the exercises that you want to
do or exercises are in the app every now
and again when you're like H Chast I've
trained bench a while let me try cable
flies or whatever you haven't done in a
while just to see if it works for you if
it doesn't after a month actually you
can take out any exercise during the app
and replace it with anyone else during
your Mesa cycle but if you do a meso and
it's not great hey whatever and if it's
great you just found another Banger
that's really awesome lastly don't
forget to factor in enjoyment if you
have two exercises both with good RSM
both with good sfr they're not stale
they fit your purpose one of the
exercises you're just kind of excited
more to do and the other you're like I
love this exercise choosing exercises
you like on average is a really really
good idea unless it's really running a
ground of your variation and you're like
oh I only like one exercise ever there a
couple exercises you like in anyone time
more than others enjoyment is a big deal
enjoyment can actually let you
accumulate less fatigue during your
training plan which is fucking awesome
so if you like exercises and they fit
all the bill do it 100% now I do have a
trick I could sit here and pick
exercises individually for me which
would just be exercises I like which may
be not learning any lessons for you at
all because it's really just me if you
want to just populate a bunch of
exercises in you you're like dude fuck
it I don't know let the let the app
decide you can just go here I think yay
and you go to autofill exercises and
look at that it fills every single
exercise up for you with awesome
candidates after this you just have one
thing left to do which is to double
check the micro cycle you go through and
you go okay this makes sense everything
in its right place all the muscles if
you want to move stuff around you're
like you know what man I'd actually like
to train biceps with triceps I get an
awesome pump check this out click and
grab you just draw them right in pretty
do pretty baller you can do that across
the entire plan anytime you want so
that's pretty sweet mix and match oh
Scott I just started to remove your
icons from the holy Mac holy Mac Oh I'm
a PC user
what is this nah it was all fine icons
came up at the bottom of the screen and
I started to try to remove them I got
into your emails too and I sent a few
out to famous people death threats
typical type of stuff if you autofill
your exercises you might want to look
through all of them to make sure two
things one you have the machine
available like calf machine do you have
one if not don't do that and also you're
like man some of these exercises I love
some of them suck so for biceps is this
free motion curl single arm fucking
single arm what does that look like
let's look a video going okay it's Jared
and he's doing uh he's St in front of
the machine he's doing that yeah that's
cool and all but let me uh let me change
that one me go to rope cable twist curl
and so that extracise I do like oh yeah
there it is okay and yes that's the one
I like so you can change anything you
want you look everything over
everything's great and you'll notice
this button of create Mesa cycle once
you filled everything in is now active
and ready to press you've double checked
it that's step four step five is to
click this create mesle cycle button and
you're gonna have to do a couple things
first you're G to name your plan so this
is the five day push
emphasis do you guys do that when you
spell tough words like emphasis you
sound them out out loud in a
library Scott video guy when's the last
time you've been to a public library oh
Jesus College are you legally allowed in
public Li lies after that one incident
yes the lawyers cleared it up I guess it
depends where the library is but that's
very true very true I only go to private
libraries uh I'm not a public library
type of guy all right so we named it now
we need to choose the length of your
plan in the app there are three options
you can do four weeks including the D
week that's three hard training weeks in
one week easy five weeks or six weeks
let's talk about who is best suited for
these folks who are going to going to
click on four to five are generally
people that accumulate fatigue quite
rapidly these are people with a lot of
stuff going on in their life maybe they
play another couple sports for hobbies
maybe they're older maybe they're not
enhanced maybe they are just in a
situation where they're so big and
jacked and enhanced that they can't
survive total crazy pounding for five
weeks they need a break after three
weeks they need a D Lo on the other hand
if you have done programs before that
are very tough they've lasted six or
seven or eight weeks and you were
totally fine then yeah five or six weeks
is what you're going to want to pick
here's the really cool thing it doesn't
much matter I'll tell you why if you
train for 3 weeks harder than one week
easy because you drop so much fatigue in
that one week and there's not much
accumulated in the first three you're
always fresh which means your body is
always kicking ass basically 100% you're
going to have the fucking highest
quality training anyone's everever had
on the other hand if you train for six
weeks at a time or five weeks up one
week down you're going to accumulate
some serious fatigue and that last week
is going to eliminate all of it no
problem problem which means you're going
to push harder into the part of your
ability to gain which you really have to
claw the shit out you're going to get
all the fucking gains you have coming to
you but it's also going to be training
that for one or two weeks out of every
six it's going to be real fucked up your
boss is going to be like dude you good
man I you're sleeping at the desk again
you're my best worker you're like
fucking what year is it he's like it's
week five isn't it you're like it sure
is boss what do you got today legs he's
like Jesus Christ Callin sick tomorrow I
got the Roberts will replace you hey
best of luck man don't don't die out
there like thanks sir like the shit can
get really gnarly if you can tolerate
the fatigue no problem it turns out
being that one of these where you take
lots of D loading and not a lot of time
is just ultra high quality training all
the time for good gains but it's ultra
high quality so the result is really
good and the other one when you train
five or six weeks on end is great gains
but the last couple weeks you just
really have to pound through and you
accumulate a lot of fatigue which kind
of interferes with the Adaptive process
in the end scientists still can't peel
apart which one of these is good and
they all end up being damn near the same
it's kind of like eating two
medium-sized snacks versus one large
meal in the end it's basically the same
shit is just how you go about it so I
wouldn't overthink this but if you're
brave six it is if you're like ah four
it is and if you're like nah then it's
five so you pick whichever one we're
Brave today we'll pick six and of course
because the app is available not only to
the people of these United States
[Music]
Scott am I getting invited to sing in
front of like a hockey Stadium at the
beginning of the game with some Talent
like that I think straight to the Super
Bowl easy I get nervous fuck up shit
myself on stage someone's like it's part
of the ACT he's weird he's on YouTube
there are people that use this app
believe it or not that don't live in the
United States now I'm inclined to
believe the United States mostly is what
makes up the world and there something
called Antarctica but it at least one
important place called the countries of
Europe and there you use the kilograms
so you can can choose to use kilos or
pounds isn't that amazing all right we
got all this squared away and then we
say create who knows what kind of
Godless algorithms this app is running
but all of a sudden we have our workout
right in front of us and it happens to
be week one day one Monday 5day push
emphasis amazing what do we do now first
thing we want to do is look over the
plan to make sure it makes sense we can
move or replace any exercis we don't
need here's an example bench press
medium grip I didn't mean to put that in
that exercise sucks I'm going to replace
it and I'm going to say chest has to be
chest we already picked that uh let me
do narrow grip that sounds better and
then it's going to ask you do you want
to repeat this until the end of the Mesa
cycle this is an amazing feature for
travel if you're traveling to a
different gym you can pick all new
exercises and say don't repeat these
because next week I'm back in my usual
but we're doing this at the beginning so
we're like yeah yeah yeah repeat it I
don't just want to do this narrow grip
boom all of a sudden it's Chang and
check this out you go to this little
calendar icon next Monday it's also an a
grip bench press and so on Down the Line
so you can use this calendar icon to
kind of examine stuff and you can even
do a couple of other really cool things
so for example you can make Downs sets
if needed let's try making some Downs
sets just to show you guys the
capability so Monday do bench press a
grip you know what I love going heavy
for two sets or three sets or whatever
but I want to go lighter after that so
we're going to down sets we're going to
repeat the down sets because we want to
keep doing them all of a sudden whatever
weight we have here we can use lighter
weight here and if we want more sets in
this situation we can add a set here and
so on and so forth we can subtract sets
we can do anything we want anytime oops
that was the wrong one we click here we
remove the set now we just have one
heavy set two light sets anything you
want is really awesome you can also make
sticky notes so for example you can go
here and say new note and say um one
inch inside the lines pinkies just
reminds you to keep your pinkies one
inch inside the lines because on your
bench press bar that was what was your
best narrow grip you hit save and this
when it's gray will only bring it up
during this week but if you hit the pin
you get the pin sticky note that means
every single time you do the narrow grip
bench press it reminds you it's one inch
inside the lines which is fucking sweet
because dude you get to your gym or
whatever gym you're using and you're
like narrow grip you look at it it's
fucking like the third Monday and you're
like where the where the fuck was I
putting my hands godd damn it because if
you put your hands differently it hits
different muscles you might not match
the Reps as much oh my god did I get
weaker did I get stronger is this magic
if you have all these pin notes wherever
you want them I I do this guys I use a
feature all the time if you follow me on
Instagram I post pretty much all of my
training you'll notice that I have pin
notes with weird notations like three
seat and four chest that's to adjust
machines anytime you have a machine that
has adjustable levers especially if you
train a commercial gym you don't just
get to leave your machine out is or well
at least my wife trains at the gym we
own so that bitch fucks up all my
machines I get in what the fuck we got a
tiny ass person oh that's right my wife
and then so I have to look at my notes
and put the machine back to where it's
supposed to be adjust the seat adjust
the bench this is really really awesome
stuff after you examine everything
everything looks good then you're all
set and all you have to do is train hard
and enjoy the living shit out of your
workout now if you use the RP
hypertrophy app every time you finish an
exercise it's going to ask you to rate
shit uh and that's like let's actually
uh let's say that we did 15 pounds I
don't know something more realistic
right yeah narrow grip bench 450 baby
and let's say we're really on some
otherworldly steroids and we got 41 reps
when we hit log set it's going to ask us
about joint pain and let's say well it
was a lot of pain because we just broke
into pieces so fuck that it's going to
remember that and it's going to ask you
a bunch of different questions how your
pump was how your soreness was Etc how
your volume tolerance was I have one tip
for you definitely for the RP
hypertrophy app and if you're doing this
yourself in your own head with a notepad
or some Excel sheets be honest the app
is a machine it doesn't care it you
can't impress the machine you can't
disappoint the machine if you're honest
it's going to adjust your volume exactly
as you need it to recover on time if
you're dishonest it's either going to
give you way too little volume or so
much volume that you're not going to be
able to continue you're going to
overreach bad things are going to happen
so be honest with your ratings
everything is going well and if you need
to change anything at any time the app
will help you change it and keep you on
track if you're not using the RP apery
app no big deal much love I hope you
guys are getting amazing results if you
want to try the app try it anytime the
link is in the description below uh I
don't know if this no pressure sales
tactic shit works but my Butlers do need
Lamborghinis and at this point they're
starting to cry because they can only
buy about 10 per month and and they've
gotten used to more honestly it's been
hard times folks hopefully that made
some sense hopefully Illustrated some
Concepts let me know if you like this
video let me know in the comments if you
want more videos like this with walkth
through workout design and also tell me
about what kind of workouts you are
doing and what kind of workouts you'd
like to see me build I have some designs
out a Six-Day Push Pull legs I've got
some 4-day stuff whole body three-day
everything in the mix let me know what
you guys want we can even do muscle
priority I can build the exercises I can
build the programs for muscle priority
let's say like all ult ra chest workout
I can build a whole day three days a
whole week for you guys to show you what
kind of exercises I would choose for
chest what the orders are we can explain
it all so if you like this kind of stuff
sweet and if you don't well I don't know
I I really did try my best all righty
see you guys next time
[Music]