so with protein powder costs
consistently increasing from year to
year and with a pretty high percentage
of supplement companies just being
generally shady to begin with today i
want to go over a few really important
things you need to watch out for when
you're purchasing a protein supplement
so in this video i'm going to explain
three misleading tactics that companies
pretty frequently use in terms of over
hyping their powders and driving down
manufacturing costs meaning that you
ultimately end up paying more for a
lower quality product so if you want to
make sure that you're getting the very
most bang for your buck from your
protein powder so that you can build
muscle and lose fat effectively while
saving money then you're going to want
to watch this video all the way through
to make sure that you're checking off
all three of these boxes and i can
almost guarantee that there's probably
going to be at least one thing in this
video that you probably had no idea
about all right protein powder scam
number one is a greasy little trick
called amino spiking so what is amino
spiking well it's important to
understand that when protein powders are
tested to analyze how many grams of
protein they contain per serving that
total amount is not based on how much
complete protein it contains and instead
it's based on the total nitrogen content
of the powder and what that does is it
opens up
a labeling loophole that supplement
companies can take advantage of because
singular amino acids which are the
building blocks of protein those contain
nitrogen meaning that they can be added
into the powder separately to
artificially raise the protein gram
number on the label so what some
companies will do is put in a certain
amount of legitimate complete protein
but then inflate that protein count
further by dumping in singular free-form
amino acids on top and they of course
use the absolute cheapest ones so that
they can save on costs and actually it
gets even sneakier than this which i'll
explain in a second but maybe your
protein powder lists 25 grams of protein
per scoop on the label when in reality
it's only 15 grams of protein and then
10 grams of maybe one or two cheap low
quality amino acids that aren't going to
have any added muscle building effect so
they make more profit on each tub you
get a lower quality less effective
product now fortunately amino spiking
isn't as common as it was a few years
ago because more and more consumers have
caught on to this but there are still
quite a few protein powders out there
that are still doing this and so it is
something that you need to be aware of
so how do you know if your protein
powder is amino spiked well it's
actually pretty simple you just need to
look at the ingredient label not the
amino acid profile okay a lot of people
get confused on this uh every protein
powder contains amino acids because
they're the building blocks of protein
so having an amino acid profile listed
is fine but what you want to
specifically look at here is the
ingredient list which is usually
underneath the supplement facts so what
you want to see is simply the type of
protein that's being used as the first
ingredient and then whatever additional
flavors and sweeteners and binding
agents are being used after that but
what you don't want to see here in this
list are singular amino acids when it
comes to amino spiking you might see
l-glutamine listed
l-taurine l-glycine branch chain amino
acids are sometimes used because they're
actually cheaper gram for gram than
protein is and then another one to look
out for and this one might surprise you
because it's something that most people
are totally unaware of but that is
creatine oftentimes people will see
creatine listed in their protein powder
and then they'll think oh this is great
what an awesome product i'm getting 25
grams of protein per scoop and my five
daily grams of creatine as well what an
excellent company they truly care about
creating premium quality products no
actually you just got played and that's
because creatine is actually a
combination of three amino acids
methionine arginine and glycine and so
even though it's not protein it's still
a nitrogen-containing compound and so
it's actually going to register as
protein when that powder gets tested and
not only that but some tests have
actually shown that creatine can
register as high as a hundred and forty
percent protein so if the powder has uh
say five grams of creatine in it that
could be accounting for up to seven or
eight grams of the protein total and
companies do this because gram for gram
creatine is a lot cheaper compared to
protein and it's not only creatine the
same thing also applies to other
nitrogenous compounds as well like
beta-alanine or betaine anhydrous so
unless the company specifically states
that the protein total is separate from
those other ingredients then there's a
very good chance that they're actually
using them to artificially inflate the
protein total now whether or not amino
spiking is actually going to affect your
bottom line muscle growth that will vary
from product to product and it just
depends how heavily the powder is spiked
you know if they're just using a few
extra grams to shave off a tiny bit of
cost per tub then it's probably not
going to matter for you in a practical
sense but in any case it's just a flat
out misleading tactic you have no way of
knowing how heavily spiked a given
powder is and there's just no reason to
give your money to supplement companies
that are intentionally bullshitting you
hit the like button if you agree with
that and moving on to protein powder
scam number two is just false claims
plain and simple it's when supplement
companies try to portray their protein
powder as some kind of high-tech magical
muscle building potion that's going to
skyrocket your results in comparison to
other protein sources whether that's a
regular solid food protein or a
different type of protein powder now yes
on a gram for gram basis uh you know
whey protein casein egg white protein
even plant-based powders if they're
formulated properly those are very high
quality sources of protein that will
have a high bioavailability and a strong
amino acid profile and that's of course
a good thing but also keep in mind that
as long as you're consuming enough total
protein for the entire day so around 0.8
grams per pound of body weight or about
1.8 grams per kilo and your meals are
just generally based around some kind of
complete protein source which most
people are going to do by default even
if they don't even lift you know chicken
fish steak whatever else if you're doing
that then protein quality isn't really
something you need to obsess over
because with enough total quantity by
the end of the day you'll have gotten
all the amino acids that you need to
optimize muscle recovery and growth when
it all comes down to it protein powders
really are just optional um you don't
have to use them you don't have to
consume a liquid
post workout shake or a pre-workout
shake or take your protein powder before
bed there's no special benefit there and
i even say that as somebody who owns a
supplement line and has a protein powder
in development right now in reality
protein powder isn't even really a
supplement it's a lot more accurate to
just think of it as a convenient food
product whether it's whey or egg or
casein or pea protein these powders are
derived from whole foods i mean they
literally are food
little miss muffet sat on a tuffet
eating her curds
and whey
she wasn't trying to make gains she was
just enjoying a meal
or maybe she was trying to make gains
look i don't know i wasn't there i don't
know what her specific goals were to be
perfectly honest with you i don't even
know what a tough it is but that's not
the point here guys we're going a little
bit off track here the point is don't
fall for the over-hyped marketing if you
enjoy the taste and the convenience of a
protein powder and you find that it
helps you hit your daily protein needs
more easily then go for it you know i've
consumed whey protein on a daily basis
for 20 years now whether it's in
smoothies or yogurt or oatmeal random
high protein dessert style recipes but
if you'd rather just get all your
protein from regular solid food sources
then that's fine too and let me know in
the comments what your personal
preference is i'd be genuinely curious
to know how many of you are using a
protein powder versus not all right and
lastly number three on the list now this
one isn't necessarily like some sort of
filthy scam but it is something that you
should be aware of because it is
something that a lot of supplement
companies do take advantage of on
purpose and it can be misleading um it's
something that almost every protein
powder blend on the market does and i
honestly don't understand why this is so
prevalent what i'm talking about here is
the use of proprietary blends when
listing out the protein sources in the
product in other words if you look at
protein powders that include more than
one type of protein they virtually never
tell you how much of each protein source
you're getting instead they'll just list
off the total grams of protein along
with a list of the different types of
protein that are in there but not the
specific amounts for each the most
common example let's say you're buying a
protein powder that uses a blend of whey
concentrate and whey isolate almost
never will the product state how much
weight concentrate and how much weight
isolate you're specifically getting and
instead it'll usually just be listed
like this always keep in mind that the
most prominent ingredient always has to
be listed first and so for all you know
this could very well be 95 percent
weight concentrate and five percent
white isolate or if you're buying a
blend of say milk protein whey protein
isolate and egg white protein and it's
using a proprietary blend again it could
literally be 98 milk protein one percent
weight isolate and one percent egg white
protein you just have no way of knowing
now
how much does this actually matter in a
practical sense well you know if you're
already using a certain protein blend
and you're happy with the macros and the
taste and the price then ultimately
that's totally fine and it's not going
to affect your actual muscle building
results because like i said before the
exact type of protein you use doesn't
really matter as long as it's a high
quality complete source however what i
would say is that if you're in the
market for a new protein powder then it
is something to take into account for
example if you were looking for a whey
concentrate whey isolate blend and you
had say two different products one lists
weight concentrate first on the label
and the other has weight isolate first
and the price is comparable between the
two then you'd probably want to go with
the one that lists the whey isolate
first you know there's nothing
inherently wrong with whey concentrate
but it does tend to be a little bit
heavier on the stomach it doesn't mix
quite as well and it does have a
stronger sort of protein aftertaste to
it so by going with the one that lists
whey isolate first you at least know
that more than half of that blend is
white isolate whereas with the other
products it could be almost always
concentrate with just a tiny bit of
isolate sprinkled in and the direct
practical aspect aside i just think it
comes down to basic transparency and
labeling you know i think you should
know exactly what's in the supplements
that you buy most of us don't accept
pre-workouts that use proprietary blends
because we want to know exactly how much
of each ingredient we're getting and
while that's not directly comparable to
protein powders it is the same general
idea and i think that if companies are
selling protein blends then they should
list off how much of each protein source
is included and real science athletics
which is my own supplement line like i
said we do have a protein powder in
development right now which will be out
in a few months and with that product
you definitely will know exactly what
you're getting in terms of the exact
protein source and if you want to check
out the rest of what we offer straight
ahead research backed properly dose
supplements you can trust unlike most of
the bs out there nowadays then you can
visit realscienceathletics.com by
clicking this card up here or by using
the link in the description box and code
youtube 15 will take 15 off your first
order you can also get a free customized
workout and nutrition plan for me over
at shawnell.com custom the link is also
up here and down below here's two more
videos i'd recommend watching now don't
forget to subscribe to stay in the loop
on all of my future content thanks for
watching guys and i will see you in the
next video