in this video I'll be sharing some of
the worst nutrition mistakes pretty much
every lifter makes at some point myself
included in fact I really wish I knew
about these things when I started
lifting over 10 years ago because if I
had just known them from the start I
would have made better gains without so
many unnecessary challenges all right
the first mistake most people make is
thinking that you can force feed muscle
growth you can't I think a lot of people
see Pro bodybuilders eating 5 000 plus
calorie diets and assume that if they
also want to get big they need to also
eat big there may be a kernel of truth
to this for some lifters but the reality
is that bodybuilding anecdotes are often
unreliable that's because Pro
bodybuilders have world-class genetics
have already been training for a decade
or more and are almost always taking
large doses of anabolic steroids so it's
hard to know if their results are coming
from the fact that they're eating big to
get big or some combination of those
other factors now the reason I say that
you can't force feed muscle growth is
that studies consistently show that when
you over feed someone with a large
caloric Surplus they gain
disproportionately more fat than they do
muscle and this is true even if they're
weight training this 2013 study from
Garth and colleagues perfectly
illustrates the issue with really
aggressive bulking these researchers
split 47 Elite athletes into two groups
one group ate in a relatively large
caloric Surplus and one group ate in a
relatively small caloric Surplus the
large Surplus group ended up eating 621
more calories on average both groups
follow the same weight training program
for 10 weeks and after 10 weeks this is
what they found the group eating in the
large caloric Surplus did predictably
gain more weight they also gained a tiny
bit more lean mass although it didn't
reach statistical significance but the
big difference was in the amount of fat
they gained the large Surplus group
gained much more fat than the small
Surplus group so eating the extra
calories didn't lead to substantially
more muscle gain but it did lead to
substantially more fat gain these same
basic findings were corroborated by a
later 2019 study which has led experts
in the field to describe nutrition as
having a permissive role in muscle
building in other words your diet
permits muscle growth to occur it
doesn't cause muscle growth to occur you
can't force feed muscle growth training
is what tells the muscle to grow
nutrition simply supplies the building
blocks if you think of your body like a
big building you can think of your
training program as the blueprint and
the construction crew and you can think
of your nutrition as the building blocks
if you have way more building blocks
than you need they just pile up at the
job site this is the muscle you've built
and this is what's left over as fat so
when looking to build muscle most
lifters should be eating somewhere in
this range but this line here in the
middle being your maintenance calories
the number of calories you need to
maintain your weight you want to gain
muscle faster and are more comfortable
with some fat gain you can put yourself
in a 10 to 20 Surplus if you'd like to
do a leaner bulk a smaller five to ten
percent Surplus would be better and if
you're trying to prioritize fat loss
while still building muscle a slight
caloric deficit in this Zone would be
better now to be clear I'm not saying
that aggressive bulks are necessarily A
Bad Thing so-called dreamer bulks have
become something of a rite of passage in
the lifting world
ah
and despite what the short-term Garth
study found in my coaching experience I
have found that more aggressive bulks do
tend to lead to more strength gain over
the long term aggressive bulking will
also help you take up more Total Space
aloe bear mode but they can also make
your life more difficult the next time
you want to cut down and in my coaching
experience just end up not being worth
it for most people now I'm planning on
doing a full video about sustainable
bulking similar to the one that I
recently did on sustainable fat loss so
I'll save the rest of my bulking
suggestions for that video okay the
second mistake most people make is not
realizing that most supplements are
overrated now there are a few
supplements that actually do work
creatine caffeine and protein powder are
at the top of my shortlist when it comes
to building muscle however even with
these three most science-based
supplements I think a lot of people
including people in the science-based
lifting Community still overestimate how
much muscle people will actually gain
from taking them for example creatine is
one of the most highly researched and
most efficacious supplements on the
market this is true and we hear it so
much that I think it leads a lot of new
lifters to think they're going to notice
a massive steroid like Boost from it in
reality most studies show that taking
creatine should result in a roughly two
to three pound increase in lean mass for
example this eight-week training study
found that a group taking creatine
gained 1.1 kilograms or 2.2 pounds more
lean mass than a group taking Placebo
similarly the systematic review which
pulled together 22 studies on older
subjects found that creatine increased
lean mass by 1.4 kilos or just about
three pounds more than Placebo and those
studies ranged from seven weeks to a
full year in length again it isn't that
creatine doesn't work it clearly does in
two to three pounds of lean mass is
still significant it's a solid increase
and given the relatively cheap price
point of simple creatine monohydrate
it's definitely worth taking in my
opinion however compared to a
bodybuilding steroid cycle which can add
upwards of 10 to 20 pounds of lean mass
in just a month or two it's also worth
tempering your expectations caffeine is
another supplement that I personally use
and it has a lot of scientific research
supporting its efficacy for strength
power and muscular endurance caffeine
can definitely give you a man Dental
boost before training and anecdotally I
do find it leads to better workouts
however the research as a whole isn't
particularly exciting when it comes to
muscle growth specifically again it
isn't that caffeine doesn't work it does
it's just important to temper your
expectations if pre-workout caffeine is
the only thing that's able to get you up
off the couch and through the gym doors
then it could be having a huge
behavioral impact on your gains but if
you're going to be training anyway the
muscle gains you'll see specifically as
a result of caffeine supplementation is
nothing astronomical lastly protein
powder is a supplement I often recommend
that has a large amount of scientific
literature supporting its use for muscle
growth protein powders are very
convenient and can make hitting your
daily protein targets easier however if
you're able to hit your daily protein
Target with high protein foods alone
adding extra protein powder won't
provide any extra gains so as I see it
protein powder simply provides a very
convenient option for getting in some
high quality protein but it's not magic
it's just another food option and again
I personally take all three of these
supplements and I'd recommend them to
any serious lifter who can budget them
but as you go further and further are
down the list the supplements get less
and less promising the third mistake
most people make is thinking you need a
super high protein diet to build muscle
you don't this is actually something
I've updated my stance on over the last
few years I used to recommend protein
intakes a bit higher than I do now but
I've updated that based on new research
a lot of people seem to think that if
you just load up on protein your body
will have to build more muscle after all
muscle is made up of protein so the more
protein you eat the more muscle you'll
build it makes intuitive sense but in
reality research shows that the effect
of protein on muscle growth is magnitude
smaller than the effect of training
eating protein gives these short-lived
blips and muscle protein synthesis while
training causes this long and prolonged
elevation the elevation that's
ultimately driving New Growth now
according to the latest research the
optimal protein Target for building
muscle in a caloric Surplus is 0.7 to 1
gram of protein per pound of body weight
or 1.6 to 2.2 grams per kilo practically
speaking I put most people in the middle
and going above that range won't cause
more gains if you're in a caloric
deficit for fat loss shifting proteins
slightly higher to 0.8 to 1.2 grams per
pound is smart to prevent muscle loss or
even allow muscle gain in some instances
personally I'm still cutting at the
moment and I eat 150 grams of protein
per day at 165 pounds body weight so
that's about 0.9 grams of protein per
pound of body weight for me I just say
this to show that even sitting toward
the lower end of these ranges is still
perfectly fine and I usually only
suggest going to the upper end if
someone is really shredded and at a
particularly high risk of muscle loss of
course it's also important to realize
that even if you eat below these ideal
ranges you can still build muscle it
just may not happen as quickly a recent
systematic review from Morton and
colleagues found that people tend to
build more and more muscle as they
increase protein but only up to 0.7
grams per pound that's where the trend
hits a break point going up from there
doesn't seem to do much of anything
extra but that doesn't mean no gains
occur if you go below 0.7 grams per
pound they do if you were to eat just
0.5 grams per pound you'd still build
muscle just not as quickly so if you
can't afford a high protein diet or you
don't want to eat a high protein diet
you can still build muscle it'll just
take a bit longer and it may also be
reassuring to know that the optimal
level of protein intake is still quite a
bit lower than what most of the
bodybuilding magazines say the fourth
mistake a lot of people make is
misunderstanding meal frequency many
people don't realize that the number of
meals you should eat per day for fat
loss is really up to you now I'm tempted
to say that the number of meals you eat
per day doesn't matter but that isn't
quite true for some people eating one or
two large meals per day within a
time-restricted feeding window will be
much more effective at helping them
reduce their total daily caloric intake
and lose more fat as a result still for
other people restricting their eating
window can make the diet feel more
difficult they might find that their
energy is lower throughout the day and
their hunger is less manageable so up
for them a higher frequency grazing meal
pattern where they eat four or five or
six smaller meals spaced throughout the
day would most likely be more effective
of course the good news is that we have
a ton of flexibility to try both that's
because the scientific literature shows
that when we equate caloric intake and
protein intake one approach isn't
significantly better than another this
is why I think it's very important that
people not grind through eating six to
eight meals a day just because it's
supposed to speed up your metabolism
doesn't and why it's also important that
people not struggle sticking to
intermittent fasting just because it's
supposed to be better at Burning belly
fat it isn't you just need to find a
meal pattern that'll help you follow
through on the diet better now it's
worth mentioning that muscle growth does
seem to be slightly impacted by the
number of meals you eat per day but also
probably not to the extent that most
people think a recent study from 2021
found that there was no significant
difference in muscle gained between a
group eating three meals a day versus
six meals a day so you can eat anywhere
from three to six protein-containing
meals per day and expect to see very
similar muscle growth however another
study from the previous year in 2020
found that eating three meals a day did
Trend toward more muscle growth than
only eating two meals a day with a
fairly large effect size even though it
didn't reach statistical significance so
as of now I think that for fat loss one
to six meals per day is perfectly fine
but for muscle growth three to six meals
is probably slightly more optimal than
just one to two meals still I should
point out that in the 2020 study the two
meal group did of course still make
gains and the difference between two
meals and three meals wasn't enormous
now before we go I want to mention one
last thing that I really wish I knew
about when I first started learning
about nutrition which is the macro
Factor Diet app if you aren't aware I'm
a part owner of my macro factor and I've
been part of the app's development since
the very beginning and I truly believe
it's the best algorithm-based nutrition
coaching app on the market like I said
in the video effective bodybuilding
nutrition isn't about force-feeding
calories finding a magic supplement
eating as much protein as possible or
keeping to a perfect meal schedule
instead the two most important things
you can do are consistently hit a
caloric Target that's appropriate for
your goal and eat enough protein to
support muscle mass however because
everyone's diet needs are different and
they can change over time depending on
changes to your metabolism your training
habits your body composition you need to
continually update your calories and
macronutrients macro Factor will take
care of all this for you based on your
individual body's response to the plan
macro Factor's weight Trend tool and
regular weekly check-ins will provide
feedback and adjustments to help ensure
that your weight is moving in the right
direction a lot of cuts end up turning
into crashed diets because it can be
hard to know when and how much to adjust
your calories in a lot of bulks turn
into dirty bulks because it can be hard
to tell if you're gaining muscle fast
enough again macro Factor will take care
of all that for you with its
science-based algorithms so if this
sounds like something you'd like to try
it for yourself you can get a free
two-week trial of macrofactor at the
first link in the description box below
also make sure you get into the macro
Factor Facebook group and subreddit when
you sign up because those are both
really active communities where you can
ask questions post updates share recipes
and help you stay accountable all right
that's it for this one guys thank you so
much for watching don't forget to leave
me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one