52 sets per week for the whole body
[Music]
no folks I'm Dr Mike I had to lean
forward to say that to make sure that
you understood how serious I was about
alleging what my name was huh who the
hell are
you where am I don't worry about that
now just answer some questions and
you'll get your doll back and reunited
with your family stay calm tell us your
name my name is Milo wolf soon to be do
my soon to be how soon well I'm
defending in 3 weeks so congratulations
in advance I know that's a FAA to say n
it' be fine yeah I can say yeah three
weeks later you DM me you're like I
didn't I failed yeah they kick me out so
you are getting your PhD very shortly by
the time this video will be released
certainly you will have a PhD
in the sports signs sport signs don't
act like uh you don't know the answer
that question it has to be from you
specific I see I see you're like I don't
know what uh maybe Sport Science I don't
know I never looked into it um okay and
you are uh a super expert in the science
of range of motion and we've got many
interviews with you already recorded on
the channel about that especially in the
members section if y motherfuckers is
curious deep science member section but
you have recently done a pretty in-depth
perusal of the volume literature it's
kind of a demon coming back to haunt me
from the past I been a a volume science
enjoyer for some time and recently some
Studies have been coming out and they're
saying something very interesting and
hopefully Scott the video guy did what
we were planning to do the thumbnail for
this video that you clicked is some
absurd claim of doing some absurd number
of sets is going to get you jacked and
if you're not doing it you're a loser
that part is clickbait though you may in
fact be a loser for reasons that we
can't account for it' be like that
sometimes just be like that sometimes
times and uh tell us what's going on
with training volume maybe Milo if you
can start tell us what the story was for
what we thought something like maximum
recoverable volume used to look like a
few years ago before the barbalo
studies Etc calleded yes so about five
years ago our best thinking based on the
study we had was that around 10 to 20
sets was the best place to maximize
hypertrophy we had pretty consistent
evidence as summarized in a metanalysis
by Brad shonfeld that doing more than 10
sets was better for muscle growth than
doing fewer than 10 sets per week per
muscle yes and from what I remember they
didn't have the density of data above 10
sets to conclude confidently first of
all any specifics or what happens above
10 sets just that it's better and also a
lot of people were asking Brad about
well what about what about north of 20
and he was just like guys we have like
four studies total above 10 sets
generally they're all better than the
studies below but one of them is 21 sets
and nothing else above that so we
actually don't know how high the volume
cap goes exactly but also in terms of
dose response relationship you very much
saw that each additional set yielded
more growth at least within the confines
of what have been studied up to about 15
20 sets Ty comparing different studies
not sets added week to week correct we
couldn't conclude that back even though
I was on about the shit for no rect good
reason informed by science but Guided by
the spirit that's how I like to describe
myself my psychiatrist
disagrees um so at that point we knew
that like generally if you look at the
studies as a
whole if you were going to design a
program for someone and they're like I
want growth more at least from 0 to 5 5
to 10 10 to 15 plus is go higher and
you'll probably see more growth for most
people that's correct yes there was
definitely a positive relationship
between how much volume you did and how
much hypertrophy you saw importantly in
these studies sets were taken to failure
typically so if you're taking a lot of
sub maximal sets you may or may not see
the same relationship you actually been
from higher volumes so that's a
consideration for most volume studies
because submaximal sets both do not
cause as much stimulus per Set uh
linearly and cause significantly less
fatigue so it's kind of like if you're
less fatigued and you need more volume
maybe you can do 25 30 Etc sets if
they're actually submaximal correct you
can recover from more sets given the
each set is less fatiguing and thus you
can get more total stimulus sometimes so
that was our understanding about five
years ago now since then there's been
multiple new studies looking into higher
and higher volumes with this most recent
study by Andis and colleagues looking at
at the peak volume 52 sets a week for
that's fucking deck of cards baby you
know what you could do is have a deck of
cards with you and like for each fucking
set you do you lay out a car dude that
would be so demeaning because you'd be
like oh my God I have to get through how
many sets this week can role play You're
A hypertophy Stripper and I'll just
throw the cards at you just make it R as
long as it's demeaning to me I'm turned
on um 52 sets per
week for the whole body no so in this
recent study they looked exclusively at
the quads they did train the hamstrings
as well at the end of each session but
that was a total of eight sets per week
so very low volume for the hamstrings so
you could essentially view it as a
specialization phase for the quads we're
going all the way up to 52 sets the
average across the whole study for that
group was 37 sets 37 set average they
started low and ended up high corre so
they started somewhere in what the 20s
or something like that 22 to 52 37
average how long was the duration of the
training intervention 12 weeks so over
12 weeks they went from 22 to 52 adding
six sets every two weeks no D loads no D
loads full send full send they didn't
train anything other than their legs
they were free to train their upper body
in their own time and given that they
were trained subjects like they squatted
on average for one rep to parallel three
plates that's dope it's pretty s for
stud fuck yeah so my hunch is they did
train upper body but I don't think they
trained it to the same level as they
trained their quads because if they did
that they just copy the quad program and
just do it for everything imagine if
they actually do that that would be
crazy growth interesting study or maybe
or they would be done um okay and then
so what are the subgroupings in that
study because they didn't just have one
condition what were the other ones so to
give you a brief overview of the study
they had a wash out phase where
essentially for two weeks participants
were on very low volumes to sort of
sensitize them all to the same extent to
training overall then they had a two we
feralization phase where they gradually
added volume to get up to 22 sets of
quads per week and from there they had a
12we intervention period one group
stayed at 22 sets for quads the whole
time so that was 11 sets in one session
11 sets in which is like a lot that's a
lot M all sets were taken to rp8 or two
reps in reserve except for the last set
which was taken to failure so actually
as far as far as like ecological
validity it's pretty close to what you
do in the real world yes the last set of
each exercise or of each session each
exercise so they did three
exercises squats leg extensions leg
presses squat leg press leg extension y
interesting okay and then the last set
of each one of those they took to
failure otherwise it's was a two R we're
going to get this question so we might
as well answer it now people will say
that beginners don't know how to train
close to failure so are as meaningless
we don't even have to address that
because these aren't beginners these are
three plate squatters uh been training
for mostly two to three years plus sure
it's a scientific definition of trained
participant usually so I got that one
correct and then what is the
situation with the confidence that we
have that they really went to reps and
Reserve based on the literature that
you're familiar with yep so we actually
conducted a systematic review and
metanalysis on how accurate are people
at estimating rep Reserve this is within
lab conditions whether or not these
results generalize to the average person
in the gym unclear however in lab
contexts across about 10 to 20 studies
but hold on the training situation for
the study also occurred in a lab corre
so we can that internal validity is
really high 100% so in this context on
average people are off by less than one
rep they underestimate themselves by
just shy of rep so if they think they
can do two more reps on a given set on
average they're a bit closer to three
reps yeah that's generally it's not it's
not fields and Fields and Reps and Reps
away it's not enough of a difference to
really make it practical impact on the
results of the study sure so they got
these guys going to rep shy failure we
can probably surmise that they trained
pretty fucking hard yes hard sets some
of them to failure even okay as far as
rest times went and this is a big
limitation of a lot of volume studies
they actually rested for at least 2
minutes it's a long fucking study bro
some poor graduate student of the
clipboard was there for a long time
vised by a strength and conditioning
professional so it's another things like
oh if you're not being supervised maybe
you don't train quite as hard but this
case it was even supervised in fact even
when as far as to control for diet so
they measured dietary intake both at
Baseline halfway through a study and a
study for all groups to look at whether
or not there any differences and
essentially diet wise it was similar so
there's no confounder there the three
groups were one group that remained at
22 sets of quads per week for the whole
12 weeks so that would look like doing
four sets of squat four sets of leg
press and three sets of leg extensions a
week tce a week the second group started
at 22 sets and then added four sets
every two weeks so that would they would
add it sort of across the board so would
have one set to squat one set to like
press one set to extension and kind of
go back and one more set to squat got it
so that overall volume is the
distributed even at the same thing of
because at RP a lot of the stuff we do
weekly set manipulations this would be
the rough equivalent of adding two sets
to your muscle Group Training per week
uh so that means that one set per
session yes in the per week yes if per
week one set per session per week
because it's two sessions okay so that's
really like a very mild increase in
volume for sure 12 weeks meat and
potatoes at 12 weeks that shit crazy
right oh yeah literally so one group
stays at 22 sets one group added four
sets every two weeks and the final group
added six sets every two weeks so the
first group say at 22 the second group
progress from 22 to I guess this case
that would
be 30 something 30 something yeah in
this case and then the final group went
all the way to 52 sets per week for an
average of 37 sets so they only train
for with 52 sets per week for the last
two weeks two weeks that is correct
excellent and so automatically if you
read the study as you should be training
with 52 sets a week you've misunderstood
the entire nature of the apparatus um
that's some shit we used to get a lot uh
back in my uh pring for mrv days where
i' say like 20 sets a week you can't
recover from that like yes I only do
that in my last week and then I de lo so
um definitely a difference and they all
they started all at 22 CS a week which
is like I'll say high reasonable yep but
then they kept going that is correct
okay so when did the first subject die
and how much muscle did they lose in
group number three well fun fact at the
dropout rate was lowest in the highest
volume group and the only injury that
occurred and resulted in the Dropout so
parti sto the study was actually the
lowest volume group so as far as people
claiming that higher volumes will get
injured that sort of stuff at the very
least we don't have compelling evidence
from these studies that that occurs uh
what I'll say is if it's okay if I paint
my own little bullshit into this you
don't have to agree with anything I'm
saying my interpretation of that is like
yeah shut up Mike um there is absolutely
a theoretical basis for saying doing too
much work over time will get you hurt
but it certainly doesn't present itself
in a obvious definite this is going to
hurt you way especially in in order of
weeks usually in order of months and
years of doing too much and often like
it's not your muscles that get hurt it's
your joints and connective tissues and
if you're managing good technique Etc
you may be able to do really crazy
volumes and actually never get hurt uh
will you get great results though so how
do their results go well so they
measured hypertrophy of the quads
obviously since that was the most group
of interest and they also measured one
rep max in the squad interesting it's
very very standard exercise science just
throw that in there 100% Squad is like
the exercise science exercise yes
absolutely per that real quick question
what was their rough
um relative intensity was a sets of how
many reps rough they are they doing so
they varied between sets of 6 to8 and
sets of 10 to 12 6 to8 in the first part
of the week 10 to 12 in the second part
of the week oh beautiful
design good job researchers yeah some
variation in there just like you know
amazing yeah so here's what they found
for strength broadly speaking the adding
four sets per two weeks group so the
moderate volume group and the higher
volume group saw better outcomes in one
Earth Max in the squat than the 22 set
group and these groups on average were
doing about like 10 to 15 sets of squats
a week if not a bit more sometimes so
we're talking about relatively High
volumes of squatting volume and overall
quad volume increasing strength gains
which is relatively noral previous
studies on volume and strength gains
generally find there is a positive
relationship between how many sets you
do per week for a lift and your strength
gains yeah but it's a bit more
moderate off hypertrophy keeps going for
God knows how long but the strength we
kind of understand like if someone's
like hey should I do 20 sets of squats
per week for strength and be like I
think I would keep it to 10 to 15 at the
most and that seems that's not just me
making up numbers that's actually
evidence-based recommendation for
strength like if someone tells you hey
evidence-based 15 or more sets of
squatter Venture deadlift per week is a
good idea be like where what study are
you getting that from at pery a
different story yep 100% And that's
summarized by a men analysis from 2017
by Roston and colleagues if you want to
read you're like a fucking chat GPT but
handsome and giant and right here next
to me I'll see you afterwards I'll see
you now even shit different type of
video huh yeah we're gonna flip the
script this has actually been for our
only fans they love a technical
introduction that it's a nice script you
know like most most uh adult videos they
just get right very poor storyline I
want a I want a scientific I want like
yeah like I want half of the shit to be
about like the intricacies of Designing
nanotech machinery and like then
straight to just like we just fall on
each other and things happen we wrestle
you
know I'm used to turning that way in any
case Scott the video guy good luck
editing this video Scott's like I'm not
editing any shit yeah this is gold so
here's what they found for strength the
moderate and high volume groups saw
better outcomes so potentially based on
this data slightly higher volumes for
strength than previously thought makes
sense for the squad at least for
hypertrophy this is the interesting part
for pretty much everyone let's be honest
the highest volume group saw the best
outcomes and there was pretty much yep
there was pretty much a dose response
linear relationship between how much
volume they did 22 sets all the way to
on average 37 sets and how much
hypertophy they saw this is interesting
because we do have previous data looking
at quads and sort of higher volumes we
have about six studies now including
this one original Brazilian study there
was Brad's replication in the Brazilian
study and a few others we're actually
ignoring the Bal studies here so there's
other studies as well studies no no no
yeah there's the other Brazilian studies
they did like on an aircraft carrier
with Sailors or some shit and then they
did Brad replicated that and then Brad
got in trouble because people are like
you're taking money from Big volume he's
like this is a replication study this
already happened TR if by trouble you
mean l McDonald I'm not allowed to say
that name you didn't say it I said it
anyways so there is actually previous
data generally showing the same thing
which is that the quads seem to actually
benefit from relatively higher volumes
from there we have the tricep and quads
benefit from slightly higher volumes and
the biceps from slightly lower volumes
which is interesting at least in these
studies yeah um with the quad
specifically it does seem like you can
do above 20 sets and likely at this
point see more growth we have six
studies looking at hypertrophy comparing
a more moderate volume approach of about
5 to 20 sets to a higher volume approach
of typically 20 to 35 sets per week per
on average and results are consistently
neutral to positive for higher volumes
so there's two studies showing the same
hypertrophy whether you do sort of lower
volumes in the 5 to 15 or 5 to 20 range
versus there's two studies showing a
neutral no difference no outcome and
there's four studies showing a positive
effect on hypertrophy when doing above
20 sets how much more hypertrophy are we
talking about here effect size wise and
real worldwise sure so I don't think
it's a linear relationship so I don't
think when you go from say 10 to 20 sets
that's the same increase in hypertrophy
as going from say 20 to 30 sets I think
taper off a little bit totally but there
is a meaningful benefit to be had
meaningful
okay um two more things to ask you one
is let's forget about so my next thing
to ask you after this is the volume
ramping situational literature but
before
that I look at this study I look at a
few of the other
studies and I go Jesus Christ 52 fucking
cents I'll tell you what I get out of it
as like this is what the literature
tells me to do in spirit and you let me
know if I'm wrong or how you would
caveat this I would say and this is a
video I have written down to make in its
own stand alone where I'll talk about
terms here but systemic fatigue is going
to stop you from doing this for your
whole body for sure nobody's surviving
that shit nobody's doing 50 sets a week
for every muscle for eight muscle groups
the body the major ones you're going to
die you're just GNA just uh completely
burn out
however this
realization from the literature that
many people can benefit from
significantly more sets than theorized
opens up a really big window for the
idea of specialization phases and that
if you back off on your quads back off
on your hams and calves take it easy on
your glutes and your back you can take
your chest and triceps and and Pump Up
the Volume and as long as your system is
recovering you it may surprise you how
non-limited locally the muscles are and
that more volume often does get you
better results so someone's like you
know my forearms won't grow like from
wrist curls and I I have this
conversation a lot with people mostly
because I'm in a lot of masturbation
Anonymous kind of groups it's not really
Anonymous really there physically we
jack off together wow yeah big circle
and everything soggy cookie someone
always eats the cookie in any case um
people will say like I can't get my
forums to grow like okay like your fors
you know for my at least inferential
understanding they recover quickly
anyway they does not position well to
take mechanic damage so like how many
sets you do like I do three sets of
wrist curs after arms every week like so
you do three sets a week and you're
baffled and you're not getting results
motherfuckers out here doing 52 sets of
quads a week you better get them you
better do that shit you know maybe 10
sets three times a week work up to that
and you can expect to see
potentially you can do a more realistic
assessment expecting growth from that
than you can expecting a neutral or or
no outcome like there are green fields
of growth for you per muscle if maybe
higher volumes than you thought and the
way to get there is to specialize on
those bring down the other muscles let
the muscles you want and just crank up
the volume agreed disagreed Nuance
addition agreed a couple things on that
one keep in mind that the relationship
between volume and growth thus taper off
at tail end so if you're going from say
20 sets for muscle group to 30
specialize you may not see as much
additional growth as if you think it's
just linear right yes but I will really
quick in addition to that a lot of the
people who find themselves candidates
for four specialization phases are
people who realistically look at their
pecs over the course of a year and go I
I legitimately think I haven't grown at
all then the difference between 30 sets
and 20 sets can beat the difference
between zero and anything above which is
technically infinite you know like
infinitely better gains if it's zero is
your Baseline so for people that are
more advanced that are struggling for
muscle group yeah for people that are
not Advanced that are not struggling
just do whatever volume keeps you're
fucking going but if you run into a
problem lower the other muscle volume
raise the problem muscle up slowly and
then you'll probably be in line for some
growth 100% and because you get
diminishing returns with additional
volume for a lot of beginners and
intermediates training everything
equally and to a decent level like about
15 to 20 sets per week is a really solid
starting point yes and it'll get you
maybe 80 85% of all of your lifetime
exactly then later when you want to push
the pace you got to lower some things
bring some things up sure a couple more
findings from this study number one is
obviously they didn't train all the
muscs at once but these people were able
to see a benefit from volumes as high as
37 sets per week for muscle group while
training taking all sets to rp8 or two
reserve and last it to failure so
there's a good chance that you can
recover from more than we previously
thought if you had no knowledge of your
own sort of fatigue and recoverability
from training the final thing is
specialization can be really useful in
the sort of situation where you want to
bring one muscle group up and where
you're you can only recover from so much
training and so you want to manage
fatigue and still grow certain muscle
groups very well equally this also
applies to how much time you have if you
only have a few hours to train a week
and you care more about certain muscle
groups the same consideration can be had
for fatigue as for time so maybe
specializing on a few muscle groups at a
time when you're really pressed for time
and keeping everything else a bit lower
is a really solid approach yes because
we had Dr pack on or depending on the
release schedule of this video we'll
have him on in the future we recorded it
right before you sat down you were here
for this and he let us know kind of the
details of the minimum effective dose
minimum effect of volume literature and
that's also very encouraging like you
could actually make some decent gains in
many cases with very few sets but it
turns out the landscape is kind of
like the maximum adaptive volume when uh
Dr James Hoff and I wrote the volume
landmarks book we theorized it to be a
floating function not one specific point
that adapts to many conditions and we
also imagined the growth curve based on
our experience and reading of the
literature at the time the growth curve
between minimum effective volume to
maximum recoverable we we we thought it
it it looked very smooth and there was a
lot to exploit uh we didn't think it was
like
nothing and back to shit it looks like
that's at least a little bit the
literature is being kind to our earlier
predictions like you get some growth
right out of minimum effect of volume
and very close you rise up to really
good levels of growth as you go up
closer and closer to mrv it goes up kind
of linearly but not impressively and
then at some point it falls off decent
that's correct it just turns out that
the MAV the maximum adaptive volume is a
little bit higher than we thought yes
now uh second to last question got you
got you here Mr expert we got all kinds
of questions for you have we really had
any series of well-conducted
studies discover an
mrv or not really that's a good question
because I used to get a lot of shit for
saying like many people can train with
20 sets per week at the end of their
meso and they'll they'll that's close to
mrv for them maybe they'll recover just
fine they'll be okay if you take a D Lo
and I people clam clap back at me like
you're fucking crazy you're going to
burn people out and it's kind of like
well I don't even know what to say it
was 52 sets motherfucker I would have
never said that shit was true but
apparently these people are still alive
ambulating under their own power what
gives did we find an mrv yet or is it
just kind of like a we haven't found it
yet we have not found an mrb yet pretty
much and we've trained people with
pretty high volumes like in this study
for example at least for the quads
locally we train with very high volumes
so why that man know have been systemic
mrv overall mrv for all mus groups
combined as far as local mrv goes if if
it existed at a sort of lower level we
should have found it in this study and
found no additional hypertrophy but we
didn't that's the definition of mrv
exact you're not recovering anymore it's
unlikely you're spurring a whole lot of
grow did you guys uh do you have any
insight on the data Maybe This is like a
request for raw data thing did you look
at their strength uh through the study
uh week to week to week because I'd like
to see if if how that looked because it
could be like they got weaker at the end
but they still did a functional
overreach for more growth or something
for sure functional overreach androphy
is a very novel area we don't have a ton
of support yet it may OCC it may OCC but
if maybe they experien a ton of fatigue
at the study but that didn't stop them
from still growing and I know you had a
discussion recently on strong for
example about to what extent is fatigue
from training actually interfering with
producing a hypertrophy stimulus right
right because you can probably be a bit
fatigued going into a session and still
get really good growth in that session
sure so that's a really interesting
consideration yes last question for
you the literature when I was around
making my mrv bullshit theorizing about
volume just from Theory and observation
I managed to synthesize the idea that
there is some logic to at least consider
that what is a very good dose for you of
volume in week one of your program may
be a volume you could very easily
recover from later because you're used
to it and my thinking was there are many
complex ways of thinking about this but
my simplest version was like if you can
recover from much more now like week one
you go in and three sets of leg you're
fucking limping around for a week the
argument to do more is kind of strange
like you want me to limp harder like
what the fuck but like if you're in week
three of a program let's say six weeks
long you're doing 10 sets of quads and
like you just don't even get delayed
onet soreness anymore someone comes into
the gym this is the way I did a lot of
my thought experiments like what if a
very intelligent and insightful incel
and by incel I mean per person who asks
you rude questions to your face comes up
and asks me about why am I stopping or
why am I doing this how do I answer them
politely and if I can't cogent
understand in my own head why I answer
like oh we really don't know this so he
would be like how many sets did you do
and you're like 10 he's like why not 12
and you're like well you
see he's like is it because you can't
recover you're like no no I can recover
actually easily he's like why not do
more here's the graph of like growth and
volume now that we know it looks like
that you can recover why not grow more I
I actually can't intelligently answer
that question so I was like okay to me
you start out with whatever you can
handle and then as your body clearly is
adapting to higher volumes as as far as
this notable recovery of how fast you g
gain function back in strength how
quickly the Dom settles out and then
you're like well fuck like it seems like
I can hand handle this then there's a
logic for potentially doing more now
that was purely logical in my purely
inferential we didn't have data because
no one was doing ramping studies but
that's changed recently it has tell me
how it's changed so there's been a few
direct studies on the topic of taking
your Baseline volume into account like
that first week of training and adding
volume to that specifically in this
study for example they went from 22 sets
all the way to 52 sets so that's kind of
exploring that concept but with the big
confounder of different groups had
different average volumes so is it the
fact that you're adding sets week to
week or is it simply the fact that one
group did more sets overall yes
difficult to dis en so true a true
internal internally valid pure study for
controls there would be one group both
groups average 20 sets a week one starts
at 20 and ends at 20 one starts at 10
and ends at 30 you got it perfect that
would we don't have that study we do not
have that however we also have another
study that took into account
participants previous volume and then
assigned one limb to just doing the same
volume again and one limb to doing 20%
extra volume and in that study they did
indeed find additional hypertrophy
there's been in the limb that they
additional volume kind of increasing
from the Baseline so the concept of
adding one we to week seems to pan out
in some research the research where it
doesn't seem to pan out is typically
where greater additions of volume are
performed and where it's performed at
once so for example there are studies
where they add 30% or 60% of volume just
from one week to the next and that
doesn't seem to increase High approach
feed versus just staying at that wow
okay so the slow approach might be
better a slow approach might be better
and I think that volume Auto regulation
sort of week to we adding volume as you
feel recovered is probably best used to
get to your most productive volume yeah
right who do we Scott do we pay him off
for agreeing with our old ideas that we
yeah
couple couple of dollars big volume says
hello hey Brad I'm working with Brad so
if anything I'm being paid by
Brad yeah do you know that so you work
actually directly with Dr Brad and so
then you understand that in the Batman
Universe of things he's kind of like the
penguin of big volume he very
much like he he knows Shadow shadowy
character pulling all the strings behind
the scenes all them big volume bias and
I honestly I've been paid by big
volume a fucking house a recording
studio I how much money they have but it
seems to run deep yeah like I remember
once I posted a like a meme that was
like kind of friendly towards hit and I
was picking my kids up from school later
that day there a guy in a limo stepped
out he's like you got beautiful children
make sure they stay beautiful with the
high volume like I was like sir I bowed
I think he was like a dawn like some
kind of Italian yeah I was gonna say
this on Italian americ next day the next
post I made was just fuck Mike mener and
uh I think they like that Dam did you
get some more cash no but because
remember they gave me a warning first
but the fuck my Menor just got me back
to the good but every month the I prati
for high volume now you're getting I I I
like that watch what kind of watch is
that it's G you know so I mean for real
that's big volume watch if I can tell I
could sit down next to you on a plane
and be like volume proponent you're like
you know what real recognize
real I love it so other than getting
money to Shi for big volume
um what is your summary now of how your
mind has changed in the last two years
about the concept of how much volume
should I do if I want my best growth for
sure so previously we thought about
maybe about 15 to 20 sets per week per
muscle group is a really solid place for
most people most maximize you got to try
it yourself and see where you are some
people it's really low some people it's
really high it's a normal distribution
there'll be people below 15 sets some
people above 20 sets but that is a
general ballpark that we thought a
couple years ago was a really solid
place now with this more recent data for
example the DLo study as well where you
didn't necessarily see a benefit from D
loing after four weeks there's a study
by Coleman and colleagues recently
published fatigue doesn't seem to be
quite as big of a consideration at least
with the volumes that we're talking
about here 152 sets and with training
studies where they're only training a
fraction of their exactly body like your
whole body everyone knows you get tired
we don't need a study for that and
that's actually a study we plan on doing
oh dope we plan on running a study at
some point A P study where essentially
we just take trained lifters maybe about
10 trained lifters not a huge sample
size because they'll be in the lab five
days a week each they'll be training
hard doing 203 sets per muscle group and
we'll be tracking their Readiness
recovery fatigue Etc to see whether
these studies on single muscle groups
you know when you're doing 30 sets for
quads for example whether we can do that
for the whole body in train lifters and
still recover yeah and how would that
question yeah for sure huge question for
sure so previously we thought 15 20 sets
really solid story point for hypertrophy
now with these Six studies where four of
them show a benefit to higher volumes
above 20 sets versus lower than 20 sets
and two show no difference broadly
speaking I do think you want to explore
higher volumes listen to your body as
far as recovery goes as far as recover
from training but try going above 20
sets and see whether or not you can get
additional growth from it maybe all the
way to 25 30 sets at the peak volumes
yes and would you say this is especially
true for people who have lagging muscle
groups or is it like if my chest is
responding amazing to 10 to 15 sets try
more even for that I would say so I
would say you can initially if you want
to try out increasing volume a littleit
for all muscle groups and see if you can
recover you might just find that
actually you can take all muscle groups
to about 20 sets and still recover just
fine now if you take it to 25 or 30 you
might find actually that's not feasible
and you have to specialize in order to
manage overall fatigue however just
raising volume overall gradually and
seeing how you respond is a good
starting place and then you can Branch
out into either specializing or
continuing to train everything pretty
equ dope I have one final question for
you what
is what's that Wan it's British slang
for What's going on oh yeah I remember
you talked that earlier yeah and
it what is your problem with Mike mener
personally seem you seemingly
um what's up Milo talk to us I hate h
Bros like I I'll say this publicly like
I do not like you H Bros just have this
veneer
of low IQ about them oh I don't think
it's a veneer true it's for real it's
for real for real hit Bros if you've
managed to listen to this much science
stay
calm um and Milo's just joking
yeah just kidding
guys Milo you've been amazing see you
next time
peace