hey good morning guys so I'm out for my
morning walk been doing cardio for about
a half an hour every other morning so
probably about four times a week and so
that I just go for a walk outdoors
usually come out here and do a loop
around the trail and it takes me around
20 minutes to a half-hour mini cut is
off to a good start so far
I started at 170 pounds now I'm down to
on average around 168 I hit as low with
166 and a half in terms of my diet then
eating intuitively and placing an
emphasis on eating Whole Foods and then
also having consistency to my days so
for breakfast I've been having exactly
the same thing every morning so that is
a couple of egg whites a whole egg
around on the side turkey bacon and a
cup of fruit and then for my second meal
I've been having the same thing weight
focus on shake and some almonds and a
piece of fruit and then after my
training session I'll have another
protein shake and then from there I
usually have two other meals so for
example last night I had lean ground
beef burger with some cheese on it on a
light bun if I want say a little piece
of cheesecake or some chocolate or
whatever it is really as long as it's
not something that's like too greasy or
fatty then I'll just have that
little bit and I think that's an
important aspect of intuitive eating I
think that if the goal is to get away
from tracking things meticulously and
eating more according to your body's
hunger signals and so on I think it's
important not to put restrictions on
yourself
in in terms of what you can eat at each
meal both in terms of a mountain and in
food sources now I admit this can be a
slippery slope for people
I really have a tendency to overeat I
think that at this point this is the
most comfortable way for me to eat and
yet still not hinder my progress as a
result okay so I am back with a
voiceover commentary for this chest and
shoulder plus some squats workout so
yeah we kick things off with a little
bit of like cardio 5 or 10 minutes on
the elliptical than just some basic
dynamic stretches and just general
prehab stuff so some band pull up arts
shoulder dislocations and some external
rotations and stuff like that so I do
rock my adidas power lifts for benching
I'm just because I find the raised heel
allows me to get a little bit more leg
drive without having to Dorsey flex so
much and just gets me into a more
comfortable position with my setup and
say with a flat shoe so what we were
doing here was six sets of five with
sixty seven and a half percent of my
current 1rm which I'm plugging in as 375
since that's my current training max
and yeah just getting a side angle there
you can kind of get a feel for what my
bar path looks like so I really puff up
in my chest in addition to the arch that
you're seeing and really try to think of
getting that contact point up and
expanding upward as close to the bar to
kind of meet the bar on its way down and
then when I press I'm pressing up and
back so you should notice that the bar
comes slightly forward to reach the the
high contact point at the bottom of the
sternum
and then I press it up and back to get
it you know closer to the the shoulder
joint and then reduce that moment
as a result so after the bench it was on
to some squats so this was actually
meant to be really light squat work more
or less technique work so this is an
interesting exercise three-stop
eccentric pause squat and this is an
exercise that was introduced to me by
the strength guys I would say two or
three years ago now and I think that
it's a great learning tool and a great
way to improve bar path and really focus
on the eccentric of your squat a lot of
people tend to just free fall on their
squat and I think that this can be a
good useful training exercise to teach
eccentric control and like I said
improve by our path
you guys might notice that I have
switched back to low bar here the reason
I went to high bar to begin with really
was because my back was giving me some
trouble when I was training the squat in
the low bar position but that hasn't
been an issue lately so I went back to
low bar and introduced this exercise
back in to really acclimate myself to
that exercise again and ensure that I'm
performing the movement in in the way
that I want to so we did six sets of
four with 70% of 1rm and that turned out
to be quite a bit more difficult than I
had anticipated probably because I left
my niece leaves at home on this day so
the weight felt quite a bit heavier but
I'm not going to adjust that moving
forward I think that in a week or so I
should be acclimated to that exercise
and I have a feeling the weight will
feel lighter again especially since it
started to feel lighter actually as the
sets went on so then after that we did
some lateral raises with the dumbbells
and then with the cables and then we
moved on to cable upright rows so I know
upright rows get a lot of heat because
they can put your shoulder into a
compromised position where it's
internally rotated
and you're also abducting at the same
time however I find with the rope it
allows for a little bit more healthy
range of motion of the shoulder joint
and you should probably stop maybe a
little bit shorter than I am here you
generally don't want your elbows to go
up too much higher than the shoulders
lest you fall victim to some impingement
and that's the way that Bradshaw one
Feld recommends doing them so that is a
good exercise for the the side delts in
the traps and that's going to be
irregular for me moving forward so after
the shoulder stuff it was on to a
incline machine chest press so I am more
or less prioritizing the shoulder stuff
just because my chest is a strong point
for me already as I was basically
sticking to mostly the pump work here so
12 to 15 reps on the press and 15 to 20
reps with the cable crossover and with
the cable crossover what I plan on doing
is just altering up the the cable height
from week to week so I did just a
straight on fly this week and next week
I'll probably do it from the bottom and
then from the top so we finished off
with some ABS one thing to note here
with the cable crunch is that look how
much my spine is rounding that's an
important part a lot of people just flex
at the hips and so their abs aren't as
active as they should be so it's
important to allow your your spine and
your lower back to round and that's what
the ABS should be doing when they're
crunching then we finished off with some
neck training - check out my video on
neck training for more details on this
but yeah I'm still just getting used to
it and it feels pretty awkward and I get
some weird looks putting a plate on my
head at the gym but that's going to
finish this commentary guys I hope that
you enjoy the rest of the video and I'll
talk to you guys soon
all right guys so I'm back from the gym
I'm about to record a podcast with a
pretty sweet lineup of debaters we're
going to be debating whether or not
reverse dieting is the best practice for
bodybuilders and so I've got Lane Norton
Peter fishin Eric Helms and Meno hence
women's joining me for a podcast debate
so I've been planning this now for the
last couple of months super excited
about it it's going to be released on my
youtube channel here and on my podcast
on Monday March 7th so stay tuned for
that and it's gonna be a good one all
right guys so I'm going to go ahead and
record this and I will see you guys in
the next vlog no dude I'm serious
DCAM calories and you need to track
those