this is a clip of me posing at the
leanest i've ever been it was taken just
a few weeks out from the california
natural muscle mayhem where i won the
lightweight class the overall and earned
my pro card in natural bodybuilding now
keep in mind this footage was shot on an
iphone 5s so it doesn't capture the best
detail but here are a few progress
photos from the same time frame at the
same level of leanness now the weird
thing about this is that i do think that
this level of leanness looks pretty cool
and i can't understand why so many
people have a goal of not just getting
lean but getting shredded and then
staying shredded a lot of people see
fitness influencers maintaining the
shredded physique year-round and then
set the same goal for themselves without
realizing the dark side of it all so in
this video i'm going to lay out three
harsh realities that come alongside
being shredded and then explain a better
more practical approach to getting and
maintaining the physique you want the
first harsh reality is that when you get
shredded you will look your biggest and
leanest under good lighting and when
flexing or lifting especially if you
have a good camera however you'll most
likely look your smallest and most
depleted for the other 23 hours of the
day in this posing footage i'm only 150
pounds or 68 kilos at five foot five
inches tall and while i do think i look
more jacked here than usual i looked
much less jacked than usual just walking
around and this is where the so-called
natty triangle comes in most people get
to pick two you can be shredded and
natural but you won't be big or you can
be big and natural but you won't be
shredded or you can be big and shredded
but you won't be natural now obviously
there will always be a handful of freaks
with one in a million genetics who can
be all three at once but for the rest of
us we get to pick two the second harsh
reality is that you may look like you're
in your best shape ever but still not be
any happier with the way you look that's
because body dysmorphia is exacerbated
at very low body fats and almost
everyone i've ever coached confidence
and body image improve as they get
leaner but only up to a point most often
once they get past the so-called beach
lean stage and start pushing into
shredded territory a switch flips in
their brain and they can no longer see
their physique objectively they start
noticing every little bit of fat on
their body and get very critical about
how they look and it's only after the
diet is over and they look back on their
old progress photos that they think wow
i did not realize that i was actually
that lean and this is a shame because
people work so hard to attain a certain
look that they don't even appreciate
once they get there and then the third
harsh reality is that being shredded
comes with unhealthy side effects even
as a natural this 2013 case study
followed a natural male bodybuilder
through 26 weeks so just about six
months of dieting and in that time frame
he lost 30 pounds total and went from
14.8 body fat all the way down to 4.5
body fat measured by dexa this is what
he looked like on stage at the end of
the diet where you can see visible glute
striations no low back fat feather delts
and so on and while he placed well at
the show his hormones took a huge hit
his testosterone levels dropped to a
quarter of what they were at baseline so
he went from a very high
922 nanograms per deciliter about as
high as you tend to see in a natural
lifter all the way down to a clinically
low level of 227
nanograms per deciliter which would
still count as low for someone in their
80s or 90s we can also see that his
ghrelin went up and his leptin went down
meaning he must have felt super hungry
all the time his cortisol also
skyrocketed doubling throughout the diet
and this was reflected in his total mood
disturbance which increased by
617 percent throughout the diet severe
sleep interruption is another extremely
common side effect which can be very
frustrating essentially your body is
doing everything in its power to tell
you to not sleep because you need to eat
first in my experience this is one of
the most brutal aspects of getting
shredded case studies on women show
similar negative health effects plus the
addition of menstrual cycle disruptions
and the consequences of that like
infertility and bone mineral loss this
case study on a natural figure
competitor found that even 1.5 years
after the competition was over she still
didn't have her period back of course
not everyone is the same here another
study found that 72 percent of
competitors from both bikini and figure
divisions combined had their period back
after three to four months some of the
variability there could be due to the
difference in leanness required for
bikini versus figure and whether or not
the competitors were comfortable
regaining healthy body weight and
sometimes the side effects can get
bizarre it's common for competitors to
get complaints that they smell like
ammonia or nail polish because caloric
balance is so negative that the body
turns to protein for energy which is
then converted to ammonia and then
excreted through sweat and urine even
more common is for competitors to do
absolutely wild stuff with food people
will watch the food network non-stop
watch all kinds of food challenges hoard
cupboards full of junk food and find
things appetizing that really shouldn't
taste or smell good here's an example
let me illustrate how crazy it gets the
smell of dog food makes me hungry and
worse than that the smell of his crap
makes me hungry when i clean it up now
you may be wondering does this mean
every shredded influencer wants to eat
dog poop
maybe it could be that they're secretly
suffering just as much as the rest of us
but looking lean for their social media
or for their business is simply worth
the sacrifice for them it could also be
that they're on performance enhancing
drugs which can make maintaining a lower
body fat a little bit easier however
even with pharmaceutical enhancement
most people will still suffer similar
side effects as naturals except for the
testosterone stuff another perfectly
plausible scenario is that they simply
have lower body fat set points than me
or you for example i'd guess someone
like david laid is able to maintain six
to eight percent body fat without
suffering too much i really doubt david
laid wants to eat dog poop based on his
photos as a teenager it seems like he's
just able to get lean and stay lean
without trying that hard but this isn't
common most people have a higher body
fat set point than david laid now i need
to backtrack just a bit body fat set
point theory is the idea that we each
have a specific level of body fat that
our body will fight to maintain if we
get too far below the set point it pulls
us back up by making us feel hungry and
lethargic and if we get too far above
the set point it pulls us back down by
turning hunger down and ramping up
metabolism and while setpoint theory is
a good model for a simple understanding
it originated in the 1950s and recent
models have updated it based on new
science one of the prevailing ones these
days is called the dual intervention
point model which says that instead of a
single body fat set point there are
actually two points that each act as a
boundary for a set range where our body
is most comfortable hence the dual
intervention point model for example if
i try to get leaner than eight or nine
percent body fat my body will absolutely
punish me by skyrocketing my hunger
tanking my metabolism and giving me all
the bad side effects we just talked
about similarly if i try to bulk beyond
say 25 body fat my body will also fight
me by lowering my appetite boosting my
metabolism sweating like crazy and so on
but i can get to the lower end of that
boundary without too much resistance and
that's the key finding the lower
boundary of your body fat set range
that's what can be sustainable but this
range is different for everyone david
laid's range might look something like
this whereas someone who's more prone to
obesity might have a range that looks
more like this so david lead could get
to six percent body fat and still feel
fine whereas this person might start to
feel like death anytime they dip below
12 body fat so if you want to sustain a
lean physique you should aim for the
bottom end of your set range but not
lower of course you can go lower if you
want to for example if you have a
competition or something but i would
still suggest getting back out of there
as promptly as you can so you don't
exacerbate those negative side effects
trying to stay shredded can also impair
your ability to make progress in size
and strength people who stay shredded
year round have a hard time making any
progress and the longer you stay below
your set range the more likely you'll be
to binge see a weight rebound and then
end up sustaining a less lean physique
than if you had just been a bit more
conservative with your low end to begin
with now for the record i'm cutting
myself at the moment and that's
basically my goal hit the low end
boundary of my dual intervention range
and try to maintain there for a bit and
of course it's normal to feel hunger and
experience some cravings and even see
strength loss at a certain point those
things are expected to happen even if
you're within your set range and it's
normal for fat loss to be challenging
but once it goes from challenging to
all-consuming you'll know and i'd say
that's when it's time to probably
re-evaluate your goals and why you set
them in the first place so that's it for
this one guys before we go i want to
thank skillshare for sponsoring this
video skillshare is an online learning
community that has thousands of classes
for people looking to learn new creative
skills whether that be animation
creative writing video photography web
design or even stuff like business
marketing and productivity i've been a
skillshare member for years now and to
this day i still use it to hone my craft
whether that be learning something new
about lighting or camera lenses or just
improving my workflow skillshare is
great because it doesn't just offer
classes it also gives you access to a
massive community of people who are also
learning the same skills as you actually
recommended skillshare to my mom
recently and she's been taking courses
on interior design that she's putting to
use in her own home and if that's a
skill that you're also looking to
develop i strongly recommend this course
called explore interior design taught by
demetrius robinson it's beginner level
and it gives you six projects to work
through so skillshare is offering the
first 1000 of my viewers to sign up
using the link in the description box
below a free one month trial of
skillshare so you can start exploring
your creativity today so make sure
you're one of the first 1 000 people and
get a head start on that skill that
you're looking to master so thanks again
to skillshare for sponsoring the video i
really do appreciate it thank you guys
so much for watching don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe if you haven't already
and i'll see you guys all here in the
next one
[Music]
without suffering too much i really
doubt david laid wants to eat dog poop
based
i really doubt david laid wants to eat
dog poop based on
man that's brutal
ugh
i doubt david laid wants to eat dog poop
bro oh i can't even think about that one
that is absolutely brutal i'm just gonna
have to straight up read that