thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to part 2 of the
myth-busting day season 1 finale I'm in
the last video I summarized the first 10
fitness myths we covered in the 25
episodes series so far and in this video
we're gonna take on the next 7 myths and
I think I'm just gonna have to do a part
3 as well where we'll cover the
remaining 8 and as before these
summaries will skip many of the details
so if you'd like to hear more and I'll
just check out the corresponding link in
the description box below where I go
through all of the relevant scientific
detail in much more detail but anyway
let's just get started
so at first is cryotherapy and I think
of 2017 issue of the mass research
review summarizes this area perfectly
with the main takeaways being that cold
water immersion therapy so a 10-minute
cold water bath is better for recovery
than whole body cryotherapy where you
stand in a cold chamber especially when
it comes to reduced muscle soreness
however 1 2017 study found that cold
water immersion still didn't improve
recovery any better than a simple 10
minute low intensity cooldown on the
bike and it's actually even worse than
that though two separate studies from
Roberts and colleagues showed that
cryotherapy not only reduced anabolic
signaling after training but also
stunted muscle growth across a 12-week
program when compared to a simple
10-minute cooldown so the main purported
benefit of HIIT cardio is that you'll
burn more calories after the session is
over because of the epoch or caloric
afterburn effect however according to a
2006 research review by Lyle McDonald
when subjects performed fully 80 minutes
of HIIT it only amounted to about 80
extra calories burned due to epoch and
more recent data looking at 28 studies
under played this effect even more
granted other research has argued that
HIIT is about 40% more time efficient
however because this research isn't well
controlled that's possible that this
apparent efficiency could just be due to
a chayotes appetite blunting effect or
placebo effects where because people
feel like they're pushing themselves
harder they believe more in their
efforts all in all I would say that the
pros for HIIT are that it may be more
time efficient and can
less boring for some but a few cons are
that it tends to be harder to recover
from meaning you can't do them as often
as low intensity sessions and it's more
likely to interfere with your resistance
training and it may actually be
redundant if you're already doing
intense weight training which trains
similar systems and yields similar
adaptations so given all this I would
say that if you are going to be doing
HIIT I'd limit it to 1 to 3 sessions per
week and create any further caloric
deficit required through reduced food
intake or steady-state cardio so when it
comes to Kido I think the results of a
2014 meta-analysis from the American
Medical Association looking at 48 unique
studies summed it up perfectly
most calorie reducing diets result in
clinically important weight loss as long
as the diet is maintained because
different diets are variably tolerated
by different individuals the ideal diet
is the one that is best adhered to and
while I know that many people do seem to
do very well on keto I personally think
that generally speaking the cons
outweigh the pros well it does tend to
be pretty good at suppressing appetite
I'd note that restricting carbohydrate
isn't the only way to reduce appetite
I'm intermittent fasting for example can
have a similar effect and much less
extreme approaches to hunger control
like increasing water or fiber intake
may be equally effective it also clearly
does often lead to better short-term
weight loss this was shown in a 2013
meta-analysis for about one kilogram
more weight loss was seen in the keto
diets compared to conventional diets
however even the author's note that this
isn't clinically significant and other
researchers have argued that these
weight-loss advantages takedo could be
either due to a temporary loss of water
weight or because of the higher protein
intake that's often seen with ketogenic
diet and then there are still other
clear drawbacks to keto like the fact
that it reduces or eliminates many
nutrient-dense foods like fruits and
grains the adaptation period can make
switching into ketosis quite painful and
it doesn't really seem to be ideal from
a training performance perspective
birkin colleagues argued that fat
adaptation strategies with the keto
might impair exercise performance due to
impaired muscle glycogen utilization
although other data suggests it probably
is worse for endurance training than
strength training but like everything
this is also most likely highly
individual I don't think that the keto
diet is the worst diet out there if
you've been having success with it or
perhaps if you see other benefits such
as improved focus then by all means
tailor your diet to your individual
response so as it turns out whether
fresh or frozen is more nutritious
depends on what specific food you're
talking about
for example beta carotene content is
higher and fresh broccoli than frozen
broccoli but actually lower in fresh
compared to frozen corn and many people
just assume that fresh produce is
healthier but according to Rickman and
colleagues nutrient loss during fresh
storage may be more substantial than
consumers realize and depending on the
commodity freezing and canning may
actually preserve nutrient value
I think dr. Steve novella summarized the
main takeaway here perfectly the most
nutritious produce is the produce you'll
actually eat even the worst fruits and
vegetables have higher nutrient density
than other types of foods
so if affordable and convenient produce
allows you to eat more that's more
important than the slight incremental
gains in some nutrients by obsessing
over the details so the knees shouldn't
go past the toes training myth is
actually pretty easy to bust when you
consider what's happening not only at
the knee joint but also at the hips and
at the low back during the squat in 2003
frying colleagues found that when
subjects had their knee travel
restricted with a wooden board forcing
the knees to stay back also forced the
subjects to lean further forward
increasing strain on the hips and low
back 10-foot and other researchers have
also suggested that practitioners
shouldn't be overly strict and coaching
against anterior knee displacement
during the squat and instead you want to
make sure your heels are planted on the
floor the bar is centered over the
middle of your foot and you're keeping
your knees out pointing in the same
direction as your toes so my main gripe
with apple cider vinegar is that I just
think it's over height people are
claiming it's capable of all these
amazing health effects when in reality
the scientific evidence is actually
pretty scan
to say the least and I think the most
well-documented benefit of apple cider
vinegar is its ability to lower blood
sugar a 1 2017 meta-analysis found
significantly improved blood glucose
control and insulin response across 11
studies but these effects are generally
larger and more relevant for people
already with diabetes or insulin
resistance and other research has shown
improved satiety or fullness but this
effect was attributed to the fact that
vinegar was making people nauseous and
even the authors discouraged its use for
this purpose now to my knowledge the
only high quality interventional study
investigating weight loss did in fact
find better weight loss with vinegar
supplementation however the subjects
were obese only lost about 2 kilograms
and 12 weeks on average and in a
four-week follow-up after the study had
ended both the vinegar and non vinegar
groups had just regained all their
weight back anyway I'm also skeptical of
its digestive benefits even though it is
possible they just haven't shown up in
the literature yet but still the vinegar
Institute notes that the strain of
bacteria found in the mother of apple
cider vinegar isn't likely to be
probative and I would imagine that any
prebiotics found in apple cider vinegar
should already be present in a regular
apple on its own and there's no evidence
of reduced cancer or heart disease risk
and since apple cider vinegar clearly
erodes tooth enamel that's really not
smart to use it for tooth whitening okay
last one so while alcohol doesn't break
the laws of thermodynamics and somehow
cause you to stop losing weight despite
being in a caloric deficit definitely
can work against you if your goal is to
get leaner while maintaining your muscle
mass Siller and colleagues showed that
fat oxidation or burning is blunted
following alcohol consumption so if
you're going to be drinking heavily
I'd consider lowering your fat intake
for that day or at the very least really
avoiding that high fat post drinking
binge also when combined with lowered
inhibitions empty calories and it's
really poor satiating ability that's
pretty obvious that alcohol isn't
exactly on your side when it comes to
fat loss and it also won't help optimize
your muscular development
has been shown to reduce post-workout
muscle protein synthesis by as much as
37% however as pointed out in this
recent study from do plenty at all
alcohol ingestion seems to only
attenuate anabolic signaling in men
without much of an effect on women
so all in all I would say that alcohol
in moderation isn't likely to cause
significant fat gain or muscle loss if
total caloric intake and protein intake
are kept under control but in excess it
really is so much more likely to hinder
your progress alright so there are the
next seven fitness myths covered even
though the level of truth from any of
these really is context dependent I've
got another 8 on the way next time and
before we go I want to thank Squarespace
for sponsoring this video
Squarespace is an all-in-one website
platform where you can custom create
your own website they have really
aesthetic designer custom templates in
24-hour customer service which I
actually use myself pretty often on my
own website in my own online store where
I saw all my training programs so if you
guys would like to get started with your
own website you can go to Squarespace
com forward slash Nippert and that'll be
good for 10% off your first purchase so
thank you Squarespace for sponsoring the
video thank you guys so much for
watching I don't forget to leave me a
like if you enjoyed the video if you
learned something I don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here next Monday