to control your hunger veggies have a
few interesting effects that we can
capitalize on they have lots of fiber
which is super super filling they have
very few calories which means you get
full while eating very few calories they
have lots of volume in general a lot of
times from the sort of interaction of
the fiber and the fluid volume which
means again they fill you up a ton and
reduce your hunger and they don't taste
all that great sorry if I triggered
anyone broccoli lovers or something in
the comments but they don't taste
amazing in the sense that you just keep
wanting to eat more you ever heard
someone say oh my God I just can't stop
eating broccoli like what the f what
what's wrong with you because of all
these things they kind of do two things
one they fill you up a lot and reduce
your hunger and two didn't really help
you increase your Cravings which is
awesome because this can be a huge
superpower when you're fat loss dieting