like morning guys
that's what is show day and you've got
meal one on bunch of egg whites coffee
hashbrowns
all right what's up guys so we finished
up with prejudging everything went
really really well I was super happy
with how all of my athletes peak it was
interesting because this morning a
couple of my bodybuilding clients we're
looking really flat like they were
having a tough time getting a pump I
just kept saying once you get the salt
in and you get warmed up the veins are
just gonna come out like crazy and they
were all super vascular on stage not the
vascularity is the most important thing
on stage but also full vascular hard and
maintained condition very well all of my
bodybuilding and men's physique clients
were on minimum 600 grams of carbs on
Friday you can get away with a lot when
you leave people end up looking a lot
better when they eat more carbs eat
sodium drink water and that's how you
fill out so all that's left now is
finals and we're gonna go for a quick
workout no I think I'm gonna do full
upper body just because you've been on
the road we didn't miss a couple
workouts I think I missed too so rather
than just do arms I'd rather hit the
entire body in these two days rather
than stick to my split given that I did
miss a couple workouts rather than
putting off you know training my back
and chest just for the sake of training
arms especially since you know they are
going to get some carryover from any
pressing movements in the case of
triceps and any pulling movements for
biceps alright guys I'll see you in the
gym
so guys we tried everything to get this
to work so I could do an audience
opposed and I thought man that there's
an audience pose down which means you
aren't just someone in the audience it's
gonna get on stage apparently I'm not
allowed on that stage whether I'm in the
audience or whether best posing that's
why I got it nothing Jeff just took this
photo of me it turned out really good
things shift I got the mystery Tammy now
that the hopes that there will be an
audience pose down we just finished up
with the intermission it looks like
there probably isn't going to be how we
better get in there now but if there is
I'm definitely gonna go on stage and
yeah we'll see what happens you know
worst comes to worst night I just have a
really cool tan
Robin got a burger I'm still waiting on
mine
I think these are how Mozza sticks so
weird-looking muscle six oh thank you
yeah that does look good
this is sweet Thai chicken with cashews
and some rice