[Music]
everyone today is like day I'm going to
be doing a bunch of machine stuff for
the record I get asked this question a
lot I don't squat or deadlift because I
am recovering from a lower back injury
so I am hoping to get back into
squatting in deadlifting in the near
future but for now I'm living
vicariously through Stephanie she's
training for her first powerlifting meet
in Florida and so they just want to take
you guys through how it is I would
program for a beginner power lifter
Stephanie's a little bit of an
exceptional case because she has a
really good muscular foundation already
today was actually that's for you guys
today was actually the first day that we
got snow so all the rooftops are covered
and you can see the mountains and before
we go train we are going to go get a new
lens a wider angle lens something I can
like blow to the background with a
little bit better so hopefully that will
increase the quality of the videos thank
you yeah this is like a complete
disaster
that's already messed so happens I need
a woman
clean organized that'ss what are you
free free right now
dry no water no nothing I do not know
how you do that you're the only person I
know that this is like the poor man's
version of the fancy intro work out car
Burks was just glucose fructose
sometimes my workouts go really really
long when I have to film especially
sometimes my workout will be two or
three hours but have definitely helps to
have energy source Anuj a kollel
disrupter let's finish no cold sweats
it's o'clock in the morning get it the
Bowflex get my way to board left leg
cat's dead guys so we're here at London
drugs I just come in here to pick up my
new lens I'm so I'm getting a new 16
millimeter but I did just pick up a new
50 millimeter lens which I'm using to
take photos and then this one I'm going
to be using for vlogging I'm really
excited to see the difference in quality
from this so yeah we're going to run in
I feel like you're crazy
just bearable I guess tonight looks like
it
if you said that that would be good for
like like close-up video right yeah
where are you get more wedding
why don't get perfect it is a kid
anything I actually don't know I don't
know they're they're not in the States
book I don't know if they're only
Canadians I'm guess what everybody's
reading yes the reason I'm moving to
Canada all right you gotta give them
already amazing how many calories and
one for two biscuits 180 calories on
those nine fat yeah boom goes oh my god
no my ratings would be all messed up
because like to me this is like I don't
like a dad no way really
no no way at all you cannot give your
what a ten has to be like everything has
to be perfect with the environment like
circumstance like I move the
presentation everything has to be 100%
I'll give these like seven mmm
honestly I don't under one by this kind
of time Jason glorious man
really yeah oh yeah a program I
think a little fun about its importance
is
grilled chicken wrap chicken cheese
pulling baby
alright guys we just got to the gym this
is gonna be the last clip on the old
lens as to let me know in the comments
below if you notice the upgrading
quality I really hope that it's good
check it with you guys ok so guys
welcome to the informative section of
the video and this commentary I want to
talk about how it is I program for a
beginner to powerlifting and then get
into some of the scientific research
behind my style of programming before I
get into anything I just want to make it
clear what it is that I mean by beginner
I simply mean someone who is pretty new
to powerlifting they haven't done a meet
before or really train that much with
the specific goal of gaining strength on
the squat bench press or deadlift so
just for a rough time frame let's say
anything less than six months of
intelligent strength specific training
it would be a beginner status in my
books I also really like the definition
that mark ripto uses in practical
programming but he defines a novice as a
lifter who can progress from one workout
to the next and intermediate as a lifter
who can progress from week to week and
an advanced trainee as one who can
progress from say month to month or year
to year so on this definition as a
beginner
generally speaking you should be able to
get stronger each and every workout and
once you no longer are able to do that
you're probably flirting with the
intermediate territory training as a
beginner is a special time because
you're able to make substantial progress
doing pretty much anything just
something that we call the newbie gains
period and while it's true that you can
make substantial gains as a beginner
doing pretty much anything that doesn't
mean that you should run just any
program that you can land your hands on
and I think Rivet oh again nailed this
point when you said the thing that
differentiates a good program from a
less good program is its ability to
continue stimulating the desired
adaptation program that requires a
regular increase in some aspect of it
stress is an effective program for a
novice but nothing works as well as
moderately increasing some loading
parameter each time for as
as an adaptation to the increase
continues to occur so in essence as the
beginner you really want to focus on
just incrementally adding weight to the
bar in a controlled non-random way
secondly practicing and refining basic
lifting Homer as a newbie I think now is
the time to correct any bad habits that
you might have that's for example if
your hips shoot up when you deadlift and
now would be a good time to figure out
why that is for you neurologically sort
of program in those bad habits that then
have to be unprogrammed later down the
road okay so now I'd like to put the
following commentary in context with
what I think is the best hierarchy of
priorities for strength training I'm
going to be highlighting specificity and
overload the first I think it's
important to keep in mind that none of
this really matters much if you're
injured so while you do need to lift
heavy to get stronger I wouldn't be
tempted to go ultra heavy all the time
because I think that success in
powerlifting is we're so really just a
function of having the ability to keep
slowly progressing without getting
injured so if you're progressing at all
I would try to be happy with so
step-step does a double overhand rip
there's no hook grip which is insane i
don't even know i probably can't pull
that double overhand i was crazy like
most people will use an over-under drip
so this one hand is pronated the other
soup hannah she uses both hands pronated
which makes it a lot harder but
nonetheless your grip strength is
ridiculous so if you just switch to
over-under you'd be able to eat your
grip would never be too super nervous
sleek sleek top keep a mouth
running but you ain't really - yeah I'm
bad the shits
keep on keepin on you I really got this
 I don't know really about that
while daily 1 rep max training does have
some solid empirical support I think
this is more app for really advanced
guys and lifters who are on drugs
certainly not beginners in definitely
not natural beginners okay so
specificity basically this means that
you should train with a specific focus
on the sport that you're competing if
you want to get better at the squat
bench press or deadlift you should do a
lot of squatting bench pressing and dead
lifting further there is a specific
difference between strength and
hypertrophy adaptations in the 2014
paper by Schoenfeld ita√∫ the group
performing a bodybuilding style three
sets of 10 program was compared with a
group doing a powerlifting style
seven sets of three program and while
hypertrophy was more or less the same
between the groups
the powerlifting style program gain
significantly more strength and this
tells us that you need to lift heavy to
get as strong as you can and since a lot
of new strength comes from motor
learning I think it's important as a
beginner that you first get good at the
lifts which means you need to practice
them frequently my personal sweet spot
for beginners is hitting each lift two
to three times per week as long as
you're not taking many or any sets to
failure I'd like to talk about some
specific programming examples even
though it isn't anywhere near required
for progress I do like to use DUP or
daily undulating periodization for
beginners just so we're all on the same
page all that do you
he refers to is as some programming
variable is changing within the training
so if the rep count for squats on day
one is different at all from the rep
count for squats on day three then this
would qualify as a type of DUP and so I
like it not only because it has a good
deal of general empirical support in the
literature but because programs that
encourage the exact same set and rep
structure within the training week like
starting strength for example just tend
to be more boring and I finally can get
stale really fast for new lifters
generally in my experience it's good to
have some variation within the training
week so that lifters aren't going into
the gym just doing exactly the same
thing day in day out even if they could
progress just fine doing so I'd like to
give you guys a quick example of what a
good program might look like so the
split would be a basic lower upper lower
rest upper lower rest where the first
half of the week you'd be squatting and
bench pressing for three sets of six
reps into the deadlift for four sets of
three reps then you'd rest and in the
second half of the week bench press and
squat for four sets of three reps and
then deadlift for three sets of six reps
you just add assistance movements like
rows vertical presses hip thrusts rear
delt flies or whatever else you need for
muscular development on either the upper
or the lower days as appropriate so in
terms of progression I think it's smart
to stick to a set rep count as a
beginner and just add weight over time
because as a new power lifter you want
to really get better at getting stronger
and get used to feeling heavier and
heavier weight not just adding reps at
any given weight and secondly I do like
to occasionally use so-called top sets
for beginners especially on the squat
because I think it does build confidence
for example if you're running the split
that I outlined if you're used to only
hitting say three reps or six reps when
you have to do a 1 rep max it might feel
really intimidating or heavy on your
back so even just doing occasional
single rep sets with submaximal load say
75 to 85% of your 1 rep max before
beginning the volume work I think is a
good idea and I'd recommend doing this
maybe every other week certainly not
more than once per week for each lift
one word of final advice to power
lifters I do think it's very important
that you
listen to your body I think it's always
better to slow down your progression a
little bit over the short-term if it
means that you can stay in the game
longer over the long term so yeah I hope
that you guys enjoyed the voiceover if
you did please give me a thumbs up below
I really appreciate that or you can just
let me know in the comments and I'll get
back to you there
and yeah I hope that you guys enjoy the
final a few clips that get a white man
care photo cut off listen with the ami
goatee I'm on track seven of ten
neighbors it was a good song my opinion
and this is this is really good like the
song neighbors but I think my top two so
far are immortal
indigestion I could have predicted by
this time I finish out this vlog thank
you so much again for watching I want to
give a shout out to Stephanie I've know
I've mentioned her on the channel like a
nice few times but I know not everyone
watches all my videos so yeah basically
like our story we we connected initially
on social media then again when I was
visiting Tampa which is where she lives
and goes to school she's doing a PhD in
ovarian or in research focused on
ovarian cancer to get that right yeah
we're gonna try to pump out a good deal
of content she's super helpful with like
the filming and she's the one who gets
me all the peer-reviewed Studies access
to those for my science based videos
it's a really really appreciative make
sure you go and check out her Instagram
she is gonna be starting up at YouTube
sometime in the new year so stay tuned
for that but yeah go check out her is
Tim in the description box below give me
a thumbs up for the video piece that
actually really helps me because it
helps the videos come up on like the
recommended page so more subs to my
channel helps the channel grow which
means I can make more money from other
sources other than coaching which means
I can produce more content for this
channel so if you want to support me
that's a really easy way for me to do it
for you to do it also the the pants
these compression pants that I was
wearing from Rhys I will link those in
the description below and I'll link this
Rhys shirt in the description below so
you guys want to check it out can
subscribe to the channel please if you
haven't already you can click the link
at the end of the video and do that and
yeah I'll see you guys in the next
[Music]