foreign
in this video we're comparing one three
and five minutes of rest between sets
for strength and hypertrophy outcomes
bodybuilders are historically famous for
utilizing short rests between sets an
American Paper all the way back from
1987 reported the recruited bodybuilders
rested 10 to 90 seconds between sets the
legendary bodybuilder Arnold in his book
recommended keeping rest periods down to
a minute or less
strength athletes more commonly utilize
longer rests returning to the 87
American Paper their recruited
powerlifters tended to rest 120 to 420
seconds between sets
does the scientific literature support
these practices is muscle hypertrophy
enhanced with shorter rest intervals and
muscle strength with longer wrists let's
Analyze This
[Music]
interestingly the scientific literature
suggests that optimal restoration for
muscle hypertrophy depends on whether an
exercise recruits a large amount of
muscle mass or a small amount of muscle
mass
exercises involving a large amount of
muscle mass include compound exercises
but also lower body isolation exercises
with these exercises it appears short
rest periods are sub-optimal for muscle
hypertrophy a 2016 New York study found
in trained men performing a range of
compound exercises plus a lower body
isolation exercise with these training
variables muscle hypertrophy outcomes
were Superior when resting three minutes
between sets versus one minute
a 2020 Brazilian study found in
untrained men performing the leg press
with these training variables quad gains
were Superior when resting 3 minutes
versus one minute between sets
a 2009 study from the USA found an
untrained men trading a program heavily
involving large muscle mass movements
arm and thigh gains were greater when
resting 2.5 minutes as opposed to one
minute between sets finally a 2017
Japanese paper found an untrained men
training the bench press and squats with
these variables triceps gains were
similar between resting for 2.5 minutes
or 30 seconds yet thigh gains tended to
be better when resting for 2.5 minutes
thus this overview literature is solid
evidence with large muscle mass
exercises resting 2.5 to 3 minutes
between sets evokes greater hypertrophy
versus shorter rest periods what about
five minute rest periods
this 2016 English study had trains men
perform the leg press and leg extension
with these variables long-term
hypertrophy was not evaluated but the
researchers established myofibular
protein synthesis elevations after
training was overall Superior when using
five minutes of rest between sets versus
one minute this is mainly evident in the
immediate hours after training
the temporary increases in testosterone
were actually greater when using one
minute of rest between sets this finding
elegantly depicts how temporary
increases in anabolic hormones like
testosterone mean nothing for actual
contractile protein synthesis and by
extension long-term muscle growth this
is notable as it's often purported short
rests are superior for hypertrophy since
they promote greater temporary anabolic
hormone increases but again it's evident
temporary anabolic hormone spikes aren't
associated with hypertrophy other
scientific papers corroborate this
progressing forward how does 2.5 to 3
minutes compare to five minutes of rest
between sets unfortunately there's no
precise research exploring this the
paper with the closest relevancy is this
2005 Finnish study which found
in-trained men performing squats and leg
presses quad gains were similar between
resting two or five minutes between sets
yet a confounder is the two minute rest
condition involved performing one extra
set per exercise then the five minute
rest condition
this may lead one to believe if sets
were equated the five minute rest period
would have been Superior
but I should note this study wasn't the
best designed or controlled subjects
performed other exercises and training
was unsupervised the researchers relied
on training Diaries
accordingly I believe better quality
data is required to evaluate the
efficacy of 5-minute rest periods for
hypertrophy at the least I think it's
sensible to recommend 2.5 to 3 minutes
of rest between large muscle mass
exercise sets for hypertrophy
an individual may wish the experiment
with five-minute rest intervals if they
have the time and are willing to do so
now if 2.5 to 3 minutes of rest between
sets is difficult for you to achieve due
to time constraints super setting
exercises that train opposing or
non-related muscle groups can be an
effective method to shorten your workout
duration while still technically resting
longer between sets of the same exercise
what about rest periods with exercises
training smaller amounts of muscle mass
I.E isolation upper body exercises the
research isn't as refined in this area
but what exists suggests short rests are
viable if not may be superior this 2016
Japanese study had men trained largely
isolated biceps and triceps movements
one group trained with repster failure
with 20 rep max loads per set and 30
seconds rest between sets while another
group trained with reps to failure with
8 rep max loads and three minutes of
rest between sets both groups perform
the same number of sets and it's worth
noting the use of different loads
between groups is probably not a major
issue as we know reps between 6 and 35
are similar for hypertrophy when reps
are performed two or close to failure
arm games were greater for the group
resting 30 seconds between sets another
2018 Japanese paper had untrained main
train dumbbell curls one condition
involved three sets of reps to failure
with an 80 one rep max load and three
minutes of rest between sets a second
condition with three sets of reps to
failure with a 30 one rep max load and
90 seconds of rest between sets and a
third condition involving a drop set
with repster failure performed with
these five loads back to back with no
rest between them elbow flexor gains
were similar between all three
conditions suggesting a three minute 90
seconds and no rest I.E drop sets are
comparable for gains
though I should note the drop set
condition technically involved two more
sets so this is a potential confounder
and consideration yet another 2018
Japanese study had untrained mentoring
triceps pushdowns one condition involved
normal sets with 90 second rest
intervals while a second condition
involved drop sets with no rest between
reps to failure triceps gains tended to
favor the drop set condition suggesting
short risks specifically no rest with
drop sets may be beneficial though the
drop set condition technically involved
one more set so this is a consideration
and potential confounder again this
literature isn't super refined but I
think it's decent enough to infer with
exercises training a small amount of
muscle mass short rests are viable if
not potentially and I must emphasize
potentially Superior
in this studies finding 2.5 to 3 minutes
of rest between sets produces more
hypertrophy than shorter rests in large
muscle mass movements they equate as
sets between the different rest interval
conditions which is of course what we
wanted
but with these large muscle mass
exercises could performing more sets
with shorter rest be effective to
produce equivalent hypertrophy to fewer
sets with longer rests most likely yes
we brief this 2020 Brazilian study
earlier finding when training the leg
press with these variables quad gains
were Superior when resting for 3 minutes
versus one minute between sets yet this
study also had a third condition I did
not mention this condition performed
sets of reps to failure with one minute
of rest between sets and aim to match
the volume load attained by the
condition using three minutes of rest
between sets this resulted in this
condition performing an average of 4.5
sets of reps to failure with one minute
of rest between sets per session and
this condition saw similar hypertrophy
to the three minute condition they only
used three sets of reps to failure per
session
so with large muscle mass exercises more
sets where shorter rest can likely
produce similar hypertrophy to using
longer rests with fewer sets
it's worth noting from a Time
perspective both would be fairly similar
of course using the three minute rest
would be less fatiguing and the total
quality of your volume may be superior
but the short arrest may still be useful
if you prefer short rests want to change
up your routine and or want to enhance
cardiovascular adaptations
[Music]
in line with probably everyone's
expectations longer rests between sets
appear to be more favorable for
enhancing muscle strength we mentioned
this 2016 New York study that found in
trained to men performing these large
muscle mass exercises with these
training variables hypertrophy outcomes
were great to when Racing 3 minutes
versus one minute between sets bench
press and squat strength gains were also
greater when resting three minutes
between sets
this 1995 USA study had trains men
perform this training program and found
squat strength gains tended to be
greater when resting for 3 minutes
versus 1.5 minutes or 30 seconds between
sets what about even longer rest
intervals this 2010 Brazilian study had
trained to me to execute this program
and found leg press and bench press
strength gains were not significantly
different between resting for three or
five minutes between sets but both rest
periods produce larger strength gains
versus resting one minute between sets
no though the differences between the
three and five minute rest periods were
non-significant statistically the leg
press gains in particular seemingly
favor the 5 minute rest period this is
only a single measure from a single
study and more research is certainly
needed to determine if five minutes of
rest between cess is superior to three
minutes of rest again you could
experiment with 5 minutes of rest
between sets if you're willing to
foreign
[Music]
looking at large muscle mass exercises
with set numbers controlled resting 2.5
to 3 minutes between sets produces more
hypertrophy than resting for one minute
or less it's not clear if restoration is
beyond 2.5 to 3 minutes provide more
hypertrophic benefit more research is
needed it's worth knowing if you perform
more sets with short rests on large
muscle mass movements you likely can see
similar hypertrophy to Long rest with
fewer sets with small muscle mass
exercises short rest seem to be
perfectly fine if not potentially again
emphasizing potentially as more data is
needed Superior
as for strength adaptations three
minutes produces greater gains versus
shorter durations and similar to the
discussion on hypertrophy with large
muscle mass movements more research is
needed to analyze if five minutes of
rest is better than three minutes if
you've made it this far I have a free
ebook you might like it's the ultimate
guide to bench pressing for strength and
or hypertrophy with over 100 scientific
references whether you train for
strength and or hypertrophy we discuss
technical factors like grip width and
bar path training factors rep ranges
volume and frequency comparisons between
the bench press and other similar
exercises and other fascinating science
conducted on the bench press access the
ebook via the link in the description or
comments