to get these brownie cookies at Whole
Foods back when I lived in Philadelphia
and they were like 100 vegan right on
there I couldn't tell if she was vegan
it was fucking so good it had loads of
oil and fat and delicious sugar all of a
vegan but you know I'm saying your boy
wasn't eating 18 of these motherfucking
things every day because I would have
been enormous and super unhealthy if
that was the case so the days of vegans
de facto having to eat healthy foods are
over and gone which means nowadays if
you say well I'm gonna diet to lose
weight and become healthier and I know
I'm very serious about it I'm gonna turn
vegan that is a guarantee of nothing
nowadays and it's just a guarantee that
your junk food will look different and
maybe cost a little bit more and that's
it right that's it