these are four super effective lat
exercises you probably don't know about
that all emphasize a deep lat stretch
first long length neutral grip pull-ups
unlike traditional pull-ups these keep
the lats in their most stretched
position something new research shows is
great for muscle growth going all the
way up shifts tension to the midback
which is fine but to prioritize the lat
stretch try staying in the bottom half
still control the negative and still
push the set hard second a lat focused
cable row with lengthened partials think
about dragging your elbows against the
floor and for lat emphasis don't row
past your shoulders so the mid traps
don't take over at the end of your last
set keep going with partial reps in the
stretched half third the modified lat
prayer most people do pullovers standing
upright but your lats never get a full
stretch this way to fix this Bend
forward by 45Â° and then lift your chest
up on the positive to feel a better
contraction fourth the crossbody lat
pullar around these provide a huge
stretch on the lats from a unique angle
brace against your knee keep your
shoulder square and don't be tempted to
twist your body end the range of motion
once your elbow is in line with your
shoulder