we're going to want exercises that give
us as much of stimulus as possible we
then look at fatigue and go okay which
one of these exercises their joints and
connective tissues up the
least hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance puration I have a question
for you what is the best exercise for
you to grow from for any specific muscle
if you don't know the answer staying
tuned could be helpful so we have a
question that we're asking but we can
ask it a little bit more formally and
here's the more formal ask it is which
exercise stimulates the most muscle
growth per unit of time that you do it
we'll just say per set so if you do one
set of hack squats versus one set of leg
presses which one grows more muscles in
your quadriceps for example but that
question is a little bit incomplete
because it presupposes that we only
train once if you train once a lot of
right answers appear but what about for
the long term because you don't grow
much muscle
just training it one time a good
exercise is a good exercise if it can
repeatedly be employed in your program
something like GE is once a week twice a
week in some cases for weeks and weeks
on end if it can consistently grow you
muscle that's a really really good thing
so if you have an exercise that
stimulates the most muscle in uh for
example a set unit of volume but also
does this with minimal fatigue so that
you can come back and hit that exercise
again productively half a week or a week
later over and over and over that really
does answer the question pretty well or
start to get at the at least formulating
the question of what it is that we're
looking for so the best exercise for
muscle growth is one that most robustly
stimulates muscle growth in a single
session of measurement but also
accumulates the smallest amount of
fatigue for that muscle growth such that
you are really fresh and ready
injury-free to come back next time and
hit that shit again and again and again
it's kind of like if you think about it
sort of like dating how many people out
there exist for you to have a really
good time with on one date oh Lots
totally how many people out there can
have a great time with you on 10 dates
in a row that pool almost mathematically
has to shrink because one Circle
envelops the other one completely and
that intersection is usually very
complete but it's quite small so the
number of exercises that can stimulate
muscle growth once and then you're like
ah my knees hurt I can't keep doing this
my knees will fall off that's a big
category it's a smaller category say
Okay of these exercises which ones are
the least fatiguing and thus most
productive over and over and over state
number seven you're still laughing away
oh my God Cara you're so
funny get me out of here H I've never
said that on a date because I've never
been on a date now how do we figure out
how much muscle and exercise grows in
the laboratory we can do this by having
you do three sets of
squats having another person do three
sets of hack squats or shit I'll give
you even one better with one leg you do
three sets of leg presses with another
leg you do three sets of leg extensions
one leg at a time we take physically a
gigantic needle we stick it into your
quad and it pulls out a small fraction
of your quad muscle what yep it's called
a muscle biopsy standard operating
procedure in exercise science terrible
to think about but that's how we get the
facts out literally of your body we do
that to your quads on the side you did
the leg press we do that on the quad on
the side that you did the leg extension
and we actually can measure a few
different things one of them is how much
the Machinery of muscle growth like the
mtor pathway for example is activated we
can also do some studies where we put a
tracer through which is radioactive
labeling
water that you drink or something the
protein that you take in and you see how
much of that protein actually how many
of those amino acids get accreted and
put into that new muscle to say well you
know after some time with radioactive
labeling we realize that the leg press
side actually led to more muscle
accretion in that area than the leg
extension side so on and so forth there
a couple ways to do it but Chi wiiz most
of them require something really
invasive if you're going to go in there
one time there are less invasive ways to
do it you can get people training for 8
weeks with just leg press 8 weeks with
just leg extension on one side or the
other and then you can do an ultrasound
measurement to see how thick the muscle
was before how thick it was halfway
through even shit once a week if you
want and then how thick it was at the
end to say okay the leg press side grew
whatever number of millimeters more
muscle and thus it is better from a
muscle growth perspective that's all
good and well but are you going to do
that for yourself because we're talking
this whole video is about the best
muscle growth exercise for you not some
puny Harry Potter look like student in
Sweden and no offense swedes you guys
just have an excellent exercise science
research laboratory situation over there
but you know just because Hans or Olaf
managed to grow a little bit more muscle
with leg press that extension that might
not apply to you so we need to know how
you're going to do and thus what we're
going to do is try to establish some
proxies of muscle growth by proxies we
mean variables we can measure or at
least Inuit it a little bit in the real
world day toay today that hint at how
much stimulus for muscle growth that
exercise is probably causing big
probably but way better than nothing and
sure shit way better than getting your
fucking muscle ripped out of your leg or
moving to Sweden for eight weeks to do a
study on
yourself unless you're really into white
chicks you what I'm saying fellas see
there it's cold but lots of white chicks
in any case we need proxies we need
reliable decent not perfect estimates
and comparing two different ways of
training to seeing which one probably
stimulates more muscle growth and while
we're at it we'd love some proxies for
fatigue as well how do we know how much
fatigue you're accumulating well there's
hints we can absolutely hint of the
situation and here's how we have a list
of five stimulus proxies and three
fatigue proxies again these are ways of
trying to tell probably maybe better
than a random guess how much muscle
growth is an exercise causing typically
in one session and how much fatigue is
it accumulating for you also in one
session because we know that if fatigue
accumulation is really high in session
number one it's probably going to get
high and keep being high in sessions 2 3
4 5 six and then you won't be nearly as
sustainable with that progression so on
the stimulus side we have tension which
is how much you feel that the target
muscle is being tensed and pulled apart
that when you do bicep curls heavy and
you pull on the bar you feel that bicep
just crunch up and you're like holy shit
I sure hope shit doesn't come popping
off if an exercise that's supposed to
train a muscle doesn't generate a ton of
tension seemingly in the muscle it's
difficult to see how that's going to
relate to the best possible growth cuz
there is a chance like it is generating
a ton tension you just can't perceive it
but that chance is much lower than G
Whiz It's just not generating a ton of
tension for example if I had you do a
huge bicep curl set and you're like wow
my muscles are my biceps are just really
tensed up especially at the bottom
stretch I can ask you a question and say
how much tension do you feel in your
triceps you'd be like well I don't think
a lot
some kind of co-contraction to control
but nothing I can really feel like it's
pulling the muscle apart be like well it
turns out the bicep curl is the best
exercise for tricep growth and you'd be
like the fuck what that's nonsense
here's another example if I have you do
a squat and you do it in such a way that
you're like dude I feel my glutes
tearing apart man I just feel them just
ripping and I'm like what about your
quads and you're like me am I really so
sure that that's the best quad exercise
for you that that technique with you
doing the squats is going to get your
quads growing and if you were curious
you'd be like hey look uh is this
training my quads and like yeah yeah
yeah yeah and you say well I really just
feel it almost entirely in my glutes
would you really find it convincing if I
was like that doesn't mean anything
that's all perception now perception can
be wrong perception can be meaningless
but is it more likely to be meaningless
than not probably not so we'll take
tension we'll put it into our little bag
of tricks our little bag of stimulus
proxies and move on to the next the burn
there's two types of burn one is the
accumulation of metabolites in and
around your muscle that physically hurts
you during High repetition sets and the
second type is you've been doing a lot
of partying and it hurts to pee and you
need to go see your doctor as soon as
possible certainly before your next
sexual encounter I'm sure most of you on
the channel have been at least in that
second situation so let's just talk
about the first the burn is interesting
because it gives us two reasons to
believe it relates to hypertrophy
tension
is one of the main variables that causes
growth muscle tension generated by the
Target muscle physically through mechano
transduction there's cell signaling
Pathways that literally like holy shit
there's tons of tension grow muscle and
tell your nucleus to go do all that shit
the burn also has a similar thing the
metabolites that accumulate in and
around your muscle especially inside
seem to have according to the latest
research and quite a bit of it I would
say mechanistic effects on growth which
is to say that for example lactate which
is a metabol if you're producing a ton
of lactate through a few other ways
including direct you'll feel that shit
you are going to be signaling muscle
growth to occur so the burn tells you
that look muscle growth is probably
being stimulated if your muscle really
really Burns another thing we know about
muscle growth from past studies is that
training very close to failure also
causes a lot of hypertrophy and G whiz
you're probably pretty close to failure
if you're getting a burn in the muscle
so it checks that box and it also gives
us that targeting that specificity
element if you're doing curls and the
reason you're stopping the set is your
forearms on fire it is probably more
accurate to say that that is a forearm
exercise for you than a bicep exercise
if you just don't feel any tension or
any burn your biceps but your forarms
are just completely burned to shit you
have to drop the weight
go help you're yelling help in the gym
man there's something going on in your
forearms that sure as shit seems like
it's stimulating hypertrophy but in the
classic case if you're doing PE flies
for High Reps and your chest is searing
with pain yeah g wiiz it doesn't take a
rocket scientist probably not even an
exercise scientist or Sports scientist
to say yeah I think probably some muscle
growth could result from that versus
you're doing Peck flies for really High
Reps and you're like I don't feel shit
my front delts really hurt man I'm just
not so confident saying no no no don't
worry it's your pecs that are growing
you're like what AR isn't it just front
delts n they're not involved at all
that's just where you feel the burn but
not where it's happening that's not how
that works number three if you submit a
lot of tension and a lot of burn through
close to failure and or heavy training
in sets of five to 30 reps inevitably
you will get a pump of some kind which
is the cell swelling of all the muscle
cells inside your muscle and it looks
cool and it feels cool that's when you
get big dick energy and confidence
finally ask out that front desk girl you
got a big bicep PP she's like oh my God
you're like yeah you like you fuck like
like that she's like
yeah fucking you want to
like you want to go on a date and she's
like yeah can we just like go on the
locker room and go on a date right now
you're like holy shit fuck yeah pump
that's what the pump does guaranteed to
get you laid instantly but it also has
better benefits than that better than
instant laying Mike please tell us more
oh don't worry I will the pump cell
swelling itself has also been
mechanistically tied to hypertrophy
which is to say that cells that swell
seemingly accrete proteins and actually
grow bigger so if you get a cell to
swell temporarily and then come back
down that cell in many cases has more
cell structures a few minutes hours and
days later it grows bigger in a sense
preparing for the next round of swelling
the pump by itself probably isn't a huge
stimulator of hypertrophy very very
small but if you got a very good pump
that probably means you pushed close to
failure that probably means you did a
workout that had 5 to 30 rep sets in it
and probably means the muscle that was
pumped did a lot of that tension
generation and a lot of that metabolite
generation it would be really confusing
if you were training your chest and you
a fuckload of tension on the Flies a
shitload of burn on the machine presses
and then the biggest pump in your body
was your forums or your calves it
doesn't work like that your forarms and
calves didn't do much they're not
getting a big pump but if your chest did
a ton usually gets a huge pump and
that's a very good sign again not the
perfect sign a probabilistic side better
than chance that you're doing some good
muscle growth things so we have tension
we have burn we have pump all those
three things together give us
independent hints that we're probably on
the right track which is to say
exercises that really drive those shits
at a high level exercise which you gives
tons attention to the Target muscle a
ton of burn to the Target muscle at
higher reps and gives you enormous pumps
just a few sets into the exercise man
that's probably not a bad exercise for
muscle growth that's a really good thing
we have two other things that we can
look at number four is perturbation
perturbation you consider yourself very
perturbed how dare you sir a white glove
comes off slap trade hands with a glove
slap put glove back on the aristocrat
days the good times the 1890s oh when I
was born as a vampire of course
perturbation is a term I sure shit just
came up with at RP there's nothing in
literature that described this is a term
we give to the
weakness strange proprioceptive feeling
and interesting contractility which
means you try to contract your muscle
and not a lot happens or you try to
contract it and it cramps up that is a
result of the punishing stimulus of
multiple effective sets really easy to
imagine this just go right now don't do
this this is a joke do a 100 sets of leg
presses with your 50 in RM sorry 100
sets good God 100 total and you might
die from that 100 total reps got the
video guy love that one he loves death
100 total reps with your 50 inrm in the
leg press it's going to take you a lot
of sets don't actually do this cut this
in half just do 50 and you are going to
feel very perturbed how exactly ly first
of all you'll be so weak because
remember strength loss in the local
muscle of interest is a big thing you'll
be so weak you'll be able to get barely
out of the leg press okay your quads
won't really feel like they're part of
your body because may do something
athletic you feel really wobbly you feel
like man like I try to contract my quads
seemingly not a lot happens like there's
some weird mind muscle connection lag
there completely and also to the point
of perturbation there's a situation that
if you step on the stairs your quads
could give out failure to contract or
you sort of lock out your knee and your
quad cramps like crazy that's the worst
shit in the world
like that if that stuff doesn't happen
you absolutely could have still driven
in a ton of muscle growth no worries at
all but if that stuff does happen to
your muscle after you have pushed a
shitload of tension and burm and pump
Etc into it it's probably really
stimulated for growth and could be so
fucked up that it so damaged that it
doesn't grow or grows less because you
overdid the stimulus but that's the
kicker you sure shit didn't under
stimulate you don't come out of a
fucking tanning bed beat fucking red and
parts of you were black and crackling
and there's smoke and someone's like
yeah I think you
is not the problem as a matter of fact
turn down that shit and you'll have a
much better time next year when you
recover of full body skin cancer just
the same way if a an exercise totally
fucks you up to the point where you can
barely use the muscles stimulus is not
the problem and if it takes one or two
sets of an exercise you get on a leg
press three sets later you can barely
walk versus what exercise do we want to
pick on partial rep squats with a wide
stance three sets later someone's like
hey how your quads feel with partial rep
you're like I well just fine I can jump
high I can run pretty fast my muscles
feel like nothing happened because
nothing really fucking happen but with
the leg press if your shit gets fucked
up any muscle any exercise in a few sets
versus another exercise where it takes
more sets to fuck it up or there doesn't
seem to be a number of sets that fucks
it up eight sets later on wide stamp
squats you're like my my groin hurts and
you can feel nothing in my
legs the stimulus is probably bigger
where you see the most
perturbation lastly is disruption and
that we categorize to the feeling of
weakness and tightness in the several
hours after training all the way up to
the soreness that you experience hours
and days after termed delayed onset
muscle soreness or Doms for
short that again is not a requirement of
growth you could get incredible growth
and never ever get sore but if you're
getting reliably sore from an exercise
you could have 99 reasons you're not
growing from it but the stimulus is not
one of them there's not a fucking
Universe in which you get completely top
to bottom left to right totally sort of
the touch out pecs and someone's like
yeah man the reason your chest is small
is you fucking need to train harder what
the fuck if I trained harder would my
pecs fall off and then crawl back on my
body bigger once they've eaten the fish
food in the corner of my room what the
fuck does that even mean if you're
getting sore and barely recovering for
your next session from one or two sets
of stiff leg Leed deadlifts the stiff
legged deadlift is an unreal stimulative
exercise and if that shitty leg curl in
the corner in your gym you do five sets
on and then the next day you sort of
feel your hamstrings are maybe tired but
really they're not I wouldn't bet that
that's a better stimulus than the
stiff-legged deadlift which clearly fuck
you up more because it again pushed a
shitload of tension through those
muscles and a crapload of metabolites
and all that causes delayed onset
soreness and even proximate sort of
fatigue SL tightness and soreness to
occur and what I'm talking about with
that is let's say you get out of the car
three or four hours after doing legs if
you were in the car the whole time after
legs gee you really hav't coming you're
not sore yet you don't have Doms it's
not sore of the touch but you get out of
the car and you're like holy shit your
legs feel tight you're kind of just
trying to move your quads around and
your knees like oh my God something has
been drum roll disrupted and that's a
really good stimulus proxy for growth
one of five one of five it's not the
only one but check this out here's how
we use these five proxies if you go
through a checklist and you say okay I
got tension I got burn not a big pump
got perturbed got sore as fuck that's
four out of five that's pretty good you
another exercise for the same muscle
group you work just as hard three sets
for both two different days months apart
or weeks
apart and you're like yeah this other
exercise I got good tension no burn no
pump perturbation was meh and honestly I
just didn't get sore for three sets
versus three sets I'm just betting on
the margins that that first exercise
that hit more of those check boxes is
more likely to have caused more muscle
growth there are no guarantees in this
business well as far as I know just yet
hopefully genomics can solve that
problem no guarantees working on
probabilities working on likelihoods
right so you know if you you are trying
to ask your girl out and you are an
eight yourself as a guy and you're going
only after tens there is a probability
some Angel bitch 10 comes down from
heaven and goes yay short King come with
me and you know what I'm saying you're
hitting it up but if you're seeing a
shitload of sixes and you're a fucking
eight there's just a higher chance one
of them is going to say yes I don't know
anything about dating I make this up on
the spot but like it's all probabilities
if you have an exception to the rule of
these things don't correlate to growth
by all means shared in the comments we'd
love to hear about it but exceptions are
just that they're illustrative of the
rules because a tiny little 130 lb
person beat up someone who was 400 lb
doesn't mean you're like yeah man when I
look at two guys if they could fight I
don't even look at body weight that
would be insane that would mean the UFC
is just wrong for having weight classes
so I digress it's all probabilities it's
all chance but we boost our chance if we
check a lot of those boxes for the
stimulus proxies being there and being
greater in magnitude tons of tension
versus a bit huge pump versus a little
versus not having nearly as many of
those boxes to check in one exercise
compared to another now on to fatigue we
have the stimulus covered we know what
those proxies are what about fatigue we
have three things to consider the first
is joint and connective tissue
discomfort if your M your gym got a new
bicep curl machine and every time you're
here doing it you're like my elbows
fucking hurt ow ow ow fuck this fuck I'm
going to use another exercise now go to
the dumbbell curls and you're like Jesus
Christ my elbows still hurt from this
shit and it takes you three or four days
for elbows to actually feel good again
are you even going to use that machine
again the answer is maybe not not for a
long time like clearly I did something
wrong where the machine is fucking
poorly designed just causes a lot of
joint and connective tissue discomfort
there's another way this can go you can
start using exercise excise and I highly
recommend us an exercise for at least a
mesac cycle four to eight weeks of more
and more difficult training to really
get a feel for it unless it's physically
hurting your joints like crazy then
absolutely stop but if it feels a little
weird that new hack squat machine kind
of makes your knees feel not so great
but not terrible give it a few rounds
give it a few sessions give it a few
weeks and if it starts to feel better on
your knees hey you're well on your way
if it feels worse and worse on your
knees either make a technique adjustment
or get the fuck out because that's
clearly had so much of a fatigue effect
on your local joint ultr structure that
you might not want to fucking bet the
house on it you you know what this is
not my ticket to big legs because I'll
for sure get a ticket to bad knees
before I ever get big legs so joint and
connected tisue discomfort is again on a
scale nothing almost ever in the gym
will feel like pure magic fairy dust on
your joints this unlikely to you have an
exercise that's difficult to do and
you're doing it close to failure set of
5 to 30 that your joints feel like
better after than before maybe warming
up and feeling it out but there's going
to be some kind of discomfort in your
joints you know even pull-ups which my
joints love at the bottom I'm like o my
shoulders it's not a bad thing but I
like oh shit's happening but it ranges
all the way up to like one rep of this
is prohibitively painful for the joint
in question fuck that all the exercises
are somewhere in between where in
between they are compared to each other
is how you rank them if you have an
exercise like a leg press versus hack
squat the leg press hits all the same
stimulus proxies of the hack squat on
average like a little bit more of some
little bit less of others but generally
they seem to be just as stimulative as
each other for a set of you know for
three sets or something like that if the
leg press feels pretty fucking good on
your knees and hips and back but the
hack squat not so much on any of those
which one is your more likely ticket to
better gains which one is the better
exercise for you at least in the moment
it's probably leg press because you can
go in you can load it appropriately you
can progress through it not have to
worry about your joints falling apart
halfway through a session number two so
we got joint connected tissue discomfort
number two is perceived psychological
exertion given that the stimulus proxies
are the same for two
exercises we have to judge the exercises
on how much life force they drain away
from you if there's an exercise you hate
to do or an exercise that seems to
require just unbelievable amounts of
fucking willower and
guts it's great to do for psychological
development but sensibly you're training
enough that psychological development
happens one way or another it's either
going to happen with effective exercises
that don't drain the shit out of you or
more exercises or sorry fewer sets of an
exercise that's not as effective it
drains the dog shit out of your brain
juices that's a technical term and
you're just not interested in doing a
whole lot more work and you have really
trouble motivating yourself in all this
other stuff psychological fatigue is
also a real thing it spills over into
physical fatigue through a bunch of
systems so if an exercise really beats
you up in the brain it's likely you'll
actually start to get weaker earlier in
your program you'll miss a few weeks on
the tail end of getting stronger and
having great training let me give you
guys an example if you do a full range
of motion barbell bent with a big
stretch at the bottom and a big
contraction at the top sets of 15 you
could get a fucking gnarly back pump
trap pump everything tension soreness
Etc you could also get roughly the same
stimulus for your back in this
hypothetical case and in the real world
often times by doing rack deadlifts
partial deadlifts with like three times
more weight than you row it crushes the
fucking spine and in order for that bar
to even come up on the first rep you've
got to really find some fucking demons
in your head put your fucking war death
metal in your earbuds after a set of
rows you're like hell yeah man I feel
fuck great I can do four or five more
sets of this and get four or five
another additional stimuli of more and
more muscle
growth with the partial deadlifts with
the rack deadlifts one set and you're
sitting there after like fuck I feel
like I just got out of Vietnam for the
love of God shit was fucking hard it
took every ounce of my willpower to do
what to lift more weight checks sweet
but what about those stimulus proxies
for the same stimulus proxies you're
working harder folks please do not
misunderstand me there is a situation in
which hard work is good for its own sake
I am not in on hard work but I assume
your program for training is so big so
meaty so imposing that your ability to
work hard comes at a finite bandwidth
you've got to be smart about what you
work hard on you you probably won't find
a lot of billionaires working their
asses off for a dollar an hour now
you'll find a lot of billionaires
working their asses off for fucking
millions of dollars an hour or whatever
the fuck much billionaires make you
think well hold on a sec
why don't they grind on a job the real
analogy is they got millions of dollars
per hour in one job same millions in
another job but that other job fucking
is just hard on them psychologically
they have to try Infinity harder in
order to get the job done they come home
their fatigue is higher they sleep more
poorly they have poor social relations
and after a year the wife or the you
stepmom that still lives with you even
though you're a billionaire is like I
can't do this anymore Frank you've been
miserable at home you're not sleeping
you're not eating your body's gone
you're like that what motherfucker
what's his name from machinist Scot the
video guy Christian Bale Christian Bale
from The Machinist fuck are you looking
like that for and you think to yourself
gee whiz you know I could actually make
the same money just as ethically just as
productively for society if I worked
half as hard for the same fucking money
think of it like that we're here to get
the money folks and we work as hard as
needed but also as easily as needed
imagine there's like some kind kind of
like grip extender at Chipotle which is
where you work and it helps you take the
fucking whatever you're frying out of
the fucking fryer does Chipotle even
have fry or fuck KFC a real restaurant
KFC fryer extender you don't get the oil
grease on your hand it's actually some
kind of Leverage mechanism that makes
you lift the chicken out of the fryer
easier faster you help serve customers
better now there's a chance that you the
extender just came off you can just do
it fucking raw with your hand it doesn't
hurt you ton little oil spray is
whatever but it's just like you're
working harder for the same amount of
money for the same amount tasty chicken
ending up in the same number of people's
mouths would you ever in a million years
someone's like hey do you want this
extender thing to help you you'd be like
nah man I'm here to work like yes but
the output of your work is happiness in
people's tummies from the delicious
chicken that you're helping them get not
how much of a fucking ironically bicep
pump you get or how much oil spray you
have on your hands we want to work hard
but we want to do it smart thus the
smallest amount of psychological
exertion we can give for the stimulus is
a really good thing lastly number three
fatigue indicator is another way to get
out what's called systemic fatigue
exercises fatigue locally but that's you
know your bicep gets fucked up we
covered that in perturbation and
disruption that's great because that
fatigue the same things that cause it
also cause muscle growth systemic
fatigue is something that spills over
it's a change in your nervous system in
your hormones there's all this autocrine
and paracrine nonsense going on that
Hard Exercise can degrade your ability
from doing it for one muscle group to do
it for another muscle group for example
if you do some bent rows for your back
fucking hits your back up great after
that you're supposed to go do pull-ups
you do pull-ups everything's great after
that you have lateral raises muscles are
unrelated pretty much completely and you
can still you're not completely drained
you have still a very low amount of
unrelated muscle fatigue your side delts
feel generally totally fine this is syic
fatigue of those two exercises is really
low you can do your lateral raises get a
great shoulder pump you're growing
everything's
great there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results
however if you did rack
deadlifts and Ecentric super fast on the
way down completely psychotic chinups or
something that weird wiggling motion you
do to get up to the chin up and the
almost whole body motion of the deadlift
doesn't train your side delts makes you
so fucked up so tired you guys ever like
after four sets of deadlifting be like
man I can fucking tap dance nobody says
that shit you could say it after four
sets of bent rows probably not after
deadlifts those two exercise combos give
you let's say the same amount of muscle
growth which one of those can you train
your delts heart after sure shit isn't
the one where you're getting a ton of
unrelated exercise fatigue and the way
you measure that is you know how strong
you are at various points in your
workout you know how strong you are
you've done incline benches before and
then dumbbell curls after so four sets
of incline barbell bench dumbbell curls
you could do the 25 for sets of 16 let's
say and then you switch to a machine
press and let's say just just hits your
pecs just as good but because the
machine press is a little bit easier you
feel like fresher after your biceps
which weren't used in either movement
are not suffering from the imposition of
a lot of systemic Global fatigue you can
do sets of 18 now is sets of 18 and the
strength of your local bicep musculature
that allows for that going to confirm
more muscle growth for you than sets of
16 yeah AB fuck lutely that's two extra
reps at the end of each fucking set the
very productive ones that's the Reps
that get cut off you're doing a better
job training both muscle groups now so
when we're looking at our ideal exercise
or what exercise is better for you
rather than worse we're going to want
exercises that give us as much of
stimulus as possible but assuming all
the stimuli in our example are roughly
the same we then look at fatigue and go
okay which one of these exercises fucks
our joints and connective tissues up the
least
which on of these exercises can we do
with the least amount of like tooth
grinding psychological exertion which
spills into the rest of our lives and
races our cumulative fatigue such that
four or five weeks in we're going to be
to fuck this I can't keep going versus
four or five weeks in like dude I'm
still in let's cause more muscle growth
and lastly which one of these exercises
gives you the least unrelated and unused
muscle fatigue such that you can get the
big pecs that you wanted but not have to
sacrifice gains or gains or rates of
gains and progressions in the rest of
your muscles because that would kind of
be sweet someone's like hey man I got
the ultimate leg exercise like what is
it bro it's a fucking don't train the
rest of your body just train your legs
like okay I figured that man that's not
really helpful I also want to get jacked
everywhere else which exercise can make
it so that I train the muscle it fucks
up the muscle and it minimally affects
the others that's a really good exercise
that's a really good exercise and so if
that exercise that you found checks a
lot of the boxes for stimulus and not
checking a ton of boxes or checking them
with a a light pencil stroke for
fatigue for now that is a very good
exercise choice for you and if you've
tried a few exercises for that muscle
group you've tried incline press with
dumbbells barbells machines some flies
you can probably rank order them on how
much stimulus they cause how much
fatigue they cause get roughly an
understanding understanding of which one
has the best amount of stimulus the
smallest amount of fatigue and that
folks is the stimulus to fatigue ratio
the highest ratio means you get the most
and pay the least imagine a burrito shop
shap the S ho o p pee where you get a
fucking enormous like oh my god what the
eggplant Emoji size burrito you know
what I'm saying and it cost $5 stimulus
burrito measurement unbelievable fatigue
from spending your money ter terribly
difficult nickles are very hard to
lift you're fucking winning versus if
you go to another restaurant they're
like yeah so the burrito is going to be
like this big teeny tiny and uh you know
it's going to cost $40 you're going to
be like what the fuck why would I ever
do that generally speaking it's the same
with exercises if you have an exercise
that causes enormous stimulus with a
small amount of fatigue man it's hard to
argue against it at least for the time
being because after a few months of
using an exercise
productively it can grow stale and that
is actually a sport science term not an
analogy the stalis is described as a
slight decrease in stimulus the exercise
used to give you crazy pumps not anymore
now they're mediocre used to feel a
crazy connection and tension with your
muscles that you're targeting now you're
like I think my biceps are doing okay
really I'm just kind of moving the
weight up and down and so on and so
forth all the stimuli kind of degrade
while the fatiguing elements start to
rise up a little bit you used to do
deficit push-ups and you were like dude
I can do these in my sleep man it's just
free chest gains and now you're like
grinding them and your fucking arms are
shaking and after you're like holy shit
where the fuck am I the fatigue is now
higher that happens with every single
exercise over time which is why at some
point you take an exercise that used to
be really good high sfr stimulus to
fatigue ratio for you and you replace it
with an exercise that is one you used
before that you knew was pretty good for
you until it got stale but it's been
months since you've used it so it's
going to be nice and fresh or it's your
turn to try a new exercise that you
haven't used before and then you get in
there and you work out and you go H this
exercise is okay I'm going to use it for
a couple mesle Cycles because all my
high sfr hitters are tired and I've
bench them they're all stale but here's
the thing about staleness every day
every week and for sure every month
that you're not using an exercise that
got stale on you it's refreshing it's
becoming less stale your body's like
kind of forgetting about it and then
coming back it's going to be like whoa
holy shit um here's a shitty alga I'll
probably get cancelled for if you have a
list of people in your phone you're
hooking up with and you haven't seen one
of them in like six months and she's
like hey it's Tracy do you still have
this number and you're like yo what's up
Tracy and she's like I haven't seen you
in a while I'm driving through
town it's a lot of H he h you're like
the fuck doesn't she know LOL or fucking
Emoji when she was in town last you I'm
saying you hit it up a bunch and you're
like she's like you want to hang out
again tonight you're like I'm
busy with things yeah you thought that
was what you were going to say except
you just left her on red and just threw
your phone away H eight weeks later 12
weeks later she hits you up and you're
like
yo I haven't seen that bitch in a
fucking dog's age I'm going to hit that
ASAP and it will nicer for the both of
you because it's fresh you keep doing it
for a while it's stale jeez sounds like
the body systems both muscular and
sexual have a lot in common I actually
did receive my PhD and not in exercise
science most people think that it's in
sex studies is that a thing or is that
just a thing my parole officer tells me
not to tell people at the grocery store
randomly and also Scot the video guys
sorry to describe your sex life and use
it as an example it's okay it's okay for
science there's for science there's so
much sex life to talk about
in any case that's the deal with
stainless if you don't use your best
exercises for a while and find some
decent Replacements after a few months
when you bring them back in they're
going to be Heavy Hitters again
so insights from this
talk
first both stimulus and fatigue
determine the value of an exercise for
growth not just one or the other so if
you're like do this exercise really like
fucks up my pecs my next question is
like how does it feel in the joints if
you're like I don't know it kind of
sucks I'm like H maybe you can find an
exercise that does really good with your
packs and minimally affects your joints
number two all insights from the
stimulus to fatigue ratio are just rough
approximations no guarantees no
guarantees but better than nothing
number three everybody is different
which means you have to try a few
different exercises giving them the due
diligence of a few weeks at least each
to try to see which ones work best for
you also which techniques useing them
close stance with the squats medium
stance wide stance that makes a
difference too there is zero replacement
of experience and experiment in your own
training so if you see five best
exercises for Quad growth unless it's a
nuanced video and it's just clickbait
thumbnails which we do all the fucking
time it's probably fucking bullshit
because there's not five best leg
exercises for the population and even if
there is statistically you're not the
fucking population you're you Jim
Frankford Abbott Falls Wisconsin and
you're chronic masturbator but you're
really trying to read the Bible are you
need exercises that are good for you and
the only way you're going to find out is
roughly at least intuitively tracking
the stimulus to fatigue ratios of them
now if you have the RP training app shit
does it for you and automatically ranks
your best sfr exercises as first
candidates in your next program creation
but I'm just self-promoting at this
point number four there is no one best
exercise it could be by a small margin
but there's usually a candidacy group of
three to five exercises that for you all
have comparably rough sfrs I used to
have a book about dinosaurs when I was a
little kid and there was the sosur the
suur and the ultrasaur and they all
respectively uh I'm going to get the the
orders mixed up but uh so the
seismosaurus the tallest which one's the
biggest dinosaur but there the fucking
three they're all fucking big and if you
want a big dinosaur for a birthday
present you know what I'm saying there's
no no losers when people are like what's
better hack squats or leg press or feet
forward Smith machine squat man for a
lot of people it's just three really
awesome things next point point number
five many exercises for you will have
poor sfrs there's not like a list of one
or two exercises I shouldn't do they're
not effective for you there could be a
list of four five six 10 exercises so
you're going to have this pool of
exercises over here that's really really
good pool of exercises here that really
sucks bad sfrs small sfrs and some in
the middle that are like some sometimes
they hit sometimes not sometimes you
need the right machine sometimes the
right foot stance Etc generally what you
do is pick from the group of the best
occasionally dipping in the middle to
see if you're missing out on anything
and the ones that are the worst every
now and again you come back around and
say well I'm going to try this see how
it works but usually you stay the fuck
away from those because for you in your
experience they're not that
great and here's the thing why do we
come back around and choose exercises
outside of our best sfr candidacy group
it is because over time sfrs can change
your body changes the conditions change
and your knowledge of technique and
propri reception change so that you
couldn't really figure out how to wiggle
in the hack Squat and it just hurt your
knees a few years ago now you try hack
squats you're like I know how to push
through my heels now fuck this is like
the goddamn greatest leg exercise that
I've ever tried that personal story is
my personal story it happened to me with
hack squat don't write things off
forever sfrs change over time in an
exercise you wrote off you could at
least try for a few reps in a warm-up be
like and no fuck that you're like ooh
ooh I like this I didn't like it before
but I like it now insert whatever
analogy fits exactly correctly into that
hookup bitch we analogy with the
rotation where you're like I didn't used
to Cindy didn't used to look good but
then goddamn bitch started working out
and uh maybe extreme plastic surgery in
any case lastly Point number seven
choose an exercise with a good sfr or
just choose an exercise and see with the
sfrs and if it's good keep it use it for
a few months until it feels mat and you
know damn well there's either another
exercise you have that's probably higher
sfr that you can't wait to try or
another exercise or a machine in the gym
that you don't know what the sfr is but
you're willing to bet it's better than
me finish your meso D Lo switch
exercises and that's how you choose the
best exercise for you folks thank you so
much for tuning in catch more of our
nerdy stuff in our members Channel link
below and the team forr forum is just
teaming with life thousands at least
more than a thousand of members answer
your questions I'm in there doing expert
shit answering questions doing lives and
all that stuff programs included diets
included come join us Link in the
description I'll see you guys next time
and of course in the
comments