the literature suggests that somewhere
between 10 to 20 sets per week per
muscle per week is a good guideline for
how many sets to do now there's a number
of somewhat issues with
that hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength and I'm here with Dr Brad
shonfeld who is technically literally
the preeminent expert in muscle
hypertrophy muscle growth research in
the entire
world as measured by various uh
scientific publication authorities which
is kind of cool how does it feel to be
the world's expert of muscle growth uh
it feels good to be making an impact
excellent that's what my ex-wife said
when she took it all in the
divorce anyway Ex-Wives aside I have
some questions for you about training
volume and I would love them answered
succinctly and uh in a way that shows me
the respect that I deserve you know what
I mean always give you respect all right
all jokes aside couple questions about
training volume how do you define a
training volume because I see this being
a couple different definitions some
people say reps some people say sets
some people say just kind of a feel of
how much you're doing how long your
workout is what do you think yeah so
there are three basic if you're looking
at the literature three primary
definitions you can look at you you can
look at set volume which is the number
of sets generally per muscle per week or
per set including warmups or no how do
you like no generally SES uh you can
look at rep volume just like you said
and again we're talking about during the
working sets so that's reps per week or
per session and you can also look at it
in terms of work which is also called
volume load and that would be uh reps
times the load that's used and each of
them has certain value and certain
somewhat drawbacks uh but generally set
volume the number of working working
sets per muscle per week is how it's
defined the literature that's generally
what most of the research studies are
based on and that's the way bodybuilders
generally talk about uh their their
training you when you go into the gym
you say bro how many sets do you do for
your chest I do 20 sets they like 359
reps you're like is that a lot or a
little or even even more so yeah I do
6,000 PBS week you know you know what
weightlifters talk about volume load
still has 20,000 pound or 20,000 kilos
first you can't say pounds with them
because they really really upset
and if you use sets and stuff they get
really upset also but um okay so that's
a good definition of training volume and
you do think that number of hard sets
not only is an accepted definition but
do you think it's a externally valid
definition in the sense that when we ask
does high volume training work better
than low volume training is the proxy of
number of hard sets per week or per
workout relevant to that because if we
talked about repetition number we could
easily get this feel that if you just do
sets of 30 all the time your volume
looks extraordinarily higher than if you
do sets of eight but we know already
that the hypertrophic impact of those is
roughly similar but for hard sets you
think it's a pretty good scaling method
yeah I mean there's actually been uh
there was a paper on this and they
looked at sets when you're talking about
between six reps to 20 reps or so it's
been I don't want to say validated but
there there's good evidence that that
can be used as a good proxy for volume
when you're getting into somewhat lower
rep ranges it has uh certain drawbacks
and conceivably when you're getting very
high VI High repetitions could be other
issues yes excellent okay and what does
the research literature tell us about
the most hypertrophic volume ranges
let's take a stab at it from the
perspective of an intermediate lifter
someone's been training for three to
seven years they train four or five
times a week they train kind of whole
body just let's just go muscle group uh
at a time we don't have to go muscle by
muscle but like for any given muscle
group like let's say chest or quads or
hamstrings how many sets per week is
I'll ask you this way definitely too few
and then definitely SL potentially too
many where does that leave us in that
range I generally do not speak in terms
of definitely because there's almost
always somewhat some caveats to that but
let me give you some context so the
literature suggests that somewhere
between 10 to 20 sets per week per
muscle per week is a good guideline for
how many sets to do now there's a number
of somewhat issues with that number one
we have no studies that have actually
been carried out that looked at all the
major muscle groups doing that many sets
together at the same time yeah let's say
you we we can agree that there are let's
say 10 major muscle groups you have your
biceps triceps chest shoulders back
quads hamstring glutes calvs and abs if
you were to do 20 sets of each muscle
that would be 200 sets per week there's
never been a study that has looked at
that so for context we did a study um
where we looked at one set versus three
sets versus five sets per
exercise um and we did seven exercises
per session so one group was doing seven
the one set was seven different
exercises seven sets another was doing
three so 20 and the other was doing 35
how many times a week three times a week
three times a week total volume was 105
sets per week but this is and this uh
study has become quite popular and
somewhat controversial which we can get
into by the way there's been multiple
studies that have replicated this in
various ways but the legs were doing the
quads you could say they had 45 sets
based upon the configuration and we
didn't do any quote unquote Direct
biceps triceps work so no press Downs or
curls we did presses so overhead press
chest press we counted those one to one
as triceps and biceps work and there was
30 sets for those but so while you can
say well 30 sets 45 sets the total
number of sets per week was only 100
when I say only 105 that would equate to
10 sets if you're looking at 10 major
muscle groups you're talking about if
someone were to do 10 sets for all major
muscle groups the total set volume per
week would be on the lower realm of what
these guidelines would show so we don't
have good evidence that if you were to
do 20 sets per muscle that that would
could you start overtraining at that
point it's not really clear in the
context of a whole body plan basically
in the context of a whole body plan so
we we have evidence and this I think
leads to the you know we can extrapolate
and I do think just based on somewhat
anecdotally that that is a generally a
good guideline uh to follow but I I
think it's also worthy to say that I
think the um Prospect for having
somewhat higher volumes for uh a
specialization cycle and this is the way
I I like to look at it uh and again
there's no direct evidence of this but I
I think we can look at it that there's a
certain amount of work that can be done
and beyond that point you're going to
start to see regression certainly
Plateau for the whole body yeah the
number of total sets per muscle per week
over overtraining is a systemic response
it is not you don't get overtrained from
doing a 100 sets of bicep girls you
wouldn't think and that's it and you
didn't do anything else let's say you
just say I'm gonna do you know 20 sets
of biceps five days a week you're not
going to be systemically overtrained
from that you probably not the best way
to optimize results but I wouldn't think
you'd be getting a regression you'd see
a
plateau um but I I think that some point
whatever that point is and there's no
hard number for everyone uh we can look
at it that there's a budget of volume
for the total number of sets per all
your muscles you could do Beyond which
you probably are going to see this
inverted you and at least over a certain
period of time might take you 8 10 12
whatever number of weeks to to achieve
that you start to see a regression so
think of it as this volume budget let's
say you're going to have 120 total sets
per muscle per per all your muscles per
given week you can say all right I now
want to apportion this volume just like
you do with money if you know hey I want
this so I'm going to buy this but I'm
not going to have as much for that I'm a
trillionaire I don't a portion I don't
even count my Mone someone like yourself
it's not going to be but I understand
the regulars they would appreciate for
us normal people the bottom bottom rows
of the Titanic correct right um you
could say hey look my chest is lagging
so I might do 30 sets for chess but
you're going to be out of your budget
now so hey my quads are a real uh strong
suit they're they're very welld
developed I might only do four or five
sets for my quads y so when you're
talking about how much is too little too
much it's it's kind of difficult to say
because again if you're looking at this
volume budget you're proportioning it so
that certain muscles are getting more
and certain are less and we've not seen
a interestingly a u
plateau uh there's been I mean I should
said some literature has shown that yeah
you're not going to get more uh gains
over 10 12 sets and others have shown up
to new study over 50 sets yes uh there
was uh greater VI now you again I want
to point out one thing that's very clear
from the literature is that you can make
a majority most people can make a
majority of gains on relatively low
volume routines 10 to 20 sets per musle
per week less five to 10 yeah five to 10
um most people um but there and you
start to see it's not like there's this
linear increase so you will see the
extra gains that you start getting with
more volume start to level off and who's
that going to be relevant for well if M
Israel you know body Pro bodybuilder or
I'm not AER expiring prob bodybilder we
all um then that would be relevant
you're a the 90% of your average gym
goers it it's going to have much
diminishing returns as that's a great
point because I think people want the
big muscles and they go how do I get my
biceps bigger and you go okay train
three times a week and they're like yeah
like well you know five to 10 sets each
time probably work like I saw a study
that said there 35 sets work and you're
like yeah do you want to go to the gym
six times a week and they're like well
no it's it's okay for you you're going
to get maybe 70 or 80% of your gains
from a third of the volume that starts
to be a pretty serious consideration
yeah yeah yeah time so time efficiency
is what is I think the number one factor
in adherence to uh it's the number one
ex quote unquote excuse why people don't
train have the time to train so uh it
does not take a lot to see good games
now with the I would say the caveat that
some people just don't respond well to
lower volumes and they might need more
but
yes in your research on volume which
you've been conducting for basically a
generation at this point and you've been
examining other people's cont
contributions to that have you ever
found anything that's surprised
you yeah so some interesting things
number one I think think it's kind of
interesting on the surface I would say
the the lack of a plateau in regression
so certainly I've uh in my previous
books I've talked about where this is
this inverted U and we've had papers on
this inverted yeah hypothetical inverted
U response to volume and we've not seen
this and look you you look at Arnold
Schwarzenegger who they did 200 plus
Arnold was famous for doing 200 plus
sets per per week um but I think again
going back if you look at the studies as
as I mentioned earlier I think you can
extrapolate a rationale because we
haven't studied very high total volumes
in terms of all the muscles so I think
that's somewhat surprised me the other
thing that I think is really interesting
is um that you can maintain on very low
volumes at least so there's somewhat
limited research on this but one study
in particular showed that young
individuals can maintain their gains on
a ninth so on when they start out with a
high volume routine they I think it was
27 sets they went down to three sets per
week and maintain their their muscular
gain so wild so really low volumes can
be used to maintain muscle which I think
is a very important thing that you can
actually reach now again I'm not sure
how you can't necessarily extrapolate
this to yourself when you've gained a
huge amount of muscle there might be
regression these weren't really jacked
dudes but I think for the general public
you know you can make some gains and
then Hey look I'll go to the gym once
once twice a week at RP from our
examination of literature combined with
our having coached a crap ton of people
and ourselves included at the company we
like to go by the rough general rule of
onethird that generally a third of your
typical volume is a very comfortable
margin by which you can essentially
maintain almost everything you have
indefinitely that's such a huge handy
thing to have in your back pocket
because so many people out there think
that if you got big on 20 sets you're
actually going to shrink if you do 18
and that such a huge misconception right
by the way to your point in that
particular study one of another
interesting caveat to that was that that
was in young individuals in older
individuals which I think was over
30 I think it was over 50 or 60 whatever
it was um the uh amount of volume was
high you need to maintain was higher so
I think it was a third uh they
maintained on a third and they actually
lost on a ninth of the volume so there's
lost slowly I do well correct I so
there's basically there is an
insensitivity muscle becomes more
insensitive as people get older so
basically the muscle comes over and it
says something really unkind and it
spills water and it leaves and you're
like
exactly how do individual differences
play into this we have the metadata from
all the studies how what what about
individuals is it does everyone need the
same volume or what do you think so I'll
start by saying that trying to
extrapolate individual statistically EXT
individual responses is somewhat
difficult in research people think you
just look at the the dispersion and uh
it's not quite that simple but I I can
give you some context number one in our
research uh and I know in others that
I've talked to you see a very wide range
of responses to to volume a lot of
heterogeneity where some people respond
up here and other people arehere to so
when you're saying here are there people
that just don't grow at all yeah okay
we'll get that's our next question so
let's not talk about it too much but
there are some people who are really
struggling corre and some people who
like more or less touch a weight and
their arm turns to Steel so they call
them responders and non-responders I I
don't like to term use the term
non-responders but I think poor
responders is a better term poor and
worse and better responders because I've
never met anyone who ultimately doesn't
respond unless they would have some
medical condition or something or
they're really
Jewish I don't know about that um I
think you are uh a ex exhibit a why that
is not the case there you go um but but
seriously uh if you're looking at a poor
responder um there is evidence that uh
when you so they've done studies there's
been two studies recently which are
really cool they use what's called a
within subject design where one leg was
randomized to a higher volume the other
leg was randomized to a lower volume and
both studies showed had similar results
and some about half approximately half
the participants the lower volume
routine they had equal growth between
legs and the lower versus higher volume
rtin but the other 50% had varying
degrees of better responses to the
higher volume routine and the newest
study that just came out on that
particular topic actually showed that
the poor
responders uh did respond they needed
the higher volume to respond better
whereas the high responders basically
they're whether it was the lower volume
or the higher volume so it does seem to
have an effect on the quote unquote poor
responders yes so that brings us to the
last question and that's for context a
lot of top huge Pro bodybuilders who
almost unequivocally have dominant
genetics like I'm not I'm interested in
having that debate never um you just
have to see these people in real life
and watch them live their life to be
like that's a special special thing
that's happening um they'll say look
it's not training more that makes you
more jacked it's emphasizing recovery
while at the same time we have research
directly on harder and easier gainers
that shows us precisely in the people
who struggle to grow that more is better
so do you think that the research kind
of shows that look if you're a hard
Gainer experimenting with more volume is
at least as tenable of a first
principal's idea to do next as really
upping your recovery what do you think
yeah I would definitely say that I I
think that in general now it's going to
be cont
specific uh so it's always hard to give
a an absolute statement because if
someone's a non-responder they could
just be doing really stupid I mean
just be training ter yeah so but in
general that is what the research seems
to show now look if someone is training
seven days a week doing you know 50 60
sets per session then maybe they are
recovery recovery is the issue when
they're not growing generally that is
not the case in the general public
usually and again through the research
what we we do have the research that we
have to go on which is somewhat limited
does suggest that hard gainers probably
the first thing you'd want to do all
other things being equal and not looking
at these stupid training programs
would be that you uh would try to up the
Vol use volume as a a driver potential
driver to to get greater growth yes so
if I can rephrase that potentially let
me know if I screwed up if you are
someone who's been training for a few
years you really have trouble putting on
size and wings strength you've been
sticking to kind of lower volumes
emphasizing recovery quite a bit maybe
it's time to try to crank the volume
progressively but if you're someone
who's been training for years gotten
quite big and strong and are starting to
struggle it's probably more of a
recovery thing than it is an add a ton
of volume thing would you be uh able to
sign off on that I I think that is
generally a good uh statement a good
general statement I'd also say though in
context to this another often another
issue with hard is is they're not
consuming enough food so uh again you
need to generally be in a if you want to
optimize muscle building you're going to
be in a surplus and a lot of times these
heart gainers just are not consuming
enough calories yeah uh even if they're
taking an insufficient protein you also
need calories from an energy perspective
to drive the protein synthetic response
yeah you got to if to get away from 120
pounds and get to 150 you have to eat
your way there corre there's no way to
recomp to a higher body weight it's
literally impossible you can do a lot of
volume but if you're substandard and
your energy intake it's going to have
negative effects on your muscle capacity
excellent Dr shanfeld thank you so much
folks to summarize if you want to gain
eat whole sticks of butter I've been Dr
Mike see you guys next time
[Music]