just here casually typing on my computer
let me just plan my training on this
physical calendar that was totally
necessary and not just for video
purposes
yeah oh man so incredibly busy here at
my office planning training as far ahead
as May 2024 for some reason what will I
do my gains will melt off nobody in the
world has ever been as busy as I
am stop crying fat you're not that busy
I got
you minimum effective dose how can it be
minimum and effective
cringe don't worry I will show you the
way what is the least a trained
individual needs in order to make
meaningful strength gains and the answer
may surprise you con of the minimum
effective dose is something that we see
in a lot of other fields including
Fields like medicine essentially what is
the least amount of something that you
can ingest take or do in order to get a
response that is still meaningful when
it comes to training people are
interested in getting healthier fitter
bigger and stronger so much like with
anything else there is a minimum
effective dose of training that you can
do so you can still get a meaningful
response from your training that means
getting enough muscle growth for it to
mean something or getting strong enough
for that strength increase to mean
something here's where the problem Lies
We are very closely attached to the word
optimal we're looking for the optimal
training program for the optimal
recovery routine for the optimal
approach to nutrition without really
thinking about what optimal really means
so I'd like to take this chance to First
go over the difference between
meaningful and optimal so when thinking
about training the average person that
wants to look good be strong and be fit
they fail to understand is that the
difference between meaningful and
optimal may be a very small difference
people often tend to completely discount
anything below optimal as zero so unless
you're doing the best exercise routine
or doing the most optimal exercises with
the most optimal form people people
assume that you will not be making any
meaningful gains when in reality you
could be making the majority of your
gains and I'm talking about 60 to 80% of
your potential gains with much much less
work than You' need to get the optimal
results now you're I hear you asking
pack where did you get that t-shirt from
from Rascal apparel I'm not sponsored
but by their stuff but I also hear you
asking and I should really get that
checked out I keep hearing voices in my
head asking me things at random but I
hear you asking so why isn't everybody
experimenting with the concept of the
minimum dose well the reality is um is
that there is this sort of misconception
that anything below optimal is not worth
your time and a lot of people fail to
understand that the reality of things
and in this particular case the science
is there and we have a lot of data both
on trained and untrained individuals
including high level strength athletes
showing that you can indeed make a
really really solid amount of gains make
meaningful gains without spending too
much time in the gym obviously you're
still going to be training hard but
doing much less than what many people
will make you believe sure it is
suboptimal I'm not going to sit here and
argue or sell you that this is the best
routine as a lot of people try to do and
that's all also part of the problem you
often see people trying to sell you very
time efficient workouts uh routines
exercise programs whatever with the
promise that this is the secret you've
been missing unfortunately the research
doesn't necessarily reflected which then
creates a bad rep around sort of minimum
dose based programs as they're marketed
as optimal programs and then people
completely discount them and that
essentially backfires in them feeling
like they have to commit a lot of time
and put a lot of effort in their
training in order to get any results but
their reality is much much different
when it comes to improving your health
strength and increasing your muscle mass
you can make substantial gains for
relatively long periods of time I'd say
up to 4 months without needing to
increase that dose after that point you
may need to do a bit more with just a
handful of sets per muscle group or per
lift per week by lift I mean if you want
to get strong on a particular exercise
you could perform a handful of sets on
that exercise and just leave it at that
and vice versa you want to work on your
biceps your back your chest and handful
of sets performed very close to failure
per week will do the
trick and keep in mind we're not talking
about a maintenance dose here we're not
talking about the least you can do to
still maintain your muscle mass or see
some sort of minimal increase over time
we're talking about an amount of
training that you can do and still make
actually significant actually meaningful
Gams it's important to clarify that this
is not a method of training this is not
supposed to be a training approach that
you take and utilize for the rest of
your lives without making any
adjustments to it there will be
different periods of time and based on
your previous experience on how strong
you are and what recovery resources you
have available your minimum effective
dose may vary from week to week or from
month to month but the concept of the
minimum effective dose so seeing what's
the least you can do and still make
progress is a concept that you can have
with you and work on and experiment with
for the rest of your life especially
during periods where you're unable to
spend a lot of time in the gym so let's
say that you are faced with a very very
busy period at work at University or if
you have had a kid taking the concept of
the minimum effective dose and starting
as low as a handful of sets per muscle
group or per exercise per week can be a
great way for you to get a psychological
sort of relief that you can still get
your training in and this ties in really
nicely with the idea that doing
something is much better than nothing
when it comes to resistance training
people have this idea that it's too good
to be true or it is not possible to just
do a little bit and see great increases
in strength and size and obviously
General Health and Fitness which
unfortunately or actually fortunately is
not based on any actual scientific
evidence for you to improve your health
see strength and muscle gains and be
able to still get your lift in and
progress over time without stopping just
because you're super busy all you need
to be doing is just a few sets per
muscle per lift per week maybe a total
of like an hour of lifting per week will
be more than enough for you to still be
added and still be making great gains
not optimal gains but still really solid
gains and definitely better gains than
if you were to do absolutely nothing
aside from periods where time is limited
you will also come across periods of
time where you may have your usual time
to train but your recovery resources are
are heavily impacted either by an
increased amount of stress or by a
change of focus in your life you may be
working on a project that is occupying a
lot of mental space in your head and it
may not you may not feel as enthusiastic
about training as you did before you may
not be looking forward to those 2hour
sessions or completing a bunch of sets
to failure uh if your goal is
hypertrophy this is where the concept of
the minimum effective dose comes in play
you can always go okay I am not going to
shoot for 100% gains I'm going to settle
for around 80% of my potential
hypertrophy or strength gains do much
less overall volume and still continue
progressing versus saying you know what
I can't get 100% so I'll just settle for
0% and that's something I'm trying to
get across to a lot of people as a coach
I work with individuals of all uh
professional and fitness background our
default is not always to go and just do
the least amount we can to get the most
out of their training because a lot of
these people still want to achieve
optimal strength and hypertophy
increases but the concept of the minimum
dose is always in the back of my mind
whenever there are a few consecutive
weeks where people are missing lifts or
sessions or when things are not feeling
that great um as far as overall training
goes instead of feeling like you're
missing out on sessions or you're
missing out on sets simply take a few
steps back do the least you need to do
in order to make progress for both
strength and hypertrophy which again
will be roughly around a handful of sets
per muscle group or per lifts per week
give yourself a big tap on the back and
remember that it is truly enough for you
to still make great gains it may be
suboptimal but suboptimal does not mean
that it won't be meaning this is not a
concept for beginners to experiment with
this is not your hey um you want to just
make a few gains and look okay okay you
could play around with this concept this
is a concept that applies to lifters of
all experiences and levels from novices
or people that just want to get into
lifting all the way to really experien
Elite strength or physique athletes so
do not feel like this is something that
is mostly catering to beginners or
people that are not experienced lifters
optimal training plan on paper is not
optimal if you're not actually doing it
but a suboptimal training plan on paper
if it allows you to be in the gym for
longer periods of time and actually
consistently lift over the period of a
year will lead to much better gains than
being in and out of the gym all the time
do not forget like to subscribe
notification Bell icon and to obviously
donate to our charity which is
essentially myself and it's not a
charity it's just my personal bank
account as always I would appreciate if
you just send me some money if the tax
people are listening I'm just kidding
I'm not kidding I don't know why I'm
whispering the microphone is here I do
pay my
taxes right
[Music]
peace my results what if I'm not
making all you
Europeans