why do you think that I prefer the
seated hamstring curl over the lying
because you can load it more no does
that something to do with the height no
no so when we sit down the hamstring is
already pre-stretched whereas when you
lie down the hamstring is not stretched
at all there's a new study I think it
was last year the year before compared
over 12 weeks of training seated
hamstring curls to line leg curls which
one do you think resulted in more muscle
1.5 times the growth it goes to show
that like there is accumulating evidence
that the stretch is really really
important for muscle growth I still
include lying leg curls I don't make
entire training decisions based off of
one study but if I have the option I'm
going to pick this one come forward a
bit more do you feel them more stretched
oh yeah so it's better to lean forward
it is as long as you don't find it feels
awkward and you can't overload it as
well because again the further you lean
back the less pre-stretch you have in
your hamstrings because it starts to
resemble more of a line leg curl okay