all right i know idiotic is kind of a
strong word but don't be offended i just
had to get your attention because the
information that we're going to be
covering in today's video is extremely
important there's a very high chance
that you're making at least a handful of
these mistakes in your own training and
honestly if you just watch this through
take all 15 points and apply them to
your program it's gonna instantly set
you on the right track and could easily
make the difference between consistently
gaining muscle from week to week versus
spinning your wheels and making little
to no progress like so many people do so
let's cut through the bs here all the
misinformation put out by these fitness
influencers and fake natties and just
outline exactly what you need to do as a
legit natural lifter to make real
significant gains over the long term all
right mistake number one this will
probably ruffle some feathers right off
the bat and i'm sure there's going to be
some people who might disagree but it's
centering your workouts around getting a
pump now yes the pump feels great it's
motivating it's satisfying to me as a
coming is but it's not a significant
driver of muscle hypertrophy in and of
itself and you can just logically reason
this out without even needing to look at
studies or examining the precise biology
behind it if you sat there right now
with no resistance whatsoever and just
flexed your biceps repeatedly as hard as
you could you could get a huge arm pump
off of that alone or go ahead and grab a
pair of pink three pound dumbbells and
perform thousands of flies until you're
blue in the face and you'll probably end
up with the biggest chest pump of your
life but i think we'd all agree that
that wouldn't be the best way to build
muscle there's of course nothing wrong
with getting a pump and if you're truly
training hard then a pump is a
completely normal byproduct of that you
should be experiencing a pump to some
degree and you can also somewhat use it
as a tool for gauging muscle activation
to confirm that you are in fact
stimulating the muscle that you're
trying to target but that's primarily
what a pump is it's more so a side
effect of your training it's not the
underlying cause for muscle growth or
the thing that you should be primarily
focused on mistake number two along the
same lines and that's using fatigue as
your gauge for training success just
like the pump fatigue is also a
byproduct of intense exercise but it's
not a direct stimulator of muscle
hypertrophy on its own just because
you're tired sweating breathing heavily
nauseated
urinating all over yourself
uncontrollably that doesn't necessarily
mean that any of that is going to
directly lead to muscle growth it's
perfectly possible to perform a
completely ineffective workout as far as
building muscle is concerned yet still
feel highly fatigued from it so don't go
into the gym with this mindset that your
goal is to just aimlessly beat yourself
up and get in a good workout if the
primary goal of your session is to
stimulate hypertrophy then there are
specific parameters that need to be in
place for that to happen which we're
going to talk about here shortly okay
mistake number three yet another false
gauge for building muscle and that is
relying on muscle soreness so soreness
can be a satisfying thing because it's
sort of a reminder of the hard work that
you put in and it does indicate that
some level of damage has been done to
the tissue but just like the pump just
like fatigue muscle damage is not a
direct driver of hypertrophy in and of
itself you could create a ton of muscle
damage in your legs by just standing up
right now and performing jumping jacks
for the next three hours straight and
you'd be ridiculously sore tomorrow but
that wouldn't be an effective way to
build lower body muscle over the long
term the adaptations you'd get from
something like that would be more
endurance related you'll tend to get the
most sore when you expose your muscles
to a novel stimulus so that applies to
beginning lifters in general or if
you're more experienced but you're
coming back from a layoff or you're
introducing a new exercise into your
program and you'll also probably find
that certain muscle groups tend to be
more susceptible to soreness than others
at the end of the day being sore doesn't
necessarily mean you stimulated
hypertrophy and not being sore doesn't
necessarily mean you didn't the one
potential use for soreness just like i
talked about with the pump is that it
can be somewhat used as a gauge for
muscle activation for example if you
were trying to train your lats and the
next day your biceps felt totally
massacred but you didn't feel anything
in your lats at all then that could be
an indication that your technique might
need adjusting or if you were trying to
let's say train your quads but you
weren't quite sure whether your glutes
were doing most of the work or not but
the next day your quads were very sore
that would help to confirm that you were
in fact targeting your quads effectively
as far as exercise selection and form
goes okay so muscle pump fatigue and
muscle soreness those are not primary
drivers of hypertrophy on their own and
if they were then ultra lightweight high
rep short rest period circuit style
training would be the absolute best way
to get jacked and marathon runners would
have the most massive tree trunk legs
out of anyone so what is the primary
driver of muscle growth it is
mechanical tension it's applying load to
the targeted muscle fibers and training
them very close to or all the way to
muscular failure which is the point
where you can't do any more reps in
proper form despite your best effort and
this leads to mistake number four
dead simple in theory yet easily the
single biggest mistake of all the number
one thing that prevents most people from
truly transforming their bodies in the
way that they're after and that is not
training hard enough more specifically
not going close enough to true muscular
failure on your sets muscle growth is an
evolutionary survival mechanism to adapt
your body to the demands of the
environment and if those demands don't
cross a certain threshold your body
won't have strong enough incentives to
make those adaptations the stressor
needs to be right up close to or all the
way to the maximum limit that you're
currently capable of if you want to see
significant growth otherwise your body
just says hey the current state we're in
is already good enough to deal with this
i'm not exaggerating when i say this but
if you're never making this face on at
least some of your sets if you're not
letting out involuntary grunts and yelps
here or there if you never feel nervous
before performing a particularly
challenging lift if you can honestly say
that you've never straight up soiled
yourself in the middle of the gym during
a hard leg workout
okay maybe that's going too far but if
those first three are never happening
then you're almost certainly not
training hard enough for maximum gains
and when it comes to effort level per
set you really shouldn't be leaving any
more than about three reps in the tank
on most sets as an absolute minimum one
to two rep short of failure is probably
the optimal zone to base the majority of
your sets around and then here and there
you can really push the limit with those
all-out failure sets all right moving on
mistake number five something i've been
talking about like a broken record for
the last 15 years and that's not
tracking your workouts tension is the
primary stimulus for growth but in order
for the muscle to grow continually
bigger over time that tension needs to
consistently increase aka you need to
progressively overload that's
essentially what your entire training
program should be centered around
training close to failure on your sets
and slowly increasing the workload over
time and if you want to accomplish that
in the most efficient way possible you
need to be recording your workouts and
you can still make progress by just
winging it and improvising things as you
go but it's not going to be anywhere
near as effective as taking a more
calculated structured approach to your
training gaining muscle is about very
small improvements extrapolated over the
long term and there's no better way to
track those improvements than by knowing
exactly what you did in the previous
workout and exactly what you need to do
during this workout in order to progress
further it could just be one extra rep
with the same weight next workout
another rep then another rep then a
small five pound increase back to
training for reps again rinse and repeat
and there are other methods of
progressive overload that can be used
beyond just increasing the weight in
reps like slower negatives pauses more
difficult exercise variations and all it
takes is a few quick seconds to jot this
stuff down in your notebook or in your
phone after each set it's an incredibly
easy thing to do but can pay dividends
for your training over the long term and
it's not just about giving you clear
targets to aim for during each workout
but also allowing you to see firsthand
that your overall program is on the
right track
physical muscle growth is a very slow
process that can't be accurately
assessed in the short term yet strength
is something you can clearly measure
from week to week and since size and
strength are for the most part directly
intertwined your training log book is
what you use to confirm that you are in
fact gaining muscle even if you can't
visually see it yet if the numbers in
the logbook are consistently going up
then you'll know that you're also
consistently gaining muscle the reason
you keep coming back to the gym stronger
is because the muscle is hypertrophying
whereas if the numbers in the log book
have stagnated that's how you know that
your muscle gains have also stagnated
and that something in your program is
off and needs to be corrected if you try
to rely on visual changes only to
determine when your progress is stalled
it could take months before you truly
realize it whereas with a training
logbook you can identify it very quickly
to get yourself right back on track all
right mistake number six is constantly
switching up your workouts now i know it
can be incredibly easy to fall for that
shiny object syndrome with all these
different training techniques and
exercise variations that you find online
nowadays someone posting a
basic flat dumbbell press is nowhere
near as sexy and eye-catching as a
kneeling isolateral paused cable fly
drop set supersetted with a clapping
bosu ball push-up but if you're always
mixing around your training variables in
terms of exercise selection exercise
order volume rep ranges rep execution
advanced techniques etc then it's going
to be extremely difficult to accurately
track progressive overload because you
don't have anything concrete to measure
each workout against muscle confusion is
not a thing your muscles don't have a
miniature brain of their own where they
magically decide to stop responding if
you perform the same exercise all they
respond to is the degree of mechanical
tension that they're being placed under
period and it's actually far more
effective for hypertrophy to keep your
training variables constant and focus on
maximizing progress within those
variables for a consistent cycle of
training not only because it allows you
to track your progress accurately but it
also maximizes the effectiveness of your
workouts since it gives you a chance to
refine and master your lifting technique
on a given set of movements rather than
just being mediocre at a very long list
of different ones i believe it was bruce
lee who said i fear not the man who has
practiced 10 000 curling variations once
i fear the man who has practiced one
curling variation ten thousand times
mistake number seven this one might
sound a bit obvious and all the details
of this one are beyond the scope of this
one video but that mistake is improper
exercise selection now you don't need to
become some kind of anatomy slash
biomechanics jedi in order to build a
solid physique but if you're looking to
get the best results possible then you
do need to put in some time to gain a
reasonable understanding of each major
muscle group on your body what its
functions are and then to look over your
program to make sure you have a proper
range of exercises to target those
individual functions don't just blindly
pick a bunch of exercises you swipe
through online and randomly mash them
together mechanical tension is the
primary driver of hypertrophy but if
you're not directing that tension toward
the specific muscle fibers that you want
to grow that's obviously not going to do
you any good for example if you're
trying to target your lats and your main
focus is on overhand pull-ups or
overhand pull-downs which many people
don't realize are actually
more upper-back focused exercises then
your lats aren't going to grow optimally
or if you're not aware of basic triceps
anatomy and you're not including some
triceps to work with your shoulders in a
more flexed position to emphasize the
long head which is the biggest portion
of the triceps that is most likely to be
under trained then you'll probably be
leaving some upper arm gains on the
table or if you have the common
misconception that squats and leg
presses are enough to build your
hamstrings when in reality those
movements hardly train the hamstrings
for hypertrophy at all and you're not
incorporating hip extension and knee
flexion movements into your program then
your hamstrings are going to lag behind
and i do have videos on the channel
covering various exercises for different
muscle groups and technique videos as
well so make sure to check that out
after we're done here and also don't
forget to subscribe to the channel to
stay in the loop on future videos all
right another mistake when it comes to
the topic of exercise selection number
eight on the list is over emphasizing
certain muscle groups and more
specifically doing what a high
percentage of lifters do especially
beginners which is getting too caught up
in training what would be considered the
showy muscles which is usually the chest
and the biceps if you search through
youtube fitness videos it's pretty much
always chest and biceps related content
that gets the most views and if you just
take a look around most gyms presses and
flies and curls are typically the most
common exercises you'll see now in
reality the biceps are actually the
smallest major muscle group on your
entire body and they don't require
anything fancy in order to build them
effectively and your pecs also don't
carry nearly as much total mass as you
might think either the pecs are roughly
equal in volume to the triceps the lats
also the traps and so while building a
bigger chest and bigger biceps is
obviously important for your physique as
a whole there's just no need to treat
those areas with such high importance
relative to others or fall for all the
bs click bait content out there that
makes you think that you need a million
different exercise variations to
optimize your biceps peak or build the
inner upper 1 18th of your pec fibers
for the record your shoulders are
actually the single largest upper body
muscle group and well-developed delts
paired up with a muscular upper back
that will probably do more in terms of
making you appear strong and muscular
overall than your chest or your biceps
will mistake number nine also related to
proper exercise selection which is
intentionally creating instability
during your lifts whether that's using a
swiss ball or a bosu ball or lifting
unorthodox objects like you see in a lot
of these instagram and tick tock posts
or a certain unilateral exercises that
force you to keep the weights balanced
during the set if your goal is to
optimize muscle growth this is literally
the complete opposite of what you want
training on unstable surfaces or
performing lifts in an off-balanced
position doesn't magically cause you to
recruit more muscle fibers or shock your
body into new gains or whatever other
fancy buzzwords certain fitness coaches
try to use all it does is put you in a
weaker position and reduces the total
amount of force that you can generate
against the weight to create the highest
degree of mechanical tension possible
you want to make your lifts as stable as
possible mistake number 10 shifting to
actual exercise execution we can't
ignore the all too common tragic sight
of an ego lifting jimbo yes your focus
needs to be on progressively overloading
your exercises and adding low to the bar
is the primary way to do that at least
through the beginner to intermediate
stages but if you're trying to move at
too quick a pace and you're sacrificing
form just for numbers and flailing
around all over the place convulsing
like a possessed maniac trying to heave
around weights that you have no business
lifting that is almost certainly going
to work against you rather than for you
that sloppy technique is most likely
going to mean less tension on the
targeted muscle and at the very least
you'll be putting a lot more stress on
your joints and connective tissues and
increasing your eventual chance for
injury i broke my back
what do you mean by that your broken
back is broken what a vertebrae or a
portion
spinal true progressive overload means
that each time you increase the weight
or you add an extra rep your form looks
more or less exactly the same as it did
with the previous weight aside from
maybe some very minor deviation which
you would then work to correct before
you go ahead and increase again but the
bottom line is that if you can't use a
full range of motion in proper form
without excessive momentum or the
assistance of a spotter you need to
scale things back and be a bit more
patient now at the same time mistake
number 11 swinging the pendulum all the
way to the other extreme and that's
being excessively strict with your form
and completely obsessing over the mind
muscle connection keep in mind that the
sensation you feel in a given muscle is
not necessarily a direct indication of
how much mechanical tension that muscle
is truly under again using a simple
example if you just sat there and flexed
your chest as hard as possible with no
weight whatsoever you're gonna feel that
a lot more than you will during let's
say a heavy set of dumbbell presses so
ego lifting is not the answer but you
also don't need to be lifting like a
completely rigid robot and trying to
micromanage every tiny precise movement
and feeling some super deep intense
contraction in the muscle on every
single rep instead aim for a middle
ground approach where you're lifting
with solid technique but also allowing
yourself a bit of room to move naturally
now this is something that will come
with more training experience but once
you get the hang of it it will usually
result in even more tension being placed
on the targeted muscle rather than less
mistake number 12 is performing too much
high rep work now yes as long as you're
training close to failure then
essentially any rep range will be
effective for building muscle however
the issue with very high rep sets in
that sort of 15 to 20 plus range is that
along with training your muscles they
also create a much larger amount of
systemic fatigue which we touched on
earlier there's going to be more overall
metabolic stress muscle burn nausea
cardiovascular stress and all of those
things can add up and start becoming the
limiting factor where you're stopping
the set because of that overall total
body fatigue and discomfort rather than
because the muscle itself is actually
getting close to true muscular failure
now there is some individual variation
at play here and if you feel totally
fine with higher up sets and you prefer
that style of training for some reason
then that's fine but for most people
centering their workouts around a more
moderate rep range anywhere between
about i would say 5 to 12 reps or so
that will usually be the most efficient
and the most effective zone to
accumulate the majority of your training
volume and then just using those very
high rep sets as more of a supplemental
add-on okay mistake number 13 is not
resting long enough in between sets so
this relates to the previous point as
far as creating excessive fatigue
because when you use shorter rest times
in between sets you won't be giving your
body a chance to fully systemically
recover and that can then reduce the
quality of the upcoming set if your
heart rate and your breathing is still
up you've got lingering cardiovascular
fatigue even mental fatigue you don't
want to be jumping into an entirely new
set in that fatigued state this is not a
cardio slash conditioning workout if you
want to train for those goals separately
then that's fine but as we've already
discussed hypertrophy training is about
maximizing mechanical tension by getting
within a rep or two of true muscular
failure and anything else that
interferes with that is going to be
counterproductive so you don't need to
follow some set in stone rest time in
between sets just perform your set and
then rest as long as you need to in
order to feel fully recovered and to
where you can execute the next set with
full muscular effort and that will vary
based on the specific exercise you're
doing your energy levels on any given
day where you are in the workout uh how
close to failure you're training but on
most sets most of the time you're
probably looking at anywhere from about
2 minutes all the way up to 5 minutes in
some cases mistake number 14 is
performing pre-workout cardio so if you
want to do a short say 5-10 minute light
cardio warm-up then that's fine but
doing a full-blown cardio session
immediately pre-workout is definitely
not the best idea for all of the reasons
that we've talked about so far once
again you're just creating unnecessary
systemic fatigue that's going to reduce
your ability to train your muscles with
true maximum effort if you want to do
post-workout cardio then that's
ultimately okay if you have the energy
for it but pre-workout is definitely not
the time for cardio if building muscle
is your primary goal all right and
lastly mistake number 15 is copying the
routines of enhanced bodybuilders now
just because someone is on peds doesn't
necessarily mean they don't know how to
train natural lifters but in a lot of
cases it honestly does there's a ton of
guys out there on youtube and social
media who are on gear with top
percentile genetics who will basically
build an awesome physique no matter how
they train and who quite honestly have
no idea what the hell they're talking
about and they go ahead and they post
these ultra high volume fluff and pump
flex magazine-esque routines that are
extremely sub-optimal for the average
natural lifter don't make the mistake of
thinking that just because someone is
huge and shredded that following their
routine is gonna get you the same
results because without the drugs and
the genetics at play it's just not gonna
happen and natural lifters do have to
play by a different set of rules if you
are looking to get a solid training plan
in place to make those legit natural
gains then make sure to visit
shawnell.com custom just fill out the
short form on that page and i'll send
you back a free step-by-step program
based on your current condition and
goals along with a nutrition plan as
well i'll link it up here and in the
description box down below on the
supplementation side of things you can
visit realscienceathletics.com
to check out my research-backed
clinically dosed formulas that i
personally created from scratch to
maximize your results and you can use
code youtube15 to save 15 off your first
order here are two more videos i'd
recommend watching now don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications to stay up to date on
future videos thanks for watching guys
and i will talk to you again soon