hey folks it's me dr mike israel for
renaissance periodization today's topic
is
well i guess you probably read the
thumbnail huh yeah look at you all smart
and well ahead of the game biceps growth
we want to create a biceps
specialization program to get the
biggest biceps of all time which as
scientists have researched thoroughly
increases happiness by a thousand
percent
how do we do that and first why
why would we want to specialize on
biceps why not just train them and grow
them normally you totally can train them
and grow them normally and they can grow
in concert with your other muscles you
know for every inch you gain on your
pecs you need half an inch on your
biceps or something that takes three or
four years by itself that's totally cool
you could however
want to grow your biceps more than the
rest of your body and there's two ways
to do that one is you train your body
normally and you train your biceps more
than
usual or with a really intense focus and
that can get you a little ahead of the
game what can happen there is you can be
training so much because you train the
rest of your body normal and your biceps
at a super super level you can really
impinge on your total recovery so
another way to do it is you retract a
little bit on your normal training maybe
taking your chest and your triceps and
putting them on maintenance volume
keeping everything else normal and
pushing your biceps into super volume
super intensity super focus super
specialization and that way you get the
most out of your biceps that you
possibly could
which one is best for you of those three
depends on what you want if your biceps
are looking great
and you like how they look compared to
all of the other muscles of your body
just train them normally if your biceps
you think could use a little bit more
work but you know that the rest of your
body isn't really pushing up against
your systemic recovery ability train
anything normally train your biceps in a
specialization way that we're going to
describe it's going to be all over here
and then if you really you want your
biceps much bigger than they currently
are and the rest of your muscles are
sort of already bigger than your biceps
your biceps are a lagging group like
they are for me for example then what
you want to do is take some of the rest
of your body put it on the back burner
take your biceps put them into
specialization mode and watch the gains
occur
when we say specialization what do we
mean if you say hey look i'm really
specializing on getting my biceps bigger
it doesn't count that you just after
your chest workout or your back workout
you do a couple extra set of curls
that's bullshit that's not a serious
attempt at improving your bicep size
especially if they're resistant to
growth you're going to have to do much
more what does that mean first you're
going to have to attend to specificity
you have to choose the best exercises
for your biceps the ones that really hit
your biceps well and stay the hell away
from hurting your joints not just
randomly doing bicep exercises really
thinking about them another one is
modalities things like drop sets giant
sets straight sets down sets you're
going to have to pick the ones that are
the best for your biceps here's an
example in many cases of people who have
biceps a little bit resistant to growth
straight sets of five to ten barbell
curls just aren't cutting it dry drop
sets my websites they work much better
give them a thought
basically have everything in front of
you as an option and pick which ones
which modalities and which exercises you
want to choose in order to get your
biceps the biggest because again we're
taking a serious approach to bicep
training rep ranges sometimes it's fun
to do sets of five to ten for the biceps
but sometimes it doesn't grow you all
that well
sets of 20 to 30 could be brutal but
could result in really good bicep growth
you have to choose the thing that works
the best not the thing you necessarily
feel like doing
another concept that we're going to take
into what makes a real specialization
program for biceps is prioritization and
here's where things start to get really
wacky
all of you or most of you have heard
probably your whole training life you
train compounds before isolations and
larger muscle groups before smaller ones
which means if you're training back and
biceps in one day you train your back
first with like pull-ups and rows and
then eventually some isolation work and
then your biceps last and biceps are
almost always trained with isolations so
that on both of them being not the big
muscle group and them being the
isolation versus compound they get put
last however if you train a muscle last
that means you're training it with the
most fatigue coming in
which means you're at least able to do
it it's like telling yourself you want
to write the best college application
paper possible but only ever sitting
down to write it after like 12 hours of
brutal work in your current job and
another eight hours of school before
that or something you're just not going
to write the best a college application
paper because you're tired it's the same
thing with muscles how would you write
the best college application paper you
get a ton of rest on saturday tons of
sleep tons of fun tons of food relax
tons of sleep um
so then friday night to saturday night
tons of sleep there rest all of saturday
saturday into sunday night tons of sleep
there wake up
warm up get your brain fresh and then
start going that's right you want to be
fresh for when you do something very
important if that doesn't make sense to
you
holy fuck
right
there's actually
i was in a little bit of a heated online
discussion back in the day with someone
who said that uh fasting made you
cognitively superior to having had food
and i was like okay fine if you are
going to take a really important
standardized test
do you go in fasted or do you have
something for breakfast
you never responded
so
same idea here
but here's where the wacky stuff happens
if you design let's say you have three
pull days including biceps maybe some
side and rear delts and some back in a
week
prioritization means that many of those
days you want to train
biceps first i didn't stutter that means
you go in and you do barbell curls and
then you do easy bar curls and then you
do underhand pull-ups or pull-downs or
something and then you do rows and then
you leave
but hold on dr mike won't us training
our biceps first really limit our back
training yes but you wanted to
prioritize biceps and we took you
seriously which is why prioritization
has been a thing that has been
implemented
if you say well hold on a sec but what
about my back you didn't say anything
about your back and remember it's really
easy to maintain your back even if you
train it after bicep just throw three or
four sets at every session your back
will never get smaller so you can
maintain your back exactly as big and
jacked as it is now by pushing your
biceps first putting your back second if
you really want to grow your back would
you want to train it second no you want
to train it first but that is priority
for backing up bison you guys see how
that works so even though
it turns into a really wacky looking
program she's someone doing a you know
you watch you know of course you always
watch other people at the gym i watch
them incessantly there's this one guy
i've been watching for years i've told
him i've been watching him but
one of these days i'll have the balls to
come up to him
yeah just give him a hug
what in any case you watch people do the
program you're like that guy did biceps
first and then back what an idiot
but if he's prioritizing biceps that
makes a lot of sense and it's wacky and
it's weird but it works
next frequency
all the time people say i want to get my
biceps bigger i train them once a week
motherfucker do your biceps take one
fucking week to recover are you out of
your fucking mind sorry for swearing jk
sorry not sorry which is the worst
worst quote ever the only people i've
ever seen use that quote seriously or
like sociopaths as far as i can tell in
any case i digress
people will say i want big biceps
they'll train them once a week that's
nonsense you want to train your biceps
at least two times a week but often
three or four times a week
for many weeks on end in order to really
drive that signaling home because biceps
are positioned and designed in your body
in such a way that they're not super
exposed to damage you're not able to
stretch them under load a ton which also
means they're resistant to growth
considerably but they're also resistant
to fatigue so you can do biceps three or
four times a week and not pay any
fucking price for it at all as a matter
of fact that's really good training
whereas if you try to do that for your
quads four times a week for quads and
you train quads hard you may fall apart
into a bunch of tiny little pieces and
then the investigators with the big
um lupa what the fuck is that called in
english uh magnifying glass will be like
ah he tried a leg workout too many times
that's what they're gonna find out about
you so all of these things using the
right stuff the right exercises the
right brain just the right modalities
putting biceps first often in a program
maybe second
okay so okay you do some underhand pull
ups first but then the next exercise is
biceps if you're serious about being
biceps you do them early
if you're really advanced and we're not
going to talk about this in this
presentation but you can actually split
your workouts up into am and pm workouts
and like pm or even am can just be
biceps and that is a really good way to
hit your shit you might not be so
dedicated so at least if you train once
a day train your biceps mostly first and
of course the frequency has to be higher
than one even two times a week usually
three or four is the golden ticket
if you want the extra extra
to really push your biceps ahead you
might want to reduce the amount of
training you're doing especially in
synergist groups what is a uh something
that uses biceps and synergist your back
training almost all pulling uses your
biceps that fatigues your biceps a
little bit it interferes with growth to
some extent in them if you're trying to
get them optimally if you really want
bigger biceps what i would do is i would
take your back put it on the back burner
lol back i said back twice that's why
it's funny so
maybe three or four sets each session
for back at the end of your bicep work
minimum interference that's probably the
best way to do it if you're really
serious about bicep
improvements at the expense of
everything else or rather improvements
for a while everything else comes up
later
all right so when you're constructing
your specialized bicep plan here a
couple of tips i have for you as to how
to do it correctly
three or four
bicep sessions per week as far as
frequency
ideally you train them right before back
in the same session
or the day after a very easy back
workout so that your biceps are fresh
they're not affected by the back workout
and it's a while until the next back
workout so your biceps have lots of time
to recover you don't want a situation in
which your biceps are either being
trained when they're tired or shortly
after they're trained they're being hit
hard again through synergist movements
once a muscle group has been hit it
should have at least one day hopefully
more to really really recover without
being asked to work hard again on
anything else
we'll talk about how to set up that
program just a little bit with an
example
exercises
heavy or challenging curls
can be the core of many good bicep
programs they don't have to be but it's
a really good idea to start if you've
never done it before nothing about
biceps there's actually a bunch of
angles with which to attack the biceps
from and a bunch of different modalities
and machines so i highly recommend using
those
it's not a thing where it's just like
okay name bicep exercises barbell curl
dumbbell curl
that's it there's cable curls there's
free motion cable curls there's one arm
cable curls there is incline dumbbell
work which stretches your biceps back
here it is actually fucking amazing tons
of different exercises i'm going to have
some examples for you there's a bunch of
examples on our other resources i'll
post later at the end of this video but
there's tons of exercises out there i
would use many of them because if you
just doing curls barbell curls and they
run their course and they no longer get
you much growth
it's not like that's the end of the road
there's lots of other stuff to use set
numbers as usual if you've been watching
along with the series for the past
several months
two to six sets per session for biceps
is where you can start
biceps they recover really fast so you
can start to increase that volume of
work as auto regulation demands
loading and wraps first thing whenever
you do your biceps if you do them on one
workout heavier work goes first because
you're fresh you can do heavy really
well fresh if you're tired you can still
burn out no big deal so higher reps are
totally fine when you're tired they're
not as good
when you are fresh you want to do
heavy work first so that's the first
thing second thing is
as far as rep ranges you know sometimes
we say like hamstrings really just
generally for most people do well with
low reps with biceps it's a really mixed
bag oftentimes higher reps work better
but really it's what's the best stimulus
to fatigue ratio for you if you find
that sets of 10 to 20 really nail the
shit out of your biceps and your elbows
feel great man you're going to be doing
a lot of sets of 10 to 20. if you find
at the same time that sets a 5 to 10
work okay but your bicep tendon feels
kind of weird and even your elbow hurts
a little because it's so heavy maybe
that's not the best thing
on the other hand sets of 20 to 30 for
biceps you may be like yeah i would get
a good bicep workout but it sets the 20
to 30 so many reps that my forearms get
a really big pump and then i quit the
set because the forearm pump not because
the bicep pump or the forearm burn not
because the bicep burn okay so maybe
that sets a 20 would be your best right
that kind of exploratory process to find
out where your best stimulus to fatigue
ratio are as far as rep range means
you'll bias
more of your training not most not all
but more of your training to that rep
range whichever one gets you the best
sfr
all right
progressing through your plan as usual
if you are able to do a certain volume
of work and recover very easily you can
add a set to that workout for next week
so if i do six sets of biceps this
monday by wednesday when i train biceps
again i am not sore at all i feel really
fucking strong and i actually felt
strong already the day after
next time instead of doing four or five
sets that i did last monday i can do
five or six sets on this next monday
reevaluate on wednesday and keep going
like that week after week after week the
goal is not to increase sets the goal is
to arrange the sets in such a manner
that you time your recovery almost
exactly to when you have to go again the
ideal workout for hypertrophy is one in
which it really fucks you up in the
moment and for a day or two after and
then right before your next workout is
scheduled you've recovered essentially
almost 100
you feel really strong you're not sore
anymore here's a real big tip though a
lot of people just don't get sore on the
biceps which is totally understandable
but you will have a sensation of am i
feeling really strong am i ready to
train biceps again of course that'll be
measured by your performance if your
performance starts to decline you
clearly were not recovered but there's
the thing where you might lean a little
bit less into the soreness as an
indicator for biceps and more into
the feel of how recovered you are as far
as strength so if monday you did eight
sets and wednesday you have to do biceps
again and you're like fuck man my biceps
aren't sore fuck they're tired bro
eight cents is probably too much next
week do six sets you do 6x next week on
monday on that wednesday you feel
fucking strong as hell you hit some
really good pr's
man you're really swimming in the in the
good stuff then and then you just do six
sets again the week after because that
seemed to be a good amount so that
through that auto regulation you get to
a number of sets with every session that
works really well to get you really hit
hard and get you recovered on time to
have another great bicep workout
reps in reserve
start up three reps in reserve or so
you know subtract one rep of the reserve
every time go a little harder add two
and a half to five pounds or add a rep
here and there as you're able to and
then go from two to three reps in
reserve next week is two then one rep
and reserve then zero reps in reserve
and then you deload something like that
right progressively make it a little bit
harder
i will say that a lot of people say well
look biceps they're an isolation
movement can't i just go to failure you
can go to failure if you're into that
sort of thing you have to understand you
are just pleasing yourself
psychologically at that point
being able to go to failure and failure
being the best idea or two different
concepts i would still say that in most
cases two or three reps in reserve at
the beginning lets you get a really good
inroad on some momentum to do amazing
things with your bicep training weeks
later if you go to failure right away
you limit how much volume you can do and
probably how much growth you can do the
research on failure training is pretty
clear by now going all the way to
failure in a in a longer program is
unsustainable and it's just not the best
idea in the world for growth
starting a little bit shy of failure is
probably better even if you feel like
well see it's not that much systemic
fatigue i really can crush this set and
go all the way to failure
what you can do and what you should do
are two different things two different
things and you might not necessarily
want to just do what you can get away
with
all right what does this look like as
far as a sample plan
i'm gonna throw some shit at you this is
a really intense session or an intense
plan
uh it's a lot of stuff and you could do
much less than this and grow i just
wanted to show you guys i want to show
off a little bit this is like the last
resort if your biceps won't grow so
monday we do straight bar bicep curls
incline dumbbell curls two different
angles of attack there two sets for each
heavy first lighter after everything
screw ups in reserve
tuesday behind the body free motion
cable curls it's when you have a free
motion machine your cable curl you put
them here and you curl like this we have
plenty of videos of that and it's a
great exercise so you're going to do
straight sets heavy and then you're
going to switch to my reps much lighter
that's a shitload of work good thing is
you stay on the same machine you don't
have to trade out and go find machines
in your gym to use and someone's taking
it and also you just get in get your
mind right get all the work done and
leave that's really sweet
thursday's similar you do incline
dumbbell curls on thursday
again heavy and then maya reps after
fries the shit out of you saturday you
start with easy bar curls again heavy
and then you do supinating cable curls
with the rope which means you grab the
rope at the top ends and as you curl up
you push your pinkies into the sky and
then back down and pacing the sky uh the
biceps is involved in supination so
that's a pretty good movement not a
heavy hardcore movement that's going to
get you a ton of growth as a meat and
potatoes first movement but good news we
already did easy bar curls and all
through the rest of that other week we
did tons of other really effective
movements so that would be week one
notice mostly everything is for two sets
at the end
a final pre-deload week would look like
things are mostly for four or three sets
per exercise and everything is now at
zero reps in reserve that's going to be
really intense of course you're going to
be using a little bit more load by this
point a few more reps added to each set
that really fries you up deload wash out
get rid of the fatigue repeat
and feel free to pause this video at any
time and copy this down and use it as
your own program for free you're welcome
now
another question last question is how
long do i specialize for how long do i
have to beat the shit out of my biceps
for them to make the progress i want
it's definitely not a week and it's
definitely not two weeks i would
recommend at least one mesocycle four to
six weeks including a deload to see any
kind of measurable noticeable
improvements
ideally ideally i would recommend an
entire block of training which means
three mesocycles like four to six weeks
four to six weeks four or six weeks all
stacked one on top of the other one
after another and all of them focused on
biceps biceps biceps maybe
two sessions of biceps per week in the
first one
three sessions biceps per week on the
second one four or five in the third one
lots of heavy work early then more
moderate rep work in the middle of
mesocycle and the last mile cycle of the
block focusing more on drop sets and
super high rep work saving the joints a
little bit because they're already
pretty creaky from all that work after
that you do two weeks of active rest or
four weeks of low volume maintenance
work re-sensitizing the muscle to
further gains and then you can either do
any other routine you want or again come
into another block through mesocycles of
high
specialization on the biceps right
no wrong answers here just make sure
that after three mesocycles of bicep
work you do an active rest or a low
volume phase where you back away on
almost everything and let all that
bullshit heal up so you can hit it hard
again and if you just want to keep doing
bicep specialization phases for a long
time all right eventually you're going
to have uh that's going to say big
biceps that's not true because
genetically you could be unable to do
that
much bigger biceps than you first
started out with
lastly
we got some other resources for you
exercise video library by the way these
are all below uh in the uh in the
description exercise video library if
you don't know what uh you know you're
like okay i know some exercises for the
bicep but i don't know that many where
the fuck do i look these up and also i
just want to name of an exercise i want
an actual video and description of the
technique boom you got it for free right
in the uh in the description below
muscle group training guide we have
broken down every muscle group including
the biceps into like a multi-page super
detailed document of sets and reps and
exercises and modalities and variation
and periodization if you want to really
nerd out that's for free that's also in
description
we have hypertrophy made simple video
series if all the stuff is like a little
new to you like sfr stimulus to fatigue
what the fuck does that mean no worries
hypertrophy made simple videos we got
them in it's like 16 videos and each
one's like 8 minutes long and they
really hook you up with the basic
concepts to really understand what
you're doing come back to this it'll
make a whole lot more sense and you can
get a good program going
for not free we have a hypertrophy book
scientific principles of our perturbate
training
we recommend all the stuff and if you're
a little bit nerdier and a little bit
more skeptical you could say why the
fuck are they structuring their shit
like this and not like that
and the reason is all kinds of really
good reasons described in the book books
say zero percent bullshit 100
straight facts son finally i could i
could see that i really like it when uh
people respond to nonsense by just going
like facts because you don't have to say
you agree with it you just say facts
ironically and just people maybe either
keep ranting or shut up in any case
there's lots of facts in that book you
might enjoy it it's not free but it's
pretty cheap and then
if all this stuff seems really good for
you
but you've never really built your own
plan before you've built your own plan
but you're kind of like i don't know man
i don't know if i'm really good at
building plans
we at renaissance position have set you
up with a program you just go on our
website click right on the link below
and it takes you to build a custom plan
of your own so you just put biceps on
specialization there's literally a
button that says specialization for
biceps you pick however many days you
want a week pick all the other muscle
groups you're training
it sends you a workout
you pick all the exercises that you want
as your favorites it takes care and you
put in your 10 rms it takes care of all
the loading it just tells you what to do
every single fucking week it also has a
rating scale based on how your soreness
and your pump are going you can increase
your decrease how many sets you're doing
in the future weeks so all you got to do
is rate the workouts accurately and the
workouts program themselves just for you
amazing
and at the end of the day it works
really sweet it's like 100 bucks the
program you get is six weeks long but
the thing is you can reuse that program
with different exercises for as long as
you want so at the very least you can
use it for an entire block of training
which might be 18 weeks long for 18
weeks 100 program yeah that's not that
bad and you could reuse it a year later
and fuck man you're still same program
no need to pay us once i get the hundred
dollars i get about 50 cents out of that
the rest goes to mr nick shaw because
these butlers are very expensive and 50
cents of that 45 cents goes to my
lamborghini fund five cents goes to the
butler fund the butler's drive-by
lamborghini's take care of them
lamborghinis are very finicky creatures
they need lots of care they live in a
lamborghini terrarium
also on my grounds like when you get
rich enough you say grounds instead of
property property's something poor
people say about ownership
uh what was i saying in any case
yeah we got it all you know what i'm
saying and if you have any questions
drop them in the comments below i'll try
to get to those questions
and if you want to join our members
community that shit is also down there
click join tons of other nerd stuff tons
of other insight
full workouts uh vlog style with me
narrating them live while i do them uh
in our little gym here lots of good
stuff there if you want to do that and
at the very least like and subscribe
because other youtube influencers that
are more important than me they say
things like like and subscribe not
entirely sure why they say them but uh i
want to be more famous god damn it
because fame equals money equals
lamborghinis you guys know the drill
i'll see you next time