oh that was terrible what was that do
another rep fix
it now slow now slow
[Music]
slow folks what up I'm Dr Mike for
Renaissance
periodization this is Jared feather ifbb
Pro also for RP
now comic book fans May recognize and
realize that one of the robins was a
gentle woman named
Carrie gentle woman which which she was
a girl yeah and so Carrie Kelly was one
of the robins and we tried to get her
booked in for a training session she was
busy fighting crime so we got the next
best thing her half brother Casey Kelly
he's 21 years old which is just above my
cut off of people I Willow understand
physically Max to and uh you know he's
going on on his own his sister did all
the superhero stuff but he's like I'm
going to fight crime too but he's doing
it the dirty way he's just going to get
strong and jacked and just beat people
up and if those people happen to be
criminals great crime solved if they're
not sorry uh talk to my lawyers so in
any case we're training back and we're
training back 1,000% Natty is that
correct 1,00% he so Natty that right now
Jared and I could pass a drug test
standing this close to him usually
that's not the case
and also we're training at tortur gym in
Las Vegas Nevada which has probably the
best back pieces that I've ever used in
my life so you guys are going to see how
they look the force curve on all these
pieces of equipment are amazing so
you're going to have some fun I'm
excited you're have fun I'm EXC
definitely a place to check out folks
let's get your training some
back all right folks two things first
slang is the beginning of moral
degenerous do you know what a gat is G
big booty oh no way Bo you got a G oh I
keep that on my shit all the time why
just thought people were saying godamn
no if if it's just Gat it means ass is
in your ass is in it and it's huge what
the fuck is going on with the world
educating the older F this is great
excuse me ma'am ma'am yes hello Dr Mike
from YouTube cool so uh you have a gat
and uh oh that means she likes
me second
we're going to do first just pull-ups
but we don't just start doing
pull-ups Casey weigh is 190 lbs if you
bench 190 lbs for reps you don't simply
start benching 190 lbs this a beginning
of your workout so when people say oh I
like to warm up with pull-ups it's
nonsense pull-ups are an overloading
exercise when done properly and today
they will be so what Casey's going to do
first is warm up on assisted pull-ups
probably a set of 12 a set of eight a
set of four with progressively higher
and higher weights then we're going to
get him on the pull-up do you know a set
of one or two reps just to feel it out
everything's going to feel good then
we'll do work sets probably three work
sets on pull-ups and then on to our next
exercise uh I'll wrap about HS later uh
no doubt have some py things to say
how's that for slay more control good
enough cool rest very good that was it
you don't have to pause at the top okay
but the second you begin that shift down
control yeah it's basically like as soon
as you hit the top the queue is engage
that e Centric okay you don't want any
time when you're descending where your
lats are like eh yeah what's a good
analogy here Scott the video guy yeah
before that joke was going to get us
canceled I had a good one lined up Scott
[Music]
but there you go
gorgeous bigger stretch last one here
big stret big stret big stretch huge
huge huge up oh he's got more yeah I got
way more than that let's Go's go
hell yeah couple more Big
Stretch go go go you go slow slow that's
it rack JK oh shit he's got superpowers
I forgot slow the hell was that yeah
that was that was Flawless into the end
and then you let it go that's like you
save a bitch and then her hand slips out
and she's down like falling off a
skyscraper now so I guess you could
technically be my grandson then if Jared
was your father you're 21 Jared 31
it's magical two nyear differences why
does it just get more and more
attractive what do you
mean I'm I'm sorry catch you guys in the
next YouTube
video all the way down the Bott big sh
push his head forward there it
[Music]
is Big Stretch oh here we go
finish finish finish and then control
control hang out at the bottom for a
second hang out hang out hang out wck oh
man that was so
good that was great that was really good
thank you let me ask you another
question yeah let's say that I have no
fashion sense okay just pretend that for
a second and Jared doesn't either um I
want a bran to wear that reflects my
location and my style and my demographic
what do you mean by location I live in
the Los Angeles metropolitan area and
I'm not that old to be honest is there
any like is there any kind outfits that
I could wear that are kind of like I
wonder I think Scott the video guy's got
the answer for you oh yeah he's got the
answer right
sellout
so that better make the video young like
go out there and buy Young LA and uh
you'll be fashionable and all of a
sudden you might start getting La no
promises but uh I put on the shorts once
and I could barely get out of the club
because women were clawing at my
genitals I was afraid for my life I took
the shorts off immediately my peole
officer showed up he said you can't take
your shorts off at the club again and
then he woke up and then he woke up yeah
assisted pull-ups why do them if you are
strong like Casey and can do more than
five pull-ups in a row a couple reasons
one after pull-ups you're already warmed
up for that movement so well you don't
even need to do a warm-up set that saves
a lot of time two you can get more
volume I mean after a while pull-ups
you're doing sets of four and three and
there's just not a lot of stimulus it's
cool but it's not as much as sets of
eight or 10 or something so you get more
work that way more high quality work
when you're no longer strong enough with
your own uh body because you're so
fatigued and lastly assisted pull-ups
especially with some lighter weight can
allow you to really focus on that mind
muscle connection and a weight pull-ups
really aren't ideal for because pull-ups
are kind of a raw High raw stimulus
magnitude exercise you just pull bro now
of course there's technique but it's a
lot of just oomph with the assistant
pull-ups you can really milk that
Centric you can really crunch your
scapula back at the top all really
really good things those are three
advantages to assisted pull-ups you
might not get with regular pull-ups me
personally the time in the week that I
like to do assisted pull-ups is
literally just after the set of weighted
or body weight pull-ups is over last set
is over I go in and I start multiple
working sets of assistant pull-ups the
lat pump once got so big they thought it
was an eclipse of the Sun but it was
just your boy's lats I'm out here every
day getting jacked what are you doing
with your life probably better things uh
let's go do
[Music]
pull-ups slow very
good that was terrible what was that do
another rep want do another rep fix
it now slow now slow slow slow Big
Stretch W there you
go dude that was awesome thanks man you
could have had a hissy fit and just left
the gym but you didn't but I didn't you
finished the rep you know what people
say they have no more faith in American
Youth that we're all going down the
drain had to say something almost
categorically young people today are
just better than young people before
when I was young I was a total piece of
shit this kid's got it all man the
future looks bright advertising on top
of advertising oh my godp ading are you
Natty holy shit son look at that back
God o young people so Supple in the FR
that is a nice tank I won lie thanks
it's like a wife stretchy yeah they're
called the wife lovers of course they
are you're kidding I'm dead serious yes
young L C
Casey godamn it all right we got three
sets of pull-ups in three sets of
assistant pull-ups that's six hard sets
with a vast majority of the back but we
are missing the rhomboids middle and
upper traps and just a bit of the upper
back in general for that we're going to
go to a machine we are going to do a
machine row this is kind of a really
neat row machine Jared who makes this
thing new tech new tech new tech never
heard of the company apparently it's
just awesome and so the handles here
actually rotate they start kind of
pointing in they rotate to pointing out
apparently that's what the cool kids are
doing um going to get a big stretch here
really milk that Ecentric full stretch
and then as he is retracting he's going
to focus on arching his chest up really
crunching everything back there and then
coming back down look for those cues
sets of 10 to 15 reps three sets maybe
four let's get it done gorgeous keep
going big chest at the
bottom
big chest big chest big chest big chest
there
yes good shit good stuff
[Music]
man there it
is good more
bigger stretch big chest deep stretch
there it
is finish finish elbows full Casey now
control full
control good
job damn dude that was nuts thanks yeah
your back's nice and pumped yeah very
good very pumped that makes
sense so Mr Casey because he is a
superhero that fights crime was like uh
Mike listen Jared Jared take your
headphones out hear me out we're like
yeah what he's like uh in my crime
fighting duties I often have to do this
like thing where like yeah karate chop
people behind me and so I like I just
don't understand what you're getting at
he's like I had to do a rear Del
movement and then so Jared and I were
like yeah fuck it why not yeah we don't
do them on the channel ever we do them
on the channel You' be the first person
to do rear anything really maybe all
right folks last exercise of the day is
for rear delts and it is the barbell B
over face pull you are pulling it's
regular any face pull that pulls through
the face but it's bent over and with a
barbell this time we're using the little
sort of free motion barbell setup this
is an exercise that has uh not such an
amazing stimulus to fatigue ratio
because it requires your postural
anti-gravity muscles to be fully engaged
when you're doing it if you're doing it
on a cable those muscles are generally
just not working at all and you can just
hit the rear delts but for variation and
if you train at home and have limited
equipment this is an excellent exercise
for the rear is it the best n probably
not for a few reasons one it doesn't
really stretch you a ton it doesn't load
the lengthen position more heavily than
the top position uh and it also is very
systemically fatiguing relative to its
stimulus but if you have Lun equipment
or if you just want a variation if you
are younger if you are lighter if you
don't generate a ton of systemic fatigue
and you want that hardcore raw stimulus
this is a great exercise to try give it
some give it some thought here you know
you're probably anything less than 10
reps is probably kind of a waste of time
as far as like you just your joints will
feel it so you want higher reps here
maybe 10 to 15 even 15 to 30 repetitions
can be awesome on this movement give it
a shot we're going to do two sets here
that'll be the workout and uh after that
I'm sure I'll have something clever to
say to get us out or I'll Say Nothing At
All YouTube channel will start to slip
down in rankings and we won't be famous
anymore my Lamborghinis
will no now that no that can't happen
that can't happen let's go
train
[Music]
TI low her back TI low her
back go that's it that's it that's
[Music]
it one
more
gorgeous
the face pull barbell face pull is
really tough exercise in which to gauge
reps in reserve because you can get the
weight up to your face but these little
tiny gyration these little tiny body
movements they kind of get in there and
at some point you think you're at
failure you can do five more reps but
just like Body English my best advice to
you on this is two things one stick with
excellent technique and two if you think
you have another rep of good technique
really lock your mind in for good
technique and if if it doesn't move it's
over but if it moves there's another rep
so technique first then intensity you
don't want to have this thing where
you're like well I get a little less
technical I get more reps well you're
not doing reps on mother you're just
mooving the weight around wait another
you know minute or two do another set of
also high quality reps so try that your
best technique If It Moves amazing keep
going if it doesn't then the set is over
sometimes it's just anticlimactic like
that all right that was back and rear
delts Casey how are you feeling
fantastic excellent fantastic excellent
uh I think you did really well technique
was as do they still say on point yeah
but not as not as often thank God thank
God is there another euphemism for on
point I don't I don't think so okay yo
dog your techniques like straight hella
stack yo stack stacked up like pancake
dog Casey huge honor having you on the
channel you very much folks this
gentleman has a Channel of his own what
is your channel called it's just my name
it's just Casey Kelly you should find it
on YouTube classic American Channel just
young boys lifting weights sweating
groaning uh uh you know whatever kind of
stuff you're into usual that's on the
channel and uh like subscribe go find
out his stuff great and uh just uh yeah
and and and honestly just today go out
of the world uh and just just breathe in
the air life is so smell the roses smell
the roses don't smell your neighbor's
roses without his consent otherwise
you're getting shot to death see you
guys next
[Music]
[Music]
time