all right what's going on guys so in
this video I'm going to lay out four
steps for getting your gains back after
a layoff so you can rebuild all the
muscle and strength you lost as quickly
as possible without setting yourself up
for injury or overtraining and as I go
through here I'm going to overlay some
clips from my garage workouts this week
I haven't personally gotten back to the
gym and I'll probably be sticking to
Garage workouts for another little while
yet so I found that after a training
break most people just don't want to
hear the standard slow and steady advice
you want to know how do I get my gains
back quickly and I don't want it to take
another year before I'm back to where I
left off I think that's understandable
and I don't think there's necessarily
anything wrong with thinking that way as
long as you set up the comeback plan in
a structured intelligent way so let's
think about exactly how to do that well
you don't want to waste any time so
you'll want to Jack your volume all the
way up to what you were doing before if
you were doing 20 sets per week you'll
want to just pick right back up there
you're also going to want to train
really hard right away too I guess
shock your system into growth so you're
going to want to take most sets all the
way to failure so unfortunately this is
the way most people probably will
approach their training after a break
but it's almost guaranteed to fail
because it only considers one side of
the muscle building equation it only
considers the stimulus side without any
consideration of recovery
remember in order to build size and
strength we need to present a stimulus
in our case lifting weights to cause
some amount of stress and then it's the
recovery from that stress that induces a
positive adaptation you get more jacked
but the problem is when the stimulus
gets too high too fast overwhelming your
ability to recover to the point that you
end up making slower gains despite doing
more work and working harder so if we
want to get our gains back as quickly as
possible even though it may be tempting
we can't just crank the stimulus side to
the max we need to find a perfect
balance of stimulus and recovery to
maximize positive adaptation and as well
see that's a trickier balance to strike
after a training break because your
ability to recover has taken a
significant hit okay so let's lay out
the four comeback principles first this
is one of those rare times that you
can't expect to grow like a new lifter
again
than taking steroids which I don't
recommend the only other way to
experience newbie gains twice is to stop
lifting for a while and then start again
this is because of the very powerful
muscle memory effect that I talked about
in my last video research repeatedly
shows that it's much easier to rebuild
lost muscle than it is to build new
muscle from scratch so in this sense you
might even consider yourself more
supercharged than a newbie depending on
just how much muscle you lost but I
would say it actually starts before you
even walk through the gym doors it's
absolutely imperative that you have a
structured comeback plan written down
before you set foot in the gym if you
want to get your gains back as fast as
possible and that's because if you just
freestyle it you will be very tempted to
overdo it
and as a result to throw off that
delicate balance between stimulus and
recovery so I decided to make a free
four-week bridge program for you guys
that covers all the come back principles
in this video it's designed to get you
from doing either no training or high
rep bodyweight workouts back to standard
progressive training in two to four
weeks depending on how long your break
was so you can use that as your plan or
you can start with a blank sheet of
paper and do up your own strategy based
on these four principles
okay the second comeback principle is
that you need to expect to have lost
some strength if you took more than two
or three weeks off chances are you're
gonna be a bit weaker than the more time
you took off the more strength you'll
have lost now because strength is a
skill you can think of it like playing a
sport so if you take months off shooting
hoops chances are your stroke is going
to look and feel a little off the first
time you touch a ball again and the same
thing goes for lifting heavy weights in
the gym so you really need to check your
ego and adjust your expectations to set
wherever you are now as your new
starting place forget your old numbers
they do not matter anymore and start
keeping a log of the weights you lift in
those first few weeks and you'll quickly
start seeing those numbers increase
rapidly again now when it comes to
strength regain as a general rule you
can probably expect it to take about
half the time you took off to get most
of it back so if you took two months off
it might take about one month to get
your strength back assuming you do
everything right if you took six months
off you might need up to three months to
build it back but good programming or
genetic blessings can make that process
even faster and the half the time rule
only works for breaks on the scale of
months
years so the rule probably starts to
break down if your layoff was longer
than six months or so okay so after
getting your expectations in check you
need to choose what exercises you're
going to focus on the main thing here is
finding movements that won't get you too
sore this is extremely important because
soreness is the devil on a comeback
program it doesn't do anything extra for
hypertrophy and it just reduces your
ability to perform and recover you're
probably gonna get some watts or simply
by just training again and that's okay
but your goal should be to minimize it
by prioritizing exercises that cause
less muscle damage
this means that exercises that load in a
highly stretched position like walking
lunges and Romanian deadlifts should be
completely eliminated from the comeback
program that's not because they're
inherently more dangerous but simply
because other exercises can stimulate
the glutes and hamstrings equally well
without the same recovery cost at a time
when your recovery is already low so to
borrow a term from dr. mike is or tell
we want to prioritize exercises that
have a high stimulus to fatigue ratio in
other words focus on movements you can
feel working the muscle well without
also having you feel completely wrecked
and sore for several days after and with
a bit of forethought you can probably
come up with a list of exercises that
fit these criteria for you now this also
means that cables and machines are your
best friends right now because they tend
to be lower impact and less damaging
than their free weight counterparts now
of course you still want to do a free
weight exercises so don't shy away from
doing squats deadlifts and presses just
reintroduce they're loading more
gradually and while compound movements
pack a high stimulus they also pack a
high fatigue so we need to be more
careful with them at first as well now
see in the fourth principle okay so
after deciding the types of exercises we
want to focus on we need to set up the
retraining parameters to fit the
comeback plan just right because we
shouldn't just jump into whatever
program we were doing before we need to
build a bridge to get there and we can
divide that bridge up into an intro
phase lasting one or two weeks into
transition phase also lasting one or two
weeks so in total the bridge should take
you two to four weeks where the longer
the break you took from the gym the
longer the bridge you'll need now let's
start with the intro side the main goal
here is to work on the neural aspect of
lifting so you're mostly just reteaching
your body in your brain to work together
again this means that for compound
exercises like squat
deadlifts and presses you want to focus
exclusively on mastering good technique
through the use of very light loads when
it comes to intensity we have two dials
one for compound lifts and the other for
isolation exercises for the compound
lifts everything should be at an RPE of
5 or lower for the intro phase meaning
you want to be leaving at least 5 reps
in the tank so to give you something
more tangible you want to be somewhere
in the range of 50 to 60 percent of your
old one rep max 4 sets with moderate
reps so something around 4 to 6 reps so
if your benchpress 1 rep max was 275
pounds before your two-month break
you'll want to start your intro week
with 50 to 60% of that so just 135 to
165 pounds for 2 sets of 5 now that may
seem laughably light but remember you
really don't need heavy loads to rebuild
strength and size at all new lifters and
by extension & D trained lifters don't
need to go very close to failure to grow
in fact a recent mass research review
covered a study where a group training 7
to 8 reps shy of failure so at an RP of
2 or 3 still saw similar growth to a
group going all the way to failure
across eight weeks and while this
approach certainly wouldn't be optimal
for maximizing growth over the long term
it does show that you will still make
solid progress leaving upwards of 5 reps
in the tank after your training break
now keep in mind that pretty much all of
your initial strength regain is going to
come from your nervous system relearning
the movement pattern so using very light
weight is actually very helpful or as
jumping right back into heavy weight
could be actively harmful as your joints
soft tissues and nervous system aren't
accustomed to heavy loading yet now for
the isolation exercises I think we can
be a little more liberal and crank the
RPE up to a 7 or an 8 but I still
recommend avoiding failure instead you
want to use isolation exercises strictly
for establishing a strong mind muscle
connection and getting acquainted with
what it feels like to get a good pump
again now when it comes to the volume
dial I don't think we need to be quite
as restrictive I personally think it's
okay for most people to start with
something around 7 to 10 sets per body
part per week especially if you were
doing bodyweight workouts or some other
physical activity during your break now
this is the exact volume range
Schoenfeld and gergich gave in their
2017 paper outlining an intro phase for
a one-year period ization scheme so
there's no need to go ultra low on
but I still don't recommend jumping
right back to where your pre break
volume was so if you're doing say three
or four sets per exercise before you'd
still want to knock that down to two or
three sets now and then for frequency I
think hitting each muscle twice per week
is the sweet spot only turning the dial
to once a week won't be enough to
rebuild strength quickly because you
won't be getting in enough lifting
practice from motor learning and then
frequencies higher than two or maybe
three can also be an issue at first
because you probably won't be able to
recover fast enough between those
sessions until the repeated bout effect
ramps up so for the bridge I recommend
running either a push-pull leg split on
six days per week or an upper lower
split done four days per week this way
you hit each muscle twice a week with at
least a few days of recovery in between
and my bridge program I include both
options depending on your availability
to train okay so that's the intro side
of the bridge now let's take a look at
the transition side this one's a bit
easier basic idea here is to just
gradually start adding stuff at this
point we can start turning the dials up
as we gradually load more heavily so we
can turn the intensity up on the
compound list to an RPE of six or seven
by increasing the weight on the bar and
we can turn up the intensity on
isolation exercises to an RP of eight or
nine as long as soreness is decreasing
and recovery is improving now for volume
as long as you find yourself recovering
well you can start to slowly increase
the number of sets so if you're doing
two sets per exercise for the intro
phase you can increase that to three
sets per exercise especially for
exercises you want to put more emphasis
on okay so after the transition phase
you've officially bridged yourself to a
point where you can start training
normally again using the progression
methods appropriate for your level of
advancement so for most of you you
should be able to continue making great
progress just using a simple linear
progression for at least to the next
month or two from here this means you
can add some weight increment say five
to twenty pounds from week to week
without needing to vary the rep ranges
just simple progressions should be
enough to get you making size and
strength gains until you hit a plateau
and at that point you're gonna need to
start methodically tweaking variables
like volume intensity frequency and
exercise selection to keep driving the
progress forward alright so like I said
guys you can pick up my new four-week
bridge program over on Geoff nipper comm
for free also part two of this video on
how to set up your nutrition after a
training break is on the way next so
don't forget to subscribe so you don't
miss that one also there's a full blog
article covering the sign to
details I covered in this video over on
my website if you guys would like to
check that out don't forget to leave me
a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video and
I'll see you guys all here
[Music]
[Music]