that is really beautiful is in your
Canadian contraband
because we're on our way to Vancouver
what about the Kendrick Lamar Travis
Scott Adrian and that's tomorrow it is
Tim Hortons breakfast sandwich my
favorite thing it's important red zeldin
muffin and if you break it open cream
cheese filling early bulking so I'm
still sorting to the leading but trying
to make sure that I mean somewhat of a
net surplus super natty yes like a
Hoover goddammit the lab evasions Devin
I was literally just watch it right
there and that's right there that's the
first one to tell my mom about to the
gym right now we got miso soup at the
starter is Italian
I feel like that's all that it I don't
even know if you can get a grasp of how
small this is it's like the same girth
as a roller sushi I think that actually
does hydration is clearly not their
number-one priority
hey a bunch of sushi edamame ik for the
protein stamina Gary again just got to
our Airbnb here in Vancouver incredible
locations downtown Vancouver and then
the place itself is pretty sweet
bedrooms thank you here couch lucky I
agree holy [ __ ] there's a little deck
over here the Rogers Arena is like just
right over there just had some sushi and
now I think we're going to just like
take a little nap and then have some
pre-workout and then go to the gym
[Applause]
definitely just got back from the Asian
market there's like a Yankee Asian
market here some Vancouver that might
bring about my first time in like
Chinatown Vancouver that wasn't we're in
Chinatown yeah especially Asian food I
think so this is a Canadian flavor of
Benin Jerry's based off of the Barenaked
Ladies Hong which are a Canadian group
so I don't think they have it in
facebook I've never seen it but over
some sungold TVs of course one or two of
these every day you know for the serious
quick little pre-workout meal that
actually shot Subway sandwich okay so
I'm Asian right this is dried squid I
ate this growing up a lot it's like
similar to eating like beef jerky I also
got nori which is actually really really
delicious which is like steamed start
seaweed like cheese or 'only cheese
depending on how you fit if you like
these I'm sure you you know like the
rarity of finding them
I'm really glad they're a fruit by the
way oh yeah and I'll forgot you go oh it
looks like this look at all that meat
cheese a lychee Oh beachie you peel it
you don't eat the shell yeah the inside
kind of looks like if you were to peel
it great yeah
tastes like that very mild pearled onion
there's a pit on the outside so don't
eat it all the way so then like the kind
of great rah I'm sure it weird pretty
good though it does pay for the grape I
don't think I'm gonna try the shrimp
squid that's proper white people get a
pre-workout situation Jeanette from the
store here that cooler favor and some
nice flavor I'm just waiting for my
friend Pat to get here he actually came
to Vancouver this weekend to go to the
concert with us so we're gonna go hit a
chest and shoulder workout got some
Asian Asian treats over here man right
up your alley alright very good
it's high protein man black role about 8
grams protein and only three cards
that's actually good some chicken you
want some chicken I'm sure each new
chief we need Ichi yeah what's going on
so we're here at the Steve Nash sports
club downtown Vancouver Patton I are
gonna get chest and shoulder workout
today I just did some basic warm-up
drill is just like arm swing arm circles
and some external rotations we're going
to jump into benchpress I'm following
Pat's workout today the last Kim what
we're doing I'll check back in and kind
of take you guys through the workout
sort of raw as we go through okay let's
do that high-volume let's do the four
sets of ten okay so you've got four sets
ten on the bench so I think I'm going to
go with like 225 and want to kind of
Auto regulated try to be coming on that
like rpu eight to nine range just go
from there so there's gonna be the first
one off set and after that I'm going to
do one or two more warm-up sets and then
get started with they're working late
man
that's good man how many you can depend
see how those and it's too easy
I'll go a bit it's too hard I'll come
down again my three list offices yep one
two three food Oh
[Music]
there's a little bit late I'll probably
go out like I probably go through like
245 for the next 3 p.m. what are you
going up to 75 I let you run my my bench
program he passed me on developing with
much any yeah haven't been businesses
and so that lets go and rest easy to
let's go three go more five six seven
eight two more are you nine are you go
where you go Paul
so yeah I'm going to rest for like three
minutes or so and then I'm going to hit
this fix that number to Josh about the
2:45 we go for 10 reps there we go I big
Lewis off not very screwed
[Music]
I'm going to be there for the other to
touch come on come on
going for 12 at least if I got more
coming it morning got three more one two
three
so I provide pressure three sets of
machine press I'm technically like not
labeled as an incline press but it does
have like a slight incline to it if you
just think about contracting with your
upper pecs rather than just like
straight out or driving up so like come
here I want to think about pressing
publish and it will kind of turn your
upper pecs a little bit more if you're
you locked in within a team you don't
have the same freedom in some well it's
also not like quite as much of a demand
on your joint so give me like four sets
of bench press going into a dumbbell
press after that can be fairly difficult
like centrally and just like on the
shoulder joint as I do like to follow it
up with a little bit more upper chest
specific work and I'll do that on
machine three sets of ten to twelve reps
there and then on the last one I kind of
took it to failure and use a couple
course reps courtesy obsessed you've got
to do our own work of us thank you that
slightly higher rescue later week
[Music]
I
after those two presses I want to do a
vertical press just to get a little bit
more side delt involved so those two
pressing moments from be very anterior
delt dominant I found with the Arnold
press I get a crazy pump in my lateral
delts and also doing them standing has
been shown in some EMG data to elicit
more activation of the lateral delt
relative to the front so this is my
follow-up to those two pressing
movements just going to do a couple sets
slightly higher up so we're gonna do
three sets of ten to twelve reps tricep
press down who we've obviously already
got a good yield tricep carryover work
from all the press income but just
isolate them some kind of press down or
overhead extension because they're going
to target different heads of the triceps
this ones are getting more outer cross
it's like the horseshoe shape outer is
anatomically correct select lateral
heads in my neck push work out I'll
probably swap these for an overhead
tricep cable extension or something like
that probably three sets of ten to
twelve there's actually my second set
Oh
thirteen so I have a whole stack and
sometimes it'll still be a bit like
light for the reference that I'm doing
so I'm doing 10 to 12 reps and I get to
12 and I'm still you know feel like I
have a two more reps
I'll go until I get around to that like
RFU zone so like even if I have to do 13
or 14 reps I'm not like wedded to a
specific rep range am i training
especially when training was more of
like an intuitive style where my
progression is more so just try to add
where you can okay just finished up a
tricep press down we're going to finish
off with a superset so in this case a
pseudo separated superset so it's
technically still the shoulder so we're
going to train in lateral delts with the
trusted Egyptian lateral raise by the
way seeing this exercise all over
everything since Islam showed it to me
and Egypt we haven't seen it put the
cable between your legs sort of lean
away like this and then do a lateral
raise as normal it's a lot easier than
going behind your back because your butt
doesn't get in the way and I like it
better than going out front because the
plane is more in line with the lateral
delt fibers we're going to do three sets
here in two percent and with a bent over
rear delt fly highly
that's my by here in it
[Music]
so ash give me a warm-up sets of 15 here
and then 15 here and the reason I throw
in rear delt work on my push day it's
just for postural support it's fine if
you do your rear delt work on a bad day
or a full day but I like to be a little
bit more proactive about it I don't want
to have too much of a roll forward
adherence generally I will have a one to
one ratio of cooling to pushing just not
always on the same day I find throwing
in a bit of extra rear delt work on your
push days it's a good way to sort of
prophylactically correct for that your
shoulders look crazy with the bent over
reverse fly or rear delt fly whatever
you want to call it there are two hand
positions you can take well they're an
infinite number of axial positions you
could take with two common ones one is a
neutral hand position so you're going to
fly out like this the other one is a
pronated position - your hands are
facing down and slide like this I find
that one to be a little bit tougher
interestingly with the protec deck
exercise and this is covered in my
shoulder science explained video if you
take a neutral hand position it actually
shows higher rear delt EMG activity than
a pronated hand position which to me is
counterintuitive because with the palm
down you have the rear delt more into
the direction of the line of pole but
the data is what it is EMV data aside I
think biomechanically and just the way
that I feel it personally
the pronated grip commonsensical II
should lead to more rear delt activation
with the palm neutral I feel it more in
my 5l I can't feel my side without
taking over a little bit more and so
that's why it's easier so like it might
be more comfortable in a sense but you
want to go with the one that is
comfortable but you also feel activating
your rear delts play around with both of
those but if I were to hypothesize most
people who are like adequately trained
probably that's pronated grip so my
friend Islam from he did text me other
day and he was like yo bro have you ever
tried this exercise turns out there's a
crazy Egyptian neck curl that I had
never heard of basically set up a bench
in a smith machine I've never tried it
he had a great old Wonder
and the only thing is like is that this
I don't have enough reason motion yeah
let's try that yeah there you go
there you go show me you know oh that's
pretty nice
[Applause]
my hair here there we go Oh howl or
something that would be helpful probably
okay that's pretty good I don't know if
I love it though honestly because I feel
like if it was a flat bench and the
smith's-machine went all the way down
it'd be really good it's a little bit
it's a little bit awkward so I'm
probably going to do like flake curls
instead you tried oh yeah actually works
pretty good for you but it looks good we
just finished off with a couple plate
loaded neck curls instead and one thing
I should mention and one thing that I
took away from a channel called Alka
destiny is you want to make sure that
your neck is nicely stretched out and
warmed up just like any other muscle
before you go into it I'm so I'll do
head circles front to back and then I'll
go side to side and I'll even do some
like kind of held stretches and on the
swings and front and back and that's
going to finish up our workout so we're
going to take off go back to the Airbnb
and I'll second with you guys there for
the post-workout meal so that to pee
wees glass of milk in the rivet of
korean rotisserie chicken and conclude
the video thank you guys so much for
watching subscribe to channel turnu like
the video if you liked it and I'll see
you guys next time
right