[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
gonna be looking at how to isolate the
quads with perfect technique but before
we get into that let's take a quick look
at some basic quad biomechanics first so
the quadriceps as the name implies is
made up of four muscle heads going from
medial to lateral or inside to outside
you have the vastus medialis or
tear-drop muscle fast as intermedius and
vastus lateralis or outer sweep and then
lying on top of those is the more
superficial rectus femoris muscle which
is the only head of the quads that
crosses both the hip joint and the knee
joint so the three vastus muscles have
only one function to extend the knee
while the rectus femoris head has two
functions knee extension and hip flexion
as it crosses both the knee joint and
the hip joint and it's this rectus
femoris head of the quads that you
probably feel getting a pump when you do
hanging leg raises so when it comes to
hitting the quads since all four heads
contribute to knee extension the best
thing to do is use exercises that train
the extension I think the best exercises
here are squat variations like the
standard barbell back squat and the
front squat might be an even more ideal
option as one 2015 study found that it
presents a similar training stimulus to
the back squat despite requiring a
lighter loads which might reduce injury
risk over time now in general I
recommend kicking off any quad focused
workout with some kind of heavy compound
multi-joint movement like the squat the
front squat or the hack squat but since
we've already covered those techniques
in other technique Tuesday videos and
this video I want to focus on how to
isolate the quads properly now unlike
most lower body exercises we've covered
in the series so far because the leg
extension only acts on one joint it
actually has a pretty limited capacity
for overload meaning it should be loaded
in a higher rep range around 12 to 20
reps and since the ability to overload
is more limited rather than focusing on
steadily increasing the weight over time
we're going to instead focus on
progressively overloading through three
other avenues improving the mind muscle
connection improving technique and
improve
the pump overtime and one way to do that
is to just add an extra rep when you
can't now of course you can increase the
weight once you reach the top end of a
rep range such as 20 reps or more
however at a certain point further
weight increases simply going to result
in form breakdown and at that point I
think you should just focus on using
those other three overloading options
now of course you might ask why do leg
extensions at all then well as an
isolation exercise their main purpose is
to accumulate more training volume for
the quads without creating much of a
recovery demand for other muscles or
joints in other words trying to build
your quads at a higher priority than
other muscles might be difficult if all
you do is heavy compound lifts and some
degree of isolation may be necessary to
really optimize their development also
many people seem to be under the
impression that leg extensions are an
inherently dangerous exercise because of
shearing forces and increased ACL stress
potential however in a comprehensive
interview on this dr. brad Schoenfeld
states that they shouldn't have a
detrimental effect on someone with
healthy joints and he's seen no evidence
of an increased injury risk from doing
leg extensions obviously if they give
you knee pain and you shouldn't do them
also including a balanced ratio of quad
to hamstring isolation work should
further reduce that risk of ACL stress
okay so for the leg extension itself
there are three cues I like to use to
target different aspects of the quads
the first cue is to position the seats
slightly back so the hips are at an
angle greater than 90 degrees if you
move the seat all the way up to the
point that your hips are flexed to 90
degrees that rectus femoris head of the
quads is going to be shortened at the
hip meaning it won't be able to
contribute as forcefully to extension at
the knee due to active insufficiency in
other words because it's already
contracted a lot of at the hips it can't
contract as much down at the knee now as
for how far to set the seat back I think
that's something you should experiment
with yourself I personally find
something between 60 and 45 degrees of
hip flexion to be the sweet spot to get
all four heads involved the second cue I
like to use is to pull your butt down
into the seat this is going to lock you
into the Machine and prevent power from
leaking out of the system also if your
butt is popping up chances are you're
not going to be able to get a full
flexion and
tension range of motion as they're
likely going to be cheating the range of
motion a bit short at the bottom the
third cue is to point your toes either
straight ahead or slightly in now I
would say that beginners should just
point their toes wherever it feels most
comfortable to independent EMG studies
both found that pointing the toes in
resulted in a more vastus lateralis or
outer sweep activation so if you're
trying to get your quads to balloon out
from the sides more creating that
x-frame quad sweep and I think pointing
your toes in might make sense when it
comes to the other heads there doesn't
seem to be much worth mentioning here
when it comes to toe position so as a
general suggestion I say hi there
straight ahead or slightly in so I would
say the most common error that I see on
the leg extension is just half repping
the range of motion many people just
bounce with the weight only going about
half the way up which is usually a sign
that you're going too heavy and others
will set the pins up so high that
they're only able to do the top half of
the range of motion now both of these
are basically ways of cheating and
they're gonna rob you of your true of
quad building potential now it's
probably worth mentioning that some
people do feel knee pain if they go into
deep knee flexion at the bottom or full
and the extension at the top so if you
are in that boat it's definitely
acceptable to restrict the range of
motion to what you're able to do without
pain now another very common error is
simply not exerting yourself hard enough
many people treat the leg extensions as
a sort of fluff exercise they just tack
on at the end of a leg day while they
wait for their friends to finish up and
while this really isn't an exercise you
should be hyping up for all across the
gym you should make sure you're actually
pushing your quads close to fatigue not
just going through the motions with no
real intensity at all and I do find that
this exercise can actually be a bit
misleading with regard to RPE in the
sense that even if you have five or six
reps left in the tank your quads are
going to be burning but you do want to
push through and make sure you're
getting within at least one to two reps
shy of failure
I'm skies that are obviously a ton of
other quad exercises like the
squat the lunge split squat and other
alternatives but I really wanted to
focus on quad isolation in this video
and I think a well-done leg extension is
about as good as it gets for that I'm so
going to leave it at that for here make
sure you guys it give bro Jeff a follow
I'll leave his Instagram handle over
here leave the video a thumbs up if you
found it to be helpful subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video