the plate pinch press is a popular
exercise across social media is it the
key to unlocking impressive chest gains
well the pressing motion isn't aligned
with gravity and the shoulder flexion
occurring is likely predominantly done
by the front delts yet pinching the
plates does produce a strong chest
squeeze and intriguingly some research
finds maximally squeezing a muscle for a
solid duration evokes hypertrophy
performing the exercise lying down is
likely better but there are still
pitfalls the excessive close grip can
bias the triceps and the overall stretch
of the PEX is a lot less compared to
other variations which is notable since
emerging Research indicates attaining a
stretch during an exercise is potent for
growth it's also difficult to train this
movement to or close to failure and
progressively overload it in the long
term two things that are also crucial
for long-term hypertrophy for all these
reasons though these will build some
muscle they are certainly not optimal
feel free to check out our most recent
video where we discuss some better
options