this is the most effective shoulder
workout I've ever designed using
scientific principles first we'll start
with the seated dumbbell overhead press
or the machine overhead press this
exercise will Target the front dels
alongside other muscle groups Target the
loaded stretch and have you sitting down
reducing the stabilization required by a
lower back and your legs overall next
we'll move into a cable ladder raas this
option trains the side belts
alternatively you could also do a
machine lader raise or a flatl sideways
these are all options that focus more on
the length and position than a
traditional dumbbell sideway which might
make it a better option for hypertrophy
compared to just a traditional dumbbell
lateral Ras and finally to round out our
shoulder stimulus we'll wrap it up with
a rear Del exercise we'll be performing
the rear D cable crossover unlike the
bent over rear D tholy this doesn't
require you to bend over thereby
potentially reducing fatigue and
provides you with a greater loaded
stretch on your adults using these three
exercises we're able to train the whole
shoulder focus a bit more on the
lengthened position than most exercises
would and therefore provide a good
potent stimulus for hypertrophy of the
whole shoulder that's why I think