hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
this week's weekly tip tip number 19.
gee we're getting into more than a few
of these now
easing into eating junk food after your
diet ends instead
of just going on a junk binge spree
right after so here's the thing yay
you're done dieting fat loss dieting you
reached your goal you look great people
at the beach are like oh my god do you
like do like yoga or pilates you're like
i do them both actually ladies fedora
hat tip
i know how to talk to women especially
on the beach
and you feel like hey i'm done this is
sweet i'm on the beach might as well
splurge on some cheats
now that's often a good idea for many
people it works out just fine and then
they cheat and then back to their
healthy diet they cheat a little bit
more and it's totally cool however some
folks
they risk continuing to cheat for
multiple days longer it's one of those
things like once you get a taste you buy
the whole the whole shebang you get one
peanut you bought yourself a whole
aircraft full of them
nothing really tastes better than junk
junk food is designed to taste good like
i was mad i had a this is all back in
the old days i had like a i used to get
into real lengthy facebook debates about
all sorts of stuff
and this one guy was like i don't even
like like candy bars and candy like
raspberries and dark chocolate taste way
better like what the fuck is wrong with
you bro like the world as a marketplace
literally disagrees with you nothing
better than a snickers bar i don't give
science can design snickers bars or king
yeah i know this is gonna start a
snickers bars are stupid reese's cups
are the best and actually reese's cups
are pretty good so maybe i just
destroyed myself in any case cheat foods
are amazing okay fries
bacon
shit of all kinds pizza pasta did i
mention pasta
amazing and as soon as you get some
especially after a diet there could be a
tendency to be like all right like
what's next like let's keep going this
feels so good and if someone puts a
plate of clean food in front of you
you're like really
like man i'm over this part of my life i
want you know to eat cotton candy
exclusively for the next several hours
this happens especially to folks who get
super lean or folks that are really
harsh diets and folks that are sort of
genetically and maybe socioculturally
sort of inclined to do the binge thing
which isn't for everyone now
this can result this whole like
one cheat meal turns into four days and
you don't remember
and your you know fingers are covered
with doritos dust and there's like you
know severed clown heads all over your
home which isn't a terrible thing
because as i've always said clowns are
evil in any case you don't know what
happened however
your water weight gain is abysmal and
there are stories out there and i've
experienced this myself
20 30 pounds of water weight gain in the
course of two or three days of
post-contest cheating for example that
does not feel good it feels terrible it
looks terrible it looks like you did a
contest prep diet and you look pretty
cool and then like three days later it's
like oh jk i'm at peak of mass again
what
now you can actually get some decent fat
gains like that metal gentleman says a
story about a gentleman he was working
with
who
basically cheated his way a week in a
week he regained like something like
5 to ten pounds of fat tissue which
strains the imagination but he really
did go 3 500 calories plus above his
normal intake because it looks like he's
eating like 7 000 calories every day
which is pretty close for a guy of
normal size impossible with clean food
he was just cheating every single meal
and it just leads to misery and it sucks
and like erases a lot of your hard work
which is bs so if you if you find
yourself you've been in that position
before or if you're watching this video
and you're towards the end of a cutting
diet and you're like that's going to be
me i know it because i've had the dreams
and the fantasies and i know if i get to
an all-i can eat buffet the police will
physically have to remove me there after
eight hours as i claw at the coconut
shrimp so
if that's you you might want to try
something better uh maybe it'll work for
you here it is after the diet ends and
this is going to take a little bit of
willpower it's kind of one of those
things where a little bit of willpower
at the front end saves you a shitload of
willpower and misery at the back end
eat only the same healthy clean diet
foods you've been eating just bump them
up to maintenance which by the way if
you're really strong out and super
depleted and super hungry and tired from
the diet as you think you are your more
clean food tastes great you know
someone's really at the tip so end of
their rope of a diet if you're like hey
what do you want right now they're just
like i would just kill for more chicken
broccoli and rice like holy shit you are
starving right because you if you say
you you see someone you like save them
in the
desert or someone's like marooned out at
sea and you pull them onto your cruise
ship and you're like are you okay do you
need fluid they drink a bunch of water
like what do you want now food yeah i'm
super hungry and you're like we we have
some chicken and rice and they're like
yeah i don't know do you guys have any
pizza like that guy's not hungry he's
just like craving pizza right really if
you're really really hungry just more
clean food feels incredible and it
really will check that box for you of
like hey i can do this for another week
no problem because remember as soon as
you're back to maintenance there's no
more diet fatigue accumulating it's
falling now tons of clean food feels
great it tastes amazing because like
look your taste buds and your brain
chemistry is so fine-tuned at this point
for food-seeking behavior that even like
flavored chicken and brown rice tastes
like paradise if you just put gobs of it
in your mouth right so you're taken care
of there no huge rebound no crazy cheat
stuff no super fat gain and then after
like a week when you feel a little bit
more normal insane like when you think
about eating food it's not like sexual
thoughts it's like normally a pizza
would taste good i would recommend you
get into a cheat meal just one but like
from your top 10 options of cheap foods
pick like one of the bottom ones right
because like here's the thing real talk
at the end of diets we all have food
list of food in our heads maybe not all
most
um of shit we want to eat after right
come on now and if actually if you want
a little interactive fun throw in the
comments below uh this video like what
foods you really like your top five or
top 10 foods you think about at the end
of diets because you know what i'm
saying sushi
ice cream
sushi
dipped in ice cream i don't know if
you're dying to down enough even that
should taste good right but let's say
you have your top 10 foods i would say
after a week of just eating clean after
the diet is over
get into one of those foods like maybe
this is something you're not ultra
excited about like say you're not like a
huge cheeseburger fan but like you know
towards the end of the night you're like
pizza number one sushi real close number
two ice cream blah blah blah blah and
like 10th is like
i could go for a good cheeseburger but
it's not like something i'm like
psychotic about
get that cheeseburger it'll be amazing
you're like well this is the best
cheeseburger i've ever had why because
you're so dieted now anything would have
tasted like the best you've ever had and
it's a little bit of a cheat it's not
gonna make you likely to go and just
psychotically eat everything after like
that was great i don't exactly want
another one of these it was sweet i had
a cheeseburger or two and some fries i'm
good
and then
three or four days later like about
every half week
remember clean eating the whole time uh
have another cheat meal and let's sort
of up the ante and how tasty it is and
then after like uh depends on how long
your list is after a few weeks you'll
finally get to that pinnacle ultra cheat
you've been super waiting for but here's
the thing at this time it'll be an
amazing meal here's the meals get better
every single time because you've sort of
titrated them out according to how much
you want them
it'll still be an amazing tasting meal
it won't taste as good as if you had it
right after but by then you'll be
psychologically diet wise pretty much
normal you'll love the meal it'll taste
great you'll go home four hours later
you'll have your casein protein shake
you go to bed you wake up you go do your
workout you have clean food you feel
totally fine you don't get into this
crazy binge cycle because you're kind of
over it at that point it might have been
like three weeks or six weeks since you
actually finished the diet and you're
mostly recovered this way you don't have
to do crazy binge stuff after but you're
out of the diet you're no longer being
super sapped of your energy with the
dieting all the clean food in the world
to actually take care of diet fatigue
and it prevents all the bad stuff now
here i'll say this again if you're the
kind of person that can have a few cheat
meals after a contest or a crazy diet
and not go overboard and not spill over
or not like go psychotic and eat all the
food in the world totally again in one
ear out the other fun lecture thanks for
tuning in but it's not going to apply to
you however if you coach other people it
may apply to many of your clients and if
you're one of those people to whom it
applies i sure as hell am you know
exactly what i'm talking about give this
a shot again it's tough because as soon
as your diet is over you're like okay
what i really want in this world pizza i
want to be fucking baked into a pizza i
want to be part of a pizza i want to eat
myself right nonsense thoughts
and it's going to take some willpower to
be like i'm going to go home shut up and
cook my pasta and my ground turkey
and buy broccoli and i'm going to sit
and watch netflix and be fine it's gonna
be as much food as i ever wanted i'm not
gonna be physiologically hungry at all
and i'll be cool if you can do that it
gets easier every day and then you coast
right out of the diet you don't regain a
ton of fat you don't get miserable with
a ton of body water all as well and then
your diet was super productive you're
not super miserable and the next time
you want to die you know you've got it
covered folks next week i'll have more
weekly tips until then see you later
you