the problem with steroids is that they
work like really work that's probably
irresponsible for me to say but if we're
going to talk about the steroid epidemic
we need to do it honestly here's a 3-we
trend cycle update for you guys buying
Trend in
Thailand steroids build muscle way
faster than something like creatine it's
not even close if you started taking 5
gr of creatine every day for a year
straight you'd add about 2 lbs of extra
muscle if you started taking steroids at
a normal bodybuilding dose you probably
add about 20 lb of extra muscle that
year but it could be more depending on
your genetics and how much you take I'm
a lifetime natural bodybuilder and these
are my testosterone levels right now 485
nanog per deciliter that's right around
the middle of the normal range for
someone my age this is bodybuilder Chase
irons the world's most honest enhanced
bodybuilder he also had blood work done
this month where do you think his
testosterone levels are maybe double
mine or triple mine nope his levels are
literally off the charts the test Max is
out at 10,000 nanograms per deciliter
and his testosterone was higher than
that he openly admits to taking a lot of
gear and this shows just how big the gap
between natural and enhanced can get
more people are taking steroids now than
ever before why is that well I think
it's because more and more Fitness
influencers are opening up about their
anabolic use in theory this honesty is a
good thing that's because anyone
watching would be able to adjust their
own expectations for their goals if
they're natural and they know their
favorite Fitness influencer isn't they
they'd be able to lower their own
standards and say okay well now I know
that result isn't achievable for me but
this kind of backfired a lot of people
didn't lower their expectations they
just started taking steroids and the
bigger problem is a lot of Fitness
influencers are only ever partially
transparent they say they're on steroids
and they show their gains but they
rarely if ever show any of the bad stuff
so the only logical conclusion is that
steroids are amazing but that's
misleading so to help you understand
exactly what happens to your body when
you take steroids let's inject some
juice together and see what happens next
good and bad this is testosterone in
anthe it's one of the most common forms
of steroids that people take it's
basically just a testosterone molecule
with a carboxy group attached and
dissolved in a vegetable oil so you can
inject it there's also some kind of
aromatic compound like benzo benzoate in
here which prevents bacterial growth and
helps the testosterone dissolve better
when you inject the needle into your
muscle a bubble of oil is squeezed in
between the individual muscle fibers
which spreads out and forms this
elongated shape the testosterone
molecules then slowly make their way
into the bloodstream over the course of
several hours there enzymes called
esterases cleave off that carboxy group
and then the testosterone is carried by
molecules called binding proteins to the
muscle where it enters a single muscle
cell now its job is to make that muscle
cell bigger and if that's all that
steroids did that'd be sweet and I'd be
on them but there's a lot more that
happens for one your heart is also a
muscle so of course the same thing
happens there the testosterone enters
your your heart cells and tells your DNA
to make your heart bigger having a big
heart sounds like a good thing but it's
really not when your heart grows
especially one compartment called the
left ventricle the extra bulk actually
makes it harder for your heart to
squeeze and relax this means your heart
won't be able to pump blood as
effectively which increases your risk of
Hur failure now I want to say I'm not
the health police you can do whatever
you want with your own body and I've got
no problem with people who enhance but I
want people to at least be aware of
exactly what you're doing and the full
effect it has good and bad for example
not many people realize that steroids
affect your brain to explain this I
wanted to find someone with scientific
education and firsthand experience with
[Music]
steroids
[Music]
hey can you hear me okay Mike yeah yeah
yeah steroids can cause in many people
really high levels of anxiety it's dose
dependent it's also compound dependent
things like Trend cause way more anxiety
than other milder compounds like Primo
so this is fun I haven't admitted this
yet but it's not a particularly crazy
admission uh I recently took a a
validated empirically validated
scientifically based scale for anxiety
and actually currently right now um I
have severe anxiety disorder probably
the most severe type of anxiety disorder
short of like panic disorder and uh
that's actually right now as I as I talk
that's what I have and uh another one
also another psychological side effect
some types of your intelligence degrade
over time with steroid use this is
tested in people currently using
steroids and people who used to use
steroids most people this is totally
unaware that steroids have that
potential effect on IQ reduction and
since IQ or just intelligence is such a
global quality that you IA want to hang
out and to most of it as much as he have
it's real serious thing to trade off
that tracks with the science this 2020
one study took 3D MRI scans of the
brains of over 200 weightlifters about
half of them were Natty the other half
enhanced the scans revealed that the
lifters who took steroids had a
significantly bigger brain age Gap that
means when they looked at the natural
brains their brain age matched their
actual age but the brains of the
enhanced lifters looked much older than
they should look for some of their age
their brains were aging faster than they
should be and the psychology of steroids
is fascinating most people take steroids
because they want to look bigger and
feel better about the way they look and
I get it I want to look bigger and feel
better too and steroids will make you
look bigger but they might not help you
feel any better about the way you look
they actually could make your body
dysmorphia worse that's because a lot of
people think if they just start
enhancing then they'll look how they
want but just because you take gear
doesn't mean you're going to look like
seum and then when you eventually come
off you'll quickly lose a good chunk of
the size that you put on and feel
smaller than ever at that point it
becomes near impossible not to go back
on take even more steroids and the cycle
continues again that wouldn't really be
a problem if steroids didn't impact
pretty much every system in your body
but they do after you inject some of
that testosterone is converted into a
hormone called DHT which causes hair
follicles to shrink faster this is why
so many bodybuilders are bald in their
20s some testosterone is also converted
into estrogen which can increase breast
tissue formation in men leading to soft
puffy nipples also known as gyno the
most reliable way to get rid of gyno is
surgery and while most people will take
other drugs to prevent that conversion
to estrogen almost every bodybuilder you
know has had to deal with gyno at some
point injecting testosterone also lets
your testicles know that there's more
than enough testosterone to go around so
they shrink to about 1/ half of their
usual size the shrinkage quickly shuts
down your body's natural ability to make
its own testosterone which is why some
people will need to inject testosterone
for the rest of their life steroids also
make sebaceous glands on your skin grow
bigger which causes them to overproduce
a sticky oily substance called a seun
seun moisturizes and protects your skin
in normal amounts but causes acne when
overproduced steroid users will try to
combat this by taking other drugs for
acne treatment but then they have their
own side effects what would be a side
effect that um most people like wouldn't
be aware of until you've kind of done it
yeah that's a good question there are a
few of those I can think of because
anabolic steroids are mostly gotten in
at least United States uh in Canada
through underground Laboratories some of
the gear you get is like Dam near farmer
grade it goes in smooth as butter never
does anything no inflammation
some of the gear goes in there and uh
boy does it uh does it mess you up and I
have been personally hospitalized at
least once for um a non infectant but
insanely immune responsive abscess my
quad was like half a foot out to one
side I've had friends get hospitalized
for abscesses the doctors have to cut
your skin open they have to drain it and
lastly the term Roid Rage but it's
really aggression and it it very
infrequently displays itself as actual
violent acts but the thoughts you get on
steroids are disturbing you might like
warm movies and stuff but if there's a
warm movie playing in your head every
single second you're awake and asleep it
gets a little old after a while but you
have big muscles so I guess that's cool
so that's tell the cookie crumbles let
me get a second opinion on
[Music]
that hello hello yo yo a pretty common
reported anecdote is feeling like you
just hit puberty again for the first
like 6 to 8 weeks it literally feels
like you're 16 years old again is that a
good thing or a bad thing it's probably
not a good thing overall because you're
now an adult with the like libido of a
raging 16-year-old and you have
responsibilities and things to keep up
with and all you can think about is your
perpetually erect penis basically which
is not ideal um increased probability of
injury this is sometimes talked about
when your strength is skyrocketing your
connective tissue cannot maintain the
pace of your muscular strength and often
this will lead to unnecessary injury in
the gym because you know if your bench
goes up 50 lbs in 6 weeks like you're
not typically you're not going to like
hold back you're going to keep pushing
because this weight feels like a feather
now you're going to you know go as far
as it can take you but your connective
tissue is not keeping up with that pace
and this you'll see often bodybuilders
that end up with uh brutal injuries it's
to say how much steroids shorten your
lifespan but they definitely do one 2024
paper followed over a th000 steroid
users for 11 years with an average age
of 27 during the same time frame they
also followed 60,000 people of the same
age but not on steroids 2.8% of the
steroid users had died by the follow-up
while only 1% of the non-steroid users
had died that's a lot of excess deaths
which led the authors to note that the
excess death rate in this young adult
population is striking of course this
depends on the dose that you're taking I
think what a lot of people think is I'm
not going to go crazy with the juice
like I'm just going to do a little like
sports trt or whatever like 1502 200
milligrams uh a week how do you feel
about that I think the word trt is very
conflated with like baby cycle
essentially at this point when you're on
trt even if it looks on paper like a
normal total testosterone it is not
representative of what you could do
naturally so even if you're on like you
know lowdose trt on paper you could
Define it as such but it's certainly
like you're essentially on Mini
enhancement territory perpetually which
I'm not to say that that's bad cuz that
that's almost like the boat I fall into
myself essentially it's just a matter of
managing the risk of reward on it and if
you feel it is worthwhile for yourself
considerate of all of the factors that
underly it would you say there is a
healthy way to use steroids uh there so
everything is the Spectrum in this case
so they're healthier and less healthy
ways and if he you want to use steroids
in a healthier way then what you're
going to do is start with very small
amounts of them check your blood work do
various heart scans and and procedures
consult with a professional coach who
does this for a living have a medical
doctor on on retainer to make sure that
you're getting uh every several months
or twice a year blood work you check
your blood pressure all the time you
cycle properly coming on and off you
take as little gear as will accomplish
the effect you're interested in if you
do that you can definitely do it
healthier than not but you know there
are ways to race a car and design a race
car and design the suit and the crumble
zones that make it safer but as soon as
you pass 200 miles an hour safer is the
term it's not safe it was never safe and
so steroid use is less safe almost
always than not taking steroids but you
can make it very very safe or you can
make it pretty roll the dice risky the
real big decision is on how you approach
it I notic people at like a really young
age coming up to me and being like hey
like I might hop on like you know I've
been training for a while now like I
teenagers do you have like a age in mind
where it's like this is where you know
you're old enough to even like consider
it and before that just figure out your
training and diet yeah there's a couple
things that go into that one is
sometimes of steroids CL uh close your
growth plates early and uh that means
they'll provide you for reaching an adul
height some men don't stop growing until
they're 22 years old and uh if you start
taking it when you're 16 you're probably
going to be a short King for much longer
than you in well actually a shorter King
than you ended up uh should have be
become with your genetics and um you
know to almost the same group of people
to whom jacked uh lifestyle is important
being as tall as possible is also
important seemingly another thing is the
brain develops and very very high level
ways uh well into your late 20s and then
subtle ways through your entire lifespan
and so until about your mid 20s I would
say there's a high probability that uh
steroids will stunk your brain
development to a significant extent and
so I would say my cut off age generally
as the conversation for responsible
medically supervised steroid use for
serious goals by serious individual
begins at age 25 the answer I usually
give is like get at least 10 years of
natural training under your belt because
you'll have figured out what works for
your body and then from there you know
you'll also by default be at least in
your like mid 20s you know most people
don't start lifting until they're at
least you know in their mid teens so you
know it kind of ticks both of those
boxes and so yeah I I always encourage
people it's like have you been training
hard and smart for 10 years if not then
I don't think it's decision time for you
yet and I'll be honest there have been
several moments in my own bodybuilding
career when enhancing has been very
tempting even now especially with the
fitness standards increasing rapidly and
more and more Fitness influencers
juicing and I think the standards have
shifted so much since you know we
started out like 6 years ago like I was
in The Natty or not conversation as a
physique that's like almost too good and
now six years later it's like it's like
you're you're the guy who doesn't lift
but knows you know but instead of
enhancing I've decided to do something
different I keep thinking maybe I've
reached my natural limit for muscle
growth but have I actually am I actually
at my Natty limit or have I just not
been training as hard and smart as I
could be I wasn't going to reveal this
but this year I'm doing an experiment
with McMaster University here in Canada
to see how much muscle it's possible for
me to build naturally this deep into my
lifting Journey if I do everything
perfectly can I still make gains
naturally so for this entire year I've
been doing everything 100% perfectly in
the gym I'm tracking every single set
taking the last set of every exercise to
True technical failure I'm not skipping
any sets or any workouts I'm also
committing 100% to my diet I haven't
missed a single day tracking in macro
factor and I've hit my calorie and
protein goal every single day now I'll
be sharing my full results at the end of
this year but I can say that I've
definitely made some solid gains already
this doesn't always show up as well on
camera but I've gotten more compliments
about having put on some solid size at
my local gym than I've gotten in years
but similar to me what happens to a lot
of guys is that they think they're at
their Natty limit and only steroids will
help when in reality they're probably
just not being as diligent with their
training and their nutrition as they
could be why not dial that up to 100%
first then you can make that decision
that's how I feel anyway and if you want
to commit and join me on a year-long
journey to truly dedicated lifting and
eating consider downloading my nutrition
app
weeks for free to see if you like it
first and it's really like having me as
your own personal nutrition coach but
for a tiny tiny fraction of the cost
we're about to hit 15,000 monthly users
which is pretty crazy and we've gathered
some incredible Transformations from
users of the app unlike other diet apps
Maca uses science-based algorithms to
tailor your calories and macros to your
metabolism specifically all you need to
do is track your food and your weight
and the app will automatically update
your nutrition each week so I'll put a
link to the free trial in the
description box down below if you guys
want to get started with me and that's
it for this one guys don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe if you haven't already
and I'll see you guys all here in the
next one