hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization and the idea that you have
an ideal body weight that you should be
striving for is bullshit
it's not true stop it
okay world's worst arnold impression
tell us actual facts here's the deal
the idea of an ideal body weight comes
mostly from insurance tables these are
tables of heights and weights
and
basically if you're 511 and you're a
male you should weigh x y z amount of
weight according to these tables and the
way they're derived is usually from just
indices of who lives the longest so
they're based not even on health but on
longevity which is a very very good
proxy for health not exactly the same
thing
and
what they did these insurance companies
is they didn't manage to do a whole lot
of data analysis uh they did a ton of
data analysis on the back end but on the
front end they didn't really put out
back in the day in normal distribution
and says well here's the average healthy
body weight for people that are 5 11.
they just did the average and only
reported they didn't say what the
standard deviation was they didn't say
that a lot of other values close to that
are
on basically undifferentiably
healthy and prone to making you live a
long time that's just one of the
limitations let's talk about a few
others so bone structure if you're a 511
congratulations unlike me you actually
got to be in adult height
you're 511 if you have thick ass big
bones you may need to weigh a lot more
in order to not be really skinny and
unhealthy compared to a person with
really small bird bones than a 511 they
could weigh very very little and still
actually appear and be very healthy
because they just don't have a lot of
bone mass not a lot of tissue to put on
those bones etc so bone structure
matters which is why you can't just have
one ideal weight without knowing your
own bone structure
usually when you look up ideal weight on
the internet we saw most people do it
and say i have to weigh 120 pounds they
don't there's no calculator for bone
mass or anything like that another
problem is muscle mass you can have a
lot of muscle mass and up to a pretty
high point you're very healthy and kind
of a super long time with a lot of
muscle that doesn't count for that you
know most of these things were these
indices were derived in the 30s 40s and
50s and back then most people didn't
train and muscularity was just something
that was genetically varied or varied
according to your job like if you were a
doc loader maybe you were slightly more
muscular marginally more muscular but
people weren't really super jacked
nowadays a ton of people work out and
the insurance tables just absolutely
don't cover them for example
some of the crossfit girls that are at
the top of the world for the sport
they're like the healthiest people of
all time they're gonna live like damn
near forever but they're considered
overweight and obese sometimes on these
tables because they just never met with
muscular people intended
another thing
something i already mentioned but it
bears repeating there is a range a very
large range of very healthy body weights
for any given height
the insurance tables just give one
number and it's usually in the middle or
lower end of that number then it doesn't
cover that whole range at all so if
you're thinking you're 150 pounds and
you're like i need to be 137 in order to
be that's my ideal weight it's my ideas
people talk about all this all the time
talk about their ideal weight well hold
on a second given that you're in that
range it could actually be that 150
pounds health-wise is statistically
undifferentiable on a large scale from
137 pounds so your journey to your ideal
weight is already over you're there
congratulations you had no idea and
you're like trying to lose the 13 pounds
and it's fucking annoying because you
have bigger bones and a bit more muscle
it's really annoying because you're
ultra lean down there and it's super
awful because you're way too lean and
you're bad sleep and bad hormones all
sort of stuff no one ever told you hey
there's a range and you're already in
that range you already won
another thing
is that
fitness for other things is a
consideration that the insurance tables
for ideal weight never really check so
like you can be your ideal weight but
you're like a skinny guy or skinny girl
from the 50s
like what the fuck sports are you going
to be good at if you want to be good at
physique sport if you want to be a jack
power lifter or a strong woman or play
basketball or soccer this shit doesn't
take any of that into account like yeah
if you want to be a skinny useless
motherfucker an ideal weight it's kind
of sweet but other than that your sport
can determine your weight sometimes it's
below the ideal weight sometimes that's
at it very close and sometimes that's
well above all of those are healthy but
some of those are just better at the
sports you chose than others so when
you're making a decision what body
weight should i be yeah you can look at
the ideal range just to know what it is
but also make sure that you choose the
ideal weight for your sport if you
actually want to be good at it
and what about aesthetics
you can
want a thinner look and this is
something that with political
correctness as nasty as it is is i'll be
one of the probably one of the i don't
know first evidence-based people to say
this out loud it's okay
to want to look skinnier than the
average
healthy weight tells you skinnier than
average unless you get really skinny
it's not bad for your health so if you
really like the thin aesthetic like i
think it's sweet you know like i want to
look like a fucking strung out like
japanese anime character like if when
the metaverse turns out please god i
hope it does then like i'll have an
avatar like where i'm skinny as fuck
it'll be kind of cool that's totally
thing you can do and like a lot of
people and skinny people put up with the
shit all the time although they're
skinny it's okay you know people go oh
you're thin and bones your skin and
bones you should eat like motherfucker
i'm fine my health is fine i don't want
to eat any more than i feel like
sometimes people are just skinny and
that's okay and that's what they want to
look like aesthetics never enters the
equation what about thicker people like
first of all muscular people
and second of all like for example
there's a ton of girls out there that
rock that thickness
god damn they look good and they know
they look good and that's how they want
to look and then someone's like um
you're like 20 pounds overweight for
your ideal weight
i'm saying girl you looking pretty ideal
to me
insert your name here my wife crystal hi
yes you brought that shit back i'm not
hitting on imaginary girls on youtube
after all so there's a lot of
considerations and i'll tell you what
the last one is quality of life
being jacked is fun
like yeah you could be on the beach and
some guy if ideal weight comes up to you
and music using that space over there
for your picnic blanket you get up and
you're like
motherfucker i use i'm using all the
space i'm like a fucking quantum
non-locality i'm in your shit at the
same time fuck out of here and they
harry potter scamper their way off
intimidation isn't the only reason you'd
want to be jacked but god damn it's a
good one i'm totally kidding so yeah
quality of life like being jacked is the
shit and as long as you're not crazy far
out of that healthy range a lot of being
jacked is well within that normal range
so
the idea that you look at this just one
ideal weight fairy height and think
that's what i have to weigh and anything
else is a bad idea is bullshit as arnold
would no doubt say and let's take a look
really quick we have the rp expanded
version from one of our books uh book is
by the way called understanding healthy
eating it is available for sale if
you're into paying me money remember
lamborghinis don't actually
self-assemble and you don't pick them
like you do fruits they're built in a
factory by very very highly qualified
technicians and they cost money and i
want them
more of them so please buy my books
i don't want to bag but i'll beg
please
please in any case the
you guys see it right there general
healthy weight range for any given
height
is actually really big as long as you're
physically active eating mostly healthy
foods
if you're on this range
any show up to a doctor a competent
doctor's office
there's no reason for them to tell you
hey you should think about gaining
weight or you should think about losing
weight any one of these when you're
within this range you're totally good as
long as your blood work is good and
you're physically active and eating
healthy your weight is not an issue and
what you choose to be within that range
is entirely up to just like how you want
to live your life for the next little
bit you want to be thick as fuck and get
you know i'm saying get on the club and
pop that shit and have motherfuckers be
like
i've been i've seen movies about
clubs before
or you want to be the fucking
rock that kate moss swag that cocaine
chic
all good well if you use cocaine your
health will deprecate to some extent but
any case there's a lot of right answers
to what i'm trying to say so for example
uh you know let's say you're female
allegedly hypothetically and you're five
foot four
what is potentially a healthy weight the
weight range here is 105 pounds to 170
pounds
five foot four 170 is thicker than fuck
god damn what up baby but on a serious
note 105 pounds of 5'4 is like yeah
you're pretty thin
but none of these are dangerous they're
not bad for you this whole range as long
as you're physically active and you're
eating mostly healthy foods
you can be at peak health
in anything between these two and the
idea that like only 120 pounds for
someone is 5'4 is the right weight range
is
just not true it's bullshit i really
lazily did the arnold voice on that one
lastly real quick those videos over
videos are we you click off this point
but hold on uh i'm five six let's see
what the weight range says for me
110 minimum
not shooting for that one right now
right now i weigh 249 pounds by the way
yeah yeah hell yeah
how's the lighting scott video guy do i
look jacked
and it tops out at
185 pounds okay
which backs the question am i in the
healthy weight range
no
no i'm not
i'm worried now
see you guys next time
you