hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's topic is about
Advanced Training mistakes common
mistakes Advanced individuals make here
we're talking about Advanced folks you
can Define it in many ways but a common
definition is you've been training for
like oh six or seven plus years pretty
consistently and you've been somewhat
aware of what's going on at the time you
weren't just like monotonously coached
by someone and you're like no idea
what's going on with your body so if you
are Advanced then you should not be
making the following mistakes we could
least think of six of them I'm sure
there are more but these are the six
that really really
if you stop making them
you're going to open up little tiny
portals of a small amount of additional
growth
at a very at a negative expense but just
to say benefit of less joint and
connective tissue disruption
less chance of injury and if you make
all these mistakes or many of them the
amount of total growth you can open up
is substantial and not just growth in
the next six months but growth in the
next six years because now your Advanced
Training and that sustainably
small increase in growth will yield big
increases over a certain amount of time
so here we go first big mistake that a
lot of people make when they're been
training for more than six or seven
years
is they know how many sets they used to
have to do as an intermediate let's say
10 cents on average per
um
uh chest workout for the pecs and
they're trying to match or beat these
volumes because at some point they're at
about maximum recoverable volume and
they thought okay volumes of a method of
overloading and if I do more and more
and more I'll become more successful
here's the problem
as you become more advanced you become
stronger which means that any given set
fucks you up more on literally a
mechanical basis than it used to right
you can do 10 sets of pecs if your bench
press is 150 pounds for sets of 10 no
problem and probably survive and
probably it's great for you 10 sets of
hard chest training when your bench max
is 250 is a whole world of difference
and it may only take six or seven sets
to do even more damaging even more
growth stimulus than what it would take
for 10 sets to do back when you were
much weaker so that's a thing and
another thing is
if you have been paying attention and
you've been slowly learning your body
and slowly altering your Technique to be
more effective over time
you used to take you 10 sets off chest
work to hit the chest properly because
editing one time you weren't really
connected to the muscle and you didn't
know how to arch or retract and it was
like yeah you're moving chest stuff
around you're doing a good job but not a
great job if you're Advanced you
probably know how to train your chest so
well at this point
that not only are you stronger and every
set is more effective because of that
but the way you're doing the technique
the way you're setting up the way you're
pre-stretching the packs and all those
details mean that each set is doubly
more powerful so you may not need as
many sets so this whole idea of like I
used to do 10 shots for chess bro it's
what I'm doing and these clear signs
that you're under recovering all the
time eight sets is the most you should
be doing you're like fuck that man I'm
not doing less bro that's stupid you're
not taking a step away from progress by
doing eight sets instead of ten you are
taking a step into the direction of
progress right
um
stupid analogy that still works
is you take a look at how many f-22s the
United States has in production and
combat Readiness versus however many
last generation fighter they had which
is the the F-15 right and built way more
and had way more combat ready f-15s than
f-22s and you think fuck we're
backsliding as a military we'll ask you
this who you think would win in a fight
2022 American Military or 1980s American
Military wouldn't be fucking close why
because if F-22 is so fucking Advanced
that it can shoot to kill six
independently targeted f-15s and to
never be seen at all and it could just
go Arrow refuel land for weapons and
then go back out just shoot more
infinite f-15s out of the sky
so very few people are like we should
build thousands of f-22s we don't need
thousands there's this no Army to oppose
that sort of thing the whole fucking
world would be able to do just the same
way when you get really really good at
training after seven years
you may not need as many sets to do the
same thing as you used to
and that's okay but if you're just
chasing raw numbers you could get
yourself into trouble with recovery
next problem
not enough of a mind muscle Focus yes
the research studies show that a mind
muscle connection provides teeny teeny
benefits or no benefits at all
and that's true for the beginners and
intermediates that compose those studies
and the way some of those studies Define
mind muscle connection is like a
proprioceptive awareness of the fact
that your muscle exists and is
Contracting the way we Define mind
muscle connection here is do you feel a
shitload of tension in your target
muscle when it's heavy load that's being
lifted and when it's lighter load closer
to failure do you feel an unbelievably
painful metabolite burn in the muscle
that you're targeting
if the answer is yes
then that's good good mind muscle
connection if the answer is I don't
think I feel it in that muscle or I
don't think I feel it at all it just
feels heavy then the answer is no your
mind muscle connection is not ideal and
the thing is as you become more large
and strong and more advanced your mind
muscle connection can really make your
stimulus to fatigue ratios that much
higher
because if you do a set of presses
you feel a lot in your front delts a
little bit in your pecs some in your
triceps really your elbows and shoulders
are hurting
that sucks
you will get growth in your chest but
not much not as much as you could you'd
have to do other exercise and do all
this other stupid shit but if you have a
really developed an awesome mind muscle
connection on that same chest press
machine then your Technique is subtly
different section that you experience a
huge amount of tension in your packs and
a huge burn with higher reps you are
going to be
doing fewer sets potentially with even
less weight and getting the same or
better stimulus and way less fatigue
holy fucking shit
this mind muscle focus is something that
has to be developed by someone who
really wants to earn the title of
advanced if you're an advanced
hypertrophy trainee
then if you say to me hey you know my
favorite exercise for biceps is the easy
curl I'm gonna be like hey when you do
the easy curl do you feel a shitload of
tension and or burning your biceps if
you say no holy fuck why is that your
favorite exercise
the very least could you could say is my
biceps are so terrible I don't feel the
my muscle connection on any exercises
but that's almost never going to happen
as you're training
your beginner days you're not worried
about mind muscle connection at all
you're just worn about really good
technique
as you're training as an intermediate
you're not worried about my muscle
connection you're worried about good
technique of course but that's already
stable and training hard every set push
close and close and closer to failure
as an advanced lifter you already know
how to train with a good technique
generally good technique
you already know how to train hard now
it's time to position yourself
differently and use different exercises
and use different cadences in order to
take that good technique hard training
and really feel the tension and the burn
where you're supposed to be feeling it
that may require subtle or even not so
subtle adjustments to technique and
execution Etc that's the goal of an
advanced lifter if you're not doing that
you're not really doing the advanced
thing
Point number three
you do too many non-dominant sfr
exercises which means that by the time
that you get
to the advanced level certainly after a
few years of being Advanced or training
more than seven years and being awake
that entire time
you need to know pretty damn well what
exercises work best for you and what
exercises are not that great
you should be spending most of your very
limited recovery capacity and gym time
on the most effective variants and very
little of your time if any on the least
effective yet sometimes you'll see even
Advanced bodybuilders doing some of
their favorite exercises that work well
and then doing other exercises that are
kind of dumb and shitty and yes I'm like
hey did you like that they're like no I
hate it but I gotta cover all my bases
you know like no that's not true right
just flinging ingredients randomly that
are sweet and or chocolatey at a cake
doesn't make a good cake a good cake is
when you particularly arrange certain
very intricately
interplayed ingredients that make the
ultimate thing taste really good so you
don't want to just be like oh yeah let's
use XYZ exercises you have to have a
core group of five to ten sometimes even
fewer real go-to exercises that fucking
work really well for your body the high
stimulus and a low level fatigue tons of
tension tons of burn in the Target
muscle whenever you train them and tons
of soreness tons of pump Etc and very
little joint connective tissue stress
you should know what those exercises are
you should stick mostly to them
related
error number four
people who stick to high raw stimulus
magnitude exercises
that generate a high level of fatigue
because of either habit or Pride or some
combination of both
a lot of people that are pretty Advanced
are still doing low bar squats
they're still doing
you know conventional deadlifts
they're still doing uh overhead barbell
presses
it is possible that those exercises are
very good stimulus to fatigue ratio for
them but it is not likely those
exercises tend to work better for
beginners as you get more advanced your
external load consideration needs to
fall you need to ask yourself the
question of how can I do this to my body
lifting the smallest external load not
the biggest one
and your Technique and everything else
is going to zoom in to making sure the
target muscle gets the hit which often
means that you're going away from the
super compound ego Basics and getting a
little bit more towards the bodybuilding
s kind of exercises
I'm going to bring up a video
this is a criticism a super open-minded
criticism I could absolutely be wrong
this is just an illustration of
something that could be happening
I've seen a video of Chris Bumstead
doing low bar Smith machine squats to a
very good depth I might add with an
impressive amount of weight like six
plays for sets of five to ten and that's
awesome and there is absolutely chance
in which that is just a good variant for
him uh or he ran out of other variants
or just the best variant for him and it
just stimulus fatigue ratio is amazing
Maybe
more than likely however if he switched
to ultra high bar pushed his feet two or
three inches in front and did the super
upright slow eccentric Smith machine
squat with a pause at the bottom he'd
Hammer his quads a little bit more and
Hammer the rest of his body considerably
less
again just using that as a I could
absolutely be wrong and it could be a
great exercise for him
but if you are in the position of
choosing your own exercises and you're
advanced
and you go man I'm really fucking strong
at low bar squats I just want to keep
pushing that but you fucking know in
your heart of hearts that your back gets
tired your soul gets tired you get hurt
a little bit more often
with low bar squats because you're
lifting so much fucking weight but every
time you do high bar squats with a pause
super strict knees forward instead of
squatting 500 pounds for reps you're
doing 350 pounds for reps but your
fucking quads get hit way more and the
rest of you get hit way less
it's time to move away from the ego this
is something that for me was a little
bit painful and just only now ending
um
I used to be pretty good at the squat
Mansion deadlift at least for as far as
I was concerned I was proud of my
numbers and that's what matters and I
liked doing them and I kept doing them
to the point where they were not so
effective and the point where it was
obvious I could be doing more frou-frou
wussy machines and isolationy type
movements and getting just bigger
stimulus and uh less fatigue certainly
less fatigue for the stimulus which is
to say a better stimulus if a d ratio
now that I am doing more of those things
I'm the biggest I've ever been and my
joints hurt less than they have ever
heard in living memory it's a fucking
good trade-off but some people even if
they're Advanced won't make it because
of just pride and ego like you want to
be that guy in the gym lifting fucking
super heavy weights sweet but what do
you want more hypertrophy or to be
fucking strong remember when they hand
out trophies at the bodybuilding show
they don't give a fuck who's strong and
when that girl who's gonna of course
offer her body to you because of your
jackness she doesn't care how strong you
are she doesn't even know how to count
how much weight is that don't care flex
your bicep ah
let's go to my unmarked van she says
number five
this is a Trippy one that I have to
remind myself of because as you guys all
know I'm a sandbagging piece of shit and
I don't have what it takes to train hard
if you're a beginner intermediate you
may not have to go remotely close to
failure to get your best games but as an
advanced athlete you may have to push
the system and the local physiology to
its fucking limits a little bit more
often or at least regularly which is to
say that at the end
every last week of a mesocycle provided
that it's a movement which won't kill
you if you fail on it you could see
yourself going pretty close to failure
even to failure and even maybe a little
bit beyond things like Drop sets
mechanical drop sets Etc start to be a
something you could look at as an
advanced athlete because this is the
time in your career when you want to
squeeze the most juice out of that Berry
possible because after the berry that is
you get old and the juice is disgusting
and nobody wants to talk to you anymore
your bodybuilding career and a dare I
say social life is over and you're just
that creepy man in your apartment
building that used to wave at girls and
they would smile and now they just run
so I got really uh really really
upsetting I don't mean any of that but
really trying your fucking best
means in your last workout of an
accumulation phase
cons experiment going to failure or even
Beyond if it's safe
notice I said experiment which rules out
two things one
in the first several weeks don't do that
shit do start two or three rir and then
go up
and also the experiment part here's how
this works some people the stimulus to
fatigue ratio for them of going to and
Beyond failure is such dog shit they'll
just never benefit from it and they can
always stop at two reps in reserve or
one rep in reserve and get their best
training ever
that may be even muscularly dependent
for you you say look if I push my pecs
to be on failure they just don't fucking
heal and it's awful and I just never get
anything out of but for my quads if I
don't go to failure pretty constantly
they don't grow much and I don't see a
whole lot of change so
number five
is not going close to failure as just a
categorical principle you apply to
everything so experiment going to
failure and Beyond as an advanced
athlete to make sure you learn your body
well enough to know that if there is
light at the end of the tunnel for you
in Failure that you're at least doing it
and if there's not light at the end of
the tunnel you at least fucking really
tried and it didn't fucking work so you
can back away and say I'm not going to
go to failure because I don't need that
shit
lastly Point number six
not learning your body's intricacies
well enough
by the time you're Advanced certainly a
few years into being Advanced you have
to know the exercises that you prefer to
do
the techniques that you do on the
exercises
the recovery abilities that you have so
you know how much is too much or how
much is not enough
frequencies that you best uh respond to
and are sort of uh best for your joints
and connective tissues frequencies that
are good enough for your muscles but not
so much that you can't recover and of
course volume landmarks minimum effector
volume and maximum recovery volume at
the very least is something you should
have an idea of
why because you're Advanced you have to
be an expert on your own training at
this point
very few things should surprise you in
training
and your plans should be pretty logical
and pretty set in stone I didn't say
completely set in stone you should have
a real fucking good idea of what you're
doing if you say you're Advanced but you
walk into the gym and you have no idea
what the fuck you're gonna do
and you get on the leg press and it
takes you three or four sets to even
figure out where to put your feet holy
fucking shit you've just been training
for a long time you were not advanced
show me an advanced lifter and we've had
lots of these folks luckily on the RP
Channel
doing workouts will be like hey um show
us what a leg press looks like they get
on there they set their feet they grab
the handles they breathe in and they
fucking super crush it Ultra depth and
each rep looks the same we're like hey
we'd have diddly dick to teach you
because you know it all that should be
what you're striving for as an advanced
lifter
I'm not gonna say this
I'll say it
all the pro bodybuilders
all this uncharitable many pro
bodybuilders that are Advanced if you
watch them train you're like why are
they making beginner mistakes because
they're not fucking really Advanced they
just have really good genetics and they
take lots of drugs and they're really
hard workers and they've done this over
two or one or two decades and voila
there you have it but to truly earn the
title of not making any mistakes as an
advanced person you should seek to know
your body Ultra well if you tell me hey
Dr Mike
uh if I put you in a skull crusher setup
how would the technique work I fucking
know for myself not for other people
necessarily but for me say hey what
brand of leg press do you prefer oh my
God I am so glad you asked I have all
the things in the world to say about
that
what is your maximum recoverable volume
for XYZ muscle group I can give you at
least a thought
if you don't know yourself well
are you going to navigate the
intricacies of making gains as an
advanced person where we know it's no
longer hammering the fucking nail with
the biggest hammer in the room it's much
more of a Precision guided task
in order to be precise you need to know
your environment and that means know
your body so learn learn pay attention
don't overthink the shit think it just
enough to where it gives you a nice
logical conclusion that works in the
real world
take that little piece of knowledge
stuff it away and continue to build
around it and sooner or later you'll
know so much you'll be the man that Knew
Too Much and you'll be running around
and in the French and English tunnel you
know having like a silence super fights
with other agents because they want to
get in your head and get your training
knowledge so they can build the perfect
zombie army of bodybuilders
see you guys next time