if you're in a muscle gain phase how do
you find your maintenance well you can
probably use your most recent
maintenance numbers just fine if you're
a little bit hungrier than you expected
on a deload you can eat more and a real
complexity here is in the first half of
the deload you may still be accreting
muscle that you set into motion with
stimulus delivered in the last half of
the last week so you dealer during week
six Thursday Friday Saturday hard
training of week five you put some
into motion and that muscle growth might
take all the way through Tuesday or
Wednesday of the deload week to actually
get going so if you adjust the
maintenance that's totally cool and
you'll probably get all the gains anyway
but if you bump that a little bit up to
somewhere halfway between maintenance
and your your typical mass and calories
you're good to go so it's okay to eat a
little bit more in the first half of the
deal a week second half not a lot of
loss of growth then you drop down back
to maintenance and it should be totally
fine