so Steph and I are just getting here to
the gyms and it's a miserable rainy day
here in Tampa Florida but I wanted to
pose for questions to you guys that
explore a little bit deeper some of the
topics that I discussed in my shoulder
science explain video and these are just
four questions that sort of came up in
my mind as I was making the video so the
first question is so if the shoulder
press is a frontal plane movement
meaning when the dumbbells go up and
down they're going through the range of
motion in that plane that separates the
body into a front half in a back half so
the question is why doesn't that target
the lateral deltoid more than the front
deltoid like a lateral raise would which
also operates in the frontal plane
question number two sort of related if
the front raise is training pure
shoulder flexion and the role of the
front delt is to perform shoulder
flexion why is the front raise less
effective than a shoulder press at
activating the front delt and for the
sake of the question let's just assume
that there's relative loading so you
couldn't say that the answer is that you
can just go heavier with the shoulder
press question number three something
that I didn't bring up in the science
explained video was grip width so what
do you think does a wider grip lead to
greater delt activation or does a narrow
grip activate the delt better finally
number four like I said in the science
explained video shown solving colleagues
found that a neutral or palms facing one
another grip was better at activating
the rear delts and a palms down or
pronated grip in the reverse PEC deck
and this was surprising to me because
bio mechanically speaking external
rotation of the shoulder should put the
lateral delt in a better position to
contract through horizontal adduction so
what do you guys think is going on there
why did the EMG data find the opposite
result that which biomechanics would
predict
so with these four questions I really
want to hear your guide solutions to
them so please think about them and
leave your responses in the comments
below simply just number them one two
three four so we know what question
you're answering and I'll post all the
answers here in a new video at the same
time next Wednesday to show me how smart
all of you guys are let me hear your
answers I will read through all of them
and I will post the correct answers next
Wednesday
next time I'll see you guys in the next
video all right