if you saw my most recent video you know
that training to failure is actually
pretty important for muscle growth how
do you know if you're actually pushing
yourself hard enough the good news you
probably are
soon to be Dr Milo welfare with wolf
coaching today we're actually going to
talk about a topic that I've done
research on myself published research so
stick around how accurate are people at
gauging repetitions in reserve let me
give you a quick primer on what
repetitions and Reserve or rpe is
repetitions and Reserve refers to how
many more repetitions at the end of a
set you could have done before failing
to lift the weight let's say for example
you're benching 100 kilograms if you had
perfect knowledge of the fact that you
could bench 100 kilograms for 10 reps
and you did a set of eight repetitions
with 100 kilograms that set would have
had two repetitions in reserve
essentially you would subtract the
actual number of repetitions performed
from how many repetitions you think you
could have performed and that will give
you how many repetitions in reserve you
have rpe on the other hand is
essentially just subtracting the
repetitions in reserve out of 10. so
let's say for example you had two
repetitions in reserve you would have an
rpe of 10 minus two so eight that's all
repetitions of an RP is but since we
know that training to failure or pretty
close to it is pretty important for
hypertrophy there's a big question or
people actually accurate at gauging how
close the failure they are how many
repetitions are Reserve they ended a set
with that's what our study tried to
answer so believe it or not there's
actually been about 20 studies looking
at this exact topic with this much data
we conducted a review paper on how
accurate are people at gauging
repetitions and reserves in other words
if you think you had three more reps in
the tank at the end of your set did you
actually have three or did you have five
or did you have eight and what
likelihood is there that you were
actually quite accurate the good news is
you're likely a lot more accurate than
you think you are a lot of clients come
to me saying I don't know how to use
repetitions in reserve I don't think I'm
very accurate I don't want to use it all
together and I think that sometimes you
absolutely might be right however our
meta-analysis found that on average
across 20 studies when people were asked
to rate how many reps they could have
done you know sometimes halfway through
a set sometimes two-thirds that people
were only off in their estimation by one
rep if you think that you could have
done one more rep at the end of your set
you probably could have done two more in
other words they underestimated the
performance by one rep on average here's
the interesting things people were most
accurate in sets of up to 12 repetitions
so if you're in the gym doing a set of
two hour petitions or less in all
likelihood you're not going to be too
far off provided you're pushing yourself
pretty hard when you get above 12
repetitions people tend to underestimate
themselves by more and more and this is
where it's interesting there is some
research looking at this concert and
perceived effort during higher
repetition sets and did you consistently
see that when people are doing High rep
sets they struggle a lot more they
experience more discomfort they
experience more burn and so that's
probably why it's more difficult to
reach failure or to accurately estimate
how close to failure you are because as
you get closer and closer to failure
your legs start burning your arms start
burning your chest starts burning
whatever you're training and it becomes
uncomfortable and it can be tempting to
think that just because it's
uncomfortable you're closer to failure
so the takeaway is if you're training
with below 12 reps train about one rep
closer to failure than you think you
should if you're training with above 12
reps do about three to five extra reps
here's some more takeaways one analysis
we did found that actually the trading
status of a participant doesn't really
correlate to how well they estimate reps
and Reserve in other words whether
you're a beginner or a more advanced
athlete doesn't really influence how
accurate you are at Gator custom Reserve
now there is likely a slight learning
effect at least in my article experience
of getting more trained on Rex and
Reserve but likely it's not a big effect
provided you're actually pushing
yourself hard enough you will be
accurate another thing generally the
closer you push the failure so let's say
for example you're going all the way to
failure versus trading five percent
reserve the more accurate you are
engaging how many more reps you could
have done likewise the heavier you're
working such overload you're using the
better you are likewise the further you
are into your obsession you know let's
say for example you're in the first set
of bench versus you're on your third set
of bench generally you'll be more
accurate engaging reps and reserve on
your third set versus your first one so
these are all findings that are
important because they confirm but hey
you're actually pretty accurate at
engaging resident Reserve so not only
can we use reps and Reserve as a means
to make sure we're getting a good
stimulus we can also be pretty sure that
by using this tool we're actually pretty
accurate and it's a valid tool in
prescribing training to people and
making sure the stainless they get is
appropriate the one practical
recommendation I have for people who
really struggle to think they have an
accurate estimate of represent Reserve
would be to take their last set of
failure as I discussed in this video
training to failure on at least some
sets is probably a good idea for
hypertree anyways but by doing so you
also get a learning experience of how
does one weapon Reserve or failure
actually feel and look like and
hopefully over time that will help you
become slightly better at aging custom
Reserve that's the video If you like
this video as Omar esophon said like the
video comment subscribe and if you want
to see anything else leave a comment
down below letting me know what you want
to see and without