hey what's up guys Sean nwani of
eliteimpactlabs.com here with a quick
and easy uh dessert SL uh snack recipe
for you that you can include in your
bodybuilding diet this is one recipe
from my buddy Dave rues complete
anabolic cooking guide which contains
over uh 200 different bodybuilding
recipes and you can download that using
the link in the description box so this
is a maple protein snack wrap all you're
going to need is a uh 8 inch tortilla it
can be either whole wheat or white it's
up to you a medium banana some natural
peanut butter um if you want to use
almond butter instead that's fine too um
some vanilla wayy protein powder some
silvered almonds and some sugarfree
maple syrup and if you are counting your
Macros or if you're bulking then you can
just use regular uh maple syrup as well
that's fine too so making this recipe is
very simple and I'm just going to show
you right now so the first thing you're
going to do is you're going to mash
together the uh banana and and the W
protein powder in a bowl so one medium
banana one scoop of the vanilla W
protein and you're just going to use a
fork basically to kind of mash this
mixture together it does take a little
bit of time to uh get the right
consistency
here all right so I'm done mixing that
up I don't know if you can see it from
there but it's basically just kind of a
creamy consistency
um and I'm of course using uh our Elite
impact labs ISO 3way which is 100% micr
filtered way way isolate I will link
that in the description box below if you
want to check that out so we've got that
mixed up uh and then all we're going to
do is take a tablespoon of natural
peanut
butter and we're just going to basically
spread it onto the
tortilla this peanut butter is a little
bit uh hard I should have heated it up
first but basically just just spread
that
on all right so I'm done with that and
then all you're going to do is take the
protein mix and basically drizzle it on
top of the
wrap basically spread that
around and then you're just going to top
it off with a tablespoon of silvered
almonds
and then finish uh finish it off with
the maple syrup again you can use
sugar-free this is Walden Farms uh
sugar-free maple syrup you can order
that online I'll also link that in the
description box below um but again if
you're tracking your Macros and you're
using regular uh maple syrup that's fine
too and then you're just going to wrap
it up and eat
it this is kind of a challenge something
sometimes cuz you don't want it to uh to
spill but do my best
here so there you have it if you are
using the uh sugar-free maple syrup then
this works out to 479 calories uh 33 g
of protein 52 G of carbs and 15 G of fat
so that's a really good well balanced uh
uh muscle building snack that you can
include in your bodybuilding plan so I
hope you found this useful give that a
try I think you'll enjoy it um if you
did enjoy this video please make sure to
hit the like button as always leave a
comment and subscribe to stay up to date
on future videos um and again if you
want to check out Dave ruel's anabolic
cooking guide uh which has over 200
different bodybuilding recipes I will
also link that in the description box
below and also make sure to join the
elite impact lab's Facebook page for uh
daily articles videos tips and muscle
building supplement giveaways thanks for
watching this video and I'll talk to
again soon with more free
tips