you'll often hear that if you want the
best gym advice you ask the biggest guy
but is that actually true I wanted to
find out so I went to one of the biggest
bodybuilding gyms in the world to see if
the best pro bodybuilders would be
willing to take science-based lifting
advice from me someone much smaller than
them would you be open to taking a few
science-based tips from me or no so I'm
trying to see if people who are bigger
than me would be open to hearing
science-based lifting advice would you
be open to taking some science-based
advice from me even though you're the
pro and even though science-based
training wasn't everyone's cup of tea I
found it interesting that the people
with the best physiques like truly world
class size and shape were also the ones
who were the most open to learning I
would recommend raising this up if
you're smart you got to ask the big guy
you got to ask the Science Guy this is
where I'll probably give you the science
based critique nobody knows everything
of course he there's things that he
doesn't know yet so the more he knows
the better check out the full video
right here