all right what's going on everyone so in
this video I'm going to be showing you
guys two different workouts one is a leg
workout and the other is my chest and
shoulder workout
both of these workouts were back-to-back
I think I wanted to put both of these
workouts together in the one video just
to illustrate how it is our level of
readiness or how we feel about a given
workout or especially going into a given
workout can just vary so much from day
to day and how it is that I've sort of
learned to to deal with this and
overcome my emotional attachment to that
variability so the interesting thing is
that both of these workouts were both
happening at roughly the same time so
for whatever reason I ended up just
training really late that week it was
something like 10 p.m. both workouts
both workouts I had basically under 8
that day just because I was very busy
and well I am intuitively eating so I
tend to eat only according to my
appetite and I guess I'm learning that
one of the potential drawbacks of that
is if you tend not to eat so much during
the day then by the time you get to your
training session if it happens to be
very late at night you might have set
yourself up with a pretty big daily
deficit for the 12 or 14 hours that you
are awake what I'm trying to say is that
all of the factors leading into the
workout couldn't have predicted this
both workouts were late at night both
workouts for both workouts I was
underfed and for both workouts I wasn't
feeling particularly psyched or hyped up
going into the workout but yet one of
these workouts I ended up feeling weak
and
ended up not being the most fantastic
workout and the other workout ended up
you great it was one of the best chest
and shoulder workouts have had in a
while
so I think that what I wanted to talk
about in this video is just how it is
that I psychologically deal with the
fact that there is going to be some
degree of variability when it comes to
your training performance and just your
overall readiness to train on that day I
don't think you should try to force a
particular feeling going into your
workout so basically I talked about
dietary acceptance in another video and
I've been applying some of the same
principles to my training and one thing
that I used to do a whole lot of when I
was sort of earlier in my career
competing as an amateur was I would try
to force myself to get hyped up before
the workout so I would double up on
pre-workout for example on the way to
the gym I would try to find the most
like loud and aggressive and hyped up
music that I could find and play it
really loud and I used to try to get
myself out of say like more of a feeling
of funk and get myself more hyped up and
I would try to force that and then when
I got to the gym I would have the music
playing really loud in my headphones and
I would basically be rushing and trying
to get to a point where I felt like I
would be pumped up and ready to lift the
weights that I had to do that day and
what I've come to learn is that that
isn't something that really can be force
at least not for me
and what I found to be much more
effective is just simply accepting your
own psychological and your own mental
going into the gym and recognizing that
a single workout isn't going to make or
break you in the grand scheme of things
what will potentially make or break you
in the grand scheme of things is how you
react to any given workout and then then
how that affects subsequent workouts and
this actually took me a really long time
to realize and I think it might stem in
part from the fact that all through my
early athletic career I've always put a
lot of pressure on myself to perform so
for example if I was running sprints as
a basketball player in high school there
was just simply no way I wasn't going to
give a hundred percent of my effort and
if I still wasn't say the first person
back then I would I would be hard on
myself about that and I would still
think that that wasn't enough and I
think a part of this attitude probably
has been at least in part responsible
for why then successful as a
professional bodybuilder but I also
think that it's caused me a lot of
psychological anguish that I didn't
necessarily need to feel and it's also
potentially held me back in a lot of
ways because historically how I would
feel if a workout wasn't going exactly
the way I wanted it to is I would just
basically beat myself up about that and
then be fearful that this was going to
continue even if I knew that the next
workout was going to be a fresh start
somewhere in my mind I would convince
myself that I had somehow derailed and I
don't know if this is common or not but
it's a psychological thing that I
certainly have gone through and
basically how it is that I that differs
from how it is that I handle bad
workouts now is that I just accept it
ice accept it as a reality that just
like weigh-ins are going to
you vary from day to day and they're
going to fluctuate so will your your
training performance and even if all of
the the same variables are in place in
exactly the same way you are still going
to have some variability just because
there's so much that goes into physical
ready readiness and there's such an
interplay between things that are going
on psychologically and in your own
personal life that can really play into
and impact on how it is a workout goes
so basically what I've started to do is
rather than really force a feeling of
being hyped and pumped up I simply
accept whatever it is my internal state
is at that point in time and just roll
with it one thing that I do try to do is
enter each training session from a
perspective of gratitude so I try to
think about the fact that there are so
many people who would be you would feel
so lucky just to be able to have the
opportunity to train at a facility that
I train at and that I'm unable to try
that and also the fact that some people
would love to physically be able to do
the exercises and so on that I am able
to do because I'm able-bodied in that
way and when you think about that it
kind of makes the fact that you have a
bit of a daunting task ahead of you seem
a little bit trivial in comparison to
you know sort of the global or a grand
grand picture of what it is that that's
happening so that is one thing that I
remind myself of and the other thing
that I do is try to just put myself into
kind of like a light or a humorous mind
state so if I'm going to the gym would
say training partner or Robin then I'll
try to make it so that were in more of
like a playful joking mood so that
things are just light in the
when I start the workout that way I feel
much less less rush and pressured to
perform and I just feel much more ready
to see what it is that happens on that
day and I will say that the vast
majority of times what ends up happening
is that when I go through my full warmup
and I get the blood flowing and I get
the endorphins going
I end up just feeling really good anyway
and the workout Enzo ends up going
really well for me um and then sometimes
I get warmed up and I still I'm not
feeling it I'm still feeling a little
bit sluggish but then I'll get into a
couple working sets and things turn
around very quickly um every now and
then like I would say once every couple
of months I'll start my working sets and
I'll recognize that I'll I'm just weak
that day I'm just not ready to really
kill it like I normally would and on
these days historically I would have
gotten emotionally involved in that fact
but really to me this is akin to just
getting upset about the fact that your
weight is up a pound or something in the
grand scheme of things as long as the
general trend is towards progression
then those daily variances really are
just a blip in their way so far down in
the weeds that it's not even worth
giving it your attention so this is sort
of a shift in focus that I've luckily
managed to have and I think that it's
improved the quality of my training and
probably more importantly the quality of
my perspective towards my training and I
think that these two workouts really
does did it does it they illustrate that
because the squat workout I went in and
I put 365 pounds on a bar and it moved
really slow and just didn't feel great
and rather than say you know what last
week I got off the 405 for a set of five
I said you know what
for whatever reason tonight that is it
going to happen
so rather than force that I'll simply
aim to add a rep so I did 365 for a set
of six rather than five and I only went
as far as I was able to go and that was
that I didn't let it impact on later
workouts and I'm confident that in the
next squat workout I'll either be able
to do or beat what I did the previous
week or I won't but either way I think
that there's no sense in emotionally
attaching to the to that outcome and
then the last thing I will just say is
that I think that this might be able to
be taken too far in that you could get
to a point where you're just so
accepting of any outcome that you become
complacent and I think that this isn't
likely to happen if you're genuinely
motivated by your training and if you're
you're genuinely enjoying what it is
that you're doing and you feel
passionate about the goal that you have
set for yourself and so I think that
when people get to a point where they're
complacent or they're indifferent to
their training or even when they start
to contempt like have contempt for their
workouts then that's probably more so a
function of that person not having
either clearly enough set out what it is
that their goal is they might not have
set up those those parameters clearly
enough or they just might be working
towards a goal that isn't truly
important to them or they might have
just not they might just not be
organizing their training in a way that
is enjoyable for them and rewarding that
isn't to say that should be the primary
thing that you're thinking about when
you're setting up your training
certainly you're going to have to go
through some periods of training where
it might be miserable at times and
certainly difficult however I think that
overall if you if you want to accept at
face value that this
is really you know in bodybuilding and
also in powerlifting
a marathon and not a sprint then you
need to set yourself up with a
psychological approach that's in line
with that so that's basically my rant on
all that guys I hope that you enjoyed
that workout footage thank you so much
for watching and listening to me rant
about this stuff it's not something that
I normally talk about but it is
something that I have been thinking
about quite a bit lately and sort of
putting into practice on my own so I
figured out just share it with you guys
a sort of unfiltered and unscripted so I
hope that that was okay if you guys like
this video please do me a favor and hit
thumbs up button do subscribe to my
channel if you haven't already I have a
lot of really exciting collaborations
coming up with some of the top people
top coaches in the fitness community
we're going to be doing at least two
more roundtables in the next month on
really cutting edge topics so you guys
don't want to miss that you can feel
free to turn on your notifications and
at least be sure to subscribe so yeah
once again guys thanks so much for
watching I'll see you in the next video
alright bye