testosterone stayed right in the upper
end of the range cuz we're we're doing
trt um hormone replacement therapy not
not a huge deal
there I'm sorry what does he mean it not
a huge deal in capacity that since it's
good we're good or does he mean like trt
is not a big deal cuz it's aing huge
deal and I suspect that the trt has
probably a lot to do with um Dana
White's
[Music]
transformation hey folks Dr Mike here
for RP strength I've been a professor of
sport and exercise science for some time
I'm a competitive bodybuilder and
Brazilian Jitsu Grappler with a brown
Bel interestingly enough in Brazilian
jiu-jitsu from Josh Fogle at the
Jiu-Jitsu Company in Philadelphia
Pennsylvania today I am reviewing a
video about some training and some diet
and some recovery supplement stuff from
the everpresent Mis Dana White the
president of the UFC I
believe and a guy who really just helped
put MMA on the map like kind of no one
else he is entitled to my ever reaching
constant Mega respect and the following
will be either attempts at helpful yet
comedic criticism uh or attempts at
teaching some good principles and uh all
for the laws so no offense taken Mr Dana
White If You by some chance step down
from your Ivory Tower to actually notice
that I made a video about you and if so
hello um no offense all jokes all good
all me with respect now that we've said
that to the tapes I will never go to a
doctor ever again about my General
Health all they want to do is put you on
pills
H so there's something there a lot of
doctors won't spend the time with you to
address lifestyle factors some of them
might be like yeah exercise eat healthy
but here's the proximate problem that
you have here are some pills for it
that's not all doctors so the I'll never
see a doctor again for my General Health
is maybe a bit
much and I'll tell you why doctors put
people on pills and it's a two factor
three Factor reason maybe one factor is
that doctors just want you out of their
office so they can see the next patient
for more money doesn't happen nearly as
much as people would have you suspect
but for some doctors it's definitely a
concern and it's icky and it's not great
there are two other major
factors one is that pills work and they
work really well and they're
evidencebased research backed and they
also work right away if you have high
blood pressure taking blood pressure
medication makes it go away tomorrow if
you have high blood pressure but you try
to diet and exercise and lose weight out
of it it will work but in months and
years and it assumes you're successful
the success of blood pressure
medications begins and ends at you
taking the pill out of the container
putting it in your mouth so drugs are
way faster way to get some immediate
effect and lifestyle changes have a
two-part problem one part is they're
delayed not a big deal we can wait the
other part is they require a lot of
intense effort and focus and consistency
one of the dark sides why a lot of
doctors don't spend a lot of time on
lifestyle
intervention is because they're not
really trained in school to know a lot
about the RP hypertrophy app there is no
avoiding hard training if you want to
grow but if you want to grow the most
your training needs to be hard and smart
RP hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
[Music]
results so doctors want to get you on
pills so you just don't croak
approximately and then they
hopefully pray that you get your life
together but you to go to a doctor
because you're an ill health and so kind
of to Dana White's Point your General
Health when you're not sick
approximately and you need help now
should be something you handled pretty
much with good sleep good training good
recovery and good eating and a lot of
physical activity and the thing is most
people don't do that and then they come
to the doctor and the doctor's like well
you're in really bad Health here's some
pills and by the way dieted exercise you
already walked out the door so that's
kind of how it happens it's not really a
thing that doctors are just doing
because they're evil or they're missing
it like crazy there's an understanding
from some of the folks that do this kind
of Lifestyle medicine that everyone that
comes into your door as a patient could
be someone whose life you change by
introducing them to all sorts of
interventions that take a lot of their
time and effort generally people that
believe that have not worked
sufficiently in the general population
to understand that most people just
won't do it and so saying that you
should do it to the one out of hundred
people like Dana White that will do
something about it um generally not good
enough and also a lot of people when you
try to give them lifestyle interventions
they respond a little bit curtly they
say yeah that's nice like I'll start
exercising when I have time why don't
you give me some drugs to make me better
now and then as a doctor and a service
provider and someone who signed into the
hypocritic oath that's kind of what you
got to do so tough spot here no no clear
winners no clear villains I'd say none
of them could get my cholesterol good
and bad leveled out it's all good now
this guy will change your life some of
your favorite actors some of the most
powerful richest people in the world are
all now doing this with Gary for one
reason and one reason only cuz it works
Gary Brea haven't heard much about him
but the evidence-based space apparently
doesn't like him a whole lot I haven't
formed a lot of my own very set in stone
conclusions but uh let's see the kind of
stuff that he's recommending and maybe I
can form a little bit more of an
informed conclusion after watching some
more footage let's take a look there
were a lot of different problems with me
that were going on that I've been
talking to doctors for for 10 years none
of them could fix any of my problems I
had sleep apnea I had problems with my
legs I had problems I didn't realize I
had that doctors didn't even tell me
that sucks it sucks to have health
problems that no one can help you with I
feel for that so A friend of mine Carrie
kasm came to me and said you have to
meet this guy Gary Breer he's incredible
he's a human biologist he'll change your
life human biologist curious don't know
what degree program that's in uh don't
say human
biology um let's find out what kind of
stuff he knows I'm not cynic but I am
skeptical there are four components to
the Superhuman protocol ooh it's
something called the Superhuman
protocol curious the BMF pad cold
plunging red light therapy and oxygen
therapy that's a lot of really expensive
 red light therapy has had some
promising research though on that
balance I'm not so sure how it's doing I
don't know what the first thing you said
was some kind of bed where you lay down
I'll say that giving you more oxygen
than you need and doing cold plunges has
on the long term an aggregate almost no
effect positively on your health unless
you have a very specific context for it
so so far because none of these things
are eat better and eat less food and eat
healthier and do more exercise and
training and manage your stress better
and sleep more these are almost
certainly not the big differences that
made a huge difference in Mr Dana
White's health and
happiness maybe their might minor maybe
they had nothing to do with it at all is
my best guess so this goes in your bed
the machine right next to it here you
turn it on you literally just lay on
this thing I sleep on it every night pmf
stands for pulse electromagnetic field
it's actually a charge a pulse
electromagnetic field is really
mimicking what we get from Mother Nature
and that's the magnetism the low gous
current that we get from the surface of
the
Earth skepticism transitioning slowly to
cynicism there
is I'll ask this as a question instead
of saying it as a statement is there a
reason to
augment the electromagnetic field of the
earth if we're still on Earth I mean the
electromagnetic field that comes from
nature I don't suppose ends one foot off
of the
ground and that unless you're a human
who still sleeps on the ground even
sleeping in the trees doesn't count for
this one you're robbed of some kind of
magical Health properties of
it I suppose that you still get the same
electromagnetic field exposure from the
earth r large in a room but then you get
more of it from this pad is more better
and to that end has there been a series
of research studies to examine two
things one what is the dose response
relationship of introducing extra
electromagnetic field stimulus to the
human body and what things does it make
better I can promise you that almost
certainly does not exist and the second
question is by what mechanism especially
empirically validated but even
hypothetical or theoretical would such
an extra added exposure to
electromagnetic radiation by the way uh
how would that help like does it help
your brain recover better does it help
your blood flow better and if that's the
CL what is the evidence for that claim
and how mechanistically could that even
be possible I'll tell you right now not
looking so good for the pad but maybe
there are some kind of mechanisms which
it works we don't know and then later
it'll look like a clown show with me
making this video that they'll actually
put up tons of uh super super well-
conducted research studies that say it
works super well uh for now I'm very
reserved I must say so I wake up in the
morning the pmf matat is in my bed then
I come right to work damn he's ripped
lost 36 lb by the way 36 lb is a lot of
weight to lose it will make you feel
better snore less and improve all your
blood markers like crazy uh it's going
going to go ahead and say it's probably
the weight loss that did almost all the
work but maybe I'm getting ahead of
myself then I come right to work and
then I jump in the coal plunge all right
cold plunge let's make them balls
smaller I go in at 50° for 3 minutes
Diamond Spas diamonds baby Scott
remember when I got a cold plunge made
entirely of of platinum and uranium but
they said the uranium was bad for me so
I had to exchange it and just go to
platinum and zirconium
instead sucks to me just terrible I
wouldn't know anything about
it so when you start coal plunging it's
very hard at first it's very mentally
challenging I've been described as
mentally challenged
before it's true so the coold clunge is
my drug of choice I don't think anything
makes you feel better for longer hey
Gary you ever had a before
motherucker hey we got a professional
 artist and then we got a cal
plunge which one you want Gary He's like
I love the cold you're like okay sweet
that was the thing that
happened um it can actually benefit you
by indirectly effect insulin levels guys
the
direct effect on insulin levels of a
cold tub is Dick the indirect effects on
insulin levels are going to be two
things very very tenuous not guaranteed
and also even if delivered they're going
to be of such a small magnitude that
merely taking a walk for several minutes
will no doubt have better effects on
your insulin levels than the cold plunge
but I'll tell you what affects your
insulin levels even better by a long
shot resistance training to make your
muscles
bigger so that they consume more of your
blood glucose and that's really amazing
for your whole total body health and
your insulin Dynamics and also having a
high higher level of physical activity
by a little bit than you're normally
used to 10 to 12,000 steps a day is a
good recommendation and eating healthier
foods but especially less food than you
burn every day and thus you end up
losing body fat and losing body fat and
weight while gaining muscle mass and
having a high level of physical activity
that Trifecta will do all the heavy
lifting for improving your insulin
Dynamics by a mile by
95% whether some of this other stuff
that Gary no doubt will talk about does
even 5% % is itself contentious
so if Mr Dana White got all of these
amazing Transformations and he did a
great job with just this kind of
ancillary treatment I would be really
really impressed but I suspect he's on a
fat loss healthy diet and has increased
his daily physical activity and is doing
organized resistance training protocol
and has thus lost a lot of weight and
gained a lot of muscle sure looks like
it to me but we shall see if that is in
fact the case the vast majority of the
credit for his transformation goes to
physical activity enhancement resistance
training and eating a better diet what
amount goes to these other modalities is
in my scientific eyes and I only have
scientific eyes what uh questionable at
worst at best teeny tiny assistance as
well as increasing your mood by
releasing enderin oh endorphins you mean
endorphins motherucker JK but seriously
all jokes all love and
respect Scott do you notice that the
music is like um spa music welcome to
the Ascension Spa in Zurich Switzerland
where we give you three things that are
good for you an incred incredible
Ambiance amazing raw food from nature
and a stream of hand jobs now that's a
am I right still more video to come but
if you want the extended super unrated
super extended Ultra Edition cut which
you can't put on actual YouTube we have
a members area which you might love
because it has all other kinds of
goodies in it including regular
highlevel videos about Super
intellectual topics give that a click
give us a join and you can see this
video in full triple hd8k I don't know
if that part's true see you guys there
every day that I wake up I try to be
better than I was yesterday and I spent
the last Almost year and a half getting
in the best shape that I could possibly
get in a year and a half of getting into
the best shape of your life ising pretty
sweet um also that's m sarv one of the
best bodybuilders to ever do it and one
of the best coaches to ever do it that's
a hell of a person to have coaching you
um was going to say Dana way is a very
lucky man but he's not lucky he's just
frivolously rich and famous same idea I
guess all right we got a little full
range of motion action not bad since I
started taking my my health seriously
almost 2 years ago my life has
completely changed I'm more active I
have more energy I'm more productive at
work I'm more productive in life period
that's definitely a thing having poor
physical health up godamn near the rest
of you and having good physical health
um can really potentiate your entire
life this is dope I love that he's
gotten into resistance training and uh
hopefully into eating better which we'll
see in a little bit testosterone stayed
right in the op upper end of the range
cuz we're we're doing trt um hormone
replacement therapy not not a huge deal
there I'm sorry
what Gary the health benefits of trt
therapy when seen in the context of
someone who had excessively low
testosterone before they started that
therapy
have a
humongous amount of research behind them
and the magnitude of their effect is
infinitely High higher than all that
other red light therapy oxygen
tank stuff you were talking about but
the trt is not a huge deal does he mean
it not a huge deal in capacity that
since it's good we're good or does he
mean like trt is not a big deal CU it's
aing huge deal and I suspect that the
trt has probably a lot to do with um
Dana White's transformation it's at
least awesome as a supporting mechanism
to help promote General good health good
sleep good nutrient partitioning an
ability to train hard and and muscle
mass secretion and cardiac outcomes and
godamn near everything else trt is a big
deal Gary you can't just say it's not a
big deal and start talking about the
supplement you sell that is a big
deal it's really not let's find out when
that happens Dana White whacking back
hydrogen water as we
[Laughter]
speak hydrogen water now here I thought
water had hydrogen already maybe it's uh
a super water we don't know about yet
sugar makes you fat not fat that is a
fact okay Gary Brea has fallen down to
my list of people I'm not really
enthused with because anything in excess
makes you fat there are some Nuance
there the direct conversion of protein
to fat is questionable it may not happen
on Moss and humans so if you overeat
protein you stop burning a lot of fat
stop burning it entirely really but
maybe you can't add a ton of body fat
eating excessive protein if you eat
excessive carbohydrate the conversion of
carbohydrate into fat happens through
multiple pathways and you can directly
turn carbs into fat also if you eat
excessive carbohydrates and your
calories are too high you stop burning
fat entirely and then anytime your
calories too high from carbs some of
them turn to fat what do I leave out oh
yeah fats guess what your body has to do
to fats that it eats in order to
incorporate them into fat cells almost
nothing do you know why cuz they're
already fats they just go right in
godamn it getting you fat through
excessive fats is the easiest thing in
the world why fats are super tasty they
take up very little room in your stomach
even gram for gram they just have more
calories excess fat is probably the
highest reason why people are fat ask
people what they used to overeat when
they were overfat and they will tell you
cookies ice cream pizza pasta how many
of those things have a lot of
carbohydrate but very little fat Scott
remember we went out and had donuts and
pizza that had low
fat remember when we got pasta the all
Gard was just foil all oil guys
bodybuilders eat very high carb lowfat
foods and they can't gain weight short
of stuffing themselves it turns out fats
do an unbelievable job of making you
fatter one of the best job and it turns
out the thing that really makes you fat
is excess fat and carbs and the best way
to get that in is to eat Ultra tasty
highly processed foods like eat a pasta
Donuts Etc you end up eating so many of
them that whatever the they're made of
it's just too much carbs are not the
enemy sugars are not the enemy and fats
are not the enemy you just need to eat
them in moderation which I know isn't
super revelatory but it's just true all
right folks I'm going to talk about two
things things that
work and things that
don't things that work diet good
diet
veggies fruits whole grains lean
proteins healthy fats the good stuff the
 you know is good as it looks good
on a plate it's all green and S fam and
brown ricey and that fing
Works to make you healthier eating it in
moderation will lead to weight loss
which really makes you healthier doing a
slightly increased level of physical
activity during that time 10 to you know
8 to 10 to 12,000 steps a day enough to
get you moving and grooving little step
tracker like this from a Chinese company
that probably also knows where I am all
the time and is plotting Revolution
against the United States no doubt is an
excellent tool to add and in addition to
that resistance training anywhere from
two to most people four times a week 30
minutes to to 1 hour at a time can
absolutely work to make your health and
fitness and Longevity and quality of
life exponentially better and it can do
this in just months of your time and to
sustain these habits is the easiest
thing in the world once you've acquired
them and ingrained them deeply that part
is hard I will give you that here at RP
we try to give you the tools and the
knowledge to do it we're trying our best
but it is really tough to get on that
wagon and so
another thing that works really well is
the amount of buyin and motivation that
Dana White seems to have when you are as
enthused as he is about what works
you're going to keep doing the good
stuff and that's a big deal but what
doesn't work all the rest of that
that Gary Brea said godamn it why is
this person famous am I doing something
wrong it's the face isn't it it's the
face I'm just
ugly I give this whole
review a seven out of 10
huge points for Dana into taking his
health into his own hands and getting
some expert help huge points for his
consistency amazing points for training
especially with Milo sarv super training
expert all the training looked really
good amazing points for eating better
and giving up at least High quantities
of
alcohol awesome that gets us to a seven
the three points we lose can be
described as Gary braa is mostly full of
 sorry Gary that's the way the
cookie crumbles could be wrong but it's
unlikely I've been Dr Mike see you guys
next time all right that was really fun
folks this video right here YouTube
wants you to click on it and I've never
said no to YouTube see you next time