I think all of the dietary knowledge we
have is is rubbish you can't do
controlled studies say it's all
correlational and there's so many
variables I think the correlational
studies are useless Jordan Pearson is
not an expert with an intuition space in
fact to his credit he readily admits
this I am not a dietary expert however
even if he admits this readily
dismissing all of the nutrition signs as
being rubbish is just not good enough in
fact nutrition research has helped us
figure out a ton of things about what a
healthy diet is and isn't competence and
knowledge in one area in this case
psychology doesn't necessarily
generalize to other areas very well if
you want nutritional advice go to
someone who has nutritional
qualifications not to Jordan Peterson
yes it is notoriously difficult to
tightly control randomized control
trials within nutrition yes a good deal
of our knowledge on nutrition stems from
observational data however even with all
the limitations and the difficulties in
conducting nutrition science we've still
learned a lot about nutrition from
nutritional science takeaway don't
listen to Jordan Peterson for diet
advice listen to people who are actually
qualified about nutrition