hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I have a formula for
you to be able to know when it is time
to change out old exercises that are
stale and no longer working for you that
great and switch over to new ones that
could rocket all be it at a very small
trajectory your muscle growth and even
strength increases so here we go in
muscle growth training we now know from
direct scientific examination that doing
a new exercise every time you come to
the gym every week for a Monday chest
you do different chest exercises we know
that does not bring Optimum results at
the same time we know that if you do the
same exercises over and over and over we
can't expect the best gains variation is
still a powerful weapon so we have this
mystery between those two extremes as to
when do we take the exercises we're
currently using and rotate them to
include exercises that we're not using
yet to get our best best long-term gate
now the technical answer is whenever the
stimulus to fatigue ratio of the
exercise you're using is significantly
below the stimulus to fatigue ratio of
alternative exercises you could be using
instead like you're doing bicep curls
with a barbell and you know for a fact
that if you switch to dumbbells the
whole shit would feel better and you'd
make better progress that's definitely
the case but that is a little bit too
General we can do better we can do a
specific formula a list of checklist
items that when we work through it kind
of like a little worksheet you guys
thought you graduated school bullshit
you're back that we can be very sure
we're doing the right
thing here we
go three insights to take in and
integrate into this decision first
Insight if the
pumps that you're getting for any given
number of sets from that
exercise are significantly lower than at
least one alternative exercises you
could be doing you're doing barbell
curls and the pumps just uh they're not
the same you try a set of dumbbell curls
and you're like holy
shit if the tension you feel in the
Target muscle is notably lower if the
burn at higher reps that you get is
notably lower if the local fatigue of
the exercise like you do a bunch of
wrist curls and you're like holy fuck my
forearms are useless versus if you do in
the old exercise used to you do a bunch
of forums and you're like I don't know
something happened I think not a whole
lot the perturbation if you train
forearms and you can't grab your
toothbrush that's a good sign if you
train forearms and you're like I feel
like I haven't even trained the shits
not a good sign if the disruption of the
exercise is notably lower than
alternative for example it takes you
five sets of barbell curls to get
remotely sore but after two sets of
dumbbell curls you're like sore for 4
days if that's the case that is one of
the checklist items to tell you it might
be time to switch
exercises in other words the proxies for
stimulus of muscle growth are just
really not cutting it anymore compared
to at least one and maybe more
Alternatives if you're doing barbell
bench press and someone's like hey what
other exercises in the gym could give
you a better stimulus for your pecs
you're like oh two three every single
one it begs the question as to why the
hell you're doing barbell bench press
that might not be enough for you to
change though so here's another
consideration Point number two
if you are experiencing significantly
more fatigue than usual from this
exercise for example its axial fatigue
is really high you used to squat
everything was fine now you load a
barbell under your back and your spine
feels like it's crunching you feel super
weak you feel like you have no stability
or power on your legs uh that is axial
fatigue no good the systemic fatigue is
really high I used to do squats and it
was like oh this is great I'm tired but
just in my legs now you do squats and it
drains your entire soul from your body
used to do squats and leg curls after
were Bree now you're doing squats and
leg curls after you're like oh my God I
felt like I gave everything to squats I
have nothing left to
give or and rather it's wearing on your
joints and connective tissues this
exercise that you're doing now and it's
getting notably worse and worse roughly
every week and it's doing this big
thing it is significantly impairing your
confidence in continued overload
application here's what I mean by that
you're using a chest press machine and
it starts to bother your elbows a few
weeks later you're still making gains
but your elbows really hurt you see
you're using 200 lbs this week for sets
of roughly 10 next week your training
partner is like what do you want uh 205
right and instead of being like y
fucking loaded up let's hit a PR you're
like oh fuck 25 yeah that's what me know
book says but my
elbows I don't know not the attitude you
want to have in the gym you are in the
gym to do very few things and progress
in load and our reps is absolutely one
of the core ones and if the exercise is
bothering your joints so much that
you're looking at it and being like is
this the day that my elbows fall off of
my body maybe I'll just stick to 200 you
know I'm going to go down to 190 and see
if my joints feel better that's regress
not progress rest you're going backwards
outside of some special circumstances
that's not sharp so if that's something
you're experiencing it's time to
consider trading out the exercise but
hold on we got one more
thing if your repetition strength on
exercise is still
increasing man it's hard to pull away
it's like having a girlfriend that's
shit for the rest of your life but the
sex is so fucking good and she hits you
up and she's like what are you doing
tonight you're like
I should be breaking up with you LOL hi
boo boo letter c letter U at symbol
800m send oh this is going to be great
but I'm going to regret it because it's
awful because she's terrible but man
while that sex is good the fuck are you
going to go you ain't going no just the
same way when you're increasing in
strength for reps week after week after
week it could bother your elbows this
exercise the pumps and burning shit
couldn't be as good but look we're all
fucking Bros here right and ladies for
the one and 3/4 ladies that watch his
channel broettes we're all trying to get
fucking jacked up soulle and fucking
strong we're not trying to like leave
PRS on the table if shit is good like we
kind of want to stay it might not be the
best idea in the world but at least
there's something compelling keeping you
in like the hot sex of a crazy person
girlfriend isn't it true that the
crazies are always good in the sack uh
Scott the video guy you've had sex with
roughly 1 time 10 the 55th number of
women but you've read a lot of
Literotica about it yeah I've heard the
crazies are the crazies are good we've
all at least heard it most notably from
from The Crazies I'm good at sex she
yells at you while holding a
knife hot in any
case if you are no longer progressing
over the entire mesle cycle like you did
400 lb for 15 in a leg press last meso
as a PR this meso you hit 405 for 14
like a I think that just converts to
about the same progress or sorry the
same performance if there's really been
no progress and strength for an entire
Mesa cycle gwiz what is it that you're
holding on to this exercise for now if
you still get a crazy pumps and crazy
everything if you're still getting zero
fatigue zero joint pain Etc there is a
case for keeping that exercise in
because sometimes strength takes a long
time to develop sometimes it develops so
slow that you can't tell them as it a
as here's where the formula comes in
handy to resolve all of these seeming
contradictions here we go here's the
actual finally the point of this video
so some some of you uh attempting to
help folks could be like real answer is
at 6:45 in the comments or 6:45 in the
video bro hey thanks a lot fucking
mellin discovering the world of YouTube
videos in any case here's the
formula if you look and do all the whole
checklists one two and three take a look
at your stimulus your fatigue and your
rep
strength if just one of these is off
let's say your your joints feel great
you're still getting stronger but your
pumps and your soreness man just not
there anymore like it nearly is and
other exercise will be better it's
totally fine to switch you have my
personal blessing whatever the fuck that
means to you but science says in
quotation marks you can switch and it's
totally it's totally fine as long long
as the exercise you're going to hits
these boxes even better or at least as
well just switch out of borom no big
deal but you don't have to be compelled
to switch you can stay and it's totally
cool if you stay if two of these are
checkm marked like the pumps and stuff
suck your joints hurt but you're still
making rep gains so two out of
three is a this is a very good reason in
most cases to switch uh to another extra
two out of three is like we should
really get going you know it's like if
you going with your friends to a log
cabin in the woods and then like the
second time in the same night like one
of the rooms like it's creaky door and
it's like leave no you go in there's no
one in there like one of you smart
friends is going to be like I'm going to
get the fuck out of here you
motherfuckers can stay fuck all of you I
ain't trying to die in a fucking horror
movie Let's Go hey horror movies never
have that person or they do and all the
rest of the cast is like oh come on
Conor you fucking pussy I'm the only one
here with a brain you stupid idiots this
the zombies come this act
three so if it's two out of three it's a
good idea to switch exercises now you
don't have to have to like there is a
situation in which if you're
experiencing a little bit you know too
much of that uh joint pain but you still
can sort of make it work your rep
strength isn't increasing much maybe
you're on a fat loss phase but the pumps
and the soreness is just
outlandish maybe you can stay not the
wisest idea but potentially wise in
certain
context what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
[Music]
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now that's like if you're in a group of
friends and the ghost thing in the room
for the second time says leave now and
you or someone in your crew hopefully
you happen to be either an ascended
Saiyan God or AMO the Android from DC
you say you don't have to worry about
shit be like bring the ghost on
motherfucker I ain't seen a ghost that I
couldn't fucking KEH right the fuck up
out of here fuck you but you're probably
not an ascended sayian God or amaz the
Android which I think Jared feather may
be both of those things so you should
probably fucking leave the house and or
you should abandon the exercise and go
to something else here's the last part
of the formula if you check all three
boxes your pumps and tension and burn
and local fatigue and perturbation and
disruption are just basically absent
it's like training an empty
bicep and you are experiencing a
crapload of fatigue on this exercise
from every possible
perspective and your rep strength is
stable just as a isn't going anywhere or
is even
declining it is a highly highly good
idea for you to switch exercises it is
almost a no-brainer at that point and to
close up the haunted house analogy
that's like a zombie literally comes out
and fucking like rips one of your
friends arms off and you manage to run
away and barricade the door and your
friend's like blood he's like ahh you're
like somebody tied off and and and
you're like you guys we got to get out
of here and one of your friends like no
man we got to stay we got to we got to
find out what the mystery is be like
dude are you out of your fucking mind
fuck you you stay the one armed guy I'm
sorry man this is the way shit Works in
real life is like you you're combat
ineffective and you got to stay too I'm
kidding we always bring our boys
home hit the zombies with your other arm
although if the zombie zombie bacteria
or virus or whatever entered the
bloodstream your boy's a walking
liability because he could be a zombie
next although to refute my own point a
one-arm zombies not so effective h more
things for you to ponder in any case
three checklist formula so if you're
dealing just one of these things feel
free to trade off but feel free to stay
if it's two of these checklist items you
should probably get going and pick
another exercise but for compelling
reasons under special circumstances you
can stay and if it's all three who
raised you to say that you should still
be doing the same exercise give that
some thought next time your friends hit
you up and say hey do you want to go to
a haunted house in the middle of the
woods say yes it'll be fun see you guys
next time