in this video i'm going to outline some
realistic strength standards for each
category of training experience from
noob all the way up to freak so that you
can set some more realistic strength
goals for yourself i'll also be giving
you some tips at each level for how to
set up your training to get to the next
level up now before we jump into the
noob level i need to explain a few
limitations of strength standards in
general first it's important to realize
that just like any physical trait there
are huge genetic differences when it
comes to strength your skeleton itself
or what we call leverages is a big
factor here for example someone like
myself who has short arms and a big rib
cage will most likely perform better on
the bench press compared to someone with
longer arms and a shallow ribcage but
then having short arms is actually a
disadvantage for me on the deadlift
because my hips have to start lower in
order for me to reach the bar then on
the squat having short femur bones is
typically an advantage however any
deficit in the leverage department can
be overcome by other factors like good
programming and modifying technique for
example dr elaine norton was able to set
a world record on the squat despite
having some of the longest femurs in the
game but there's a lot more to strength
than just leverages some people have
more resilient tendons higher neural
drive and even though muscle size is
modifiable with training some people
start out carrying more muscle than
others so keep in mind that someone with
outstanding genetics might be able to
hit the advanced tier within their first
couple years of training whereas someone
with below average genetics might take
five to ten years to get there still i
did my best to set up the levels
according to average abilities based on
my decade plus of coaching experience
data from competitive power lifting
events and existing strength scales like
those from mark gripito and tim
henriquez all right three quick
disclaimers about my strength standards
first they assume constant technique so
you shouldn't be cutting your squat
depth shorter just to move up a level
and you need to be briefly pausing the
bar on your chest for the bench press to
count second because my standards are
based on body weight ratios they start
to break down at very high body weights
so they mainly apply to natural
reasonably lean lifters so under 20 to
25 body fat as a male and under 30 to 35
percent as a female if you're over 250
pounds or 113 kilos the numbers will
skew against you a bit so in that case
if you're natural and whether you weigh
250 300 or 350 pounds simply input your
weight as 250 pounds to get an idea of
where you land third the strength
standards are for a one rep max this
doesn't mean you need to test your one
rep max all the time especially if you
don't have competitive strength goals
but it's still smart to have some idea
of where your strength is to monitor
progression so if you want to get a
rough estimate you can plug a recent
tough set that you took close to failure
below five reps or so into the exrx one
rep max calculator which i'll link down
below and it'll spit out a one rep max
estimate it's not 100 accurate because
lifting for a one rep max is a separate
skill but it'll get you in the right
ballpark also for context i'm going to
be putting my current numbers next to
each level as we go through just for
comparison so as of right now i have
about a 480 pound or 218 kilo squat a
380 pound or 172 kilo bench and a 530
pound or 240 kilo deadlift at 180 pounds
or 81 kilos body weight so that
translates to a 2.6 times body weight
squat a 2.1 times body weight bench and
a 2.9 times body weight deadlift those
ratios have been higher for me at a
lower body weight but i'm nearing the
end of a bulk now so i'll just go with
my current lifts and my current weight
rather than stack my numbers with
all-time bests
[Music]
all right so let's get started with the
new category so your first three to six
months of lifting most newbie men should
be able to squat and deadlift something
between the empty bar and 135 pounds so
one plate per side and 45 to 95 pounds
for the bench press now the deadlift is
a bit of a curveball because some people
will be able to pull 225 or two plates
per side their first day in the gym but
typically getting a plate on the bar is
a sign that you're getting out of the
noob category and into the beginner
category for women the numbers tend to
look a bit more like this and you should
be able to easily progress to the
beginner level by just working on your
technique while incrementally adding a
minimum amount of weight to the bar each
and every workout generally in the three
to six rep zone for strength work
[Music]
all right so once you've been training
seriously for six months to two years
you're most likely in the beginner
category and as a male you should be
able to put up a 1.25 times body weight
squat a one times body weight bench and
a 1.5 times body weight deadlift so if
you're 180 pound man you should be able
to squat 225 bench 185 and deadlift 275
within your first few years of lifting
and these would be the comparable body
weight figures for a female and here are
the relevant lifts for 140 pound female
example now in the beginner stage you
should have acceptable technique on all
the lifts probably not mastered yet but
they should look pretty consistent from
rep to rep although it definitely is
normal at this stage to still struggle
staying locked in as you get close to
your max throughout this level you
should still be able to make progress
from workout to workout in a linear
fashion occasionally you'll have days
where you feel weaker and you won't be
able to pr but most people should be
setting new prs nearly every workout
still just adding minimum increments of
5 pounds to the bar or one extra rep in
that same three to six rep range as a
beginner i think it's perfectly fine to
keep training fun by switching things up
on the accessory bodybuilding exercises
but you should have a few core exercises
like the squat bench and deadlift where
you're just steadily adding weight from
week to week without switching things up
at all however at some point usually
around the one to two year mark most
people will start noticing their
strength gains slowing down still
progressing just noticeably more slowly
and you can no longer pr each and every
session at least not without
compromising technique or recovery and
this is usually a sign that you're
getting into that intermediate territory
and it may be time to update your
approach of it and before we hop into
the intermediate to advanced stuff i
want to quickly let you guys know that
the second phase of my intermediate to
advanced power building system is now
available over on jeffnipper.com so if
you're an intermediate to advanced level
lifter you can check out that first link
in the description box down below and
i'll have a little more info about that
program at the end of the video
[Music]
all right so once you've been in the gym
consistently for two years or so you
should find yourself in the intermediate
category this is where many people hit
their first plateau and a lot of people
actually end up getting stuck here
indefinitely giving rise to the
so-called lifetime intermediate someone
who just keeps spinning their wheels in
the gym never really getting beyond this
level but assuming you've committed to a
progressive strength plan you should be
able to get to a 1.25 to 1.75 times
bodyweight squat a 1 to 1.5 times weight
bench and a 1.5 to 2.25 times body
weight deadlift within two to five years
of training so if you're 180 pounds
that'd be a 225 to 315 pound squat a 185
to 275 pound bench and a 275 to 405
pound deadlift and then these would be
the comparable body weight figures and
example lifts for 140 pound female and
the key to getting out of the
intermediate stage and into the advanced
stage is to take a less linear approach
to your training rather than hitting the
same three to six reps with linear load
increases every workout i'd recommend
focusing on slightly different
adaptations throughout the week so for
example on the squat you could have one
heavy day where you hit something like
three to five reps at a pretty high
exertion and one light day where you
either do hypertrophy work in the 6 to
10 rep zone or speed slash technique
work for 2-4 reps but at a lower
exertion this would be a form of daily
undulating periodization or dup where
the rep ranges undulate or vary on
different days throughout the week and
of course your lifts still need to be
moving up on average but the actual
progression curve will be both less
steep and less linear
[Music]
okay so sometime around the five
five-year mark most committed people
with a focused plan will move out of the
intermediate stage and into the advanced
stage here we're looking at a 1.75 to
2.5 times bodyweight squat a 1.5 to 2
times bodyweight bench and a 2.25 to
three times body weight deadlift so for
180 pound male that would be a 315 to
455 pound squat a 275 to 365 pound bench
and a 405 to 545 pound deadlift so you
can see that my squat and bench would
still be above the advanced category but
my deadlift the lift i struggled with
the most would fall into the advanced
stage and again these would be the
comparable body weight figures and
example lifts for 140 pound female all
right so moving from the advanced level
to the elite level is kind of tricky
because i don't think it's necessarily
possible for every person i do think
that with an optimal blend of
intelligent coaching and strong
discipline a lot more people can get
there than many realize but it may
require a level of sacrifice in the gym
that a lot of people just wouldn't be
willing to make for those extra gains
regardless this is the point where
you'll need to become much more
methodical with your programming and
likely have to run specialization phases
where you narrow in on one lift while
putting the others at maintenance for
example my friend alex from the channel
alpha destiny recently had a 405 pound
bench press but in order to get there he
had to focus so much of his training and
recovery on the bench press that the
other lifts had to be put down to
maintenance for recovery purposes at
this point you'll also likely need to
get very intentional about addressing
your specific weak points in the
different lifts so if you consistently
struggle with locking out your deadlift
advanced strategies like chains hip
thrusts and block pulls could help
correct that muscle size can also become
a limiting factor so once you've got the
technique aspects down you may simply
need to take several months or even a
year dedicated to hypertrophy style
training in moderate to high rep ranges
while in a caloric surplus to build more
muscle mass and keep driving that
strength up the bottom line is that no
one gets to the elite level by accident
it takes a blend of intelligent planning
consistency and dedication in the gym
[Music]
okay so usually sometime around the five
to ten year mark people can begin to
move into the elite category assuming
they've done the right stuff up to this
point and again it is possible to get
there a bit sooner with the right
genetics and here we're looking at a 2.5
to three times body weight squat a two
to two point two five times body weight
bench and a three to three point five
times body weight deadlift and so with a
2.6 times bodyweight squat and a 2.1
times bodyweight bench i find myself
toward the lower boundary of the elite
category at the moment for those lifts
and so for our 180 pound male example
this would mean a 455 to 545 pound squat
a 365 to 405 pound bench and a 545 to
630 pound deadlift and these would be
the elite figures and lifts for 140
pound female and i do think that these
are the highest numbers that a lot of
natural lifters should realistically be
able to strive for assuming maximum
strength is the goal not everyone will
be able to get here but i do think that
with the right combination of time
programming and dedication a lot of
people can be elite for at least one or
two of the lifts however in order to get
to the freak category you need some
monster genetics
[Music]
so here we're looking at something north
of a three times body weight squat 2.25
times body weight bench and 3.5 times
bodyweight deadlift as a male so a great
example here would be taylor atwood
oh no
look at that
taylor competes in 163 pound or 74 kilo
weight class as a drug tested raw lifter
and puts up some unfathomable numbers
this is him just a few months ago
smoking the all-time american record
with a smooth
668 pound or 303 kilogram squat again at
163 pounds body weight that's a four
times body weight squat almost unheard
of on planet earth and here he is
hitting a relatively easy 430 pound or
195 kilo bench press so a monstrous 2.6
times body weight bench and then at the
same meet here's another american record
of get this
750 pounds at 163 pounds body weight
that's fully 200 pounds above my
all-time deadlift pr at the same body
weight which gives him a 4.6 times
bodyweight deadlift taylor almost needs
his own category beyond the freak level
honestly absolutely mind-boggling all
right and for a freak female lifter
we're looking at a 2.25 times bodyweight
squat 1.25 times bodyweight bench and a
three times body weight deadlift as an
example here let's look at canadian drug
tested raw power lifter jessica bittner
who just had a bunch of world records in
the 167 pound or 76 kilo weight class
last month so here's our new world
record 464 pound or 210.5 kilo squat
which at 167 pounds gives her an insane
2.77 times bodyweight squat which got
her a gold medal on that lift she also
bench pressed 231 pounds or 105 kilos at
the same meet good for a bronze medal
and a 1.4 times body weight bench press
and then this is our unbelievable
546 pound or
247.5 kilo deadlift which was good for
another gold medal and another all-time
world record at just over 3.25 times
body weight so here's my full strength
standard sheet which you can screenshot
and use to set up some realistic
strength goals for yourself just
remember to take it slow and focus on
creating a plan that'll get you one
level up from where you're at now one
level at a time and before we go a few
quick details about my new program
launch so i decided i'm going to leave
it at 20 off for one more week so up
until november 14th you can get it for
39.99 and then it'll go up to full price
from there the program comes with a 120
page ebook a full excel spreadsheet for
tracking your progress and a technique
handbook as well as video demos
illustrating every exercise in the
program including a bunch of new ones
like larson presses meadows rows
multi-height chest movements and some
fun new bicep and forum variations and
plenty more also to be clear phase two
is an entirely new program that's
intended to build on phase one so if you
haven't run phase one yet i'd recommend
running that one first and they're both
on sale right now so if you want to take
advantage of that you can do so at
jeffnipper.com and if you're still in
your first year or two of training i
definitely recommend running my
fundamentals program instead all right
that's it for this one guys don't forget
to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed
the video subscribe if you haven't
already and i'll see you guys all here
in the next one