hey folks dr. Mike Hill here for
Renaissance period ization for the bonus
video with your templates making sure to
categorize your workouts and thus your
nutrition for either hard moderate light
or non training days just to make sure
we really dive into this now mind you
this has covered pretty extensively in
the frequently asked questions if you
want this in written form the how-to
guide really beats this up but we're
gonna dive even deeper here just in case
there's some confusion we've been
selling these templates and clients have
been having great success with them for
years now thousands and thousands and
tens of thousands of successes they're
super easy to use but one of our most
common questions is just a bit of
confusion about I do a workout and how
is it that I'm eating for the day is it
gonna be a light day is it going to be a
moderate day is it gonna be a hard day
now the thing is NaN training day is
super easy to figure out it's when
you're not training with weights if
you're doing pure cardio unless you're a
cardio performance athlete an endurance
athlete in which case there's
instructions on the how to if you're
doing cardio just for fat loss or
general health it's a non training day
so you just scroll all the way down to
the bottom of your template and you eat
a non weight training day style super
easy but if you do workout how do we
figure out what is it gonna be is it
going to be a light day is it gonna be a
moderate day is it gonna be a hard day
all of the stuff I'm a FAQ and how to
applies let me just make it simpler for
you and really to the point first thing
a hard day is the following criteria
it's gotta be very likely I'll remind
you all of these are relative there's
not exactly a correct answer because
human bodies are so different situations
are different but if you use these
guidelines if you check off enough boxes
it starts to be clear what data's hard
day is usually two hours or more of
really tough exercising of really tough
working out if you're doing a workout
with sets and reps bodybuilding style
stuff it's usually too
six sets or more working sets not
warmups
working sets right we're talking about
you know ten you know ten total sets of
squats and leg presses and then ten
total sets of upper-body work and then
six or more sets of arms and shoulders
and now we're talking just in one day
all that stuff
now we're talking about possibly a hard
day on your nutrition template here's
the deal about a hard day the effort
level and the volume of the work has to
be superlative a day in which you come
in and you train and it's pretty tough
and you get your sweat on and you leave
gone OOP that was a tough one ladies and
you you know you fist pump with everyone
that's not a hard day a hard day is one
in which it's for sure harder if you
question your religious beliefs red you
question your existence in the universe
after the workout like oh my god what is
going on what's my name
that is really a hard day so if you want
to be sure if it's a hard day it's got
to hit all of those it's gotta be two
hours or longer it's gotta be 26 working
sets if you're doing working sets as
opposed to intervals or something like
that and it has to feel superlative
incredibly challenging deep down to the
core that is a hard day if it doesn't
mean any one of those criteria it might
be a moderate Deen we'll get to how to
fix whether or not it's one or the other
in just a bit
moderate day excuse me is about one to
two hours of exercise continuous okay so
it's a session that's one to two hours
long and it's ten to twenty five
bodybuilding style sets work sets if
you're doing work sets it's somewhere
between ten and twenty five sets
so if it's over twenty five sets it
might be hard the right if it's under
ten sets it might be light and not
moderate and it's pretty dang tough
right a moderate day is just a matter of
a day in the technical classification of
nutrition it doesn't actually feel
moderate it feels are really kind of one
to two hour workout is a big deal that's
tough stuff
remember these templates are originally
made on the basis of high-level athletes
and a lot of our clients that use them
are very high level athletes so to them
this is moderate and if you
let's so it is for you so it's one to
two hours ten to twenty five sets
potentially if you're doing work sets
and it's pretty tough
excuse me hopefully I won't die by the
time these templates are released
super mega cold so that's a moderate
workout and if that's the case if your
workout fits into there you eat and I'm
gonna show you in a bit what that means
in the moderate column of your
carbohydrate intake for that day and the
templates now maybe it's a light day
what's a light day it's when you do less
than an hour of physical activity right
that could mean 55 minutes that's still
a light day ten working sets or less all
right and it's not super difficult right
Matt is the the technical classification
there you go when you're trained here's
a hard workout you know but you feel
okay you feel fine it wasn't like really
tough like a moderate one is or
superlative in a religious experience
like the hard was okay it's not super
challenging it's ten work sets are less
potentially now not not exclusively and
it's less than an hour long notice there
are three qualifications there what if
they're contradictory okay what if we
have a workout that's 55 minutes long so
it's light session but it's 15 or even
20 sets okay we managed to really
squeeze in some sets and it feels pretty
tough which one do we use here's the
deal this is an incredibly important
rule that's gonna simplify a ton of this
for you if any of the qualifications
whether it's a for duration or set
number or how hard it feels or how
sweaty you are if any of those
qualifications don't match right if
they're contradictory one looks like it
should be hard based on this guideline
one looks like it should be moderate
right where one looks like moderate one
looks like moderate but one looks like
light if there's any question especially
if you're generally speaking also yes
but especially if you're on a fat loss
phase on a fat loss diet err on the
lower side so if there's any question if
you're
shit into yourself okay seems like it
should be moderate but it might be hard
based on at least one of these the
answer is moderate right especially on
fat loss but for everything else as well
right unless you really have trouble
gaining weight right and you're really
stalling usually just progressing
through the tab will take care of that
anyway
then maybe you just average up but
almost always if you're watching this
video and you're on a fat loss guide
which you probably are most people buy
these things for fat loss then you have
to ask yourself if there's any confusion
is it a hard day or a moderate day it's
a moderate day if there's any confusion
is it a mod or a day or a light day it's
a light day that way you make sure to
definitely not eat too much food for the
day you have and at worst you'll just
lose weight a little bit too quickly
that's a great problem to have we
promise you'll still recover it's still
enough nutrients for you to make sure
that you're not going to lose muscle
that's not a concern so again if there
is a question of which one it is and
they're almost always will be very
rarely does everything line up perfectly
to check off all the boxes and if it
does it's definitely that day right so
if you have like a three hour workout
that's thirty total working sets and you
feel like quitting training forever
afterwards it's definitely a hard day
you don't have to be like when was that
moderate but if you have to honestly ask
you one of those doesn't match up and
you're honestly asking yourself like was
that really hard day or that really
moderate it was really light air on the
lower side so if it's a question between
moderate and hard choose moderate if
it's a question between moderate and
light choose light hopefully that makes
sense now another thing just a quick
reminder the volume the amount of
activity you do is more important in
determining days these are the days that
you follow then the intensity which is
how hard you're working at any one time
so for example if you have three sets of
two in the squat at ninety five percent
of your one rep max you have to get
amped for that stuff it that is really a
crazy effort to do three sets of two at
ninety five percent that push you to
your limits intensity is incredibly high
both psychological perceived and in the
technical sports science sense of what
percent of your wondering max you're
lifting how much force you're generating
those are all super high so you figure
out man that's
gotta get me into a moderate Erhard but
it doesn't because that whole workout
might only take like 30 minutes and the
total number of sets is less than 10
it's only six working sets so on both of
those categories you score a light and
the thing is because intense efforts
don't really burn a whole lot of
calories or carbs they're
psychologically very taxing
it's voluminous efforts running ten
miles
for example if you're in shape to run
ten miles straight and you're a really
good shape that might not even feel that
tough for you but on the sheer amount of
work that that is that's at least a
moderate day for most people so the
thing is is that it's about the work
amount much more than about how hard
that work is so if you have a really
intense day but it's super short in
duration it's not a lot of sets it's
gonna be a light day that's not to
insult power lifters such as myself such
as many of you or weight lifters that do
really tough workouts from an intensity
and psychology perspective it's just
that we don't mean as much food as
individuals involved in endurance sport
or in Fitness sport or in you know
bodybuilding they do a ton of work and
that work literally burns carbohydrates
in their muscles and those need to be
replenished based on the adjustments of
the light moderate a hard level of carbs
now speaking of which let's turn to and
this should pop up on your screen
conveniently how to read your template
to make sure you're doing it accurately
meal per meal day per day to figure out
if it's light moderate or hard so
basically let's say we're training on
the second tab right training after one
meal let's say that's your schedule so
meal number one is one to three hours
before you workout basically some point
between waking up and working out and
what we're gonna do is just score right
across from left to right in the same
row so we have 30 grams of protein from
a protein source that we choose from
those category sweet we have in this
example for this particular a weight of
individual we have three cups okay so we
have three cups of veggies of any choice
sweet we put those in the meal for this
particular one it's a it's a fat loss
we tab the healthy fats column is empty
which means we don't put any added
healthy fats we just let the fats from
the meats do their work and then we get
in to the actual amounts of healthy
carbs that presents us with three
columns light moderate and hard so which
one do we choose well it depends on what
kind of workout we're having let's say
we plan a workout in advance and go okay
today is gonna be a moderate workout
great so then we just scroll right past
the light tab we don't even have to look
at it we go right to the moderate tab
and it says or the moderate a cell and
it says 15 grams of carbs from healthy
carbs perfect we eat the 15 grams it's
hard says 25 we don't get the 25 because
it wasn't a hard and that's it that's
that meal built together to get what we
want a little bit of more not so complex
but different is the workout shake let's
say we get to the workout shake its meal
number two here all right
we put 30 grams of whey protein and
water perfect that's but ingredient
number one you'll notice there's no
veggies that's kind of disgusting like
if you want to blend veggies and put
them in your workout shake go for it I
guess it's not the best way to do things
sports science wise and you might throw
up everywhere there's no healthy fats no
veggies then we get to the healthy carbs
now usually it's just the same thing
right we're you know we have these three
columns but the good news is for carbs
it's simpler than that we scroll all the
way to the right and we check off and
see how many workout carbs there are for
that day and it's usually just one
number and the good thing is that number
is almost always the same for hard
moderate and light how can that be how
can light workouts moderate workouts and
hard workouts you need the same amount
of carbons they don't they need
different carbs but those carbs are made
up for in the pre-workout meal
post-workout meal and all the other
meals of the day so the shake can stay
the same size for your simplicity right
these are super easy to use templates so
usually you would take in whatever
number of protein in this case examples
30 grams of whey protein water with 30
grams of workout carbs of your choice no
problem but on certain templates
particularly as the fat loss phases
progress from fat loss one - fat loss -
- fat loss 3
some point we have to get rid of those
carbs took up of calories even from the
shape so when that happens for example
let's say it's a light workout for this
particular example as we scroll past the
light column it says no carbs just way
what does that mean it means exactly
what you think it means when you make
your workout shake that meal when you
make that shake you take 30 grams of
whey you start scrolling to find how
many carbs and if it's a light day it
says no carbs just weigh ah so we just
leave our whey proteins 30 grams of
water and we don't ever put any carbs in
if it happens to be a moderate day in
this example sometimes it'll give you
the carbs and or sorry it'll give you
nothing at all and that means you just
keep scrolling and it's 30 grams of
carbs as usual but this time even our
moderate day says no carbs just way so
even if it's a moderate day this deep
into a fat loss which fat loss 3 which
makes sense it's all of our power to
lose fat with lowest calories again it
says no carbs just waste you get your 30
grams of protein scroll over it says no
carbs just way that's it all right
you're you you you gotta just use your
way and not put any carbs in now if it's
a hard day in this example we same 30
grams of whey protein we scroll all the
way over and there's nothing special
written in the hard column for healthy
carbs alright there's nothing special
written which is good and then we scroll
over and we see 30 grams of workout
carbs so we do put in our workout carbs
so the simple rule is if in the workout
shake there's no actually anything
written in the healthy carbs column you
have the same carbs as it says and the
workout carbs and the protein if there's
something written it's going to be no
carbs just way and then you still have
your whey protein shake but you don't
put any of the work all carbs in it
simple as that folks best of luck if
this is still confusing make sure to
check out the frequently asked questions
document the how to document if you're
still super duper confused shoot us a
message over Renaissance period ization
comm we have a Zendesk chat customer
service and if you really want the
in-depth insights rp+ our community of
RP members you can
even go to RP clients on Facebook ask
will get you this information will get
you on to your success lose fat gain
muscle and everything will be peachy
thanks so much for tuning in see you
guys next time