dayload weeks or all the hype these days
but what you may not know is that
there's only actually one study looking
at this and the results might surprise
you
come back to Wolf coaching today with
you soon to be Dr Milo Wolff and we're
talking about deload weeks and whether
or not they're necessary the main study
I want to discuss today was actually
performed by Coleman colleagues I
actually know Max personally and I've
spoken about this study with him before
so I'll be giving my take of this study
in this video without further Ado this
study had two groups one group trained
for nine weeks straight without a break
the other group trained for four weeks
straight took a one week break from
training and then trained hard for four
weeks again both groups during any given
training week perform the same training
they performed twice a week five sets of
8 to 12 reps to volitional failure of
the Smith machine Squad the leg press
the light extension and the seated calf
rates in other words for the quads this
was 20 sets per week to volitional
failure pretty hard training here are
the measurements the resources took
first they took two quarices thickness
measurements they also took two calf
thickness measurements as far as
performance measurements went they did a
few things first they measured counter
movement jump height they also did one
repetition maximums on the Smith machine
Squad they also did an amrap or as many
reps as possible with 60 of the
participants body weight on the light
extensor machine they also tested the
participants Peak isometric strength on
an ISO kinetic dynamometer finally the
researchers also asked the participants
to fill out a Readiness to train
questionnaire this took place after four
weeks of training and after the whole
nine weeks of training this
questionnaire included questions about
sleep motivation to train physical
strength mental strength appetite sleep
Etc before we go into the results I want
to highlight what the common narrative
in the evidence-based Fitness Community
has been common narrative has been that
deloads will improve your games well the
results don't really support that first
let's talk about hypertrophy the
conventional training group that didn't
deload generally saw about the same
muscle growth as the deload group if
anything the difference is actually
slightly lean in favor of the
traditional group that just trained hard
for nine weeks straight without
deloading with regards to performance
this generally again lead in favor of
the no deload group that just trained
hard for nine weeks specifically one
repetition maximum strength and
isometric strength improved more in the
group consistently training versus the
group that dealed it in week five
interestingly the group consistently
training reported decreases in muscle
soreness from weeks four to nine and
consistent motivation all throughout
whereas the group deloading reported
increases in soreness in weeks four
through nine and reported lower
motivation to train in weeks four
through nine the authors also noted that
at the end of these nine weeks of pretty
hard training of 20 sets a week to
volitional failure most of the
participants didn't feel like they
needed to take a break from training
even though this was some of the hardest
training that they had ever done before
this actually goes counter to the idea
of cumulative fatigue where if you train
consistently hard week in week out you
accumulate fatigue and that eventually
becomes an issue in this study after
nine weeks of hard training they were
still fine to remind you this is the
first study actually looking at the
concepts of deload most people deal
around once a month they deal it for a
week and they don't train a whole lot
during that day load but this study did
include a training cessation week where
participants didn't train at all so it's
not a perfectly accurate study of delos
as they should be but it does provide
some evidence as to how delos may or may
not work and what does the study Say by
and large well it's essentially for
hypertrophy there's not really a huge
effect of deloading or not deloading but
differences May lean slightly in favor
of not deloading and training
consistently week in week out for
strength on the other hand especially
for isometric strength and for one of
max strength it very much leads in favor
of consistently training week in week
out and taking a full week off from
training seemed to really impair that
adaptation so that was the most relevant
study in trying to answer whether or not
deloads are a good idea but is there any
other data as a matter of fact there is
there are two Studies by ogasawara and
colleagues that were published a while
ago they're not really on deloads but
they are on the concept of training
cessation taking a break from training
for a few weeks at a time in the first
study they compared two groups one group
trained for 24 weeks straight quite hard
24 weeks in a row the other group
trained hard for six weeks took three
weeks off training entirely six weeks on
three weeks off and six weeks on again
what did they find well on the whole no
huge differences but the differences in
muscle strength and muscle hypertrophy
gained over these 24 weeks did also lead
in favor of a continuous training group
that didn't take three weeks off twice
during that 24 week study interestingly
the group taking three weeks off did see
a decline in their muscle size and their
strength over those three week breaks so
three weeks maybe enough to see somewhat
of a reduction in your strength and
hypertrophy in fact if you look at how
fast they lost muscle and strength it is
about the same Pace as the pace at which
they gain muscle and strength while they
were training hard so this first 24 week
study does slightly support the idea of
consist family training at least in the
context of taking a full three weeks off
from training the second study by August
sawaro and colleagues was similar in one
group they trained consistently for 15
weeks in a row in the other group they
trained hard for six weeks took a three
week break and entering hard again for
six weeks and once again similar
strength and hypertrophy outcomes were
seen in both groups but the improvements
slightly leaned in favor of the group
consistently training across those 15
weeks the reason I mentioned these two
ogusawara studies is because they are
relatively long term and in fact there
is one underappreciated finding from
these two studies if you look at how
much strength and muscle was gained in
the groups taking a break through
training for three weeks at a time per
day when the group that took weeks of
training was actually training they
gained substantially more muscle and
strength per day trained than the group
that just continuously trained and
actually as the group for example in
study 1 kept training hard across 24
weeks they were gaining less and less
strength and muscle all as the study
went on whereas the group who took three
weeks off at a time actually saw pretty
robust muscle growth and strength gains
after those three weeks off as if they
somehow re-sensitized to training
because of that time off from training
in addition this may also partly have
been because they regained some of that
lost muscle or strength that they lost
while simply not training for three
weeks however let's talk about
resensitization there is actually some
data with a training cessation in
rodents or in rats essentially can we
sensitize you specifically in terms of
mtor signaling abtor is a pathway
involved in muscle hypertrophy signaling
essentially the thing that makes you
jacked and taking 12 days off in rodents
seemed to roughly restore the
sensitivity of mtor signaling and
response to resistance training this
doesn't mean that you should just take
12 days off because time doesn't quite
function the same way in rodents as it
does in humans but it does provide
evidence that taking some time off every
now and then may help resensitize you to
hypertrophy training and to strength
training so we've discussed four studies
broadly speaking consistently training
in the short term at least seems better
than taking time off at least when not
training at all but what are some of the
takeaways as far as how you should
deload or whether or not you should deal
it first deloading doesn't need to occur
frequently if you're only training two
or three days a week for most people you
may never actually benefit from a deload
the amount of training you do may not
warrant desensitization because you
never became desensitized to begin with
likewise you will never encounter that
much fatigue and so you may never need
to deload secondly reactive deloads
probably work best taking a week off
after four weeks of training or after
six weeks of training or after 12 weeks
of training is all pretty arbitrary
thirdly deloads probably won't improve
your muscle growth above just training
consistently deloading may actually harm
your muscle growth and strength
adaptations in the short term that said
in the long term deloading may actually
help you by re-sensitizing you to
hypertrophy signaling that being said
this is pretty hypothetical so I would
run the side of caution and deload less
frequently rather than more frequently
taking a full week off training when
deloading probably isn't ideal you still
want to do some training because if you
don't train at all you can likely see a
slight reduction in your strength and
muscle size at least when we're talking
about two or three weeks of training
doing some training during your deload
also prevents you from being super sore
when you get back and it may prevent the
reduction and motivation that will seem
in the Coleman study by the participants
who took a full week off training I
would generally recommend training at
least two days a week while deloading
body weight training like push-ups
pull-ups inverted rows pistol squats
things like rdrs and stuff like that
those can all be pretty good options and
they're definitely better than nothing
if you don't have access to any
equipment here's how I think d-loads are
best applied it may be worth dealing
when and if you have a life stressor or
a commitment that prevents you from
getting effective training in to begin
with let's say you're moving places
across States across countries or what
have you or let's say you're on a
holiday where you don't have a gym those
might be cases where either high stress
in the case of moving or having exams or
just not having access to a gym can
prevent you from getting really
effective training in or can kind of
make you stop from feeling like training
those are the cases where I would
recommend taking a deload week that's
the video that's all the most relevant
data we have on deloads for hypertrophy
and for strength if you like the video
and you want to see more videos like
this please comment like subscribe you
can even turn notifications on if you
want just so you can see my videos and I
can keep making them for you anyways I
will see you guys in that next one peace