I've watched Pro bodybuilders try to use
goblet squats and they're like doing the
squat they hit us out of 10 and clearly
their arms are really shaky and they put
the weight down like set of 10 like what
are you
[Music]
doing hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and I'm going
to talk to you today about the
advantages and disadvantages of doing
goblet squats everyone's favorite P.S
I'm a professor of sport and EXT science
took a long while to say bodybuilder
Grappler hit the like And subscribe
things do YouTube stuff also to me
goblet every time I hear it it sounds
like gobble which is a sound that
turkeys make and I wonder if um oh there
it is Scot the video guy doing the
turkey sound uh I think there are only
two possibilities for why turkeys make
that absurd sound one is they're just
trying to piss us off or two they have
an as yet indecipherable incredibly
complex language let me know in the
comments which one you think it is but
before you go typing in let's talk about
the upsides of goblet squats because yes
this is a video that is designed to be
critical of goblet squats but I find
that many times criticism that doesn't
acknowledge the benefits of something is
sort of only telling half the story and
that's no
good
so goblet squats number one big
Advantage is they are awesome at
promoting an excellent upright posture
they let you keep your your heels and
toes on the ground which is really good
critical for good squatting technique
they promote minimum rounding of the
lower back they let your knees travel
free they let you keep your chest up and
as a matter of fact the dumbbell right
here in front of you kind of torqus your
chest down a little bit and it's an
awesome reinforcement cue to keep it up
because sometimes when the bar is behind
your back your chest is kind of up
anyway but then you forget that that's
what you're supposed to be doing your
chest sinks and there's no instant
reminder of it so the fact that the
dumbbell feels heavy here makes you stay
more upright so it's actually an amazing
teaching tool for basic really good
squat mechanics and it's really easy to
hit depth so a lot of people that say
they can't hit depth with a regular
squat a lot of times because they get
bunched up back here their knees do
weird stuff and the bar is behind them
you give them a dumbbell or a kettle
bell and put it right here in front of
the chest and all of a sudden they're
hitting really good depth and that can
be a really cool thing for technical
reasons mechanical reasons like look
you're hitting depth and here's now you
practicing the neural pathways are
getting good at hitting depth you're
aware of where you're body is in space
and it's also another really awesome
thing kind of psychologically because a
lot of clients especially beginners may
come to you with all sorts of
preconceived notions about what is it
not possible for their human body at the
time some of these Notions are just from
being on the internet for too long and
thinking that squats are bad for your
knees or depth is bad for your knees
sometimes people have had sort of poor
advice from surgeons that they've had
knee surgery hip surgery before they say
well you know I can't go below 90
degrees which is almost always wrong and
so letting them do a very safe not scary
goblet squat and realize they can go all
the way down down is actually a really
big deal and people go oh hey I hit a
full squat like yep that's right and
we're just one putting the barbell on
your back away from you hitting a for
real full squat so it's an awesome
awesome awesome teaching tool for that
and another big benefit of goblet squats
is it's so easy to set them up
especially if you're a personal trainer
you just hand your client a dumbell or a
kettle bell and you're good it doesn't
matter where there's no equipment
required so goblet squatting is
unbelievably easy set up and that's a
big deal especially if you're a personal
trainer and you're training clients in a
busy gym floor the rack has a line of
three people to it and your client isn't
the World's Strongest Man so they get a
lot out of goblet squats more than that
in just a bit um it's awesome you just
uh get it's a squat exercise anywhere
you want and lastly something that's not
on the list but is is kind of worth
mention is that the probability of a
disaster with goblet squats is insanely
low because if you have a squat bar on
your back and something goes wrong most
times you're going to be totally fine
but there's a small though noted chance
like yeah like it's on your back and
behind you bad things can happen the bar
falls on you Etc it squishes you blah
blah blah with goblet squats if you get
in trouble at all all you do is just let
go that's it just let go the dumbbell
Falls almost always between your legs
and had a few things fall between my
legs if you know what I
mean opportunities I mean oh that's
still sexual um but in any case it's a
really it's an exercise that is so so
safe
that uh it's obviously safe even to
clients who have know almost nothing
about training so if you're training
your clients and you're like look you're
scared of squatting heavy whatever was
Heavy to you they're like yes I've seen
too many videos on YouTube okay fine
here's this dumbbell if anything happens
you just go like this and it goes away
and then you fall on your butt or you
sit down or you stand up and nothing's
wrong and there's a dumbbell there the
worst you could do is like maybe there's
a little dustmite on the ground crawling
its epic journey to reunite with its
dustmite family that has scene in
several hours which for dustmite is
basically half a lifetime and then the
dumbbell crushes his family right in
front of you um the dustmite will not
recover from that psychologically all
he's going to do for the rest several
hours of his alive is sharpen a blade
right in front of a picture of
you small downside I say all right what
about real
downsides the Goblet squad has some
pretty big downsides and one of the
reasons that I made this presentation
for you guys is because I've gotten a
lot of questions in the past and
recently um about goblet squats for a
variety of different types of clients
and even folks that are very strong and
very muscular and I have a big problem
with that and here's why you cannot load
much
weight and thus challenge your body with
much resistance and thus get a lot of
size and definitely strength benefit
from goblet squats why Dr Mike what are
you crazy dumbbells have uh gradations
so you can simply use a heavier
dumbbell right right Anakin meme no
incorrect sorry Padme wrong again turns
out you're dating maybe one of the most
evil people of all time dummy that
actually uh the whole Anakin Padme Saga
should be like a like a public service
announcement for women pick picking
their men girls you saying you got to
get deeper into your man before you
choose that motherfucker he could be the
worst thing that's ever happened to the
Galaxy I think Darth Vader maybe
personally toasted like billions of
people in any case I digr
the load weight is limited by how much
the client can pick up or that you can
hand to them imagine a regular client
Joe client 47 years old 187 pounds
that's right the police code for murder
is his body weight Joe murder they call
him and you know he can squat like a
plate on a side for a set of 10 uh you
know to depth on his back is good
starting out you've been training him
for eight months
and so he squats 135 for
10 and you want to do goblet squats
squats I mean High bar back squats the
bars back there are you going to hand
him a 100 PB
dumbbell how do you hand someone 100
pound dumbbell I actually don't know do
you grab on the lip of the dumbbell
trying to like kind of clean and jerk it
up can you upright row 100 pounds and
statically hold it uh I don't know if I
can and what's he going to do grab it
like this and then just fall forward
because it's like half his body weight
in his fucking
hands it's a real gnarly exercise to
even set up even if you're strong and if
you're not strong I mean imagine giving
a a your regular 55-year-old female
client a 50 pound 45 pound dumbbell or
kettle bell good God that's a huge
dumbbell she can probably squat the bar
on her back holding a dumbbell that's
really tough even just grabbing it a
stuff but let's say she's grabbed it
there's another problem when let's say
this person can actually grab the
dumbbell and do at least one repetition
in many cases the dumbbell is too heavy
to do that people just lean forward
they're like I I can't hold it I can't
hold it this is way too much it even
hurts their their fingers to hold it
that heavy dumbbell they say okay uh
well you can do one rep they're like yes
one rep I can do for sure and they do
the rep and may they do another and
they're like hey I got this you there's
still a big
problem you the client is going to be
limited by holding the weight that's
going to be the limit the ability to
hold the weight and stay
upright versus
the limit as it should be in a leg
exercise the limit should be your quads
are no longer able to overcome the
resistance and thus achieve failure
because of an insufficient amount of
energy coming from your quads your quads
need to be the limiting factor when we
train for hypertrophy or for strength we
push the target muscle and
movement to it close to its failure
point but the target muscle is what
again in the goblet squat that's right
the quats but here's the problem at some
point holding a 80 pound goblet
Scott can you do that sound
again that's really good you've hunted
in Pennsylvania before haven't
you same thing aren't turkeys just large
pigeons that have kind of overstepped
their bounds of what is allowable in
society they're like fuck it I'm going
get huge bro get off me bro in any case
at some point when you're holding an 80
pound dumbbell with your two hands in
front of your chest your hands are going
to start to hurt so much that you're
going to stop before your legs get tired
your arms you are static hold curling 80
fucking
pounds that's a lot of weight most
people can't do that for very long not
even strong people I sounded like Jordan
Peterson for a second you you get that
Scott I mean most people can't do that
for very long and it's like who are
you butan it doesn't even work like
that bucko in any case your arms will
start to give out like your biceps will
start to bag down and if they don't your
delts will start to give out because
this is a front delt raise it's either
front delts or biceps or forearms or
your hands something's going to
go and that makes sense because your
forearms your biceps your delts compared
to your quadriceps are puny weak muscles
what can you curl for well let's say you
know a set of 10 let's say you're real
strong and you can strict curl 100 PB
easy bar for set out of 10 that's strong
that's real good what can you leg press
400 for a set of 10 at least how the
fuck are you supposed to overcome a 4
to1 strength ratio look at your bicep
and then look at your quad who's going
to win that fight it's not even
close it's similar to the idea of people
saying oh man I don't want to use like
Versa grips for my for my rowing for my
back like for one arm row I want to get
my my forearm strong what who has strong
enough forms to be able to match their
entire back that person exists but they
have comically large forms and a
comically weak back folks not all the
muscles of their body are designed to be
in
Balance that's another myth we can
tackle some other point that you have to
have balance between your muscles that's
all just fucking
nonsense so the goblet squat is hugely
limited by your hands biceps and
shoulders and thus almost always if
you're remote starting to get pretty
strong that's going to give out first
and your legs will never get a chance to
get close to failure thus the stimulus
to your legs exists but it's just not
that
great that's it lastly not only are you
limited by the muscles that are holding
the dumbbell you are limited by your
trunk upright posture because
technically the Goblet is in front of
the body it requires you to actively
contract your back musculature to keep
your spine in extension to keep it from
flexing forward and keep you from
dumping the
bar because of that a lot of times the
limiting factor for the muscle becomes
your back sorry limiting factor for the
movement for the goblin squat becomes
your back and not your legs so what do
we have so far it's
hands
forearms biceps AKA forearm
flexors
shoulders back almost all will become
limiting factors
before you're actual legs it's like you
are a real party fanatic and you want to
stay at this party till 4:00 a.m. but
the three or four friends you brought
with you one of them goes to bed at like
usually 12: another one goes to bed at
like 11: and hates parties one of them
could go real hard till 1:00 a.m. then
they pass out and the other one's real
psycho he goes to 3:00 a.m. but then it
lights out guess when you're leaving
that party if you want to stay with your
friends it's not 4:00 a.m. you're
leaving at probably about 11:30 when
that one friend just gets really pissy
you're like fine fuck it let's just go
home and play Jenga or whatever the fuck
friends do without
alcohol it's a non-starter so anytime
people get really lean into the goblet
squat I always try to bring up the fact
that like there is a lot of failure
points between the legs getting the load
and the load existing in your hands and
that's just real talk I wish it wasn't
the case I love the goblin squat but
folks that are bringing stronger it
becomes a not thing not a thing to do
so how do you get get the most out of
goblet squats cuz we're not just going
to throw them away we have some ways to
keep them in the mix I have at least
three
points one you can use them a ton for
beginners and clients that are just not
super strong right they're an excellent
teaching tool for squat
mechanics and you can even do them to a
chair at first or to a bench then lower
the bench and so you progressively move
depth down and the fact that you have a
little dumbbell in your hands can
actually help counterbalance a little
bit and teach the client to push their
hips back as they sit down which a lot
of people struggle with which helps them
keep their heels on the ground which is
really awesome so those are all
excellent things and they can be an
effective exercise you just can't be
very strong because especially if you're
quite strong in the lower body your
upper body is just not designed to keep
up with that right it's like imagine if
you told someone okay so this is
deadlift competition you get a deadlift
as much as possible but you have to
deadlift ball with an underhand grip and
a 90° elbow angle the entire time
they're like wait so I got to dip Down
super low and pick it up like this uhuh
like I'm not going to be able to pull
400 like I usually do like well why not
well because my biceps can't do a 90
degree angle of 400 they we could do it
maybe with a 100 be like oh sweet so do
you think it's going to be challenging
for your posterior chain your glutes
your back your traps like the deadlift
usually is no absolutely not same idea
it's just you take deadlift and replace
with Squat and people generally can
squat similar weights to what they can
deadlift is the non-starter the
argument's
over Point number two
try to transfer stronger clients clients
that are gaining strength and the Goblet
squats becoming limited by other things
than the legs try to transfer them over
to moves that are not limited by the
upper body like goblet squats for
example High bar squats hack squats leg
presses belt squats Etc I didn't say
front squats for a reason of another
video later about well I'm not the
biggest fan of front squats for
hypertrophy or strength training and
Olympic weightlifters who are the best
in the world are doing front squats and
also invented them are not huge fans of
front squatting either for developing
strength or muscle mass in the legs they
use high bar squats for that the front
squat is a technical movement to prepare
you from getting out of the hole in a
clean during the weightlifting clean and
jerk movement front squats suffer from a
milder version of the same impairment
the Goblet squats do they require you to
maintain a very strict rack position
which saps up a lot of your energy your
delts get hit your back gets hit and
it's balance-wise it's more difficult so
your legs AR honestly not positioned
ideally but things like high bar squats
hack squats leg presses belt squats
short step lunges tons of Replacements
that are not limited by your ability to
hold something in your
hands now if you have to use them as
stronger
folks sometimes you got to do it you got
limited equipment blah blah blah or
clients just love them and they can't
get enough you can use the following
technique in Cadence approach to
maximize the difficulty to your legs and
ensure the high highest probability that
your legs are in fact limiting factor
and do in fact get the biggest possible
stinging one is you're going to do a
slow Ecentric with your clients maybe
two or three seconds on the way down two
you're going to take a two to three
second bottom pause at the stretch that
means sit right in that deep position
where no one wants to be for two or
three whole seconds fuck that that shit
sucks next have your client come up only
two-thirds of the way not all the way
but two-thirds of the way not to lock
out that's so that the quads cannot rest
the metabolites start accumulating and
then you go right back down slow pause
wait up two-thirds down slow pause
waight up two thirds just like that E
when your legs are getting close to
failure which it won't take long with
this approach or even if your arms start
getting close to failure what you do is
keep a bench in front of you take your
goblet dumbbell put it on the bench rest
for two to three seconds once your legs
are good to go again take the dumbbell
right back into position and continue to
do those 2/3 slowy Centric bottom po
reps you do multiple sets back to back
to back like that myor rep style rest
paw style you're probably going to cook
yourself have fun but this is brutal you
can do any other exercise like this
especially hack squats and leg presses
it's like the fucking end of the world
it's a great thing to do is it going to
be able to take a client who can who
needs a 120 pound dumbbell to get the
effect out of it no probably not but if
someone needs a 50b dumbbell and their
legs getting a little too strong for
that this is a way to make the 50 much
more challenging this is something that
can even make your body weight
challenging so with a goblet it can work
kind of the only way to make it work and
it doesn't work Ultra well but it can
extend the lifetime of the goblet squat
for your client so to speak all right
lastly beginner intermediate Advanced
what is everyone supposed to get out of
this whole conversation beginners goblet
squats are great do them they're awesome
that's it intermediates try to use them
later in your workouts after other quad
moves if you insist on goblet squats if
you really want to use them do four sets
of leg presses with High Reps first then
go to goblet squats you will realize
your legs are so pre fatigued that now
your upper body is not the limiting
factor and your legs are which is really
awesome try to do the my rep Style with
two3 partials as I just described and
have an honest conversation with
yourself and stop using them if your
legs are no longer limiting factor like
I've watched Pro bodybuilders try to use
goblet squats in the gym and they're
like doing the squat they hit a set of
10 and clearly their arms are really
shaky and they put the weight down
they're set of 10 like what are you
doing are you telling me that with an
external load relatively close to your
center of gravity of 120 extra
pounds you can only do 10 squats
motherfucker I saw you 3 days ago squat
455
for8 how is that possible the answer is
is it's not possible or really it is
possible is equally challenging it's
just challenging to the wrong parts of
the body not the legs so sometimes you
just have to have real talk with
yourself and say goblet
squads this is really hard for me to say
and they start crying right away because
they know it's
coming
just and then they not saying words
anymore and you're like here's the thing
like you want to hug them because
they've been your friend for so long but
you don't want to encourage the just
staying with him by hugging him because
you're not you're kind of out the
fucking door you're like listen I
just it's been so
real it's been so
real come
back click the
door just fucking run to your car that's
it you'll see him again at the gym a
couple weeks later and they're
like What's Up they're like how much how
you doing how you doing they're like
good just one day at a time good it's
good to hear man hey kind want to shake
kind
but all
right tough breakups are tough Advanced
people that was all from intermediates
by the way Advanced people
um almost all uses for advanced people
and stronger people are very low
stimulus to fatigue ratio for the quads
and just generally to be avoided so if
you're Advanced and I see you doing
goblet squats I'm just going toess guess
you ran out of variation or there's
nothing at the Dre for you to do other
than goblet squats or somehow weirdly
your upper body is kind of like locks
into some kind of like Atomic lock and
uh your legs are the only limiting
factor which is sweet you got like
superpowers or some shit other than that
when you're Advanced and you're doing
goblet squats I just kind of assume you
haven't thought things through which no
big deal I've barely thought through my
uh most of my life certainly not
breakups tell that much see you guys
next time