[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm gonna demo
a recipe out of my cookbook big flavor
zero fat and this is salt and vinegar
smashed potatoes so we and this is gonna
be made in the airfryer so we are huge
air fryer fans and I know a lot of you
are too I get that question a lot I'm
gonna do an air fryer cookbook maybe
someday it's on the ideas list but I
tried to work some of them into the
different cookbooks that I do and this
is one of our favorite ones there's not
gonna be any fat in this recipe but
you're still gonna get like a crunchy
fried potato feeling when you're eating
these so it's amazing highly recommend
you check out the air fryers so alright
this is something that like I was in my
you know I'm always like I go to the
grocery store and look around at things
you know like other people shop for
clothes or shoes or whatever I shop for
food and new food and new products and
different things and so I was in the
produce section and I saw these pop-up
just like right with the regular raw
potatoes and stuff these pre-made and
they're like the petite little potatoes
and they're they have the microwave
ready ones or they have the oven ready
one so of course I'm always looking for
something that's quick and easy so I got
the microwave ready ones so I will cook
them for five minutes I'll take them out
I'll put them on a paper towel lined
rack like this just on my countertop so
there's airflow underneath and let them
cool for like anywhere from 20 minutes
like it doesn't matter you could just
leave them you can just do it in the
morning and leave them for an hour or
more leave them until lunch or whatever
you want it's okay as long as they're
cool that's what you're looking for then
just put them on some type of a line
tray parchment lined foil line just from
a mess standpoint cuz we're gonna use
this multi nurger and we're gonna brush
them and so it's gonna kind of make a
mess so just from a cleanup standpoint I
like to just put something down but
you're going to take the bottom of like
a one cup measure and we're just gonna
smash these so I'll do you one out here
so you can see it just in case you can't
see it over that RIM sheet but that's
all you're gonna do is smash
 and here's the thing with it the
thicker you leave them the softer
that'll be or the longer you're gonna
have to air fry them to get them crisp
Nick at our house Nick loves them crispy
so he's like flat and I'm like smash
them really good so again like he
doesn't mind if they fall apart like
this we like to smash them pretty flat
so that's all you're gonna do is take
the cooked potatoes and just go around
and smash them and they smash really
easy and there's no steam coming out of
these so I know I got them really good
and dry which is perfect
you can certainly start with raw
potatoes and just steam them so that
they're tender and then just let them
cool this to me is just like a huge
time-saver so I love using those
packaged ones all right
so we're done with that and then I've
got molten agur here which again you
know some balsamic sand things like that
actually do have carbs in them so you
kind of have to be aware of that if
you're on a really strict cut and you
like to put a ton of balsamic on a salad
or something you actually are getting
some carbs in there so you just want to
be aware of that so I kind of figured
malt vinegar taste so good I thought
like oh there's play sugar in it or
something turns out there's not so I'm
just taking a brush and I'm just gonna
get these kind of soaked in malt vinegar
I'm sprinkling this with coarse salt now
and then I'm just gonna transfer these
to the air for our basket you can see
I'm just putting these guys in it
doesn't have to be really nice placement
yeah we're gonna be in here every 10
minutes shaking and stirring and
checking on them but the more of an even
layer we can do you know the better the
whole crisp up the quicker and stuff
like that so I just try to do a layer
okay so we got those ready to go I'm
just gonna put them in the airfryer and
I'm gonna air fry them for 10 minutes
and then I'll show you what they look
like when I give them a stir with a
wooden spoon
all right so these babies have been in
for 10 minutes you see they're starting
to get crispy you can see some Brown
edges there yum okay so it'll stick a
little bit totally fine
go in there that's what the every 10
minutes shake and sir is all about is
that you break those back up kind of
spread them out and then we're just
gonna take that malt vinegar and add
more all right so let's check these guys
out you can see they're nice and browned
and crispy scrape them up so it didn't
have taking us 30 minutes just to get
them to the right Chris penis but it's
worth it then all you have to do is just
swing by every 10 minutes and check on
them and these are ready to eat
totally addicting crunchy snack with no
fat
[Music]