what's going on everyone so I'm actually
just about to hop on a super interesting
call right now you guys are probably
familiar with dr. Brad Schoenfeld I
would hope most of you guys at least
know the name from my science explain
videos so Schoenfeld and others have
suggested the pass of the first is from
Schoenfeld and colleagues published in
2014 by Schoenfeld and colleagues to
enter this 2018 study out of dr. brad
Schoenfeld slab led by dr. Brad Alan
Feld
dr. brad reached out to me about a month
ago and asked me if I would be willing
to come and do a guest lecture for his
exercise science class at his college in
New York so I'm about to hop on a Skype
call with them now and basically just
talk about how it is that I use my
youtube channel to communicate science
to the general public
super stoked to do this it's a real
honor so shut up to Brad shoutout to his
class and wish me luck
I put training as number one which I
feel like a lot of people don't like
people will say like is 80% die at 20
percent training or whatever I think
it's really hard to quantify it like
that training takes primacy for me
because without training like that is
the spark that gets everything going
right that's the stimulus you can
optimize your diet however much you want
you're not going to get much muscle
growth unless you have that initial
stimulus from the training so I rank
that as number one and then Eric Helms
who's a guy I've interviewed a bunch of
times he says that nutrition is
permissive to training so that basically
means that you optimize your nutrition
to kind of augment the stimulus from
from the actual training all right guys
we just finished up with the lecture I
thought that that went really well I
thought the class asked some really good
questions teaching a college man we've
come a long way one day
anyway shout out to Brad in this class
for having me on I really did enjoy it
we're gonna go hit a push workout with
my boy Patti lifts has been forever
since he's been on the channel we've
been training together a little bit
maybe you guys probably haven't seen him
so we're gonna pick him up and smash the
push workout let's go we haven't talked
to no grown up now I still feel like a
child and I'm sorry I need a favor so I
literally just realized this when I saw
you that this hat oh my god Patti let's
merge it was like the burrowers lookin
thing that so guys you obviously haven't
seen Pat in a minute I actually haven't
really either until like a couple days
ago when we finally started training
together again I actually wasn't going
to talk about this on the channel
because it is like kind of personal for
Pat but I thought it was something that
was worth bringing up because I feel
like it is important and there's like a
good I think teaching point there so
basically I'm gonna try to summarize
this Pat but pretty much I think it was
when was this a few months ago right
yeah so a couple months ago Pat was
having these really serious muscle
cramps and he messaged me about it
because I had muscle cramps before but
then he was also starting to feel really
sick and it started happening more
frequently right Pat yeah so he went to
the emergency room to the doctor to see
what was up and apparently his
electrolyte levels were totally out of
whack like they did blood work and I
think the doctors said that the amount
of damage in his muscles was similar to
what you'd see in someone who'd been in
like a fatal car accident or something
so basically I don't think that they
ever ended up giving him any kind of
formal diagnosis did they or did they
just say like extreme muscle damage or
something
they said rhabdo so they've literally
said it was rhabdomyolysis yeah
basically it results from extreme
amounts of muscle damage so people
are in like really serious accidents or
even like some drug users can get it
like I think like heroin and addicts and
and stuff like that is what Google tells
me but it also happens in people who
very extremely hard-working athletes so
it doesn't really surprise me that Pat
developed this the the reality is is I
think there were several contributing
factors to this and I don't say this for
the sake of like wanting to scare you
guys but just to make you aware of the
fact that this is something that can
happen
I've heard of one other guy in my like
12 13 years in the industry in some
sense having gotten it and he was a
power lifter his was much worse than
yours if I remember right I think he was
out of the gym for almost a year or
something after it and he was in the
hospital for a long time where his past
recovery was a couple weeks to a month I
think that this came as a result of Pat
having competed he was a very low body
fat percentage for a long time his body
was obviously having difficulty
recovering and that's one of the things
you see when you compete in a
bodybuilding competition is your
recovery just plummet but because Pat is
so disciplined in hurricane he was still
training really really hard and then it
was actually after the competition
that I think all of it eventually sort
of caught up to him and his electrolytes
and his body's balance was basically
just totally out of whack so anyway I
think that the practical takeaway what
we can learn from this is that I think
you go ahead sorry lady across the
sidewalk the person who is paying
attention number one take okay one thing
to definitely want to keep in mind is
take your d loads listen to your body
and realize that like more pain doesn't
always mean more gain because you could
get to a point where you have to now
take a lot of time off from the gym to
recover whereas if you had just maybe
gone a little less hard then you might
have made
slightly less gains acutely but maybe
more
long-term I definitely like to emphasize
D loads a lot more make sure you're
actually following RPE don't let your
ego get in the way of that so if it's
RPE 9 make sure you actually have that
one rep left in the tank and not push it
out yeah just think ahead plan ahead
listen to your body if the queues are
there and you need to take that rest
take the rest more is not always better
and sometimes I'm full I am a stubborn
person so I definitely need to tone that
back and I learned the hard way so
hopefully it could help someone else out
and that doesn't happen anyone else in
terms of Pat's recovery from what I can
tell his upper body is pretty much good
to go but your lower body is still in
that recovery process so he just trains
much lighter his case may not have been
as severe as some others which were
lucky for but still I'd say now even a
few months later like he still has being
like much more cautious than what you'd
normally be Hey yeah all right with that
said let's go PR you know yeah at the
same time you don't want to be overly
cautious to the point that now like you
don't even take your training seriously
which is something I admire about Pat
like I feel like he has really kept
himself in check from here forward and
he knows where his limits are better and
so I fully trust him it's a serious
condition but we try to make light of it
all right we're gonna go get after this
[Laughter]
camera you must have a YouTube channel
here let me check you out
Geoff oh yes you're the first Geoff that
comes up that's so funny watching your
chopped video
did that yeah we recorded it yeah here
in Kelowna yeah Kyle it's actually been
about two weeks since I've done any of
the compound lifts so I finished my push
bull legs program instead of semi new
deadlift PR I talked about that in
another video so I'll link that one
below if you want to check it out now
I'm kind of in between programs so I'm
still writing my next upper lower phase
which I will be releasing on my website
but in the meantime I'm kind of just
doing like intuitive training at the
moment doing somewhat of a deal owed and
focusing more on just like exercise
variation not sticking to these compound
movement so this will be the first time
I will have bench in a couple weeks so
we're gonna see how it goes there's Aldo
Pat today I can't wait to see how he
does man he's been killing his bench
grab going home
[Music]
[Applause]
feels so good it's taking a couple weeks
off makes all the difference
everything was just like firing properly
it's no clicks no slight pains nothing
the last time I competed a powerlifting
Jeff was my handler and then it was my
last deadlift I was prepping for a show
and he said one more deadlift between
you and armed a press that was my hype
up for my third attempt on that man
sounds like something I would say I've
ever coached like his hype up is like
and now I don't know just meditate so
like you guys haven't seen that in a
while
but he has made some crazy strength
games you guys like stick around just
another minute you're about to see
[Applause]
that's easy that was way easier
that's good time Pat just said the last
time he touched in 365 5 5 mile time PR
with 365 I think it's one don't you - I
didn't was it for a double right
I'm definitely but you've done it more
fetch more overall more weight overall
yeah 405 is but he was a bad rep it was
like I think my buff is popping out
there something like some late work bro
slight work
like me for you
there we go Pat wait wait let's go oh
yeah easy easy
like a wrapper location to me
number two at the meet all right this is
easy for you that's all it is is mr. to
go
alright Pat let's go come on let's get
it
come on let's get it
trying to drive it drive it all you all
you all you drive it that's too [ __ ]
high man that actually felt so crazy
like I did hit that wait a couple of
weeks ago but I'm down eight pounds so
it's a body wave here and it's crazy
because the last time asked you want for
a match was four years ago it was 355
yeah so 355 when so my bench only went
up 10 pounds a year since then right but
it just it just feels amazing you know I
think your strength potential is higher
than you even realize like I feel like
you've got a crazy bench in there
because he's he's cutting right now and
like still hitting PR so it's absolutely
insane anyway we're gonna finish out the
rest of this push workout we're gonna do
some shoulder work a little bit more
chest work and then a little bit of
triceps at the end but we're gonna put
that in and edit for you guys so we're
gonna get into that right now
[Music]
for the record nice they are now got a
up price of y'all and snake eyes on
thanks to y'all chosen so I see our
frozen eight-six party hey I will get a
par today got lost in the pause and a
[Music]