[Music]
[Applause]
okay folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization dips are you doing them
wrong are you doing them right what is
the meaning of life and what the hell do
dips have to do with it let's find out
first and foremost before we get into
the specific mistakes let's talk about
what dips are for dips are primarily a
tricep stimulating exercise do they also
stimulate your lower pecs definitely is
that usually the target of tips not
specifically for a couple of reasons one
decline pressing is usually better and
to lower pecs are just not super well
prioritized if you bench press properly
and do regular horizontal pressing
properly your lower pecs usually have no
problem growing the upper pecs are
usually limiting factor in most
aesthetic pursuits and of course this is
hypertrophy related so upper pecs are
really a big focus but dips are awesome
because if you include them in your
program your lower pecs are usually
super well taken care of but remember
from a stimulus to fatigue ratio
perspective we're almost always going to
be looking for dips to hit our triceps
let's take a look at a few mistakes and
how to correct them all right folks
mistake number one I'm here with my
training partner Charlie Jung at
Charlton based on Instagram if you like
to stalk people he's gonna demonstrate
the first mistake which is also by far
the most common mistake in dips and
that's not a high enough range of motion
to make sure to get a full range of
motion to get all of the motor units hit
stretch the muscle under tension which
is an independent hypertrophic stimulus
partial range is really tempting because
you can even put weights on the dips and
pretend you can do a whole lot more dips
than you can it looks embarrassing I
love this hit us with the average
regular commercial gym dip oh yeah yeah
get it dips zero zero zero
no reps recorded good enough folks when
you're doing dips you will notice that
once you start going super deep get the
tricep through a full range of motion
your mind muscle connection the amount
of tension you feel through the tricep
the burn you get on the triceps and
higher reps and the pump that you get
after is gonna be way way better and
because you don't have to use as much
external load if you're putting weights
on your joints actually usually feel
better over time doing for range of
motion dips than partial what is full
range of motion dip we're going to talk
about in the next
make what too much range of motion is
but four inch motion is really the
deepest you can go while still feeling
fundamentally okay in your shoulders and
your elbows it's gonna be different for
everyone most people their upper arm can
descend below parallel to the ground
it's all on you after that for what's
comfortable Charlie show us your full
range of motion this is probably a good
place to start so good dip goes all the
way down and all the way back up and a
couple more super deep and all the way
up excellent tricep stretch perfect
that's it the next mistake is a bit more
rare it's when you're dipping a bit too
deep too high of a range of motion what
is that really well it occurs for
essentially two reasons there's two ways
to detect it number one is the most
important and it's if your shoulders
especially but also sometimes your
elbows usually your shoulders are in a
sort of consistent discomforting
position where you're actually noticing
pain in the joint it's not something you
want to repeat over and over and over in
your training ideally want to be
comfortable and focus on the tension of
the muscles not the fact that your
shoulders are being pulled apart so if
your shoulders hurt consistently even
though you've worked on your technique
and you haven't just rushed into depth
then it's probably a little bit too deep
maybe you can go a little bit shallower
the second thing is if by going super
deep you lose a ton of strength a ton of
ability to produce force remember
fundamentally we want to be in a
position that yes stretches the muscle
to its limits but also still has the
ability to produce a ton of active
tension a ton of force that contracts
the muscle the triceps specifically as
well as the lower pecs and lets them
actually get a really good stimulus by
applying a lot of mechanical tension if
you go into such a deep position that
your muscles essentially get into when
in biomechanics is sometimes called an
insufficient position you can't even
generate force out of there and then
you're sort of just doing like a sort of
amateur gymnastics at home let go look
how deep I can do you know if you're
going into the circus maybe that's a
good thing to work on if you want to be
jacked you want to stop at the point
what you can still generate a lot of
tension it's not going to be something
like well I'm a little weaker here but
I'm a little stronger if I do this it's
gonna be a really really unambiguous
thing where if you're going down to here
you feel great but illegal little oh no
oh holy shit like I can barely even do
my own body weight so those are the two
factors
in the sort of pain one is the much more
indicative one so if Charlie's doing
dips and he decides to go for extra
credit depth and we're look let's go
brother no such thing is too deep and
then he goes too deep
hit it let's see what that looks like
and it's super personal right so if
you're training and that feels great but
then uh he lose this tension notice how
he slips into the bottom he's no longer
under control
lots of discomfort if that's what's
happening with you don't be super
egotistical about depth try to cut it a
little bit and if it feels much better
look that's it is longer than going low
enough to feel really good and get a
really good stretch on the muscle you
don't have to go all the way down or
some crazy shit because that could never
end you could just fake fold over your
shoulders or something like that then
you know doing some combination dip
pull-up or something like that so be
intelligent make sure you're not
detecting chronic joint pain all the
time make sure you're still producing a
high degree of force and don't go too
deep would go as deep as you can
besides that the next mistake is a
really really big one it's not
controlling the eccentric or the descent
in the dip it's really tempting because
the eccentric is tough to control and
you can do a lot more dips by jumping
into them really fast let's take a look
at when Charlie screws this up and
doesn't uncontrolled eccentric so he
sort of falls into it and then comes up
falls into it and then comes up
yep good enough good enough or bad
enough rather so why is that a bad idea
two reasons one it almost certainly
slightly enhances the risk of injury
because fast changes of direction
produce very high peak forces an
increase in your risk not terribly high
injury risk but it's something that you
know when you're training fire per
trophy you have enough risk anyway from
the super high volumes and fatigue
accumulations you don't need anymore
and risk is a cool thing to be able to
add into your plan if it's worth it but
here it's actually the opposite of worth
it if you control the eccentric you get
the eccentric lengthening contractions
that are also independently hypertrophic
to the concentric ones you're doing on
the way up and the isometric ones you're
doing at the bottom and at the top so if
you drop quickly or dive-bomb your dips
you actually miss out on a pretty decent
amount of growth so by controlling the
motion on the way down and up you do two
things super super well you reduce your
risk great and in addition you also
maximize your games the only downside is
egotistical you won't be able to do as
many dips or uses as much weight but
remember you're not in the
to get your ego Jack you're in the gym
to get your triceps jacked Charlie show
us what a nice controlled dip looks like
real quick
excellent you don't have to go super
slow just under control and always in
charge no rapid descents perfect that's
it
the next mistake is a lack of
consistency in range of motion
some people do dips in it's sort of like
a full dip sometimes a partial dip
another time and sometimes it looks like
they're just exploring the movement this
is a problem from two perspectives one
you're not delivering the full range of
motion optimal effect of stimulus every
time so the partial range of motion dips
suck and then the for range of motion
dips are good so you're only getting a
really mixed bag
the second is also another problem it's
a tracking problem workout to workout
week to week month to month how do you
know you're applying the right amount of
overload and how do you know you're
getting better well if your technique is
very similar every single repetition
every single week so on and so forth as
you add weight and stay the same number
of reps are as you increase the reps you
know you're getting better but if your
dips are never really the same depth
then how the hell do you know if you're
getting better you say to your training
partner hey I did 12 last week and he
can be like 12 what you're like 12 dips
like well how deep were they like I mean
some of them were bugging me some or not
so in order to stay true to yourself in
order to stay true to logging and
tracking in order to make sure you're
getting better and in order to maximize
each rep we want off the dips to look
essentially almost identical each time
you know what a perseverate about this a
lot be like oh my god I flare my elbows
in tiny bit that fucking doesn't count
just do a good job you don't have to do
the perfect job well if you have a
really well-defined bottom range where
you feel the stretch and you know that's
as low as you go safely all the way out
to lock out solves your problem because
it's essentially a sort of like
chronometer telling you every time when
to come up and when to go down it's
really unambiguous it's like a full
squat you know when you've squatted all
the way down and you've known you stand
all the way up and if you do full squats
and if you do full dips there's no
question about rep drop consistency
tracking is better and everything is
great so Charlie show us what what we're
talking about here with a mistake so you
know what Charlie's gonna do some dips
and yeah one of them's kinda low and
then that one kind of sucks and then
maybe he feels bad about himself so he
goes lower and yep who knows what the
hell is going on at that point
honest honest questions for you folks
watching at home how many dips was that
fucks I know four and a half they gotta
add up all the area under the curve of
movement fuck that real dips look almost
a little every single time show us what
that looks like Charlie it's a full
depth dip and all the way up notice his
elbows lock out every single time or
come really close and that's it perfect
the next mistake is really kind of a
myth and the myth is that there's some
kind of magic special grip that
completely activates the triceps and is
super safe for your shoulders and then
there are other grips that just fuck
your shit up and you're gonna get blown
out shoulders and you're never gonna get
big triceps and so on and so forth grip
in the dips is an entirely personal
thing and it's really easy to figure out
which grip is right for you you just try
them and if you're not strong enough to
do enough dips to really experiment with
grips try doing assisted dips to figure
out where you feel best with assistance
and that's probably gonna be really
similar to where you can take your
unassisted dips later and when you're
stronger more fresh for a working set so
for example some folks and it's really
based on how wide your shoulders are
your specific glenohumeral joint
architecture the way your elbows Bend
the ratio of your various Lin lengths
arm chest etc some folks like a real
close grip some folks like a really wide
grip this is a cool dip attachment not
everyone has one of these but it really
actually lets you do an option some
folks like the straight bars some people
like to turn around and dip the other
way because they actually get a better
stretch of contraction when they do the
reverse dip all of that is totally fine
just experiment to see what works for
you and this really just like a 2 factor
checklist for what works best one which
one is the least uncomfortable and the
most comfortable all right for your
joints that's 1 & 2 is which one
stresses tenses and burns your target
muscle the triceps for the most part the
best alright so if there's a dip
arrangement that for everyone else looks
really narrow but you can get super
great in range of motion it fucks your
triceps up and your shoulders and elbows
feel great that's your shit just do that
and if you are awesome at wide-grip dips
and you honestly feel the tricep
contraction a bunch it's even okay if
your shoulders flare out or your elbows
flare out that's
a problem as long as you feel it in your
triceps and that's super critical point
you guys heard me ramble before about
the stimulus to fatigue ratio making
sure to target the actual muscle we want
how do you know if your dips are too
wide of a grip and they're targeting
more chest and triceps well you feel
your fucking body don't you what do you
feel like is working if you're doing
dips out here and you're like oh man
these are great for my triceps and your
training partners like what's pumped up
you're like do they have a big gnarly
chest pump you think what about your
tricep you're like laughs I don't really
feel them like well you're clearly just
lying to yourself figure out your grip
flare your elbows less and feel your
triceps more do whatever it takes in the
grip capacity and positioning to get
that done but if you happen to have a
body arrangement where you can flare
your shoulders it's more comfortable for
you you can get deeper you're stronger
and you feel your triceps a lot don't
let anyone tell you that that's not the
right way to dip experiment find out
works best for you next mistaken dips is
worrying about head position a lot of
folks ask where should I put my head
Wells first of all during dips there are
no forces transduced through your
cervical vertebrae this is nothing
sitting on your head okay in the
servomotor i only produce force if you
resist or if your head is fucking
gigantic then you probably have had a
lifetime of problems right so people say
don't look down when you're doing dips
you'll hurt your neck do you hurt your
neck looking down when there's a fucking
penny on the ground or some shit if you
do that's a real serious problem or
people say don't look up look well they
don't go to New York City to look at
skyscrapers you're gonna be a spinal
injury patient right that's nonsense
look where is comfortable some folks get
really into the dog when they start
doing shit like this
Charlie do some dips looking into the
sky for no goddamn good reason look and
that might be comfortable for him yeah
yeah get it that's weird too dips good
and then try looking down for no reason
yeah try to look at your own dick oh
yeah that's awesome you can hit your
head into the support bars right like
there's no right answer there in reality
just do dips starting out looking
relatively straight or a little down and
then just go based on comfort folks
you're not training your neck or your
head it's how your triceps and chest and
shoulders feel not the rest of it so
just put your head where's comfy Charlie
where's comfy for you just so folks know
where to soar start out it looks like
you know it looks sort of pretty much
but not not too far that's it no no
rocket science here the next mistake is
to leverage yourself too far forward
sometimes curving over and bending more
you end up getting less elbow flexion
into more use of your chest absolutely
nothing wrong with using your chest on
dips it can actually be a great chest
exercise if that's what you're doing it
for but usually you're doing it for
triceps what you want to do is sit back
a little bit be a bit more upright so
you can leverage into your triceps
bending your elbows a ton this is the
identical mistake of putting your legs
too far up on a leg press yeah you can
use more weight and you're probably
stronger tricep tipping leverage forward
but the actual joint we want to move the
knee and the leg press the elbow in the
dip is not the one taking on the most
mechanical work and that's precisely
what we want so what does this mistake
look like in real life you've probably
seen it a bunch of gyms Charlie show us
you're saying I'm gonna dip as much as I
possibly can you start sort of curving
forward yep and notice the degree of
elbow flexion is not that great and I do
a couple correct reps Charlie so
Charlie's gonna sit back more look at
how much deeper his elbow bends he's
staying more upright and getting away
way better stretch and contraction
remember you can solve all these
problems for yourself because there's no
ideal right answer what's too far
forward was too far back just don't kid
yourself if you're doing dips and you're
hitting all sorts of PRS but you're
leaning forward to do it and you ask
yourself honestly in your head am I
feeling a ton of tension in my triceps
on this or is it my shoulders impacts if
the children impacts listen if that's
the target for the dips great but it's
probably not if it's triceps lean into
the dips more lean back really bend your
elbows as opposed to going forward like
this all of a sudden you're gonna be
like holy crap my triceps feel the shit
out of that if that's less weight you
can use in fewer reps that's okay
because we want the triceps to be doing
the work first to be feeling the tension
first to be feeling the burn to be
getting the pump to feel the disruption
after the workout after we've set the
technique that does those things then we
slowly increase reps and weight and all
the other variables because we have
something fundamentally sound we don't
want to do it the other way around
we pick a technique that we could
overload and progress a ton with and
then realize we've been overloading
progressing mostly our chest and
shoulders leaving our triceps on the
back burner the last mistake on dips is
not minding the optimal rep range zones
to get the most out of them a lot of
this is personal so you're gonna have to
play around fundamentally there are
three rep range zones for hypertrophy
the five to ten rep range the 10 to 20
range and the 20 to 34 dips it's
tempting to go in the 5 to 10 rep range
zone using weight in addition to your
body weight to do sets of 8 or something
like that for some folks it works great
unfortunately dips a lot like dumbbell
presses and barbell lunges are an
inherently relatively unstable exercise
so when your body is producing really
high forces but detect instability it
caps your force production to some
extent which means even though you're
hitting PRS and you're getting pretty
good workouts with heavy dips your body
never turns on all of the fastest twitch
motor units which is sort of the point
of heavy training when you're doing dips
in some cases if it's an exercise which
we feel is really really really stable
for you by all means 5 to 10 it as long
as you feel safe but if it's one of
those exercises where you're kind of
Lilu especially at the bottom higher
reps are probably best because the
absolute force is never that high then
as you approach failure or your body can
still milk out really good
awesome awesome gains so what I would
say is for most folks dips should be
done in the 10 to 30 rep range yeah if
you're strong enough or use an
assistance machine to get the high reps
sets of 20 to 30 on dips can fry you out
amazing tricep stimulus most of your
work should probably be spent in the 10
to 20 range I personally love the 15 to
20 reparations for many of my dipping
sort of excursions I have done dips in
the 5 to 10 rep range before I've
actually done dips and there's a YouTube
video of me somewhere doing I was like
230 pounds and I was doing dips with a
hundred and thirty five pounds on a an
attachment and I did that for like a set
of 10 super deep can I honestly tell you
my triceps had the best workout ever
then not really it just felt super heavy
and I felt like I got it done it's like
I said a 5 in the squat so I'm gonna get
you really feel that your quads like
really I felt it in my soul
a lot so it's awesome to be chasing
super heavyweights but I think the best
thing for your triceps for most people
is that moderate or even high rep range
and if you get the ability to use excess
weight strapped to a belt in the 10 to
20 range there is when you're gonna get
really really awesome giant triceps
because look if you can do a 45 hanging
off your body for 15 20 or 25 reps holy
crap not only do you get an excellent
mind muscle connection excellent
technique but the overload is awesome
you're gonna probably grow your best
risers remember super personalized in
this advice so if you honestly feel a
great tricep stimulus from lower
repetitions by all means do it just stay
safe folks that's all I've got for
triceps 4 dips give it a shot give it
some thought no Dogma try everything out
if you have questions shoot them into
the comments and if you have answers
help out all of your other fellow
lifters and try to answer to the best of
your ability if you want some other
exercises for us to go over and do
mistakes and corrections let us know in
the comments folks see you next time
the next mistake is a bit more rare it's
taking your deeps way to deeps