the muscle and strength world a deload
refers to a period of training usually
just a week where you shift your focus
away from intense progressive workouts
and toward recovery factors like rest
sleep and proper nutrition most people
still train during a deload it's just
that the training is modified so that
recovery can be leveraged to increase
gains over the long term and i actually
don't think enough people leverage
recovery effectively it seems that most
bodybuilders are so hung up on the go
hard or go home mentality that they
forget that the gains actually happen
when you go home and rest and this
hardcore mindset often results in these
long and grueling plateaus especially
when trainees mistakenly assume that the
best way to break through a plateau is
to work even harder when in reality the
antidote is to actually work smarter not
harder just think about it in every
other sport on the planet athletes and
coaches realize that you need to have
periods of rest and lighter training in
order to optimize performance over the
long haul bodybuilding and strength
sports shouldn't be an exception this is
because of something called the two
compartment fitness fatigue model this
model tells us that anytime we train we
increase both fitness and fatigue
fitness is the good stuff muscle
strength etc and fatigue is the bad
stuff metabolic waste muscle damage
nervous system fatigue and so on and if
fitness and fatigue are both high
performance will suffer this is why if
you max out on monday and then go back
and max out again on tuesday 99 of the
time you'll be weaker on tuesday
obviously monday's workout didn't make
you somehow lose your gains it's just
that the fatigue you created is
temporarily masking your improvement in
fitness
once that fatigue dissipates you'll see
the gains you made and can keep pushing
forward and this is where the d-load
comes in a properly timed d-load allows
your body to flush out the fatigue so
that overall performance can be
maximized and since performance is
ultimately what drives both strength and
size
i think d-loads can be a useful tool for
both power lifters and bodybuilders so
let's start with the three different
types of d-loads so you can figure out
which one will work best for you and
your goals first there's the full week
off a lot of old school bodybuilders did
this in the off season but it's fallen
out of popularity a bit lately as most
people now realize that active rest is
generally better than doing nothing at
all and even though research does show
that most people won't lose significant
size or strength until at least two to
three weeks of no training i don't often
recommend this type of deload these days
simply because it can throw off your
momentum i personally find that if i
take a full week off the weights will
feel super heavy in that first week back
whereas if i still train but with a
modified approach that we'll get to i
actually end up feeling even stronger on
that first week back the full week off
can still have its place though for
example if you're on a vacation and
don't have gym access taking a week off
definitely won't kill your gains and
there's nothing wrong with taking a
mental break every once in a while as
well okay the second type of deload is
the taper week and this is the one that
i use all the time with power lifters in
fact my latest power building phase 3
program is essentially a strength
peaking plan and it ends with a taper
week before a max test here you want to
drop volume way back while still
maintaining a high intensity so in a
taper week you're still training heavy
you just do roughly half the sets and
cut back on the so-called accessory
lifts so for example let's say you want
to test your squat max in week 10 here
you can set up a taper so that in week 8
you're still doing eight weekly sets for
the squat and still doing squat
accessory work but then in week nine you
taper the squat work back to four weekly
sets and slash the accessory stuff while
keeping the loads relatively heavy then
you'll be primed for your best possible
max the following week of course the
taper isn't always appropriate for
bodybuilders because they usually aren't
trying to peak for a one rep max
specifically so this brings me to the
third type of deload which i'm just
calling the standard deload in this case
you want to more moderately decrease
both volume and intensity so i'll
usually drop volume back by 30 to 50
percent in practice that amounts to
slashing one or two sets per movement so
if i'm normally doing three to four sets
per exercise on the deload week i'll do
two to three sets per exercise and i'll
also drop the intensity back but not by
much for example if i'm normally
training at an rpe of 8 to 10 in the
deload week i'll train at an rpe of 6 to
8. now if you train more instinctively
and don't micromanage your numbers like
this that's perfectly fine you can
simply think of your d-load week as a
light week where you stay a few reps
further from failure and do one less set
per exercise that should do the trick to
flatten fatigue without having to think
too hard about it and either way i think
it's smart to not think of your d-load
as an excuse to sandbag your workouts
but rather to think of it as an
opportunity to focus your attention on
technique and mind-muscle connection
some coaches have actually started
calling their d-loads technique weeks so
people know that they're not a step
backwards just a temporary shift in
focus the lighter loads will help you
refine your setup and execution and the
reduction in volume will help you really
hone in on the sets that you are doing
by actively stretching and squeezing the
target muscle okay so how often should
you deload well there are two main
approaches to this depending on who you
ask some coaches prefer to schedule
deloads proactively usually once every
four to eight weeks generally speaking
the more advanced you are the more often
you'll want to deload because you need
to train harder to make progress meaning
you'll generate more fatigue than
someone who's less advanced other
coaches prefer to schedule deloads
reactively meaning you'll only deload
when you feel like you actually need one
this is more of an auto regulated
approach where if you feel like you're
making great progress and your
motivation is high what's the point of
potentially slowing that down just
because you're supposed to deload and
while i do get the reasoning behind this
for me the biggest downside of the
reactive approach is that even if you
have great lifters intuition it's
actually really hard to tell when you
need to deload not all soft tissues and
tendons are well innervated with nerves
meaning you could be accumulating joint
stress without even realizing it
everything's going great and then all of
a sudden you tweak something
unexpectedly so i do generally prefer to
schedule deloads proactively ahead of
time unless i'm dealing with a very
mature lifter who knows their body
extremely well now with all that said i
think there are some lifters who
probably don't need to worry about
d-loads at all first early beginners in
your first year of training you
shouldn't be generating enough fatigue
to really need a formal deload as a
beginner you can make amazing progress
by just learning proper technique and
figuring out what it actually means to
train hard once you get to the late
beginner to early intermediate stage
usually that's after one or two years of
lifting including a deload makes a lot
more sense the other exception would be
what i'm going to call lazy lifters and
this is a pretty broad category of
people who are also not generating
enough fatigue to warrant a deload
you're already deloading every week you
don't need another one in this case
regardless of your training age i'd say
to focus on getting more diligent with
your training first then start planning
deloads once you lock in the proper
planning but with those exceptions aside
i do think that once you hit the
intermediate stage deloads can be one of
the single best strategies for busting
plateaus and driving progress forward
and before we go i want to thank
skillshare for sponsoring this video
skullshare is a massive online learning
community that offers thousands of
classes on creative topics like
animation writing video editing music
web development and even business stuff
like marketing and productivity one
question i get asked all the time is how
i edit my videos sometimes people are
surprised to hear that for the last
several years i've done all the editing
on this channel myself i think a lot of
people who do creative work or want to
have a creative career are a little too
eager to outsource things rather than
learning the skills for themselves i
think that having that knowledge
yourself is what gives you the most
power as a content creator and
skillshare is easily the best resource
for this type of learning whether you're
just starting out or you're looking to
elevate your craft to the next level for
example this course on filmmaking for
content creators will teach you how to
make all sorts of video from travel
vlogs to product reviews and even short
form stuff like tick tock and instagram
reels this is a beginner level course so
once you've mastered these basics you
can easily find more advanced classes as
you specialize your skill set so the
first 1000 of my subscribers click the
first link in the description box below
we'll get a free one month trial of
skillshare so you can start exploring
your creativity today skillshare's
classes are taught by fellow creatives
who are also practicing what they preach
so the information is always to the
point and up to date so make sure you're
one of the first 1000 people and get a
head start on that skill that you're
looking to master so thanks again to
skillshare for sponsoring the video i
really do appreciate it thank you guys
so much for watching don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe if you haven't already
and i'll see you guys all here in the
next one