[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy
what's the best training modality for
hypertrophy some speculate free weights
like barbells or dumbbells are superior
since they produce greater temporary
increases in anabolic hormones after
training in fact others might suppose
dumbbells are the optimal modality since
they enable greater freedom of movement
others might suggest machines are
superior as they can help you isolate a
specific muscle or because some machines
provide variable resistance or even
eccentric overload with body weight or
resistance bands it's rare to hear
people believing these are superior for
muscle hypertrophy instead some might
actually believe these are terrible for
building muscle in this video we'll
thoroughly examine the research on how
barbells dumbbells machines body weight
and resistance bands compare for muscle
hypertrophy let's Dive In
[Music]
we have an in-depth video dissecting the
literature on the stimuli behind muscle
hypertrophy mechanical tension is likely
the primary hypertrophy stimulus other
hypothesized stimuli like muscle damage
and metabolic stress simply don't have
strong evidence they are powerful
drivers of hypertrophy we thoroughly
described mechanical tension previously
but if you haven't seen it all you need
to know for this video is that
mechanical tension is the force produced
by the fibers of a muscle within and
around muscle fibers are mechanosensors
that can detect forces and convert the
forces into a signaling Cascade that
produces muscle hypertrophy
how do we achieve High mechanical
tension and how does this tie into
different training modalities the basic
initial step is we want to use a
movement that recruits a muscle and it
appears the nervous system recruits
muscles based on their leverage for a
given movement this is called
neuromechanical matching think of
Leverage as how easily a muscle can
produce Force for a given movement for
example the biceps have significant
leverage for flexing the elbow joints so
elbow flexion will recruit the biceps
elbow flexion can occur with barbells
dumbbells machines body weight and
resistance bands in other words no
training modality has an inherent
Advantage for initiating the recruitment
of a muscle the specific movements not
training modality is what results in a
muscles recruitment now certain training
modalities might be better for carrying
out a certain movement we'll return to
this point later but the main point is
no training modality has a unanimous
Advantage for initiating the recruitment
of a muscle now simply initiating the
recruitment of a muscle doesn't mean
we're exposing that recruited muscle to
high overall mechanical tension to
create high overall mechanical tension
we'd want to recruit as many muscle
fibers as possible and have those
individual fibers produce higher
respective forces for a decent duration
this is simply done by training two or
close to failure within the 6 to 35 rep
range reps on the lower side of this
will readily involve High muscle fiber
Recruitment and forces and these
increase even more as you near failure
reps on the higher side of this only
initially require low muscle fiber
recruitment but the key point is as you
continue repping out a narrowing failure
fiber Recruitment and forces increase
significantly so much so that during
those few reps before failure fiber
Recruitment and forces and the duration
of this High overall tension end up
being comparable between lower and
higher reps
some may be wondering about reps below 6
or above 35 reps below 6 will involve
high fiber Recruitment and forces but
the duration of this tension exposure is
probably too short to optimally
stimulate hypertrophy rips above 35
might generate too much central nervous
system fatigue that reduces your ability
to recruit muscle fibers and therefore
expose them to tension anyway getting
too or near to failure within the 6 to
35 rep range can theoretically be done
with all the training modalities
indicating that neither has an inherent
superiority for eliciting high
mechanical tension using our example we
know they're a barbell dumbbell machine
body weights and resistance bands
exercises that involve elbow flexion if
you can get all of these two or near to
failure in the 6-35 rep range it is more
than likely all of them expose the
biceps to comparably high overall
mechanical tension levels now there is a
potential problem with resistance band
specifically we'll address this point a
little later summarizing this section
the primary hypertrophy stimulus is
likely mechanical tension and all
exercise modalities have the capacity to
generate similar mechanical tension
[Music]
so far we've been discussing mechanical
tension in relation to the active forces
produced by muscle fibers that's the
forces generated by their actual
contractile units within muscle fibers
yet muscle fibers and the surrounding
extracellular Matrix can generate forces
when stretched these are passive forces
and these forces can also be detected by
mechanosensors that go on to Signal
muscle growth exercises that involve a
stretch since they would involve both
active and passive forces probably
involve higher overall net mechanical
tension this logic is a strong candidate
as to why the research consistently
finds exercises that train muscles as
stretched positions produces more
hypertrophy
barbells dumbbells machines body weight
and resistant spares can all
theoretically attain stretch for example
the quadriceps muscles all have leverage
for knee extension and would be
stretched when the knees are flexed
barbell back squats Bulgarian split
squats hex squats pistol squats and
resistance banded squats would all
attain stretch of the quadriceps again
provided you can get two on air to
failure within the 6 to 35 rep range
with these presumably they would be
similarly effective for stimulating
muscle hypertrophy however there again
is a potential problem with resistance
bands they actually change the
resistance curve of a squat and this may
be unfavorable for hypertrophy we'll
address this more later nevertheless the
summary of this section is neither
training modality is intrinsically
Superior for training muscles at
stretched positions so from an overall
stimulus perspective it's evident there
is no clear winner
despite this some may counter this with
other data some suggest free weights
produce greater increases in anabolic
hormones however Others May note that
machines can provide variable resistance
and overloaded eccentrics let's assess
if these arguments have any real
validity
[Music]
free weights tend to produce higher
temporary increases in anabolic hormones
for example a 2020 Canadian study
compared a free weight to machine
training session and found temporary
increases in free testosterone were
larger after the freeway session another
2013 study from the USA compared
performing barbell squats to leg
pressures and found temporary increases
in testosterone and growth hormone was
Superior after the barbell squats
therefore surely these greater temporary
anabolic hormone increases with free
weights translates into greater muscle
growth signaling they don't a
substantial number of studies simply
failed to find that greater temporary
elevations in anabolic hormones results
in more long-term hypertrophy it's quite
possible that temporary elevations in
animal equipments from training is a
result of energy usage not signaling
muscle growth
some say free weight training leads to
Chronic increases in arresting
testosterone and this means more
hypertrophy for example people have said
barbell squats increased testosterone
and therefore benefit overall muscle
hypertrophy the problem is many studies
find freeway training including barbell
squats largely doesn't chronically
increase resting testosterone levels
we've analyzed the data in a previous
video
certain machines can provide variable
resistance or eccentric overload but
does this matter examining variable
resistance first what actually is it
many exercises don't equally challenge
the muscle throughout the range of
motion a barbell biceps curl is hardest
at the midpoint of the movement but
easier at the bottom and top portions
machines with variable resistance vary
the resistance throughout the range of
motion resulting in the muscle being
challenged equally throughout the range
of motion as a fun fact Nautilus
machines were popular from the 1970s
onwards and these provided variable
resistance Arthur Jones the founder of
Nautilus believed variable resistance
was more effective Arthur Jones was also
one of the early promoters of high
intensity training that's one set to
failure disclaimer in theory it may be
possible to produce variable resistance
with things other than machines but all
the studies exploring variable
resistance used machines so is variable
resistance training Superior a 2013
Finnish study had trained men perform
leg presses leg extensions and leg curls
with either variable or standard
resistance vastus lateralis gains were
comparable between the standard and
variable resistance groups another 2013
finished study found the exact same
thing in a group of previously untrained
older men a 2019 polish study found when
training preach occurs with these
variables armed circumference gains did
not differ between using variable or
standard resistance finally a 1995
Canadian study compared variable to
standard pre-checkers and bicep gains
were similar between the two so all
these studies failed to find variable
resistance is more effective I think
it's probably the case regardless of
whether you're using variable resistance
or not getting too or near failure
ensures sufficiently High mechanical
tension
what about machines that provide
eccentric overload like flywheels
firstly though what is eccentric
overload muscles are a lot stronger when
producing Force while lengthening versus
when producing Force while shortening
case in point when training with normal
bicep curls it requires more effort to
lift than it does to lower machines
providing eccentric overload increase
the load in The Eccentric portion and
return to normal load in the concentric
portion disclaimer eccentric overload
can be performed without machines using
stuff like weight releases but all of
the current studies I'm aware of
evaluating eccentric overflow training
use flywheels or other machines there
are 11 of these studies and only four of
them suggest eccentric overload produced
more hypertrophy versus normal training
the rest indicates similar muscle
hypertrophy between eccentric and normal
training so their evidence is not
compelling that eccentric overload is
better for muscle hypertrophy some may
be thinking surely eccentric overload
since it would produce greater muscle
fiber recruitment during The Eccentric
should add to the overall mechanical
tension and thereby produce more muscle
hypertrophy but as analyzed by Chris
Beardsley differential fatigue
mechanisms could reconcile this when
compared to normal training eccentric
overload training may involve
disproportionately more fatigue that
impairs the active forces generated by
muscle fibers this potential lowered
active forces with eccentric overload
training May mean it does not involve
more overall mechanical tension versus
normal training maybe explaining why
most studies find similar hypertrophy
between normal and eccentric overloaded
training
foreign
[Music]
so far it's evident there isn't an
inherent Superior training modality so
we'd expect the research comparing
hypertrophy between training modalities
to largely find comparable hypertrophy
indeed this seems to be the case a 2020
Belgian study had previously untrained
individuals trained either a freeway
only machine only or a combined freeway
and machine program each exercise was
trained with the following variables
chest thigh and upper arm circumference
increases were comparable between all
three groups
criticisms of this study are untrained
individuals were used and circumference
is far from the most precise measurement
of muscle gains fortunately another 2020
Canadian study recruited trained men and
women and assessed hypertrophy with
ultrasound a much better measurement
subjects either trained a free weight or
machine only program biceps and
quadriceps growth were ultimately
similar between both programs with body
weight training there have been two
studies comparing it to free weights a
2017 Japanese study in trained men
compared High rep bench press training
to high rep push-up training
and chest and triceps hypertrophy were
similar between both
some may suggest the use of High Reps in
this study is a limitation but we've
already mentioned how high reps are no
less effective than lower Reps for
hypertrophy so it's not a limitation in
my view another 2018 USA study in men
with some training experience compared
low rep bench press to low rep push-up
training the low reps with the push-ups
were achieved by using harder push-up
variations
neither group experienced statistically
significant chest gains but both groups
saw numerical increases fascinatingly
the percentages actually favored push-up
training but this study was only four
weeks and the greater percentage gains
with the push-ups could be due to random
variation at the least this study
demonstrates barbells are not inherently
Superior to other training modalities
like body weights
unfortunately I'm not aware of any
studies comparing muscle hypertrophy
between resistance banded training and
other modalities but as alluded to we'll
discuss some potential issues with
resistance bands shortly nevertheless
combining this long-term data with other
logic and research outlined previously I
believe the argument that no training
modality is inherently Superior for
muscle hypertrophy is strengthened
at the house of hypertrophy I don't
accept many sponsors as I don't believe
in or know the companies reaching out
but I've been in contact with Alpha
progression a truly excellent fitness
app most fitness apps are basic and
virtually the same Alpha progression
provides unique and more advanced
features without being overwhelming with
a clean elegant and simple design the
app provides a database of more than 450
exercises with excellent video and text
tutorials on each you can input your own
training program or use their customized
workout generator that sincerely
generates great programs in either case
there are options to Paradise the number
of reps in reserve you leave as well as
the number of sets performed they also
provide an option to generate deload
weeks the customized workouts are still
editable allowing you to make any
changes you desire
you can track your workout live set to
set across your training sessions the
app provides great progression
recommendations to elicit Progressive
overload the app also provides Sleek
graphs that track virtually any
measurement like your barbell bench
press strength across time the number of
workouts each week your body weight and
even the number of sets per muscle group
and circumference measures of various
body parts I genuinely believe the app
is fantastic and the reviews of the app
Echo this 4.9 stars on Google Play and
4.8 stars on Apple Store if you're
interested you can get the app from the
link in the comments or description by
using this link you'll get two weeks
completely free of all its features plus
20 offer yearly or monthly subscription
I want to mention that if you do end up
purchasing the app from this link I will
get 50 of the purchase so this will
truly help and support these free videos
at the house of hypertrophy thank you
foreign
studies there weren't any that directly
compared dumbbell only training to other
training modalities but some may
speculate dumbbells could be superior
compared to barbells machine's body
weight and resistance bands dumbbells
enable the greatest freedom of movement
so in certain cases dumbbells may allow
you to better carry out a movement a
muscle has leverage for for example a
dumbbell bench press permits slightly
more horizontal flexion versus
corresponding barbell machine and body
weight movements the chest has great
leverage for horizontal flexion so maybe
dumbbell bench presses produce greater
chest hypertrophy
some EMG analyzes but not all find the
dumbbell bench press produces higher
chest activation versus barbell bench
presses dumbbells may also allow you to
achieve a greater stretch
I'm actually skeptical that these points
matter that much firstly EMG simply has
an array of limitations it doesn't truly
measure muscle activation rather it
estimates electrical signal input to the
muscle's fibers called neuromuscular
excitation even when actual muscle
activation or neuromuscular excitation
is kept the same merely changing the
length of the muscle produces different
EMG recordings this is a big limitation
of EMG cases exist where EMG data fails
to translate to muscle growth compare a
leg extension held isometrically at a
short or long muscle length EMG data
finds higher quadriceps EMG recordings
from leg extensions held isometrically
at a short length yet research actually
measuring muscle growth finds leg
extensions held isometrically at longer
lengths produce notably more quadriceps
hypertrophy versus the short length with
dumbbell bench presses enabling more
horizontal flexion I am unsure if the
ability to move the dumbbells towards
each other the top adds anything extra
for hypertrophy since tension at the top
is low and the muscle is at a shortened
position some data indicate extra range
of motion with a muscle short and
doesn't create more hypertrophy with
stretch we know that it's important for
hypertrophy but I've yet to mention more
stretch doesn't necessarily mean more
hypertrophy a 2019 Japanese study found
similar quadriceps hypertrophy between a
90 and 140 degree knee flexion squat
despite the latter involving a greater
quad stretch there could be a threshold
to that amount of passive tension that
triggers hypertrophy so I'm not
currently convinced dumbbells could be
superior due to slightly more motion or
stretch hopefully we get future research
directly comparing muscle growth between
dumbbells and other training modalities
so the current data indicator neither
training modality has an inherent
superiority for muscle hypertrophy but
nuances do exist different modalities
may involve slightly differing
stabilization or biomechanics and this
may subtly impact muscle recruitment
generally extreme instability is going
to be unfavorable for muscle hypertrophy
since stability not the fatigue of the
muscle would be the limiting factor your
typical exercises with different
training modalities are fairly stable
exercises but subtle stability
differences can exist between training
modalities let's compare barbell and
dumbbell bench presses again both
involve horizontal flexion shoulder
flexion and elbow extension but the
dumbbell provides comparatively more
instability this instability might
actually produce greater biceps
recruitment due to Greater antagonistic
co-activation which fundamentally limits
triceps Force output on top of this the
barbell bench press actually involves
lateral forces and these lateral forces
probably enhance triceps recruitment
with the barbell bench press with the
dumbbell bench press meaningful lateral
forces cannot be applied since
attempting to do so would result in you
throwing the dumbbells either side of
you so although barbell and dumbbell
bench presses involve horizontal flexion
shoulder flexion and elbow extension
stability and biomechanical factors
probably mean dumbbells involve lower
triceps involvement this lower triceps
recruitment with the dumbbell variation
could be useful or unideal depending on
your goals note neutral hand Dumbo bench
presses likely train the triceps well as
there is research on this exercise
finding it did induce notable triceps
hypertrophy
When comparing a bodywear exercise like
the push-up to dumbbell or barbell bench
presses the push-up requires greater
core stabilization so it likely recruits
the abdominal muscles more additionally
push-ups can involve scapular
protraction which results in Greater
serratus anterior recruitments this
higher abdominal and serratus anterior
recruitment with push-ups could be
useful or unideal depending on your
goals comparing barbell back squats to
Bulgarian split squats or even hack
squats all involve hip and knee
extension however barbell squats require
you to load and stabilize the spine
likely resulting in Greater spinal
erector recruitment this could be ideal
or unideal depending on your goals so
summarizing this section although no
training modality is likely inherently
Superior for muscle hypertrophy certain
stability and biomechanical differences
between modalities can subtly impact
hypertrophy outcomes
[Music]
training with different exercise
modalities can be complementary in an
overall training program we know
according to the principle of
neuromechanical matching muscles are
recruited based on their leverage for a
given Movement we also know different
training modalities can involve the same
movements but this isn't actually always
the case it's impossible to carry out a
vertical pull with a dumbbell or barbell
body awake to machine or even resistance
band can do this it's probably a great
idea to have a vertical pulling movement
in a program for back hypertrophy so
dumbbell or barbell only programs can be
sub-optimal to optimally train the
rectus for more as part of the
quadriceps you likely want isolated knee
extension this cannot be done
effectively with barbell or dumbbell
movements and body weight or machine
exercises are needed barbells and
dumbbells don't really isolate knee
flexion either body weight and machines
can do this it's probably favorable to
have a knee flexion exercise to
optimally develop the hamstring muscle
group coming soon to the house if I
perch for YouTube channel we'll be
releasing free Ultimate Guide videos on
developing each major muscle these
videos will provide great insight into
what precise movements and exercises may
be favorable so summarizing this section
different training modalities can be
complementary in an overall training
program we should not view them as an
either or
[Music]
body weight training and resistance
bands may have problems with Progressive
overload Progressive overload is
fundamental for gaining muscle
hypertrophy and strength long term two
popular ways to Progressive overload are
increasing load or the number of reps
you perform Thinking of progressive
overload as a cycle works well a
challenging training session evokes
muscle and strength gains these gains
enable you to apply Progressive overload
and in turn this application of
progressive overload sustains a
challenging training session Recent
research as examined in another video
indicates that progressively overloading
via increasing load or reps are largely
similarly effective for muscle
hypertrophy therefore increasing rep
numbers with body weight or resistance
bands is perfectly fine for muscle
hypertrophy however in the long term
increasing load is going to be required
since continually adding reps and going
Beyond 35 reps per set may not be ideal
for hypertrophy as we alluded to already
there are harder body weight variations
that technically increase load
particularly with the upper body however
progressively overloading body away
lower body exercise long term is more
challenging and limited and think it's
more than likely body weight training
alone isn't going to be optimal for
lower body long-term hypertrophy we've
discussed these points more in a
previous video with resistance bands you
can also use bands that are technically
heavier loading but the practicality and
feasibility of this long term is
certainly questionable resistance bands
also have other potential issues it's
all too easy to allow the resistance
band to snap back into position during
the lowering phase of an exercise
resulting in extremely little muscle
loading in the lowering phase we already
know that Max eccentric loading simply
isn't additive for hypertrophy but I do
think some eccentric loading is needed
resistance bands also provide resistance
that results in the exercise being
challenging when the muscle is more
shortened than stretched I don't think
Max tension during stretched positions
is required for optimal hypertrophy but
you probably want decent tension at
stretched positions sometimes resistance
bands involve barely any tension at a
stretched position
for these Reasons I'm skeptical
resistance bands are truly on par with
our other training modalities but these
are my speculations there's no research
comparing actual muscle hypertrophy
between resistance bands and other
training modalities there's only mixed
electromyography research with some
indicating similar EMG recordings
between resistance bands and free
weights and others suggesting higher EMG
recordings with free weights but we've
already mentioned how EMG has an array
of limitations that severely limit its
usefulness in comparing the muscle
growth potential between different
things this isn't to say resistance
bands build to no muscle of course there
was this one 2020 Japanese study
indicating resistance banded curls and
extensions did produce measurable biceps
and triceps hypertrophy
we've already noted how if different
modalities involve the same movement
taking them to or close to failure
within the 6 to 35 rep range should be
similarly effective hypertrophy yet some
individuals may prefer a certain
training modality for carrying out a
given movement for example both
Bulgarian split scores and Barbo back
scores involve knee and hip extension
but maybe you find the Bulgarian split
squat more comfortable certain exercises
with a training modality like machines
and resistance bands can involve lower
joint loading and maybe this is
favorable in certain circumstances yet
the restricted nature of certain
machines may not suit your Anatomy
finally you may have quite significant
imbalances between your two Limbs and
during a bilateral exercise one side of
your body may be performing
disproportionately more work this can be
unideal and dumbbell training can be a
potential solution here so summarizing
this section certain individual factors
can play a role in deciding whether you
want to train with barbells dumbbells
machine sporty weight or even resistance
bands
[Music]
neither exercise modality is inherently
Superior for hypertrophy all can
theoretically involve High mechanical
tension which has been identified to be
the primary stimulus for hypertrophy
greater temporary anabolic hormone
increases with free weights are not
associated with more hypertrophy
machines that provide variable or
eccentric overload don't seem to produce
more hypertrophy though subtle
differences in hypertrophy can exist
between training modalities due to
different stability or biomechanical
demands ultimately different training
modalities can be complementary in an
overall program resistance bands have
potential pitfalls namely they can
involve low tension in the lowering
phase and some resistance banded
exercises barely apply tension to the
muscle at stretched positions
furthermore progressively overloading
resistance banded exercises long term as
well as body weight lower exercises can
be difficult to effectively achieve
if you've made it here I have a free
ebook you might like The Ultimate Guide
to bench pressing for strength and
hypertrophy with more than 100
scientific references from technique to
training variables to comparisons and
other fascinating science we cover it
all grab it through the link in the
description or comments
[Music]