hey folks Dr Mike Israel here with
Renaissance periodization
in today's video topic is one of the
long topics in our long series of
specializing on a specific muscle group
and today finally your patient weight
has been rewarded by the Gods on high
supposedly Gods on low would be the
devil and other assorted demons
your patience has been rewarded quads
quad specialization is the topic
first question is why would we
specialize on quads why can't you just
train them normally totally fine if
you're training your quads normally
and they're grown like weeds hey you
just keep doing what you're doing
you want to specialize there could be a
few reasons you wanted to do it one
normal is not good enough you want your
quads to grow faster
for no good reason at all another one is
you could just want your quads to be
bigger than they are proportionally with
the rest of your body that could be just
because you want enormous quads that's
fun for its own sake and two your quads
might really be lagging behind
especially like your upper body or your
glutes and hams and calves are really
big but your quads are small that's a
like awkward look every now and again so
you want to train quads in order to
really really exciting games and the
cool thing about specialization
is that if you limit the training of
other muscle groups to some extent and
you really train the living crap out of
a specific muscle group to some extent
then it allows your resources to shift
towards supporting that muscle group's
growth
specialization is kind of like your
number one ultimate I'm gonna try as
hard as possible to grow this particular
muscle effort
whatever it's going to take I'm going to
put it in there right tier one priority
versus the idea that you train all your
muscles relatively similarly
and then you say you know what my my
quads is just not growing like the rest
of my body well that's because you
haven't tried this this one weird trick
so what is the weird trick well there's
tons and not really tricks but
the basics of specialization the very
reason why it works is a couple of
things and they're both the reasons why
it works and they are the things that
actually specialization is composed
like armor on a tank is really thick and
hard to penetrate
and that's also why it works
the reason it's there so nothing
penetrates it
you folks are familiar with penetration
of all kinds I'm sure you know what I'm
talking about I was talking about
penetration testing in uh in computer
security perverts all right so a couple
of things we have to do if we're saying
we're specializing one is specificity
we're going to take the quads in this
case but really this applies to every
muscle and we're going to choose
exercises that we deem by some rational
method
the best exercises we know of for Quant
we are going to choose modalities that
we know correspond well to quad training
for example heavy straight sets might be
the thing that really gets us going or
we know that my reps work super great
for quads and we know drop sets maybe
don't work as well because our lungs are
super uh the thing that ends up being a
limiting factor and there's not a lot of
quad training more lung training
cardiovascular training so we could keep
those on the back burner or keep them
away we want to stick to our most
powerful modalities that work really
well there is a time in training to
experiment with other stuff and see how
it works
specialization is not that time
specialization is the time to use the
stuff you know works really well but in
an enhanced manner
and of course that involves techniques
like when you're doing a particular
exercise you're going to alter your
Technique such that it hits quads the
most so for example if you're squatting
you're not going to squat back and down
as much as you're just going to squat
straight up and down letting your knees
come forward really taking loads for the
quads and this affects things like
repetition ranges right sometimes quads
respond really well to ultra heavy
sometimes ultralight sometimes the
middle if it's all three for you then
you can use all three ranges but if if
heavier heavier or lighter works better
for you
it's probably good for you to focus more
on that range during a specialization
phase because again we're really really
trying to grow our quads but we got to
use the best weapons that we have next
we have to use those weapons early when
we are energized and fresh
so if you want to really focus on your
quads it's not a good idea to do stiff
legged deadlifts first and then calves
first then hamstring curls first and
then glutes and then oh yeah uh quads
that's right I hate training them so I
put them in the end nonsense you get too
tired and your systemic fatigue limits
your muscles ability to contract and
stimulate growth your local fatigue
actually contributes to growth so that's
what we want to be limiting factor so
in many of the days of the week in which
we design our program maybe not all but
many
quads are going to be either first or
second on the docket every time you step
into the gym that sucks
if you don't want big quads and you're
wuss and you can't harden up and train
your quads damn it like men used to when
they were men back in
insert year here the 50s those are good
men the 30s
the 1910s oh real men not like today
with tick tock in any case
quads trained fresh quads trained with
their best tools
and it's been shown numerous times that
at least in short time scales several
months higher frequencies that you can
recover from generally tend to work
better than lower frequencies if you
really want a muscle to grow now at some
point the fatigue usually if joints and
connective tissues kind of takes off and
hangs out and needs to be brought back
down so it's not really sustainable to
train with all try frequency but the
quads if you want higher frequencies
don't train your legs once a week that's
not a live specialization plan at least
two times a week quad training and
sometimes three
the example I'll give you later is three
times a week
and since quads really sap your systemic
abilities they contribute the most
fatigue that any muscle a group in the
body by itself contributes like
if you just train quads you look a
certain different way than if you just
train hams or just train back you're the
most tired you're the most dilapidated
and thus if you want quad training to go
best with specialization and you want to
be able to do as much quad training as
possible so the quads locally fatigue
and that's what's stopping it from doing
more
you're doing the most that the muscle
can handle not the most that the system
can handle you're going to want to bring
down other muscle groups to maintenance
volume since the system fatigue isn't
overwhelmed by them as well
so you know if you think of your
resources recovery adaptive resources
that you have as a pie if you're going
to cut a big ass slice for the quads the
other slices are going to have to be
smaller for your other muscles pretty
straightforward you know it's like you
cut yourself a big slice and then
Grandma's like oh I love cake it's my
birthday and you're like yeah Grandma
here's a spoonful of cake
you're old you don't need to be eating
cake here's a smell of cake what what's
that don't have your sense of smell
anymore
let's just call the nursing home then
bye
fucked up why would you ever speak to
your grandma like that that's between
you and their computer screen in front
of your face so
higher frequencies
awesome that's gonna impose a shitload
of fatigue so we're gonna take some
muscles put them on back burner how many
muscles well here's the thing
since quads have a shitload of systemic
fatigue
I would recommend taking the number of
muscles you think is going to be enough
to lower to maintenance and add one
group to that right
how many muscles typically in my
experience do you have to reduce to
maintenance Level Training which is like
roughly a third of the volume
gee whiz yeah probably two or three if
they're the average size muscle so what
I would say is if you want quad priority
take chest and back put them on the back
burner
shoulders biceps and triceps three
muscles but they're smaller all in the
back burner
quads on the front burner hams calves
and glutes on the back burner totally
fine as well
ultimately you could be insanely system
systemically prepared and be able to
layer in tons of quad training without
going down uh in all of your volumes for
all the all muscles or even many of them
what I would say is air on the side of
going easier on more muscles
and if you're like wow man I punished my
quads that was great training but
honestly bro I think I could have done a
little bit more back and trust him and
totally fine hey next time do it
but you don't want to do is do a
situation where you like lower the other
muscles just a tiny bit and then a third
of the way through your quad muscle
cycle that's super specialized you're
like man I'm systemically just cashed
out I don't even want to be at the gym
anymore ah but how are you gonna train
quads arguably the hardest muscle to
train combination of how much amplitude
and pain and external load it has to be
used with uh you want to give yourself
all the advantages
all right
so when you're constructing your
specialized plan
I would give some thought to two time or
three time a week quad training
frequency three times what I'm going to
be demoing here and of course ideally
put the quads fresh and put the rest of
the legs or some upper body stuff on the
back burner
it's probably a good idea I mean it's
volume roughly a third of what you
normally do
for exercises I mean technically the
answer is include all of the high sfr
exercises that you know you know the top
sfr exercises uh but to me that looks a
lot like a core of leg presses hack
squats and free weight squats or smith
machine squats or whatever sort of
compound heavy-ish high range of motion
like movements that are super biased to
the quads seem to be the best sfr
movements for me and even if they tie
other muscle other exercises for
stimulus to fatigue ratio what is term
the raw stimulus magnitude like the
sheer amount of stimulus they can make
forget about fatigue can also be a lot
for these things like leg presses and
hack squats and and various types of uh
squats with a bar on your back they tend
to also be very high raw stimulus
magnitude very high RSM and if you
happen to be
a little bit resistant to quad growth
coming easy to you those High stimulus
exercises usually the ones that make the
big difference because even if you have
a really high RSM exercise or sorry high
acid fire exercise stimulus of fatigue
ratio it could be that the total
stimulus isn't that high but the fatigue
is very low so you end up having to do
like an Infinity amount of volume to get
the same growth yeah it's survivable but
it's boring as fuck and it'll just
depress you it's kind of like someone
telling you like hey here's this um you
know this video will obviously become
dated hopefully within the next few
years but someone could say hey like you
know uh he wanted to drive from Detroit
to Chicago just to run away from Detroit
it was a good enough reason here's this
like solar powered electric car
and you're like how much is gas and like
it's free the fucking car is powered by
the sun you're like oh okay this is
perfect I'm gonna use it someone's like
wait hold on how fast did the car go and
they're like yeah like 15 miles an hour
like what the fuck
right
um now if you get
uh a Tesla or something that's powered
by plug-in then you could say how much
is the fucking gas and like the gas is
not cheap right all right how fast does
it go you're like bro as fast as if I
can step on the pedal and try not to die
oh okay sweet so if you really have to
get to Chicago fast sort of an analogy
here if I really have to build my quads
Tesla's your better choice even though
that it could be tied on price of gas
relative to speed you fucking need a lot
of speed you ready to pay the price so
some of these exercises are hardcore
compound moves squats and leg presses
and all sorts of crazy hack squats with
a full range motion there's a reason for
that because they can drive the biggest
stimulus and sometimes that just raw
ability to drive stimulus is what's
holding somebody back if they aren't
able to grow their lives traditionally
now if you would like you can pepper in
some leg extensions and lunges if they
have a high stimulus to fatigue ratio
for you some people adore leg extensions
and think that short step walking lunges
or blow up their quads great if not no
big deal you can just stick to the
basics
set numbers
as usual for all these videos start
between two and six working sets for
quads per session
uh basically I would stop at whatever
feels like a really pretty decent pump
it feels like you got nice and tired and
stimulated the muscle especially with
something like quads this is a muscle
that is amenable to getting very very
sore
and the quads are so big and strong they
damage their own connective tissues
quite readily not damage in a bad way
just damage in a way that's realistic
right if you if you're like test firing
a huge jet engine it's gonna burn the
burn the test facility up a little bit
you'll have to scrape the walls right
that's just what quads are
because that's the case I would in the
first week or two stop very comfortably
a little earlier than you thought as
soon as you get a decent pump stop
because then ideally you'll get just a
little bit sore you can recover you can
hit that next session because remember
the quad plan we have for you today as a
sample is three times a week you can't
there's no nuking the legs at any point
your legs have to recover for next time
which happens every other day more or
less so start on the easy end let the
summation of the total volume of the
week
your quality of each set in session your
proximity to failure psychological Drive
let that do the work as opposed to 10
sets per session because you'll just
fucking never recover from that and you
won't be able to do as much quality work
it's the difference between mass gaining
on two pizzas versus six meals a day
could be the same calories in those two
but you're gonna eat a pizza and a half
and be like fuck that you're gonna get
so fucking full you won't eat the rest
of the day you'll just fall asleep
and then what you didn't do jack shit
also the quality of the pizza's macros
is not as high as the quality of the
Packers and six meals actually quite a
quite a good analogy I'll be uh patting
myself on my
incrementally hairy your shoulders do
you guys have any solution for body hair
by the way
I just don't know what to do
and hopefully in the comments you guys
can help me out
see who only watches the video that far
to miss the joke that I
I know almost everything there is to
know about hair removal
and yet I embrace my uh Eastern European
ancestry nonetheless that's Pride all
right something you know nothing about
camera
I know you guys feel like I'm talking to
you and in my head I really feel like
I'm talking to you as well but I'm just
staring at a weird lens it's almost like
talking to one of those uh Squiddy
things that kills people and Fishes them
out of the Matrix you know
um this is the camera there's no soul in
there
uh Scott the video guy can we get like a
human face stapled in so I can pretend
I'm talking to somebody
what
Facebook Justin Bieber
easy money all right loading and Reps
here's the big thing
you want the rep Rangers to give you the
best sfrs the most tension in the quads
not the knees not the hips
the most burn in the quads at High Reps
humongous pumps humongous levels of just
quad fatigue and perturbation where
you're like holy fucking noodle eggs
that shit
heavier is not better unless it does
those things
so if sets of six are amazing for your
quads because it feels like you're
tearing your fucking quads into bits
amazing sets of six it is but if sets of
six only makes your knees and hips feel
fucking hurt and your spine is tired and
your quads are like eh it's not the
right thing right so use the references
to give you the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio
the most pump burn Etc and the least
like joint connector tissue pain and
just cheer nuisance and annoyance at the
whole fucking process
if you're going to go heavy go heavier
earlier on average in the session and go
heavier early on average in the week
such that you go a little heavier
earlier in the week and more moderate
and light towards the end of the week
that means you front load the connective
tissue shit and then as the week goes on
you hit the muscles really hard but your
connective tissue heals a little bit so
the next time you come back next week
next Monday big connective to shit is
something you're ready for because
you're not summating a ton back to back
to back to back a really decent way to
try to increase by a small fraction your
probability of injury at any one time is
to consistently session after session
after session train heavier and heavier
and heavier so you prefer to go heavy
light lighter heavy light lighter heavy
light lighter all gets heavy over time
but within the week in between weeks you
get this heavy and then relaxed heavy
and then relaxed kind of effect
all right
so that's just setting up the plan how
do you progress
set numbers you start at whatever and
then you essentially figure out okay am
I sore and really tired in my next
session of training so Monday I did
quads I did three sets of squats let's
see Wednesday I came in and before I
started doing hack squats or as I
started doing the minerals I wasn't sore
at all and I barely even got sore to
begin with and I felt so fucking strong
holy shit well that's sweet but that's a
little bit more showing off than it is
doing the hard work you should feel the
burden a little bit so next week instead
of three sets of squats on Monday try
forceps so add a set if it's really
really easy
if you were barely healing on time like
you got sore but you just healed today
and today is the time time to train and
if you feel nice and strong and
recovered but if I asked you like hey
what about 12 hours ago you're like no
no 12 24 hours I was not ready then what
we're really doing is stimulating as
hard as we can until we stimulate it
again to recover and then doing that
process over and over that's really
almost ideal don't change your volumes
then
I'll get into a Groove where my
technique gets a little better every
time I put a little bit more weight on
the bar a few more reps and what ends up
happening is I start quad training with
three sets in a session over the course
of two weeks I work up to five sets per
session let's say and then three weeks
later I'm still doing five sets per
session but I'm still getting just as
fucked up just as sore just as tired
because all the quality is improving so
we don't use sets as a driver of
progression we use sets in an auto
regulated way to ask your body hey what
do you think you can heal from and your
body goes five SATs makes That Then
There It Is we're not trying to
challenge it with sets we're trying to
get the appropriate amount of stimulus
delivered the challenge comes in within
each set doing a little bit more weight
and or a little few a fewer sorry
greater number of reps session after
session week after week right
if you are sore when you have to train
again go back to that workout before and
in the next week that workout happens
reduce so if I did four sets of squats
on Monday on Wednesday I was doing half
squats I'm like nope not recovered still
feel my knees still feel my quads still
feel like shit next Monday don't you
dare do four sets of squats do three
sets of squats and that'll be more than
enough to get you going
there is really no polite way to scratch
or junk is there
you guys ever struggle with that like
you're in like sort of public place
you're sitting in an airport listening
to your headphones and like flights in
30 minutes I think you have to fucking
scratch your dick because it's itchy for
hey whatever reason that's private to me
like it could be a lot of reasons could
be no reason at all and then you think
to yourself on the one hand
what kind of person reaches down and
scratches somebody clearly like
scratching it through the shorts I'm not
putting my hand under the shit but even
over the shorts someone because people
have children are you fucking scratching
your dick they're like what's wrong with
you you're the fucking zoo but on the
other hand
I have an itchy dick
are you gonna come fucking help me
scratch it no am I gonna go all the way
to the bathroom with my luggage so I can
simply scratch my dick nonsense
we have a genuine conundrum so if you
want to vote in the comments below
here's a hypothetical
you're a roller rink all genders all
ages
you're putting your skates on you're
sitting on one of the benches plenty
well-lit place at families around
dick starts to get itchy do you fucking
scratch or do you go to the bathroom
weird bathroom skates and then you take
your roller skates almost all the way to
the bathroom and the lady's like now
rented skates in the bathroom you have
to take off the fucking skates and where
to even put them
foreign
it's a serious mystery weak Einstein's
ass back up Einstein
answer this shit E equals MC squared
that was easy all right in any case
reps in reserve started around three
reps in reserve
continue to progress all the way to
close to failure obviously not total
failure on squats that are free weights
because you'll die don't do that Squad
stood in a leg press unless you have a
really trustworthy partner
um in order to make things more
challenging over time I would add like
something like five or ten pounds each
time and or one or two repetitions now
the repetition adding is interesting
because if you add load and you stay at
roughly the same rep range the stimulus
to fatigue ratio tends to stay pretty
much the same
if you start adding at sets of 10 and
you eventually get to sets of 15 by
adding reps towards the end of the math
cycle there could be a different
stimulus to fatigue ratio 15 could just
be too high of reps to really get you
what you need out of that workouts just
not enough tension Etc so with
repetition additions be aware of that be
aware of that load progression is a
little bit preferred because of that
and of course low progression is super
fucking easy on all these machines and
all these weights you're not like oh
well I can't progress because I don't
have small enough weights like you put a
one two and a half plate on the side of
a leg press
if you can't progress week to week by
adding two and a half pounds total onto
the leg press yes you're done
progressing and it's
time to go to one of the many other
beautiful things you could do with your
life well uh that don't evolve training
with weights try playing the violin I
heard it's easy
at one point I was actually a violin
prodigy
it was H5 I played every
Scott what's a violin type of shit
Sonata is that a thing
it's no way Sonata as far as I know
Sonata is a type of uh uh Hyundai car a
good one
but anyway I did all that stuff and
honestly it guys to be completely honest
with you it was fucking boring it's
weird to become the best at something so
so I was watching cartoons most of the
day and the other day times a day I was
like whatever kind of show Yo-Yo Ma was
there he was like bowing to me I was
like yo yo be easy bro I love Crouching
Tiger Hidden Dragon that shit was the
bomb
in any case
that's how all that works now you may be
thinking to yourself gee whiz Dr Mike
that sure is complicated I wonder if we
could see a sample program good news
it's right there this is not something
you have to do this is just to get your
idea juices floating
if you have too many of those that you
go to the hospital the doctors drain
your idea juices
it's a tough tough State of Affairs
Monday Hax Watts
three sets in the 10 to 15 rep range
three rounds three are of course is all
first week
after that we have high bar squats two
sets in the five to ten rep range hold
on you said heavier first what the fuck
are you talking about
this is a bit more
of an advanced split for somebody who's
so strong that Ultra heavy sets of five
to ten squatting is just too
systemically fatiguing for them
and because so many other muscles can
come into play glutes lower back
adductors it's not specific enough to
the quads so stimulus to the quads is eh
and the total system fatigue is f
because it's super heavy so what do we
do we pick hack squats within 10 to 15
range still pretty heavy very big
stimulus to the quads not as much
fatigue then we go to regular squatting
our quads are so tired they become a
huge limiting factor for us we have to
use less weight
for sets of five to ten than normally
wooden squats that reduces our systemic
fatigue substantially but our stimulus
is quite high now because all of our
repetitions are real close to failure
for our quads never mind the fact that
because you already have a pump in your
quads your mind muscle connection will
be better than ever
give this a shot it fucking works right
do you have to do this this way
absolutely not it's just one way to do
it
Wednesday you come in and you do four
sets of hack squats but notice
we're conserving hack squats because we
figure okay we got regular squats hack
squats leg press and most of you guys
train in regular gyms they just don't
have that much leg equipment so you're
gonna have to be conservative literally
and and make sure you get all of the
shit you want out of each piece which
means sometimes many times
you'll be using a few exercises several
times a week but in order to promote
variation and stay safe I would alter
the repetition range such that earlier
in the week when you use the exercise
it's heavier later in the week when you
use the same one it's lighter
right these hack squats would be sets of
50 to 20 reps you can also modify them
potentially to be a little bit slower on
The Eccentric or do a pause where you
don't do one on Monday just that little
bit of variation pays huge dividends
it's a great movement you get nice and
fucked up by Friday you've healed Friday
you're like in a position where you're
pretty fatigued your knees and hips and
stuff have taken a little bit of a
beating and you want to do some higher
repetition work while at the same time
making sure to stay the fuck away from
beating up your joints no problem two
sets of flag extensions 20 to 25 reps
each that fucking blows if you've never
done that before
you're lucky
if you're gonna do that soon after
watching this
I'm sorry
but I promise it works that's what I
that's why I tell all my clients
that's why I'm Southeast Michigan's most
successful lawyer
yeah you guys think I should get into
law I can make the fucking scummiest law
commercial ever
Scott the video guy write that down
leg extension for two sets they're nice
and pumped as far as quads are concerned
and then we do barbell walking lunges
you can take normal long steps but if
you take slightly shorter steps it's
even better super deep ROM for the quads
one step is one rep that's high counter
so 20 to 25 reps is 20 25 steps you can
even stop every now and again when you
run out of breath and or your quads
start to freeze up wait for a little bit
take three or five breaths and then keep
walking that basically turns these
things these lunges into Maya reps holy
fucking balls it doesn't take a whole
lot and because you might not be used to
lunges I would just start them with one
set and that's why it says one set
because start off with lunges if you do
any more but by the way prepare for your
glutes to get sore because lunges are so
effective for the glutes they'll fuck up
your glutes anyway
eventually your glutes won't get a sore
and your quads will be the thing that
gets the most fucked up now what would
happen if we were to pretend to do this
routine and then in the week before
deload what would the volumes look like
realistically this does not mean you
have to shoot for them as a matter of
fact that would be stupid
Monday well you know we started with
three sets of hack squats now weren't
five sets we started with two sets of
regular High bar squats now we're three
sets eight sets of of quads that's
that's a fuck load that's a lot
hopefully you can recover by Wednesday
where now you do seven sets of hack
squats that's quite a bit of an increase
but if you can recover that's great leg
extensions four sets barbell walking
lunges three sets we're talking about
every workout here being seven or eight
sets that if you were pretty strong if
you are training hard if you have good
technique and you're pushing yourself
then most people will not be able to
sustain such an effort which is why it's
the last week before the deload and then
like right after you finish barbell
walking lunges you smoke like the
longest cigarette of your life like uh
how a French soldier during World War
One when they announced the final
ceasefire piece he's still in the
trenches how long would it take him to
smoke that cigarette he'd be like
foreign
like that because fuck doing that
anymore than once the every two months
if you can sustain it amazing most
people can't so add your volume as you
see fit if you're able to recover from a
little bit more add a few sets here and
there
see where you get to the goal is never
to do as much volume as possible
cool let's do the smallest amount of
volume that checks all the boxes of I'm
training as hard as possible
same thing
all right
now this all sounds really good
specialization sounds fun it sounds
exciting sounds like your quads are
gonna grow finally you'll be at the uh
it's got the video I want you to name me
a random social place
coffee shop
and that one girl that always orders the
mochilada whatever the fuck you remember
Verbatim what she orders because you're
that kind of incel and all of a sudden
she walks by you and she's like excuse
me and you're like oh I'm sorry and you
shake with your coffee and step back and
she turns to you and she looks largely
into your eyes and says I just noticed
your quads for the first time
but then what does she do next she just
does this
yeah and you're like Jabba the Hutt
it's gross to do even to myself what's
wrong with people can't go to a fucking
Starbucks and have a normal conversation
in any case you'll have big quads you'll
be happy and you'll ask the question of
how can I can I just keep specializing
and the answer really is yes
so you can specialize for three
mesocycles in a row
increase difficulty deload that's one
mezzo
you can do that two more times and then
you will probably be in shambles your
knees and hips and everything else is
going to be like fuck that your quads
are going to be resistant to growth it's
going to take so much volume to even
stimulate your quads that your systemic
fatigue is going to cap you and you're
going to be like that nope no can't do
then what you can do is take like a
two-week active rest phase where you
barely train it all
come back
and you can just do another quad Focus
bezel or take a low volume phase
four weeks long or so maybe you get an
active rest phase total of six weeks
come back and do another quad
prioritization mesm
we specialize on quads again changing
the exercise a little bit changing the
rep ranges a little bit and then running
more or less a very similar template
again
if you want you can play around between
the mesocycles with some rep ranges and
some frequencies so you can start your
first meso relatively heavy more sets of
five to ten ten to Fifteen maybe just
twice a week training legs and then as
the magic Cycles progress second and
third you can add in a third
um workout in the week and to do
slightly higher reps on average
potentially even a fourth the most I've
ever personally done was three quad
sessions a week Charlie and I tried that
a while back and it seemed like we had
to restrain ourselves so much during the
two workouts just to make the third
workout possible and third workout
wasn't even that hard that I like blah
so we just went back to two times a week
and for us that's more than enough but
if you can survive three and threes easy
and you can recover from it and if you'd
have to do like more than 10 sets of
quads per session three times a week in
order to even grow add a fourth uh
workout it's totally fine most people
doing things properly will never need a
fucking fourth workout three times a
week for quads is probably more than
most people can survive but if you want
to try to play with increased frequency
that's totally cool right
active rest low volume phase feel free
to repeat or just go back to normal
training or go back to maintenance work
on quads and try to bring your glutes up
but anyway this is something that all
you need is two weeks of active rest and
you can repeat it anytime you want in
most cases so how you know if that woman
at the coffee shop was if your eyes and
her tongue really did the things they
were supposed to do you may just run to
the gym right there and there and
continue to specialize on quads
meanwhile she's dming you and she's like
just come over make sweet love to me and
you're like hold on babe
quad workout RN
stupid fucking internet abbreviations
why am I in such a bad mood today
good question who knows
all right that was all good fun but
maybe you want to learn more so check
this out we got free shit right below in
the description of this video
free exercise video library because
you're like what the fuck he's mentioned
a few quad movements but I want to know
some more we've got a bajillion of them
click it's me narrating and Mr Jared
feather ifb Pro actually doing the demos
we have a muscle group training guide
guide where it's like 10 pages of very
small text of everything you probably
never wanted to know about training your
quads so if you really want to dig in
and make the best plan you can that's
the place to look if you're like wait
what the hell is sfr RSM motherfucker I
hate science fuck this shit
cancel my RP subscription hold up
just get to the hypertrophy Made Simple
video guide it's like 16 videos each
one's like eight minutes long
and it really brushes you up on the
terms gives you a real basic
understanding of what the hell we're
even doing so if you re-watch this video
having seen that or you watch that
really quick before building your own
plan you're gonna be like ah I think I
know a whole lot more than I thought I
did and then of course we have a
hypertrophy book scientific principles
of perjury training people have
described it as the grace thing to ever
occur I would say the microwave is still
a better invention but the book is close
and it's not free because
my Butlers need salaries so that they
can show up and drive my Lamborghinis
for me
Butlers don't work for free that would
be immoral on many levels and so I have
to sell hypertrophy books so feel free
to buy one it's a nice book I think I
had a hand in writing it and if you want
to build a customized training solution
for yourself for quads or for anything
else
you can go the harder way you'll learn a
lot and you can build it yourself or you
can go the much much much 50 trillion
times easier way and have mostly our
computer program do it for you with our
custom Training template Builder also in
the bio that costs money but uh it's
just not that much money and you can
reuse the program like as many times as
you want because you can re-change the
exercises around so if you build a
custom Training template and it works
really well it's something you can use
for like a year or so and it costs like
fucking 100 bucks so maybe it's worth
right uh you know hey if you don't want
to spend money here if you just just
leave just leave we're trying to run a
business things have been so hard
foreign
guys I'm gonna go cry a lot cry with me
Namaste feel my Universal Vibes and I'll
see you guys next time for another one
of these