hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
what body type are you
and how does knowing that help you
maximize your muscular potential your
fat burning and make you generally
happier well let's find out last i
checked there were three body types
you've got to be one of these right
there's the endomorph which is someone
who's potentially muscular but also
carries lots of fat kind of the average
power lifter there's an ectomorph in
which case you're like a skinny pencil
neck guy who's pretty lean but can't get
jacked and then there's the mesomorph
who's like the chad getting all the
girls the parties super wide shoulders
narrow waist super jacked
man
three
different body types to explain all of
the variation in humanity
well which one are you and how do you
optimize your training the answer is
body types are fucking bullshit i sure
as hell hope the youtube algorithms kick
off our monetization because i'm
swearing so soon with the love of god
it's all sorts of wrong body types
always were bs from the very start when
they were introduced and they still are
and it's very very easy to poke holes in
this notion of body types let's get
started two real easy whole poke
opportunities first
what if you're prone to putting on fat
but not prone to putting on muscle there
actually is no category in the three
body types for you because remember
the endomorph is someone who's like
supposed to be pretty jacked but also
fat the ectomorph is not fat or jacked
the mesomorph has a shit load of muscle
and very little fat where the hell are
skinny fat people that's a real thing
guys that's a real thing and they just
totally forgot about it right not every
uh person who's oh you know has a lot of
body fat as a potential champion power
lifter there's tons of people that are
really easily put on body fat but not
easily put on muscle they're fat and
weak it might sucks to admit but that is
just really a reality in the fact that
the scale missed this altogether and not
a lot of people came up with like wait a
minute they forgot a whole fucking type
of human right that's kind of absurd
right it's kind of insane and it in fact
reflects that the scale is total dog
shit
and
what if
you are prone
to putting on muscle
right
and
being lean okay
but
you don't have really wide shoulders and
a narrow waist in fact you're lean and
jacked but you have big ass legs and a
wide waist and then you have a
relatively small upper body but you're
still jacked overall and you're still
lean are you a mesomorph are you an
endomorph well they literally just don't
have a scale for you in the system so
the system is crap
now
uh does that mean there's no such thing
as body type sort of but we can have a
more logical categorization on a logical
scale that works a lot better
there are at least three scales or
spectra on which most people can be
categorized related to bodies okay
and each one of these has two poles or
ends of the spectrum which means there
are at least six body types okay
so
really there's a continuum because it's
not like you're either one side or the
other most people are somewhere in
between right it's like using you know
skin color for example and saying okay
you're either like stark pale what the
fuck is that powder that weird ass movie
i referenced before you know powder
white or like jet black well like there
are very few people out that are either
one of those the entire human race is
just on a continuous spectrum all the
way between they're like where the hell
is jlo you know somewhere in the middle
that's always my concern is where's jlo
just in general hey jlo i hope you watch
my videos
awkward anyway
human diversity is a thing and it's
mostly a spectral thing we can talk
about the pole so let's talk about them
real quick and remember that most people
are somewhere in the middle it's
somewhere between these extremes first
is bone structure you can have thicker
bones or thinner bones usually some
people have somewhere in between it's
been shown and we'll talk about this
later that your bone structure can
actually determine your muscularity to
some extent it correlates to it so we'll
keep that in the back pocket but first
of all bone structure right now can mean
like you have super ultra wide shoulders
or super narrow shoulders ultra wide
hips or super narratives because
remember that's not really body fat or
muscle that's actually bones next is
muscularity you can be very little
muscle
all the way to a ton of muscle
independent to some extent to bone
structure okay so if you look at someone
like ooh dexter jackson a famous pro
bodybuilder he doesn't exactly have huge
bones as a matter of fact he doesn't he
has a ton of muscle which makes him an
excellent bodybuilder she can't exactly
come up to dexter jackson and be like
yeah man you have a huge frame like
that's fundamentally false okay so it
absolutely can be that you have tons of
muscle but not such big bones not
usually but that's absolutely a thing
lastly is adiposity so you can have very
little fat or you can have more fat
right and some people are you know most
people are somewhere in the middle of
that spectrum and you can be any
combination of these things which really
leads to like six body types like you
can have thin bones more muscle and more
fat or you can have thick bones more
muscle more fat or you know thin bones
and less muscle less fat and so on and
so forth right so maybe there's six body
types maybe but hold on it gets a little
bit more complicated there are other
variables we could add into the equation
first skeletal ratios okay
you could have wide hips and narrow
shoulders okay a lot of females are of
that body structure you can have narrow
hips and wide shoulders um you know
that's the guy at the party getting the
girls or whatever i've never been to
party or gotten girls so it's all theory
and then of course there's everything in
between right so we could talk about
that we could talk about muscle growth
potential which can be significantly
different from where you started
untrained some individuals start not
jacked but they end up real jacked i'm
actually lucky to be in this category
people and wave my own fucking flag over
here but when i started lifting i was
like roughly the same height like five
two five three i would legit like 100
pounds over the summer between my
freshman and sophomore year i saw the
scale go to 97 pounds okay no joke it
was an interesting thing to see as a
sort of adult
and then i just wasn't i was the little
guy my entire life and i started lifting
weights i just grew and i grew and grew
and
natty versus not aside by the time i had
peaked my natty abilities i was a
fucking jack dude and i literally had a
professor of anatomy tell me he's like
you have big both structure you're
always meant to be big and i was like
that's false and he just wouldn't want
to hear it right so where you start and
where you end up can be two very
different things dexter jackson okay
way more pronounced than myself his
first bodybuilding show he was like 120
or 130 pounds on stage nobody at that
show was like future pro man he's going
to be an olympian one day fuck that
they're like that tiny little twig kid
quit and do psych endurance running or
something but he just kept adding muscle
and some people are capable some people
are not other people
you guys probably went to high school
with people like this they were like a
170 lean in high school which in high
school is a fucking gigantic person
right and then like you see them years
later and they've been training they've
been eating and they're like 180 lean
and they're like 24 and you're like fuck
i guess you just didn't have a huge
adaptive window that's really thing so
that's another kind of body type you
could talk about and then of course fat
loss potential same idea some people
they aren't super lean or super fat but
it's really hard for them to get much
leaner and it's hard for them to get
much fatter their metabolism is really
really adaptable they start eating more
food they start burning fat like crazy
they get super super hot at night they
can't sleep they get like a ton of
energy and move around and when they try
to lose a lot of fat they get really
tired their body temperature declines
and all this other crazy shit well
there's other people they have a huge
magnitude of change some people can be
you know up to 300 pounds and then over
the course of a year go back 150 pounds
and feel totally fine about both of
those so fat loss potential is
definitely a thing which we could also
factor it in
all of these are to say it's first of
all to get you guys thinking about that
this is complex is a funny way to
pronounce that this is complex and then
two just to remind you that this shit is
complex it's not just three body types
that's nonsense now
can we simplify it
yes to a certain extent
skeleton size and muscle gain potential
are decently related that does not mean
they're perfectly related but if you
have big bones and big joints on average
you'll be able to gain more muscle so we
can kind of combine the bones and
muscularity into one variable fold them
in it's a shitty approximatory variable
but nonetheless it can be a thing and
initial muscularity and initial fatness
are decently related to potential so if
you you're been really lean your life
and pretty muscular your whole life
there's a better than not chance your
ability to stay lean and gain muscle is
really good if you've been super fat and
super weak your whole life yes it's
possible that you have the genetics to
really alter yourself if you start
training but on average you probably
will have not so great genetics for that
you'll probably be a little bit fatter
or a little bit less muscular than the
average person no matter how hard you
try within reason right so because we
can fold some variables in we can
actually get two variables two spectra
and we can put them as axes right across
from each other that's what you see on
your screen right now
and of course the y-axis is muscularity
how much muscle you have and the x-axis
is how much fat you have and i've
generally
put very scientific labels onto these
so if you are
super muscular but you also have plenty
of fat you're like a strong man power
lifter okay this is obviously clearly
mostly jokes but you know the archetypes
sort of work if you have a ton of fat
but not a ton of muscle which is the
bottom right hand corner you're probably
a virgin and you'll be dreaming about
sex the rest of your life and uh you
know that's where i am on that by the
way and then if you have not so much
muscle but also not so much fat you're
probably emo or goth and you're going to
concerts with your friends
and you know painting your face and shit
like that and then of course if you have
a shitload of muscle and very little fat
you're a chad you're the guy at the
party that's a gay baby and she's like
you know i assume that's how parties are
correct me in the comments if i'm wrong
what are parties like
but seriously all jokes aside the body
type scale endo ectomeso
total bs
at the end of the day if you're googling
what type of body type i am or how
should i eat for my body type cut that
shit out start googling how do i get
jacked and lean find my videos and
fucking watch them jk there's tons of
great uh content out there at the end of
the day all the contents of this you
just gotta do your best okay train hard
eat well
watch your results unfold and then as
invest as much continual time and energy
doing that as you find worth it so for
example if you become pretty jacked and
lean and you like
the result and you like the process get
huge and nasty 100
if you struggle with either getting
jacked or getting lean or even both but
you love the change and you love the
challenge then do it up it's awesome
if you just want to be healthy and you
don't really care about how you look
then congratulations you're a normal
fucking person you can just lift weights
a few times a week play all your
favorite sports enjoy your favorite
hobbies eat like a reasonable person
most of the time and enjoy your life
because you're not a psychotic
overly infatuated with yourself asshole
like the rest of us see you guys in the
comments
you