hey folks dr. Mike Israel here for
Renaissance period ization and I'm gonna
talk to you guys about introducing you
to the RP diet templates I have taught
sport nutrition at the university
setting for a long time I have a PhD in
sport physiology and I was and am the
primary designer on these diet templates
so I'm just gonna walk you through in a
leisurely calm manner as to what they
are what they do and what their best
design for and maybe some of the things
that there are better options for so
welcome to the templates in a really
basic sense here's what you got in front
of you you have a diet that isn't just
one diet it's several diets in sequence
it's a phasic structure of diets so
really for every fat loss diet and for
every muscle gain diet it's not just
like here's one diet follow it and
you'll get some good results there's a
huge problem with that the problem is if
you let's say we 200 pounds and your
goal is to weigh 180 pounds in a couple
of months your body at 200 pounds needs
more food than your body does at 180
because it's literally just more body
mass and as you diet to lose fat your
metabolism predictably slows by a bit
your function your activity tends to go
down just a little bit you tend to
become a little bit more maybe not lazy
but less apt to be really jumpy and
fidgety and move around a lot so what
ends up happening is if we gave you a
number of calories or amount of protein
carbohydrates and fat that was really
good for you to lose weight right in
that good range of not too fast to be
super difficult and lose a lot of muscle
but not so slow as to take forever if we
gave you a diet like that for 200 pounds
that's not the same diet that's gonna
work best for you at 190 pounds to keep
you going because eventually it's gonna
peter out and it's absolutely not the
same diet that's gonna get you to 180 in
the most healthy and steadily and speedy
course taking all the time we need
manner so what ends up happening is we
came up with these diet templates
they're sequential diets
there's actually four diets in every
single document that you're ever going
to purchase there is a base diet
which you start at just to get your body
used to the schedule and the way of
dieting eating the meals cooking all the
food etc after that if you are in a fat
loss diet there is a fat loss number one
diet fat loss number two diet fat loss
number three diet what you do is you go
through you start at the base and if
you're not losing the prescribed amount
of weight which is right there in your
how-to guide if you're not losing a
certain amount of weight quickly enough
you move on to the fat loss one diet
which is a little bit more strict takes
a little bit more food away
you use this fat loss number one diet
for a while and for a lot of people
it'll get them to lose plenty of weight
but inevitably your metabolism will
adjust your body will adjust and that
fat loss one diet won't be enough to
take you all the way through so then you
move on to the second fat loss number
two diet and eventually if needed you
move on to number three fat loss diet
which is a very very restricted super
strict and will get you to lose almost
any amount of weight ever the reason we
don't just put you on that first diet on
that fat loss 3 diet to begin with
because it's way too much you're gonna
be super hungry super tired you're going
to be losing tons and tons and tons of
weight
way too much and you're gonna be losing
muscle too and it's not going to be good
it's gonna be really bad for your sport
performance so what ends up happening is
because we have the sequence of diet and
are really simple how to guide as to
when to jump from one to another you
essentially have very close to the
perfect diet every time that whatever
your body needs a little bit less food
or a little bit more food the adjustment
is super easy to make all you do is
click on another one of the tabs that
we've given you these are all super
simple PDF documents all the information
is right there in front of you you
execute the diet and it's kind of like
an auto regulatory function it lets you
choose your diet to adjust to your body
to get the goals that you want that's
what the diet templates are they're very
simple they're very straightforward
they're very to-the-point and they're
super easy to use because they adjust
here metabolism but in not a super
complex way there's really only four
tabs and you click through the tabs
based on a simple set of instructions
here's the deal the templates are super
effective we have
literally tens of thousands of satisfied
customers if you check out our Instagram
page at our P strength
there's tons of transformations there's
actually an Instagram account only for
transformation photos RP transformations
it's incredible literally thousands of
people have competin of fat gained a ton
of muscle etc but on some circumstances
the templates might not be complex
enough and we can say they're super
effective they're super simple but they
lack complexity deal with some
circumstances if you want a very
customized diet to your exact schedule
and the diets do customized schedule but
only in a pretty rough way if you want
to super if you have a a pretty wonky
schedule let's say you work nights or
something like that
if you want a really exact schedule you
want to go with an RP diet coach if you
want to be coached personally so if you
want an actual human being to be
accountable to and to hold you
accountable and to make sure they answer
all your questions right when you want
them answered maybe a personal coaching
approach is best for you and not a
template so we're super proud of the
product it's super effective but we have
to remind you it is not all powerful
like all products or not and if you need
a real customized approach that template
probably isn't or maybe isn't your best
bet but if you've dyed it before and
even if you haven't if you're pretty
good on your own you can read a set of
instructions and be pretty confident to
pull them off but we have tons of
helpful and supporting documents the
templates are by far our most successful
in a super super effective product so
that's really how the templates work
before I let you guys go and send you
off to the other videos that we have for
you super super quick reminder here's
the deal after watching these videos and
we have four total videos for you three
after this one what you want to do is go
when you're looking at the videos go
through your template along with me
that's the next video as we walk through
the template together and make sure you
kind of get the gist of what's going on
after that you want to go and really
look through the how-to guide read the
whole thing because it tells you how to
operate your template with very exact
instructions and you want to look at the
extended frequently asked questions
guide because that guide is really
really impressive into boot we took us
years to build we learned a ton of
what the most frequently asked questions
were we put almost all of them in there
if you have a question about how to use
a templates there's a 99% chance your
question is in there it's just how
comprehensive that guide is so if you
look through that back before you start
the diet if you look through the how-to
before you start the diet you can have a
pretty good understanding of what's
going on and then the diet is very
likely gonna be super straightforward
and you can use your hard diligent work
to get done what you need to get done if
you just start the diet just assume
everything will fall into place if you
don't read anything you just click on
the first tab you see and start eating
like that maybe it'll work out but maybe
you're gonna make some mistakes that
later you're gonna be like ah crap I
wish I had looked through that in a
frequent ask questions so soon as we're
done with all of these videos here and
I'll see you in the next video we're
gonna is a really good idea for you to
go through the how-to yourself and
through the frequently asked questions
guide yourself that's it for this time
see you guys in the second video where
we're gonna walk through the templates
together figure out how they work talk
about some common questions thanks so
much for pushers in the RP diet
templates C you'll see a more muscular
and shredded version of you