today's BS is that you if you want to
get lean should eat like a contest
prepping bodybuilder contest
bodybuilders are the leanest people on
earth flat out and clearly they have the
getting lean thing figured out that's
the idea and it's wrong why well here's
a fun analogy if you just want to get to
work and work is 20 minutes away Drive
do you get into a rocket wait hold on a
second why would you well Rockets are
designed to go really fast and you will
get to work as fast as possible if
someone asks you why aren't you taking a
rocket to work what would you say you
could probably start by saying that
Rockets are absolutely optimized for
Speed at the expense of pretty much
everything else including comfort and
safety and probability of death so diets
for bodybuilders that are optimized for
leanness and muscle retention are often
optimized at the expense of tons of
other stuff