okay what is going on everyone i just
want to welcome you all to the new
science applied series here on my
channel
and what i wanted to do with this series
basically was borrow from all the
scientific information and the theory
that i laid out in the science explained
series
and present that in a more applicable
form so that you guys can take it and
run with it in the gym right away um so
we're going to be kicking off the series
with a push workout i'm so we're going
to be hitting the chest shoulders and
triceps in this training session um and
if you're not familiar with a push-pull
leg split that would basically just look
something like this um so we're going to
get into it right away there's going to
be a little bit more of a laid-back
style for me but still we're going to
get through everything it's going to be
all very data-driven and i'm really
excited about this series um so you guys
can sit back relax take it all in and
then let me know what you think if you
get a chance to run the workout for
yourself um so let's dig right in with
this push workout okay guys so we're
kicking it off with the bench press and
i think that if you are able to safely
bench press then you should and i
attribute a lot of my overall chest
development to working up to a 370 pound
paused bench press at 165 pounds body
weight as an all-time pr and i've
defended why i love the bench press in
other videos but very quickly
there are four main reasons why i really
favor the bench press as a main movement
for the chest so first and probably most
importantly i think like almost any
barbell compound movement it's very
conducive to progressive overload so
it's very easy to incrementally add
weight or add reps over time with this
exercise which will continue to drive
growth over time um second it really
seems to be the case that guys with a
big bench have big pecs and this has
been shown in the scientific literature
as well in 2014 akagi and colleagues
showed that one rep max strengthened the
bench press was very tightly correlated
with pec major size now of course
correlation doesn't imply causation but
when we combine this data with data from
ogasara and colleagues which showed that
even when the bench press was the only
exercise included in the program pec
muscle thickness increased almost
perfectly in tandem with bench press
strength i also think the bench press
has the best carryover or transfer to
other movements and as i see it if you
have a very strong bench press you'll
also be much stronger on say the
dumbbell press or the machine press but
it doesn't necessarily go the other way
i don't think just because you have say
a really strong machine press that
doesn't mean you'll necessarily have a
very strong bench press just because the
ladder is so much more technique driven
and finally i really like the bench
press because it activates just a ton of
muscle mass that doesn't only hit the
chest but also hits the delts and the
triceps to quite large degrees and i
think that makes it perfect as sort of
main heavy movement on a push day um so
in terms of execution i like to set up
the bench press with a pretty big power
lifting style arch as you can see and
contrary to somewhat popular opinion
this isn't dangerous and it isn't
cheating as long as your butt and your
upper back stay planted on the bench and
your feet stay planted on the floor and
i think that even from a purely
bodybuilding perspective using an arch
like this is perfectly acceptable
and the main argument i hear against
this idea is that it effectively turns
it into a decline press meaning it'll
target the lower packs too much
which is an idea supported by some emg
evidence however i think that the slight
decline press if anything actually comes
out on top as an overall pec builder and
this was shown in emg data from bohec
barehens and buskies where the decline
press activated more upper and lower
musculature now admittedly they weren't
using relative loading here so it's
perfectly likely that the decline only
showed more activation because more
loads were being used but still i think
that's sort of the point overloading the
pecs with heavier weights will lead to a
greater tensile stimulus for growth
and i think it's important to remember
that there are no upper and lower chest
muscles there's only the pec there's
just different regions of that muscle
so as i see it for a main movement
a really important thing to consider is
the question of how can we overload the
muscle most effectively with heavy
weight and for those of you without any
specific strength or power lifting
specific goals i'd recommend going with
a slightly more conservative arch so
something like this which will still
allow for a safer shoulder position and
allow you to get some leg drive and just
move more weight overall as for grip
position burnettital showed that for
decline flat and incline presses a
narrow grip elicited more clavicular or
upper pec activation so if your goal is
to isolate the upper fibers
a close grip bench is probably the way
to go
however you want to keep in mind that
you won't be able to handle as much
weight with a close grip press
potentially meaning less of a tensile
stimulus on the pecs as a whole and of
course you know periodically you can
vary your grip width and that would make
a lot of practical sense so say doing
something like heavyweight wide grip
presses on one push day and then doing
lightweight close grip presses on the
other day would be smart as for tucking
or not tucking your elbows i think it's
really common for bodybuilders to flare
their elbows out it does make sense
biomechanically to flare the elbows out
more but i don't do an extreme flare for
a few reasons first i find that with the
barbell it tends to put my shoulder in
more of a vulnerable position
and i'm able to move more weight with a
slight tuck
and more of a power lifting style
technique where you press up and back so
i think that somewhere in the middle
between an extreme tuck and an extreme
flare is probably the best for both
safety and effectiveness um so here with
the bench press we're doing four sets of
four to six reps with straight sets so
that basically means the weight is kept
the same across all sets and you're
going to be leaving two to three reps in
the tank so an rpe of seven or eight and
the goal will be to increase the reps
until you get to the top end of that
four to six rep zone for all four sets
and then you'll begin adding weight once
you've maxed out the rep zone and it's a
good idea to use a spotter if you can so
that you're not scared to push yourself
with heavier and heavier weights while
maintaining a good form of course okay
so up next is the incline cable fly and
here unlike the bench press where we
were trying to activate as much of the
entire peck as we could
while also getting in some shoulder work
some triceps work here our goal is to
isolate the chest as much as possible
and focus in particular on activating
the clavicular head or the upper pecs i
think that for most people an incline of
roughly 45 degrees will optimize upper
pec involvement
and this was shown by trebs and
colleagues back in 2010
where they found that a 44 degree angle
was slightly better than higher or lower
bench angles at activating the upper
packs and because of the complaint that
range of motion is going to be limited
with the arched bench press technique
here we're going to compensate by
extending the range of motion and going
past where you'd normally stop and
actually cross your hands over you'll
find that this is really going to
shorten the pec fibers and you should
feel a really strong contraction when
doing these especially in the medial or
the inner part of your pecs and here
we're doing cables because you just have
a much more consistent tension on the
pecs much more than you would say with a
dumbbell where the circular resistance
path is going to cause peak tension to
occur at the bottom which is great for
stretching the pecs but has virtually no
tension at the top of the range of
motion
so for this exercise i think under most
circumstances cables are the way to go
so up next is our first true proper
shoulder movement and like i've alluded
to a few times already the horizontal
bench press is actually very effective
at activating the delts especially the
front delts however as shown by button
and colleagues a vertical shoulder press
was the number one exercise out of the
eight that they tested including the
bench press for activating the front
delts and not only that the vertical
shoulder press also significantly
outperformed the flat bench press for
lateral delts granted isolation
exercises tended to come out on top here
but we're going to get to those next
also in 2015 seder back in natal showed
that out of the standing and seated
barbell presses and the standing and
seated dumbbell presses the standing
dumbbell press came out on top for side
delt activation and it also saw the most
emg activation for the anterior and
posterior delts as well so even though i
wouldn't necessarily say this variation
is always better for one thing you you
definitely won't be able to go as heavy
but given that we already have our heavy
press for the day taken care of with the
bench press i think it makes sense to go
with a press that will optimize
activation while increasing involvement
of the side delts with this movement and
speaking of side delts up next was the
egyptian lateral rays so here we're
leaning away into the direction of the
rays which is based on some evidence
from mcmahon and colleagues back in 1995
which suggested that the side deltoid
becomes more involved as you near the
top end of the range of motion whereas
the rotator cuff tends to do more work
near the bottom end of the range so by
leaning away you basically put the arm
at about 15 to 30 degrees of abduction
from the very beginning
taking further emphasis away from the
rotator cuff and on to the side delt and
doing these between the legs is actually
pretty helpful because it allows you to
perform the motion almost entirely in
the scapular plane i mean the line of
pull will be directly in line with the
orientation of the side delt fibers
which puts them in an ideal lifting
position for generating maximum tension
okay so to round out all the pushing
muscles we're gonna hit some triceps
through some tricep isolation or some
elbow extension work and of course both
the the bench press and the standing
dumbbell press will target the triceps
to a very large degree so i wouldn't say
that assistance tricep work is required
for progress or required for growth but
it does come very highly recommended
when it comes to optimizing progress or
optimizing growth and i'll just defer to
my arm science explain video here if you
want some more detail
but in short i think you want to
structure your workouts where you'll
have one exercise like a press down
where your arms are more down at your
sides and this will target more of the
lateral or the outside head and you want
to have one movement where your arms are
more up overhead to target more the long
or the inner head of the triceps and for
this workout you can just pick one of
these two movements and then in your
other weekly push workout you can do the
other one
or if you find your triceps are really
lagging then you can do both of them in
the same workout just to get your
triceps volume for the week a little bit
higher for these movements we're doing
four sets of 12 to 15 reps and then
finally to finish things off we're going
to be doing two sets of a 60 second flat
dumbbell hold using roughly 40 of your
your typical working weight uh say for a
set of four to six and this is a
technique including my chest hypertrophy
program but the basic idea here is to
combine both a high degree of metabolic
stress through the long set duration
with also a very high degree of stretch
at the bottom at the same time and while
experts disagree about their respective
roles in terms of hypertrophy i think
that both stretch and stress
occupy some piece of the whole puzzle
and this movement also allows for a sort
of novel means of applying progressive
overload so rather than focusing on
increasing the reps or increasing the
weight uh here we're going to be
focusing on increasing time under
tension uh from week to week so if in
week one you do a 60 second hold the
next week you'll try to add say 5 or 10
seconds with the same weight and finally
to finish out the workout you can
optionally add in three sets of 20 reps
on face pulls and while this wouldn't
strictly classify as a push movement i
do like to include it just to help with
some postural support and to prevent
over development of the anterior
musculature and just for a more balanced
i guess upright
symmetrical of a look and of course you
can always do this work on your pull
days however i prefer to do it on my
push days just to be a little bit more
proactive and make sure that i'm making
my balancing out my push work with
sufficient pull work a priority all
right so guys that's going to wrap up
the first episode of the science applied
series i hope you guys really liked it
i decided for the viewers of this first
episode i'd run a one week sale on my
chest and shoulder hypertrophy programs
so those are two
push focus programs that you can run
through i wouldn't necessarily recommend
running them through both at the same
time but you could say run the chest one
for eight weeks and then the shoulder
one after that for another eight weeks
so i'm going to be putting these at 30
off for the first week after this video
goes live
and if you want to get that 30 off
discount just use the code science
applied so that's just all one word
science applied
at checkout and you'll save 30
and that basically will knock these
programs down to about 15 bucks each um
so if you're thinking about getting them
uh now might be a good time to do so um
and that's gonna wrap this one up guys
uh so thank you so much for watching if
you like the video please leave me a
thumbs up
don't forget to subscribe if you happen
to be new to the channel and i will see
you guys all here in the next video