I think one of the things many
science-based coaches forget about is
training technique that really feels
like a lost art form in the
evidence-based training community if
you're struggling with locking out the
press you're probably not pressing the
bar fast enough off your chest as
research shows that a sticking point is
usually in the lower twenty to forty
percent of the range of motion from the
side view your wrists should be directly
below your knuckles you want to really
avoid excessive hyperextension here and
you can crack this by thinking about
punching the ceiling before you press
[Music]
I think determining what proper
technique means is individual requires a
blend of coaching experience and
scientific literature it's like a blend
of art science