the best thing for getting warm is
contractions pull it back hold for about
5 seconds so I wholeheartedly disagree
with this we all due
[Music]
respect hey folks Dr Mike here for
rosance periodization and I am a
professor of sport and exercise science
which means I might know some things
about Sport and exercise science and
today we have a huge treat that's what
my dad said before he left forever and
never came back uh where was I Dave
Batista the famous wrestler and actor
and uh allaround seemingly awesome guy
and a jiujitsu Grappler is on our
Channel today well he's not our Channel
cuz he's too important to care about who
we are but we're going to critique his
exercise videos and from what I
understand he is coached by Joe Bennett
AKA hypertrophy coach who is a gentleman
who very much knows what he's doing but
does he know as much as
me probably more but that doesn't mean I
can't talk a little shit let's get into
it what's up guys Joe Bennett here with
Dave Batista Dave Batista is a large
scary man with large scary tattoos and
uh I would be scared to be around him
and it looks like Joe is keeping his
distance safe idea in Dave's the
greatest home gym in the world hey Scott
the video guy how come our home gym
isn't the greatest home gym in the world
you bu
right slman cave Androgen Oasis awesome
place did he say Androgen
Oasis huh going to make a lot of jokes
that all implicate me in various illegal
things I'll just shut up and keep
critiquing this just kind of want to
give you guys a little bit of a view of
uh you know I've been training Dave for
I don't even know how long couple years
now look at Dave's facial expression
he's like yeah man it's been a longing
time
dude yeah it's like how I feel about
Scott the video guy so kind of had the
idea of showing you a little progression
Dave's probably got some of the better
form of almost anyone that I trained ooh
Scott this is Juicy tempt me more and
that's the nice part as you can see if
anyone that's ever trained this way you
can make a brutally challenging you can
make great progress by pushing the the
form side a little bit harder and we
still progress the load obviously within
the parameters of really tight form so
accurate hypertrophy coach said
something really really awesome here
you're going to progress within the
parameters of really good form as we
call it here at the RP Channel technique
because we're pedantic pieces of
shit if you're pushing load outside of
the parameters of good technique or good
form you've made a philosophical error
because good technique does two things
it keeps you safe and it also enhances
the degree of stimulus delivered to the
musculature if you increase the load to
such an extent that it degrades the
safety profile and it also potentially
reduces the delivery of stimulus to the
musculature or let's say you make up
extra stimulus with more load but then
you degrade the safety profile you get
roughly the same stimulus maybe but with
less safety again a philosophical error
almost everyone who does poor technique
just hasn't thought it through and Joe
Bennett hypertrophy coach has really
thought it through which is why he knows
good technique is the way to coach well
everyone really I sure shit don't hope
the technique is all fall and I have to
walk my shit back here we
go Scott you make lots of videos of all
of us lifting how come we don't get
those cool rock and roll riff
transitions I'm cool enough just me or
Jared too no Jared's cool fuck he's
got but I oh I
don't oh that was so
bulgy oh my God he's kind fucking ripped
holy shit I will say this no offense to
anyone a lot of super dark Ink Tattoo I
just don't really know what's going on
there anymore it really does blur the
musculature and I like my muscle boys to
be visible to me so I can go yeah oh
yeah oh yeah triceps yeah oh yeah and
wrong Channel just kidding right Channel
and when he's getting at those end ra
just kind of squeezing so here's going
to be obviously kind of mid lower traps
kind of some of the external rotators of
the shoulder joint hold for about 5
Seconds the IDE is we're training uper
body just want a scapula to get moving
the muscles that move really get to
those end ranges and get some good
contractions using his shoulder joint
his GH joint a lot GH joint
I'll stop so want those get into the end
ranges getting some good contractions
there the best thing for getting warm is
contractions so as he gets more muscles
contracting his body is going to get
prepped and ready to actually produce
bigger stronger contraction so I
wholeheartedly disagree with this with
all due respect I think the best thing
to warm up is actually doing the
exercise you're going to do but with the
RP hypertrophy app what do you get when
PhD sport scientists collaborate with
Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever ever
made get yours
now I think the best thing to warm up is
actually doing the exercise you're going
to do but with less weight and very good
technique it takes care of the
contractions and it takes care of the
technical foundation and it takes care
of the rest of warming up however uh in
Batista's case I imagine that with his
wrestling history he's probably been
injured like a trillion times and a lot
of times doing more warming up more
activation drills to ease in for someone
like that especially if there's a huge
onus on them not getting hurt under your
tutelage I can totally see the validity
of this kind of stuff and notice I'm not
saying hyper coach is wrong about these
activation drills I think they
absolutely work but in my view maybe we
can get the same effect or a similar
effect by simply warming up to the
exercise I could be wrong hypy coach is
one of these people like he knows enough
to where anything I say that goes
against him is like my educated guess
against his I'm not just going to treat
him like V shred and be like that guy's
a idiot and knows negative things the
opposite of the
truthv shred oh the prime row hey uh we
have these machines don't
we do you think his are better cuz he's
Hollywood do you think they made like a
special machine for him cuz he's a big
deal and I'm no one and will never be
anything remember when Prime didn't
return our call yes yes we were trying
to make commercials for Prime equipment
and they seemed excited at first but
then later just stopped talking to us
now shit happens Prime is unbelievable
manufacturer equipment I fully endorse
them and I think you should go buy Prime
stuff I did it's great some of the best
machines in my gym but Prime if if
you're seeing this but been thinking
about you a lot um I've been writing
letters mostly to myself so that I can
see my own feelings and been sending
them but I've sent a couple I've sent a
couple hundred over just no big deal
just get back whenever first couple
warm-up sets we got the seat most people
on Rose need the seat set higher rather
than lower so when he's here you can see
his forarms right in line with the
handles or the pool of the machine lot
of people if you sit up too or you sit
too low you're going to get kind of this
bicep flexy thing where it's a lot more
biceps and less back yeah also another
that's a really good point another thing
is like uh a lot of times people will
have the pad really low on their stomach
and then they actually get pulled so far
forward uh at the bottom of the row they
can't use as much weight as they want
because they get physically pulled out
of the machine one of the number re one
reasons why you want the pad pretty high
is you want maximum tension through your
upper back with something that puts you
and keeps you in place if you put the
positioning for the row low enough for
that chest pad you're going to get
pulled out of the thing so nice and high
is really good believe it or not I
actually have a really high sitting
height which sounds like a really weird
humble brag than an incel who's really
short and never gets laid makes which is
entirely accurate but my legs are like
kind of dox in legs I think God tried to
make my upper body for someone that was
6 feet tall and he forgot about my legs
for a while so when I sit into machines
a lot of times I'll put the machine pad
all the way up or put the seat all the
way down so I can actually fit in there
if I have that problem at foot Scott how
tall am I 49 4 fo n then uh well gez you
might render that problem yourself being
of an adult height as our adult viewing
audience and the best que I always give
people here is feel like you're kind of
wrapping your elbows around your back
yes it's weird to see people doing rows
where they're mechanically pretending
that their back doesn't exist and it's
just like two joints elbow joint and
shoulder joint it turns out your scapula
can protract a ton and retract a ton not
only does that train all of the muscles
that control your scapula your Romo and
and things like that it actually trains
your traps mid traps lower traps and
spinal Erectors a ton because that
rounding stretches the spinal Erectors
into a very hypertrophic position and
then when you Arch back and wrap like
Joe said around yourself you can really
crunch everything back there and get a
lot of dynamic work for those spinal
rectors remember spinal Erectors um are
a huge fraction of the back and they can
make a gnarly big back and I think get
you more laid maybe it hasn't worked for
me but then again I'm unattractive in
about 500 other ways so he lets
everything kind of go forward protract
open up drive down keeping those elbows
in nice and tight and so this is a lot
of lap Focus you see his arm staying
right in line with the pull of the
machine if it was starting to flare out
at all might be a little bit more for
upper back accurate yep if you keep your
elbows tucked in more it's more lats you
let them flare up more it's more and
more of the upper back region uh
absolutely
valid it's a funny to hear this kind of
gnarly metal with like really good
technique very mind muscle connection
style lifting you know like if he was
like throwing dumbbells at a mirror I'd
be like yeah sacrifice babies but uh
this is kind of a trip it's interesting
to watch and then hanging Abes I like
these as well um these are I'd say a
little bit more advanced a little bit of
a tougher motion just because you have
more weight to move so the other ones
you're moving your ribs closer to your
hips this one you're moving your hips
closer to your ribs and again you really
just want to think about moving your
pelvis not about Flex in your legs a
whole lot yeah so one thing you'll see
with folks that are either doing this
exercise wrong or when they develop a
lot of fatigue is they'll stop tilting
their hips towards their ribs and
they'll start lordotic Contracting their
spine to arch their back and their hip
flexors pull a ton so gets the knees up
but the knees almost move back and up
towards the spine and there's no
rotational element that does train your
hip flexors but it doesn't really train
your racus abdominus muscles the muscles
that are actually the six-pack all that
much so when you're doing this exercise
and Joe did say it was a little bit more
of an advanced exercise it's really good
to have someone watch your Technique or
maybe you can record yourself on a video
camera and then post it to well you know
that website we're not allowed to talk
about and make sure that your hips are
rotating out and forward and kind of
like oh I got a good one here let's say
you just had this just giant super hard
Ultra wct all right folks if this video
is going well for you so far we have a
members area where a much more expansive
version of this video exists and it's
full of seedy nonsense we couldn't put
on YouTube or we get canceled if you
want to give a click and become a member
you can passay US money and watch CD
things Weirdo And if you imagined your
pelvis was a bowl of water basically
you're just tipping it back yeah Joe had
a much better analogy than I did bowl of
water beats titty yourself any day of
the week and you're keeping it wait but
if you use the bowl to dip your no I
take that back chest press here going to
the machine press almost nothing changes
ooh that looks like a good machine press
this machine converges um you know so
two things here is with converging you
can actually get your bicep a little bit
further across so get that Peck a little
bit more shortened and contracted so
that same que helps even more here with
driving your bicep into the side of the
chest to make sure you get everything
out of the machine and don't miss that
last contraction pushing it forward it's
really good for full range of motion um
and overall functional ability to get
that final Peak contraction and for
Batista that is really a good idea
because at the end of the day he's in a
sense still very much an athlete even
though he's a Hollywood guy he does do a
lot of stunt work he does a lot of
physical stuff and so you have to be
able to make sure he's strong and
resilient through a full range of motion
thus a machine like this that starts at
a deep stretch at the bottom and comes
all the way in is a wise choice from a
purely hypertrophic perspective that
bottom lockout portion isn't uh isn't uh
ideal now the thing is that we've come
to realize how important that deep
stretch is just a very short time ago
measured within basically the last year
here so I'm not sure Scott do you know
how old these videos are here are a
little bit old a little bit older and so
like this some shit I would have said in
a year ago so no love lost and then big
thing here is alignment so if you look
at his forearm relative to the peck line
stays right in line with kind of his
outer lower Peck and right when he's at
the bottom the handles are about lower
Peck height as well too so that's
interesting that he uses the form as a
gauge I don't typically do that though
I'm not saying he's wrong what I think
is a good idea also for you guys to try
it home is to to just figure out where
you're the most comfortable and feel the
most strong so you know seat height and
where you're putting your body position
related to a press machine is like if
you press to here it's like a crapload
of triceps CU your huge elbow Bend and
your shoulders might feel weird if you
press super low again your shoulders are
rounding it might feel weird if you
press a little bit more where the bar
gets close to your glenohumeral joint as
far as um vertical position that's going
to feel best for everyone but not
exactly there some people like a little
lower some people like a little higher
think the best way to do this is just to
experiment if you have a really good
feel in your joints and you feel really
strong coming out I think that's
probably the best way to determine
pressing Angle now it also uh is a
factor of which muscles you want to
train because if you want to train just
the chest then you know you don't want
NE a ton of unnecessary uh forearm uh uh
sort of elbow drop because then you get
a lot of tricep involvement could be a
limiting factor for you but if you're
using this as a close grip pushing EXC
exercise for both chest and triceps it's
totally fine to be essentially kind of
at a JM press style where you do get a
lot of elbow Bend and a lot of uh work
at the
shoulder and so biggest thing for pull
Downs here guys is what moves first so
we let the shoulders stretch up and then
this pulls down first so it's not a
bicep curl from the top it's all of this
stuff it's lats even lower traps a
little bit pulling that upper arm
pulling that shoulder blade down and
making sure that again the contractions
coming from there and not from your arm
it definitely as an advanced lifter you
want to make sure that you're feeling
something down there um I think that for
beginners in intermediates these kind of
cues can be fall on deaf ears
essentially but uh cuz they don't really
know what they're feeling but for
advanced lifters I would like to make
sure that you feel like at least some of
the movement pull is coming from your
back and if it's feeling like it's
coming too much from your arms that's
often going to result in like yeah you
feel stuff in your back and yes it still
grows your back but maybe not as much as
it could so next we got him doing uh a
lateral raise variation so one of my
favorite ones uh especially obviously
for what we're looking for Dave for
everything it's the superhero look um so
really really good vtap or broad
shoulders I don't think there's a better
exercise for add meat to the sides of
your delt side of your shoulders so I
will say with all of my disagreements on
the very particularities of the
technique and execution being performed
and
advocated these are still compound
barbell and machine full range of motion
relatively speaking at least movements
executed with fundamentally very
excellent technique this is like a TI
stuff I don't want to call Batista lucky
for having Joe Bennett around in his
corner but yeah however that happened
How the Universe send set that up that's
really awesome for him because he could
have some of the other clown shit
trainers that we have Exposed on this
channel exposed but Illustrated their
lack of understanding of how to train
people and at the end of the day like
they're using awesome exercises with
very good technique to hit exactly the
muscles that you're supposed to hit to
begin with with and uh hypertrophy coach
AKA Joe Bennett just said like we're
going for the superhero look which means
wide taper with big lats and and really
Capa shoulders like that is exactly what
you want your trainer to say when your
job is in Hollywood to play a superhero
some of the other videos we've done
they're doing landmine this and that and
ab crunches the who the are you training
nobody gives a shit about function
you're not function your function is
toing stand there and look pretty godamn
it now and Batista case he also does
some of his own stunts and so this kind
of tech uh technique and this kind of
lifting he's doing not only covers his
functional ability but also his
aesthetic ability and a lot of the other
crap we've seen on this channel covers
sort of neither um yeah if you're
curious as to what specifically I'm
referencing as far as the most egregious
example Google are or YouTube search our
Mark wallberg video critiques holy shit
enjoy that so the benefit here compared
to a normal dumbbell raise one just
lying down it keeps you honest uh so it
keeps your form very strict you can't
rock you can't use your your body or
anything your hips your back or anything
to move the weight I bet Mark Walberg
good God
Mark Mark Walberg yeah you got it I bet
Mark Wahlberg can that up watch me oo
he's got the Cuffs over his wrists which
means that grip is no longer a limiting
factor which is an excellent excellent
tool that's something Scott video guy we
got to get that for our gym is some
cuffs um we have cuffs at the gym
currently but they're not used for
lifting they're used for restraint and
there are chains involved but uh they're
not lifting chains you guys get the
picture I'll shut up now the other
benefit here is at the bottom because
we're using a cable and that cable
doesn't line right up with the shoulder
joint it's heavy at the bottom and gets
a little lighter as you come to the top
which is the way your shoulder can kind
of produce strength as you're stronger
down here and a little weaker at the top
whereas a dumbbell is the opposite when
you have a dumbbell at the bottom it's
cake there's basically no torque at the
shoulder joint no load and it basically
just gets really really heavy to where
you're weakest wise words so now we have
an exercise with a force curve that's
harder at the stretch easier at the top
peak contraction and that's why it's
going to confer a lot of benefit for
functional work like mobility and things
like that strength and real world
situations and also a considerable
amount of hypertrophy because it hits
that bottom stretch position the only
concern here is cutting your dick off
with the cables just kidding my dick's
not big enough for that to matter is
yours comment below
just kidding don't get banned well calm
it away um so just a really really
allaround good exercise this is a great
exercise absolutely you can adjust the
cable height to basically make sure it
lines up well with your body and same as
every other exercise as we kind of work
through our warm-up sets always leaving
some in the tank so again we're pretty
late in the workout so it's still going
to be hard still obviously going to feel
it a lot but you're leaving some is
there we work up to our top sets or our
heaviest sets oh so this is warm-up
stuff I guess they really Illustrated
the technique and let him talk through
the warm-up sets which makes it ton of
sense and then they throw the heavy
metal music on when uh he's actually
doing the work sets which makes a ton of
sense so this is all really right on and
Scott look at Dave's head dimples that
he has his skin wrinkles in his head
people tell me that that is ugly and
that it looks like my brain is coming
out of my head and that I should off
myself but the Dave Bautista has
millions and he's a famous Hollywood
actor be a movie star how does that work
well you already are star in certain
films oh yes feature films adult films
you're stronger at the top of a hack
than you are at the bottom so the idea
is to have a difference from the bottom
to the top we just want it heavier at
the top than it is at the bottom and
reverse bands are one of the ways to go
about that and so you'll see that at the
bottom we're getting some assistance
maybe taking off 50 lbs or so at the
midpoint obviously it's half of that by
the time you get halfway through for
this bin it's really not helping at all
from the halfway point pretty much to
the top um and so again doing an anoli
when you get to your working sets it
feels better healthier and easier um
from a good standpoint on your joints
yeah I have I have a wildly opposite
take to this I think that you the hack
sad is a very well leveraged exercise to
begin with I think that the fact that it
leverages you into a much more
challenging position for your quads and
your glutes at the bottom is a good
thing because stretch underload is a
really important mediator of hypertrophy
I also think that if you're not
accustomed to hack sweating your knees
will feel not so great down there but if
you progress through loads and volumes
intelligently and slowly you end up
getting really really resilient and very
strong in that bottom position with
those super high forces and then your
knees and hips get accustomed to it and
you just get really hard to injure I
used to be very much in the camp if we
have to Baby the knees cuz if they get
hurt everything's I'm more and more in
the camp lately that you have to
progressively expose joints to high
degrees of force sometimes in their very
weak positions and that's how you make
them strong all right folks so much more
low-key critique this time not a lot of
bombastic Riz energy for me as you may
have come to expect in the past though
you know if you watching the uncensored
members version did talk about dicks for
quite some time that's right see now you
want to subscribe to the members
version uh massive respect for Joe
Bennett huge respect for Batista and um
I think they're doing almost everything
spot on as far as I can tell and I would
like to see more of an emphasis on the
Deep contraction at the stretch uh and
uh more of an empasis on Rage of motion
obviously not the like stuff cuz Batista
hurt but definitely upper body stuff
little get getting away from bands and
chains and really exposing uh the the
muscles to a high degree of tension at
the stretch other than that the
execution seems really good the
attention to technique seems really good
and yeah to be quite honest as I said
before Batista is very lucky to have Joe
in his corner and Hollywood folks if
you're watching this uh Joe Bennett's
available as a trainer I would
absolutely endorse him as somebody you
should definitely hire so big UPS
massive respect in it whatever you say
in the United Kingdom oh went there but
um yeah this uh this is definitely I
would say this is B+ a minus work work
if I had to be a professor of sports
science which I am I guess and grade
this workout so this are really really
good stuff and by Hollywood standards
phenomenal so uh always tons of respect
and um shit see you guys next time all
right that was awesome I think I had a
good time anyway right over here you're
going to click on things and it's going
to make you watch more of our videos and
you see the money that goes straight to
Scott the video guy and he honestly has
a sex addiction and that's what he's
going to spend it
on
he