the first most important thing you can
possibly do to get your testost levels
to where they should be is getting lean
uh not wrong it will help unless you get
too lean below 15% body fat H yeah
that's probably not true anywhere
between 10 to 20% generally is the
highest level of testosterone you can
experim with getting lean and the
benefit of getting lean is actually just
that you get lean and then who gives a
 what testosterone you have after
that because you're man some people will
experience their highest testosterone
levels and best look and best feel 10 to
15% some people at 15 to 20 so you never
really can tell as as far as the best
foods to really build your diet on I've
even been experimenting with doing a
little teaspoon of raw honey when I have
my chocolate at night I'll do a little
teaspoon of raw honey Scott uh did you
get last night I I remember texting you
a little bit did you make sure to eat
your chocolate no but I did get my raw
honey thank God okay I think raw honey
is another rich person Flex oh is that
raw oh my Butlers will never make it for
me my word it's got to be raw processed
honey just the bees is something missing