stop doing regular steady state cardio
v-shred is a superhero he's here to save
us from the shit because we know steady
state cardio is bad because just stop
doing it just stop doing it that's
reason enough for me Mr V shred
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
critization I'm the creator of the RP
hypertrophy app and a professor of
exercise sports science at Lehman
College in the Bronx in New York City
in the state of New York in the country
of the United States on the North
American continent in the Western
Hemisphere on the planet Earth in the
solar system and I think the Orion arm
of the military Galaxy
and I have a very important thing to do
with you guys today it's going to be an
activity in which we cooperate together
it is to critique and examine and parse
and explain
tread workout diet whatever advice V
shred is getting out now for the purpose
of this video I'm going to assume that
there is one individual whose name is V
shred and that's that's what I'm going
to call him Mr V shred sure he has a
real name I don't care about it Off to
the Races which body type are you I have
an answer to that there's no such thing
as body type and science has confirmed
that about 10 000 times body types are
myth so I'm not a body type but let's
see what Mr V shred thinks about that
you wanna know what's crazy yes
uh what's inside yes about the fitness
industry when it comes to getting a
statement also yes people are making all
these different fitness programs people
like you V shred but they're not talking
about the most important piece lying to
people about results that they're going
to get on your programs oh I'm sorry I
digress which is making sure that the
program actually fits your body type and
actually fits your goals tell me you
didn't go to school without telling me
you didn't go to school
let's hear about body types if you're
trying to lose weight the last thing you
need is to follow my workout plan where
I'm trying to bulk up okay the workout
plan doesn't have a ton to do with
whether you lose or gain weight that's
actually almost entirely dictated by
your diet your energy expenditure if
you're very physically active and you
don't eat a lot it doesn't matter how
you train you're going to lose weight
and if you're training hard you're going
to keep all of your muscle and lean down
if you eat lots of food and your
physical activity is more limited you're
going to be gaining weight and if you
train the exact same way just like he
does then you will gain muscle and gain
weight so really the workout specific to
your goals is already overstated if
you're trying to bulk up a lot thing you
do is follow some
it's not going to work for you and your
body type and so I don't think your body
type changes when you pick a different
goal maybe there's a contradiction in
terms here somewhere I'm sure it'll get
to how the body type has anything to do
with anything but so far I just talked
about goals not body types I get not
doing a plan that's different for your
goals which also isn't true in this case
but how does body type weave in there at
all what we did to combat this well for
who's whis you and a cell phone camera
was we over here at V shred created
which is your name is V shred your first
name is V shred there's V shred first
name last name a free body type quiz oh
thank God I thought I was gonna have to
pay my own hard-earned money to take a
body type quiz luckily it's free that
takes into account what shape you're in
what shape you're in has nothing to do
with your body type
the body type is supposed to be
something that is immutable about you it
is a way that you are shaped that muscle
and fat are added into that equation is
retracted from it but uh I don't I don't
know what he means by body type and I
guarantee you he doesn't either what
your exact goals are and your body
measurements hey that's not a body type
quiz that's a body type goals and
measurements quiz and it basically gives
you three free tips based on your body
type eat less fat
eat more protein while eating less and
lift some weights you're welcome I saved
you the quiz and then also had a little
hidden surprise at the end of it so oh
fuck wait wait wait wait if there's a
hidden surprise you're not gonna stop me
from being able to click on it are you
I'm gonna click on it and I'm gonna do
whatever it takes in that surprise if
it's that entering the top of the funnel
for your bullshit Ponzi Fitness scheme
Count Me In if you're looking to get in
shape understand if you're an ectomorph
a mesomorph or an endomorph yup those
aren't real things those are all
mythical we do have a YouTube video that
rhymes on spiritualization about how and
why Scott's video I link that shit so if
you're not sure which one you are head
over to vshred.com vshred.com take our
free quiz on our home page free quiz on
home page and I'll see you there he
won't see you there but you'll be in his
funnel and he'll try to extract money
from you providing you substandard
services that probably lead to
disappointing results
what's up guys what's up I got a quick
tip for anybody who is trying to get in
shape not anyone who is trying to get in
shape because according to the last
thing you said General tips don't work
you have to take the body type quiz if
I'm of the wrong body type or kind of
goal then no tip is going to be good for
me that's also good for you now you're
saying there's one universal tip that's
good for us all well this is just
confusing stop doing regular steady
state cardio I mean guys everyone knows
regular steady state cardio is like
starvation in Africa
the massacre in Myanmar right between a
machete State cardio on the pure
devilishness it exerts on our poor
fucking unsuspecting World The Shred is
a fucking superhero he's here to save us
from the shit because we know steady
state cardio is bad because just stop
doing it just stop doing it
that's reason enough for me Mr V shred
because why
you asked why these shreds gonna cook
you up some knowledge because it's not
good for you
okay steady state cardio is not good for
you says V shred
counter opinion American College of
sports medicine
all the doctors that study the heart and
the lungs every doctor that is concerned
with health every professor of exercise
in sports science
but there is only one V shred let's hear
some facts facts why isn't it good for
you because first off it takes like
about 40 minutes a day or whatever he
doesn't even know because he doesn't
even do it he's like I don't know how
long people do it 40 sounds like a fine
number and I don't have 40 minutes
because I hear him making that cheddar I
got 18 businesses five side hustles can
be bothered with the shit just to get a
cardio session in and you burn what 300
calories yeah you could burn more than
300 but yes burning calories takes time
but maybe he has some a good retort here
so if you have to do that every single
day and you obviously don't burn
calories after you stop so you continue
to burn calories after you stop but not
a ton so we're just trying to give them
as much credit as possible 300 calories
for 40 minutes of horrible exercise if
you're burning 300 calories in 40
minutes it's actually not that horrible
that's not impressive it's not fun so
you don't stick to it very long versus
doing hit cardio okay so hit cardio he's
gonna sell us on the hit cardio sure
this is a training fad from about 15 or
20 years ago everyone thought it was
going to be miraculously better than
steady state cardio and they were wrong
why were they wrong what he's going to
do is estimate later that hit cardio
Burns a ton of calories after it's
finished and the reality is you don't
burn very many after it's finished so
the epoch excess post exercise oxygen
consumption was always overestimated
with hit cardio from the very beginning
more uh well more recently 10 years ago
we found out it was vastly overestimated
making cardio not as cool as people
thought it was going to be in addition
to that hit cardio is even less
sustainable than steady state cardio at
a lower level of exertion because it has
more impact and it causes more fatigue
so hit cardio is something that people
who are don't have a lot of time and or
are lazy attempt to do instead of steady
state cardio and generally fail almost
as much if not more than what steady
state car do now hit cardio does have a
place it can be part of an integrated
program but so can steady state cardio
it's not one or the other hit cardio is
not category historically better because
yes it doesn't take as long but it also
doesn't burn as many calories and know
the the epoch does not make up for that
and it also beats you up more so uh it's
more fatigue I wonder if he mentions
anything this is when you do like 20
seconds Max intensity then a 20 second
rest and you do that like 10 times so
the workout's only like five minutes and
you burn more calories during the
workout and after the workout I I
guarantee you don't if you're doing
steady state cardio and it's not the
easiest thing in the world you can born
you can burn many more calories in a
40-minute session of stay stick cardio
that you could do anything for five
minutes long
this is straight up false due to excess
post-oxygen consumption Oh weird getting
into some science my man
20 years out of date
um something I don't have time to
explain here but don't worry he doesn't
know how to explain it if you want more
free tips like this head over to v-shred
funnel this guy's a fucking marketing
Master as soon as you get to thinking
you know some shit you're in the funnel
and they're offering you prop sales I
gotta I'd learn from him what are we
doing at RP our only final is like let
me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you could
choose to make your own you could modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by a personal this app programs
everything for you exercises weights
sets reps frequency the whole thing
after every single workout on every
single week the app adjusts to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
The Arc hypertrophy app today
real final two don't you like don't you
want to click on our funnel
like uh Scott what was that one bitch
with the emerald castle and then the
tornadoes uh Dorothy Wizard of Oz not
our funnel all your money comes out
during that time and we collect all of
it that's how funnels work I think
if you feel like you can't make much
progress in the gym yes or you're
holding on to too much body fat
definitely or your sex drive is lower
than ever my psychiatrist says it's
actually too high and it's a problem
but uh I'm curious wrote me in or you
frequently just seem down in the dumps
and just in life man it's like you
should blah help me V shred help me find
happiness I feel like you're aging
faster than you should be I don't know
how people estimate how fast they should
be aging but uh definitely I'm aging at
all which is to say too fast V shred
I need your help today I want to talk a
little bit about a hormone that your
body might be low on it's not
testosterone is it which is testosterone
how did I know that and one thing that's
important to understand is that it's
normal for testosterone levels to
decline as you age so far so good low
test levels are something that you
should be aware of even in let's say
your 20s and your 30s now the good news
is good news there are easy things that
you can do from home I certainly
wouldn't be compelled to drive anywhere
to improve my testosterone now I needed
to be at home and I need High test
levels ideally right now that don't
require going to the doctor to slow or
maybe even reverse this decline yeah the
doctor is only going to give you
prescriptions for exogenous testosterone
which will definitely fix your ass up
then you gotta shoot drugs all the time
you're fiend maybe the shred can spare
us all that nonsense and get us the real
testosterone boosting secrets that we've
come here for in fact they only require
a trip to your local grocery store the
shreds you just promised us we could do
this from home now you're saying this
testosterone cure requires a trip to to
the local grocery store which is not my
home grocery store no that's not gonna
work and I'm going to tell you about a
couple of natural herbs okay I'll start
with the actual science there is no
natural herb that dependably raises your
testosterone in a measurable way that
has been confirmed multiply through
plethora of studies not fenugiek or
fenugreek or whatever the not any of
that other weird sounding shit not
Tribulus not shit sorry herbs don't do
pretty much shit in almost any situation
there are no natural herbs to raise your
testosterone levels but I'm sure he's
going to give us the typical bullshit
they're super powerful they are not
super powerful so you absolutely need to
know about them but there are also a
couple of others that are easy to find
that you probably have in your fridge or
your pantry I already have steroids in
my fridge and Pantry wow that just may
not be as potent but good nonetheless
I'll just take more of them same potency
one area that researchers have studied
is how your diet can impact testosterone
levels diet it's not herb but cool and
they found that increasing foods that
contain testosterone mimicking nutrients
and supplementing with certain natural
herbs may help he's not good at reading
off the fucking cards this does not
sound very fluid body's doing it my man
and there's two nutrients that seem to
be especially crucial to your diet let
me guess cholesterol
and saturated fat when it comes to
increasing testosterone and those are
vitamin D oh I was wrong vitamin D okay
excellent and zinc and zinc I know
nothing starting with vitamin D
according to researchers it can help
boost testosterone levels by up to 90
percent in one study Yep this is what we
call cherry picking most of you if you
take all the vitamin D in the world will
see no increase in testosterone
whatsoever but every now and again
people who are vitamin D deficient see
improvements in all sorts of hormones
when they no longer become deficient but
you're probably not deficient 200
healthy participants were given either a
daily dose of
332 IUS of vitamin D or Placebo for a
full year cherry picking just one study
at a time because there's a bunch of
studies that found diddly dick for this
he's not reporting them and compared to
Baseline values there was a significant
increase in total testosterone levels
bioactive testosterone and free
testosterone levels in the vitamin D
supplemented group and one study they
actually restricted zinc and young
healthy Men and don't do that
eat normal foods that have zinc in them
found that after 20 weeks of low zinc
test subjects saw a significant drop in
serum testosterone levels and oysters
are a great source of zinc
he just randomly like throws the food at
us like oysters you don't like oysters
you can also get a good dose of zinc
from crab damn this is the fucking
expensive diet
oysters crab what's next Lobster
according to National Institutes of
Health Alaskan king crab provides 43 of
your daily value of zinc you know how
expensive Alaskan crab is Jesus Christ
what kind of advice is this and if you
don't enjoy eating seafood at all or
you're worried about mercury levels egg
yolks contain a good dose of vitamin D
and beef ah yes finally common foods you
probably eat anyway I will tell you guys
this almost all information which tells
you one micronutrient one potential
beneficial thing it does in a few
studies and then good sources for it is
just a waste of your cognitive bandwidth
there are a trillion different
micronutrients if you include
phytochemicals phytonutrients they're
all available in every food there's too
much diversity to account for and if you
just eat a whole food diet of mostly
healthy foods lots of veggies fruits
whole grains lean meats and every now
and again you eat some junk food and you
have a multivitamin multi-mineral tab
you are going to cover everything all
the mechanisms all the weird stuff so
this one shit at a time bullshit again
you're not not going to be in a position
work oh man I need to get horny better
eat three ounces of crab you will be
sorely disappointed so eating some whole
eggs instead of egg whites in the
morning or even adding a burger to your
diet could actually help you a ton
adding a burger to your diet will not
help you a ton
alright if you guys like that we have an
Extended Cut available for members only
so hit the join button to become a
member
another food that can actually help to
improve serum levels of testosterone is
one that most of you will be glad is on
the list if you have a sweet tooth and
that is honey oh thank God I knew any
diet in which I was going to be
restriction in my honey intake will
never work for me luckily honey helps
with stuff and nutrients and thank God
that it does I'm gonna eat tons of it
researchers have tested honey in both
human and rodent trials and they found
that honey did in fact increase serum
test levels likely because it helps
increase Guys these are incredibly
transient low level effects that amount
to nothing nobody ever got jacked eating
extra fucking honey see that guy with
the veins in his shoulders and he weighs
350 that ain't honey that's called
Trenbolone luteinizing hormone which is
a hormone produced by the pituitary
gland I like when he tries to speak
science he's a pituitary gland
I think so food number three on our list
is garlic oh like this is the worst
video ever
garlic it has a connection with another
hormone which is your stress hormone
which is cortisol
which is super important because
cortisol is produced in the adrenal
gland that's an important feature which
is where testosterone is produced
testosterone is produced mostly in your
testes not in your adrenal gland basic
science fact wrong
thanks V shred how shocking scientists
have found that if your cortisol levels
are too high which could happen due to
anything from lack of sleep to mental
stress yeah don't fix lack of sleep with
mental stress just eat more garlic you
could be blocking your body's ability to
produce testosterone that's true
let's find out how garlic helps so if
your cortisol is too high it won't
matter how many oysters you eat or how
much honey you put in your tea your test
could be negatively impacted it actually
would matter because if your cortisol is
high but you raise your test the balance
is what matters so wrong again V shred
and that's why it's so important that in
addition to eating foods that could
potentially boost test you should also
eat Foods or take supplements that
reduce cortisol
foreign
why are we still here
just to suffer
there are no Foods or supplements other
than Advanced pharmacological drugs that
reduce cortisol you also don't want
cortisol reduced all the time because
cortisol is a very important part of the
stress Pathways that actually cause
adaptation so what you want is for
cortisol to be very high during your
workouts rapidly fall off after and
Below most of the time throughout the
day don't eat garlic before your workout
I guess garlic has been linked to being
able to do just that
be shred for audacity and false
confidence an 11 out of 10. for good
advice somewhere peppered in there six
out of ten for tons of bullshit that you
wish you had never heard lowered my IQ
and now I feel sick to my stomach
a 10 out of 10 out of that stuff why the
fuck do I do this for a living see you
guys next time
[Music]
thank you
[Music]