next solid amount of training in one
session is dope but you need multiple
weekly workouts to get your best results
and time and time again all the
literature reviews come in and they show
us one thing that on average and there
are some Nuance here you get better
results training twice a week for the
same muscle than you do just once a week
and in some cases you even get a better
result training that muscle three times
a week then twice a week but twice a
week is what I would consider as a
serious attempt at muscle gain so if you
tell me like yeah man my fucking biceps
won't grow and I'm like how often do you
train biceps like well fucking bicep day
like okay once a week yeah come on man
twice a week we frequency is probably
not your limiting factor but you got to
hit every muscle you want to grow
especially the problem areas you really
care about at least twice a week that
doesn't mean three times is better
there's a very nuanced conversation
about two versus three but the
conversation about one versus two is not
very nuanced yes gigantic Pro
bodybuilders can train a muscle once a
week because it takes that long for the
shit to recover but last I checked your
biceps don't look like fucking big
ramy's biceps and maybe you can recover
quite quickly and train them well at
least twice a week