all right what's up everyone so I wanted
to do this video just to intro a new
miniseries that I'm going to be doing on
the channel documenting my mini cuts
into my trip to California two weeks
from today we're going to be traveling
to Sacramento California and then to Los
Angeles first for the muscle mayham
coaching one of my really good friends
Pat McInnis after that show and also I
won this show two years ago now which is
crazy and one my pro card so I do have a
couple of photoshoots planned one in
Sacramento and one in LA so that's
basically what I'm cutting for and over
the course of the last couple of weeks
I've more or less just been kind of
maintaining my weight and practicing a
combination of sort of rough tracking
and intuitive eating unfortunately I
think three days ago I did want to get
back into doing some dead lifting
because I did watch the IPF world which
was insanely motivating for me so I just
started with 135 on a rack deadlift did
that for a set of like ten five minutes
later I could just feel the left side of
my mid thoracic erector is just
completely seizing up and it was just
like a rock and five minutes later I was
on the floor and I literally could not
move like I was just flat on the floor
for about a half an hour and I had to
get two guys in Robin in my mom actually
to come and sort of lift me out of the
gym brought me to the hospital and I was
just given some painkillers and
basically told just to rest up until it
was better and now today it's finally
starting to feel like I can you know
rotate and I can forward flex and I can
flex laterally a little bit so I am
going to go into the gym and just do
some light stuff so just to get you guys
up to speed we arrived in Kelowna about
a week ago perhaps
loving it here the scenery is absolutely
beautiful
it's kind of hard to believe that this
is Canada last night we celebrated
Canada Day so we saw some fireworks and
Robin and I went and sort of explored
Downtown Kelowna one thing that we have
noticed is that the city is actually
it's really small and I'm not totally
sure if that's a good thing or a bad
thing on the one hand we do like the
fact that it is kind of point and it's
not super fast-paced or anything which
is really nice on the other hand there
isn't quite as much here in terms of
just like availability like shopping and
just I don't know stop to see I guess
that's more than made up for by just how
nice it is and how good the weather has
been and everything so overall our
experience of living here so far has
been really really positive but we're
here for six months at least and then
from there we haven't totally decided
whether or not we'll be saying yet I
haven't officially decided what my
macros are going to be for this cut it's
only two weeks so I do want to be fairly
aggressive I woke up this morning at 162
pounds I think it was our yesterday was
Canada Day so I didn't track at all I
basically just used it as a free day
definitely made in a surplus ate a lot
of like high sodium foods and had some
drinks so that way and it's probably
about two pounds over what I actually am
over the course the next couple of weeks
I would like to drop around probably
five pounds like to get down to around
155 at that point I'll probably refeed
pretty heavily for
a couple of days just to fill out for
the photo shoots so I'm thinking I'll
start probably somewhere around 2,200
2,400 calories see if I'm losing on that
and then adjust accordingly keep in mind
I am you know only 160 pounds so those
macros or calories might sound low but
it's always individual and I do live a
fairly sit injury lifestyle I don't have
like an overly active job or anything
like that and so in order to get my
energy expenditure up a bit I am going
to be implementing daily walks so every
morning I'll go for a bit like a half an
hour walk and that's something that I
just enjoy doing anyway I love getting
outdoors I love starting my day off with
something active I'll finish of this
vlog with some training footage and give
you guys a little glimpse so what I did
today
alright that's enough for me I hope you
guys enjoy the rest of the vlog and I
will see you in the next clip so one of
my old friends from the East Coast is
visiting Kelowna just for a couple of
days I'm just waiting for him to show up
Ray's said I'm blogging today oh sorry
- yeah you look an extra-big like I went
to a guy here and he's like really good
with pakis to cut my hair right okay and
you
haha this reason it's like near Weimar
art on your screen now gives you
something likes it lots of likes fix
it's grown you're a serious [ __ ]
snake you're doing prices starting with
like $10 this very easy
Haley [ __ ] I think
this meal - I've got one full cup of
cottage cheese one gala apple and a
tablespoon of peanut butter this is
something I used to do in my nationals
prep back in 2012 just put peanut butter
in with cottage cheese and it seems
really random but it actually tastes
really good just on its own guys we're
gonna grab a pre-workout meal booster
juice just like a wrap or quesadilla or
something like that and I got some new
pre-workout c4 and we picked up some
weight from tea as well yeah maybe this
looks a little later all right what's
going on guys so I'm going to take you
guys through my first workout back after
my back injury so I started things off
with this incline chest press machine I
was doing sets of 25 to 30 reps with
really light weight you can even see it
there on the sides and like three plates
down where Natalie had you about 3/4 of
the way down so yeah one of the things
that you have to keep in mind when you
have a back injury like I do is keeping
your back supported so there's more back
to sport with machine like this then say
free weight bench press and also a way
to induce similar fatigue to having more
load on
is just by doing higher reps closer to
failure but I wasn't taking these sets
quite to failure at least not early on
in the workout when I was still kind of
testing the waters in terms of what I
could do so the second movement was the
mist machine shoulder press and you'll
notice here that I'm not really walking
out the movement and that's just another
technique that I'm using to sort of
induce the same sort of fatigue and
metabolic stress that you might see from
more load with a lighter load and so
just by keeping constant tension on the
muscle which isn't something I typically
would do unable to get that sort of
metabolic effect since the tension
effect is just simply going to be
undermined at this point as a result of
the injury so up next it was the machine
lateral raise and again here you kind of
have to think of ways to really make the
movement effective while not being able
to load it very heavily and so you can
see there at the beginning I'm sort of
internally rotating that allows me to
get a little bit better mind muscle
connection with the side delts and then
also I finished this exercise off with a
drop set so I took it pretty well close
to failure then took a rest for five or
ten seconds and then came back and took
another set to failure and using
intensity techniques like this isn't
really a staple of my training I
wouldn't say but given that I'm injured
and just I'm simply not able to load in
the same way I think that using things
like blood flow blood flow restriction
drop steps drop sets even ISO holds and
just things to induce a sufficient level
of fatigue in the muscle without having
to load it heavily is kind of an
important aspect
of training wild and all of this stuff
felt good by the way so I'm not really
if you see me squinting here it's just
because it does burn like when you
really slow down and slow down the tempo
and really feel the muscle working you
can get a really good burn without
having to go very heavily that's
something that this experience has
definitely reminded me of okay so after
the chest and shoulder stuff it was on
to triceps and these might look weird
because the weight is just super light
my for my triceps are one of my
strongest muscles I usually would use
the entire stack for sets of ten to
fifty and here I don't know I don't even
think I'm halfway down on the stack and
so it was just one of those exercises
where it was so so light that it
actually felt kind of awkward like it's
kind of difficult to control I don't
know if you guys have ever experienced
that but yeah sometimes if the weight is
too light it just kind of throws off
your counterbalance and it just feels a
little bit awkward and that was kind of
how I felt doing these but in subsequent
sets I did try to do a better job of
really squeezing the muscle and
contracting the triceps especially at
the bottom after that it was on to
biceps so again I'm sticking with all
machine stuff here just because it
requires less core stability and my
erectors have to do less work in terms
of stabilizing the spine when you're
seated down and pinned into a machine so
just a little bit safer at this point
for me and also you know it prevents
cheating so it prevents my back from
doing work and actually getting the
weight up by locking your elbow elbows
in place and so that's one of the things
that I really like about the preacher
curl is that you're really forced to
activate your biceps and it really
minimizes the amount of cheating and
swinging that you can do when curling
I've talked about this exercise a ton in
other videos Bayesian and cable curl
it's one of my favorites but I finished
off the
actually no I have one more exercise and
it's the spider curl another one that I
haven't done in a while but it's
basically it's also called Ascot curl
it's kind of just like a really steep
preacher curl with less with less
shoulder flexion and so yeah really good
stretch on this movement and it's also a
good way to kind of target more so the
long head then with your arm in a more
of a flex position like in the the first
exercise the first preacher curl that I
did and that's it guys so I hope that
you enjoy the rest of the vlog and I'll
see you soon so just finish up my
workout and I've got a post-workout
protein I haven't tried this yet it's
mint chocolate chip it checks out it's
not amino spiked or anything and it's
really cheap so those are two things you
usually can't get but I don't let's
cheap in Canada
super-good you on track
well that's disgusting doesn't taste
like two-faced
it tastes like mint chocolate chocolate
there's like little chocolate chips in
there
chocolate chip yes chocolate chip ice
cream yeah that's like in chocolate chip
ice cream I know so we needed to get a
couple groceries ah we just need to get
like chicken we have no protein at the
house as we came to the real Canadian
Superstore and I'll show you guys what
we get
qyz are super micronutrient dense and
low calorie uh so these are a staple
potatoes good for a meal
my favorite
my favorite bread ever it's not super
low-calorie but it is high-protein
lately I've been having cottage cheese
either as a midday snack or before bed
and it is slower digesting so the
research isn't really clear on whether
it's beneficial or not but I always err
on the side of it maybe has a benefit
then there's certainly no harm in taking
it it's also pretty good for satiety
like if I have this midday I won't be
hungry for a nice while after
Oh get yeah two for 898 so we get two of
them
we should get like sheet-like for
I think so
you basically have 18 colloids
extra lean ground meat
a chicken dish will not last
guys this is going to be meal number II
YUM mmm feel number four so this is how
we cook green beans just like throw them
in a bunch of water and put it in the
microwave for how long did you put it in
for about two and a half minutes and
they just kind of cook and then you just
drain it off and then we've got some
extra lean ground beef here made into
like a sloppy joe mix low-sodium mrs. -
sloppy joe seasoning mix okay so that's
the sloppy joe mix I'm guessing this is
probably about 150 maybe 200 grams of
ground beef and I'm just going to
sprinkle a little bit of double cheddar
cheese on top it's still wet and that
will be meal number four probably just
going to have some cottage cheese for my
last meal I just want to give you guys
some idea of what my macros are looking
like so 1,900 calories and I quick added
some calories just for some estimations
but the protein total 65 any of these
numbers are probably off but 165 protein
and 1,900 calories and I'm gonna have it
probably another serving of cottage
cheese so that will give me about
another 30 grams so close to 200 protein
and just over 2,000 calories for today
I'm not hungry so I'm not going to force
the food in basically and then tomorrow
I'll probably aim to tighten up the
macros a little bit further still
probably do just calories and protein
but just track my sources a little bit
more carefully so that's it for today
guys I hope you liked this first vlog of
the new series I'm not sure if I'm going
to name it or anything but if you guys
have any ideas for names like cutting
for cap cutting for Cali I don't know it
sounds kind of cheesy if you guys have
any ideas for names you can let me know
in the comments section below and don't
forget to like the video if you liked it
subscribe to the channel if you haven't
already
thank you guys so much for watching I
will see you tomorrow
apologies about the last video that I
uploaded I know a bunch of people
couldn't watch it because there was a
copyrighted song on there so what I did
was I uploaded a unlisted video of that
whole video with a different song that
is copyright free so you guys can watch
that by clicking the link right here and
I've also got it linked in the
description of this video and in the
description of the video
that was copyright clean so you guys can
watch the vlog now ok and I'll make sure
I don't do that again