how can you build muscle and lose fat at
the same time a lot of people on the
internet think the answer is simple you
can't if you want to build muscle you
need to do a proper bulk and if you want
to lose fat you need to do a proper cut
I think this idea has made its way into
the mainstream from old a bodybuilding
lure where it was thought that you had
to be in a massive caloric surplus to
build size and then trim down for
competition but recent scientific
evidence has challenged this idea for
example this 2013 study from Garth and
colleagues found that even when they
overfed subjects by 600 extra calories
per day they actually didn't gain
significantly more muscle but did gain
over three times the fat mass so nearly
all the extra bulk came as fat now I
should say I don't actually have
anything against cutting and bulking in
the right circumstances I think it makes
perfect sense
and many of you guys know last year I
ran a pretty hefty bulk myself that I
called it bear mode and I still think
that if you want to gain as much muscle
and strength as possible as fast as
possible than being in a bigger caloric
surplus is the way to go
however this quick our muscle gain will
come at the expense of more fat gain as
well and many people simply don't want
that but just accept it as an
inevitability but it doesn't have to be
that way in fact it's perfectly possible
to build muscle without a large surplus
or even without any surplus at all
because fat tissue and muscle tissue are
separate systems and I've broken down
the math explaining why this is possible
in another video that I'll link below
now many people will get on board with
this and say ok building muscle while
losing fat is possible but not really
practical because it only applies in a
handful of more limited and obscure
scenarios but I think these scenarios
aren't as limited as they seem and I
would say body recomposition is a
realistic goal not only for some people
but nearly all people so let's quickly
cover the situations where I think
recomposition makes the most sense
first of all new lifters newbies can
build muscle and lose fat at the same
time quite easily because as a new
lifter you're the most primed for muscle
growth you'll ever be
this means that calories can be pulled
from stored body fat to fuel the muscle
building process with just basic
progressive resistance training and a
reasonable diet second because
overweight individuals have very large
energy reserves stored in body fat they
can eat in a caloric deficit and still
have plenty of stored energy to fuel the
muscle building process thirdly
detrained individuals who got
Jack before but then stops training due
to injury or other commitments are in a
similar camp to the new trainee we're
going to the very powerful muscle memory
effect they're able to rebuild a lot of
muscle very quickly making recomposition
common and finally using anabolic
steroids allows most people to build a
lot of muscle very quickly allowing the
body to tap into fat stores to fuel
muscle building but at this point I
would say even if recomposition were
limited to these four groups walk into
any commercial gym and most people will
fall into one of these four categories
for example even if you've been in the
gym for several years you might still
fall under the newbie category if you
haven't been training nearly hard enough
or smart enough over the years I'd also
add a fifth category to this list the
sub optimized trainee
this would include anyone who's been
going to the gym for a while they even
count themselves as an intermediate or
advanced level lifter by training age
but deep down hasn't really been putting
in their best effort with their training
or nutrition and according to my good
friend and co-author Chris Barakat he
sees recomposition in his lab all the
time even in more advanced trainees so I
literally see this every single semester
every training study we had we've ever
ran I've seen body recomposition occur
once you really start paying attention
to some of the - some of the details to
a higher extent like nutrient timing and
really optimizing their macro nutrient
intakes we can't see recomposition with
some of the best athletes ever this one
subject in particular he gained 20
pounds of lean mass in ten weeks and he
actually lost like a pound of fat mass
at the same time so he was a basketball
player pretty well trained when it comes
to resistance training he was able to
squat 1.75 times his body weight so he
set the criteria for the study and he
just blew up he basically came in the
lab looking like a normal basketball
player and then he looked like Phil
Keith
[Music]
so I think there's really only a tiny
subset of the population that
recomposition wouldn't be practical for
truly advanced trainees already with
perfectly optimized training and
nutrition who are near their genetics
ceiling for muscle growth but in my
opinion this is the Obscure scenario and
it only occupies a tiny sliver of the
total population looking to improve
their physique
ok so body recomposition is not only
common but practical now how do we do it
let's break it down into five simple
steps first you need to recognize that
raining is the driving force of body
recomposition in any scenario can have
the most optimal diet in the world eat
over 9000 grams of protein per day and
you still won't build much new muscle
without a progressive training stimulus
in the book we use the analogy of a car
where we can think of our training as
the engine and our nutrition as the
gasoline to fuel performance better the
fuel the better the performance however
without the engine the car simply won't
move regardless of the fuels quality we
can also think of sleep and stress
management as the oil changes and tire
rotations required to keep things moving
so when it comes to training you want to
focus on progressive overload applying
effort and using proper technique and
once you have the fundamentals in place
fine-tune your volume to fit your
advancement level generally speaking 10
to 20 sets per body part per week is a
good ballpark for most people and most
muscles next you need to decide on a
primary goal even though you may want to
do both at the same time it's important
to establish which is more important to
you for example if you're currently on
the leaner side let's say 8 to 12
percent body fat as a male or 18 to 22
percent as a female then your primary
goal should probably be to build muscle
and if you're not so lean so somewhere
between 15 to 20 plus percent as a guy
or 25 to 30 plus percent as a girl then
maybe your primary goal should be to
lose fat once you've decided on your
primary goal next you want to Center
your caloric intake around maintenance
calories the number of calories you need
to eat to maintain your weight if your
primary goal is to build muscle you
should enter a slight chloric surplus
adding 5 to 25% to your maintenance
intake if your leaner less advanced and
more genetically gifted for building
muscle you can get away with a bigger
surplus if your primary goal is to lose
fat you should enter a slight caloric
deficit slashing 10 to 20% off your
maintenance intake the more fat you have
to lose the bigger the deficit should be
and in the book we outline other
considerations such as if your detrained
highly-advanced skinny fat or
significantly overweight next you need
to set up your macronutrient targets
starting with protein the most important
macro for recomposition in the book we
recommend a sliding model for protein
intake based on lean body mass wear the
leaner you are the closer you should be
to 1.6 grams per pound of lean body mass
and the more body fat you have the
closer you should be to one point
two grams per pound lean body mass using
myself as an example I currently weigh a
hundred and sixty-five pounds at about
ten percent body fat using our sliding
model since I'm quite lean I should be
more toward the high end of intake I'll
pick 1.5 multiplying it out that would
give me a daily protein intake of two
hundred and twenty two point eight grams
per day so I can round that up to two
hundred and twenty-five which is what
I'm eating at the moment and my last
full day of eating video I explained the
benefits of going higher on protein than
might be required just to build muscle
so even though you could probably get
away with less I think eating a higher
intake is both safe and advised for
those looking for recon from here you
want to determine your fat and carbon
take personally I set my fat intake at a
minimum of twenty percent of caloric
intake and then fill in the rest with
carbs ok the fifth and final step to
achieving paneer II composition is to
pay attention to the details like I
mentioned earlier this step might not be
required for beginners they can get
recom Phi's following the first four
steps but as you get more advanced we
comp gets more difficult so it's more
important to optimize your approach we
spend a lot of time in the book laying
out these optimization strategies I'm
gonna focus on a few of them here the
first is to sleep more I think sleep
might be the single most underrated
factor when it comes to transforming
your physique just consider this 2018
study from wining colleagues they split
36 subjects up into two groups that both
entered a caloric deficit except one
group slept one hour less five nights
per week they were also allowed to sleep
one hour extra on the weekends to catch
up as it turns out after eight weeks of
dieting weight loss was the same in both
groups but the group that slept well
lost 83 percent of their weight from fat
whereas the sleep restricted group lost
85% of their weight as lean mass that is
crazy now it's worth mentioning that
these subjects weren't weight training
so lifting probably would have flattened
out the results a bit but I don't think
it would have been enough to offset that
enormous difference that sleep made the
next area we can look to optimize our
approach is through parry workout
nutrition or the timing of nutrients
around the workout now I already
discussed some of the misconceptions
around this topic and my latest full day
of eating video so I'll just link that
video down below we can also turn to
supplements to optimize but it's worth
noting that there aren't any recon
supplements that just cause
recomposition on their own however there
are a few worth mentioning that can help
in the book we organize our supplements
list in two tiers at the top of the list
in tier one we have protein powder
creatine and caffeine protein powder is
especially important for vegan lifters
and I recommend so-called vegan way a
blend of rice and pea protein that
offers a full spectrum of amino acids
and has a high leucine content whey
protein can be used at any time of day
to help make meeting total daily protein
goals easier in consuming a casein
source before bed might have merit as
well creatine is by far the most well
studied supplement on the market and
given how cheap it is and how low its
risk of side effects are it's a pretty
obvious choice to supplement 3 to 5
grams of creatine monohydrate per day
and I'll link my creatine science
explained video down below if you'd like
more info on that caffeine rounds out
tier one of our supplements shortlist
for increasing strength prolonging time
to fatigue increasing acute fat
oxidation and more however unlike
creatine caffeine is susceptible to
tolerance so it might be smart to
reserve it for your heaviest our most
demanding training sessions are
periodically cycle off it to resent eyes
yourself to the effects and of course we
dive into many other optimization
strategies across the 15 chapters in the
new nutrition guide including sample
meal plans pre and post-workout meal
examples more supplements cardio
strategies and a lot more so if you guys
are looking to take your nutrition up a
notch you can save 25% off the ultimate
guide to body recomposition at the first
link in the description box below
for the launch or you can head over to
Geoff nipper calm go to the nutrition
plans tab and you can find it over there
and after launch week so next weekend
it'll be going up to full price so the
manual has over a hundred and forty
scientific references an exact
step-by-step guide for setting up your
calories and macros a list of foods to
focus on and even a full chapter on
training for recon it also include
customer service so if you guys have any
issues there's a support email that you
guys can contact so hit up the link over
here next to my head if you guys are
interested in checking it out don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video or if you found it
helpful subscribe if you haven't already
and I'll see you guys all here in the
next one