the seated or the lying like curl which
is the better choice it turns out we
have a study directly comparing the two
and measuring muscle growth which one is
the smarter
Choice welcome back Dr M wolf with wolf
coaching broken sign unfortunately but
we will make up for it with some top
tier information yet again bringing you
the latest evidence on which exercises
are best to build muscle and today we're
comparing the seated versus the lying
leg curl which is the better exercise
for hypertrophy first up my bias lying
light curls Crush my junk seated light
curls I also have a LoveHate
relationship with I've gotten stuck in a
SE light Cur machine more times than I
can count and so I don't like light
curls so if I'm going to do one of them
it may as well be the more effective one
let's pick our poison what makes the
light C unique compared to most
hamstring exercises well most hamstring
exercises people do are hip hinges stuff
like Romanian deadlifts good mornings
traditional deadlifts or even back
extensions all of these movements do
train the hamstrings but they also
involve other muscle groups like The
glutes like the adaptors other hip
extensor muscles additionally hip hinge
movements necessarily involve your lower
back as well so there are many things
that could potentially give out first
before your hamstrings do making it less
slightly but that the hamstrings are the
limiting factor and are being trained as
close to failure as possible during
these movements in addition because hip
hinges involve a lot of different muscle
groups they're closer to a multi-joint
or compound movement than most leg curl
movements which means that they
generally don't work as well in higher
rep ranges and so while hip hinges like
rdl's good mornings that lifts back
extensions are all great when it comes
to training a lot of muscle groups at
once and they may not be quite as good
at hitting the hamstrings specifically
than leg curls in addition here's a
little known fact the hamstrings have
four heads just like the quadriceps
although a recent study actually found
that they might have five heads anyways
the hamstrings have four heads three of
them do hip extension so any sort of hip
hinge will train those very effectively
but the fourth one the biceps foror's
short head only does knee flexion which
means that if you want to maximize lower
body growth you almost certainly need to
include some sort of light curl
variation in your program at some point
much to might as May another cool fun
fact about light curls is that they
probably train your calves somewhat so
if you're on team no calves or skip calf
day or whatever you want to call it leg
curls probably train your gastrous
muscle one of your calf muscles as well
the gastrous muscle crosses the knee
joint and is also responsible for knee
flexion which is the joint function that
you do during leg curls and so leg curls
both Target all of your hamstrings at
once all fourheads are responsible for
KNE flexion including that fourth head
that we don't train during hip hinges
and also might give you some calf
stimulus and for those of us who don't
want to do calf raises shout out
omaru that's good news all right without
further Ado let's delve into two studies
on hamstring growth that'll tell us
which of the hamstring Cur variations is
better for hypertrophy first we have an
unpublished study by my colleagues the
same research group that was responsible
for a couple of the studies in range of
motion by en large one on the push down
versus over extension and one on the
seated versus lying like C before we get
to that second study let me break down
this new unpublished study this study
has only been presented at a conference
but I've been in touch with the authors
personally and was able to get some
details on the multi-hit machine they
compared two groups in one groups they
performed a hip hinge style motion
keeping your knees relatively extended
as you would during any sort of hip
hinge for the hamstrings with a full
range of motion on the multi hiip versus
with a length and partial or just doing
the stretched half of the movement so in
one group they were doing relatively
full range of motion hip hinging and in
the other group they were doing lengthen
partials or only the stretched half of
the hip hinge using MRI which is one of
the best methods to assess muscle
hypertrophy they measure growth of the
biceps foror's long head the
semitendinosis the semiosis and the
gluteus maximus and to make a long story
short they observed around twice as much
hypertrophy in the group during length
and partials compared to the group doing
a full range of motion and this makes
sense in light of a ton of other
research I'm going to turn this into
another length and partial video
just
stop just stop
it stop no just stop it there's a lot of
research out there suggesting that
training at lower muscle lengths is good
for hopy enjoy before we go into the
second study by my own colleagues let me
give you some quick Anatomy on the
hamstrings so that you can understand
the results a little bit better all
right Lads you see the hamstrings here
there's four heads as I mentioned
earlier three of them do hip extension
and so when your hips are flexed as they
would be during a seated leg curl those
three heads are more stretched out
whereas the fourth head I mentioned
earlier the bicep foror's short head
doesn't get impacted by hip positioning
so seated leg curl or line leg curl
shouldn't make a difference however it
turns out that there are at least three
other knee flexor muscles that get
involved during the leg curl those are
the gastro as I mentioned earlier but
also the sorus and the gillus the sorus
as you can see here is a knee flexor but
is also a hip flexor which means that
when your hips are extended as they
would be during a line leg curl it is
more lengthened than when your hips are
flexed as they would be during a seated
leg curl and finally we have the gillus
muscle here which is neither a hip
flexor or hip extensor but it is a hip
adductor and because neither the seated
nor lying leg curl really has your hips
more adducted or abducted the gillus
hypertrophy shouldn't be impacted that
is anatomy 101 let's put this back up so
essentially what I'm trying to say is
according to the muscle length research
we would expect to see greater
hypertrophy in the hamstrings minus the
biceps for more is a short head in the
seated leg curl versus the lying leg
curl because they're more stretched out
conversely though because the sorus is a
hip flexor we should see more
hypertrophy in that muscle when training
at longer muscle lengths in the lying
leg curl meanwhile for the short head of
the borus and for the gillus muscles
because they're neither hip flexors or
extensors it shouldn't really make a
difference what leg curve variation we
do and that's where the second study by
my colleagues comes in they compare the
to seated light curl to the lying light
curl measuring hypertrophy of the
foreheads of the hamstrings the gillus
and the sororus muscle and based exactly
on what I was just describing about hip
positioning and how that can impact
muscle length of different knee flexors
that is essentially what they observed
the seated leg curl resulted in more
growth in the three muscle groups that
were being more lengthened the biceps
foror's long head the semi tendonosis
and the semiosis conversely the sorious
saw more growth when being trained with
a ling like C as we expect based on
being trained at lower muscle lengths
meanwhile just as we expect as well the
grelis muscle and the biceps foror's
short head neither of which get impacted
by hip flexion or extension saw
essentially the same growth in a lying
like curl which is the seated leg curl
and so that brings us to a few takeaways
first if your goal is hamstring growth a
seated leg curl is almost certainly
better than a lying leg C and that is
because it's training three heads of the
hamstrings at longer muscle lengths
Additionally you can probably stimulate
even more hypertrophy in these muscles
by leaning forward a little bit in the
seated leg curl to further increase the
stretch on those three heads so when
it's specific comes to hamstring
hypertrophy the seated leg curl is just
better than the LI leg curl however
because the lion leg curl did grow the
sorious a bit more there is still a
place for this exercise specifically as
far as your leg curls go I would
probably do seated leg curls like 70 to
90% of the time and then the remaining
10 to 30% of the time do the LI leg curl
to get any potential sorious hypertrophy
you otherwise would miss out on
additionally This research also tells us
that you should be doing your hip hinges
our hip hinges is essential for
hamstring growth no but they are a great
option for training the hamstrings at
long muscle lengths especially with
partials potentially as I Illustrated
earlier with that first study and they
also train your gluteus maximus at long
muscle lengths and your adult Magnus at
long muscle lengths so with hip hinge
movements like the Romanian deadlift and
the good morning just happen to train
most of your hip extensors at pretty
long muscle lengths all at once and
finally if you're a strong freak and you
want to experiment with a crazy exercise
try the Nordic curl while the Nordic
curl is super difficult and most people
won't be able to do it and the B
articular hamstrings aren't being
stretched out quite as much as they
would be during SE light curl the
resistance curve is extremely length and
biased so if you can do at least five
good reps on an O curl they might be
worth including every now and then the
strong freaks May indeed want to get
onto the nor C I predict a GameStop
stock like Ascension to the top that is
the video no sign but still giving you
science if you enjoyed the video leave a
like comment subscribe now I hear you
saying I don't want to be worrying about
what leg Cur variation to do how about
an app that I can have on my phone that
tells me what leg C variation to do for
what rep range and when well I got you
we have an app being released in the
next few months that will take care of
all of your training for hypertrophy
based on your lifestyle your goals what
muscle groups you want to specialize on
it ranks exercises for you based on the
latest science it does all that for you
and it's releasing pretty soon it'll
cost a fraction of most online coaches
so if you'd like to be notified when it
does come out and lock in at a lower
price than you would otherwise ever be
able to check out map.com to sign up in
the meantime if you want me to coach you
or have a consultation check out the
link above if you want some drip just
like this and this is a new discount
code check out Rascal apparel on a
serious note their clothing is actually
my favorite as far as design durability
and just Comfort during training goes so
if you like what you're seeing go check
it out and use code wolf at checkout for
10% off and now that all of my Shilling
for the video is done now that all of
the science is done go ahead have a nice
day and I'll see you next time peace