alright guys so we're kicking off the
vlog right here today it's a day where
Shawn and I are actually gonna go film a
lower body workout if you can get in the
car first
I've actually rented this Ford Explorer
while I'm here in Florida visiting
Stephanie I need to keep getting it
renewed because I keep extending my stay
here I just don't want to go back to
Canada and tell us a little bit warmer
so we gotta go get that renewed first
and then we're gonna be going for the
first lower body workout that I will
have shown on the channel since I wrote
my new program go make sure I've got
some wheels and then go go lift so a few
people have commented I haven't been
eating as many Kiwis lately and that's
because Zespri is out of production
season right now and I honestly find
there Kiwis to just be the best I'm not
sponsored by them or anything like that
but yeah Kiwis aren't really in season
right now so I've been eating more like
apples bananas that sort of thing the
Kiwis are just like harder a little less
juicy but I'm thinking in a couple
months they're gonna be back in the
season and I'll be having probably try
to make up for I probably have to add a
up the dose my family are actually on
their way to Florida right now that's
for Christmas this year I decided to get
my family basically like trip to Florida
I'm like a vacation sort of thing I
actually thought that they were supposed
to get in tomorrow but they actually get
in tonight so I didn't even have a hotel
booked or anything tonight so I just had
to like do that last minute and now I'm
gonna be on my way to Orlando right
after we film this leg workout so it's
good little bit of a rush day having to
like renew the rental car kinda like leg
workout in and then go to Orlando to
meet my family when they they fly in but
I'm really excited about that I'm
actually gonna take at least 3 or 4 days
break from doing any recording and you
editing or anything like that just take
kind of a full reset and try to then get
remote evaded again to start making some
killer content because lately it's just
been like
pretty nuts we've been like recording
myth-busting days at like 2:00 3:00 in
the morning like Saturday nights and
stuff like that so I'm gonna take a
little bit of a break and then come back
really strong with with better content
than ever
oh and rashon put the camera on yourself
yes rashon is going this guy he's
actually going to Washington to film
Pat's physique Pro show so I wanted to
be there but my family's coming to
Florida at the same time as a show now
I'm sober Shaun is going up there he's
gonna film all the behind the scenes of
Pat's pro debut and if you guys don't
know I'm coaching Pat I've been coaching
him to the stage here and he's looking
awesome I'm really excited about the
package he's bringing put the link to
past channel in the description you can
see some of the behind the scenes of how
it is that I run a peak week for a pro
physique competitor if you'd like to
check that out but yeah I'm gonna check
in with you guys over in the gym and
take you through full squat
[Music]
you guys are here at Florida extreme
fitness center in Jacksonville Florida
like I said I'm gonna be doing the leg
workout today we're actually gonna flip
over to a lapel mic basically I'll just
stick it on my shirt here I've never
tried it before now but hopefully it
allow me to take you through the workout
a little bit better than what I would
normally do which is using this mic on
the top of the camera then we kick off
to work out with some squats I'm just
gonna take you guys through the whole
workout today I'm so I'll check in with
you guys inside I love training this gym
because they have this room out here
which is like a hardcore powerlifting
gym and that are like a hard cut cutting
room and then right around here they
have all these bodybuilding machines
just a lot of different variety here do
you want to go in the powerlifting room
and do some spots I think we should go
over there
what I'd like to do before anything is
write down what I'm gonna be doing today
and we've got lower body a squat and
we're going on at 82 so I'm starting
with 335 for a set of five I'm gonna see
how that feels and then adjust for the
next two sets accordingly so we're
actually gonna start I'm just gonna do
five minutes on the elliptical out there
and then we're gonna come in here and do
some dynamic stretches and then start
with the specific warm-up from there one
thing I find a lot of people do with
their warm-up is they're a little bit
too laksa days ago with it they don't
actually get their heart rate up they
just go through the motions now but the
whole purpose is get the blood flowing
to the muscles and get your heart rate
up and that's going to improve your
performance and reduce rate of injury so
that's a really important thing I
wouldn't recommend skipping it okay okay
okay so real quick I'm gonna take you
guys through my lower body dynamic
workout routine just cuz this is on my
channel elsewhere but I start with 15
step throughs each side I'm gonna do
front to back legs things
it's really gets the hip flexers on the
front and then the hamstrings on the
back go side to side
and then I also like to do a few prone
lower back extensions so I'll just lie
down they're basically like Superman so
and then a few cat camels
and I'll do a few light upper-body
dynamic stretches so swing my arms side
to side a few forward circles a few
reverse circles if you do that really
quickly should only take like seven or
eight minutes and you'll feel a lot more
energized to actually lift so much more
relaxed joints and you'll just feel so
much better so here's you guys not to
skip out on that if you do have the time
for this first one up set it's just 135
and they give you guys a good idea of my
technique you want your technique to be
consistent across all sets so as soon as
you start your warm-up you're
technically working here that's
basically just going to transfer over
into your working sets so you want to
start programming that in from the
outset so I'm setting up a high bar
position so if I was low bar I'd
literally be down here but I've been
squatting a high bar for this block
[Applause]
so for the first one on set I don't use
any gear and just completely raw by the
way you just flat puma shoes with some
Sesame Street characters on them not the
best squat shoe ever I'm probably gonna
get some addy powers I don't know for
the powerlifters out there let me know
in the comments below what's hot right
now in terms of a powerlifting shoe um I
always went with the adidas powerless
but I said I would say there's some
better options out there now yeah just
let me know if you've tried the remai
Leo's power lifts adding powers let me
know what you think is best looking to
get a new and these squash shoe for the
2nd warm up set here is 225 I'm gonna
flick my belt on this is a rise weaver
belt nice and sturdy it's gonna increase
intra-abdominal pressure in here so when
you go to squat take a huge breath in
you've got all this stored pressure in
here that's basically gonna make you
into a very rigid column so you have
less potential for that energy to kind
of get out at different places
throughout the lift I mean it also helps
just kind of keep you a little bit more
safe and stable in my experience
especially with my history of injury so
yeah liebherr belt it's just simple on
and off and it doesn't it doesn't weaken
your core or anything like that there's
a ton of research on this I'll link an
article below you can check up on it but
I'm very Pro belt just because it allows
you lift more weight ultimately means
more tension on the muscles you're
trying to target and it doesn't really
seem to decrease activation of the core
musculature really anything else so ok
I'm gonna try thrown on these new knee
sleeves
these are also from Rhys Rhys as my
sponsor for those of you guys who don't
know they don't only produce apparel
they also make these sleeves all kinds
of lifting gear straps belts so this is
actually my first time trying these so
today we're gonna be doing three three
five four three sets of five reps I
think the primary goal for me right now
is just getting acclimated with the
power lifts again so it's been a nice
while that I've been running more of a
bodybuilding style program with more
exercise variation and so on with this
program I'm getting quite a bit more
minimal or a centralist in nature and
really just refining and honing in on my
technique again because I do find like a
little bit of inconsistency from session
to session in terms of my mechanics and
all that stuff so what I'm doing is I'm
alternating between a hypertrophy focus
day where I'll do something around eight
reps a power focus day where I'm doing
light weight for low reps but with a lot
of speed and a lot of focus on technique
so I'm usually somewhere in the like 2
to 4 rep range on that day with
something like 65 70 % of my 1 rep max
and then I'm doing one strength focus
day which is today where I'm usually in
there like 4 to 6 rep range today we're
doing 3 by 5 I'm calling this 82 and a
half percent of 1 right my 1 rep max I'm
putting in
I think 405 as my 1 rep max right now my
all-time PR is 500 pounds but it's been
a while since I've been on the platform
so being nice and conservative and going
with 405 and get into the first working
set right now
oh that's pretty easy here we got one
more here and I'm gonna pop into some
Romanian deadlifts I'm still trying to
like get him back to pulling from the
floor but I have been doing sumo
deadlifts I only do them one day a week
though so I'll pull sumo the wide stance
from the floor and I've only gotten up
to 275 doing that because I haven't
pulled from the floor in like a very
very long time probably probably about a
year so what I do is I alternate between
a Romanian deadlift and a sumo deadlift
so on today when I go heavy on the squat
I go with a Romanian deadlift on the day
I do speed squats
I'll do a more heavy deadlift on the
floor just a light warm-up here we're
doing three sets of eight reps last time
I did 285 for eight now so I'm gonna
start with two 85 and then I'm gonna see
how I want to move up from there because
with this I'm basically just going
straight sets every week just trying to
increase the weight with the Romanian
deadlift is you don't want to load it so
heavy that your lower back and your
glutes start to take over in my opinion
you want to go with the heaviest weight
that still allows you to feel a solid
stretch in your hamstrings and still
have your hamstrings doing the work
[Music]
[Applause]
two things you want to keep in mind are
having the bar go straight up and down
straight of a line as possible over the
center of your foot so a lot of people
will tend to drop the bar out too far
forward that basically just creates an
unnecessary torque here at the hips for
your lower back you want to go straight
up and down and the only possible way
you can do that is if you just hinge
your hips back so you want to initiate
the lift by driving your butt out and
you just lower the weight straight down
I like to stop a couple inches below my
knee where I'd really feel that stretch
in my hamstrings a little bit more
explosively come back up and then you
can optionally squeeze your glutes at
the top if you want to target them a
little bit more
squats are actually not a great
hamstrings exercise really at all so for
hamstrings you want to have one hip
extension based movement so that's this
where your hips are flexing and
extending under the load and you want to
have one knee flexion based movement so
we're gonna do a leg curl next and
that's gonna finish off the hams simple
leg extension a little bit of calves
number done let's see what my reps are
here I think I've got eats so I'm doing
sets of eight to like an RPE of eight so
I'm gonna leave a couple reps in the
tank for all sets
[Music]
okay yeah I remember
Andrew Vygotsky who's like one of the
like leading researchers right now in
the biomechanics field him and I were
talking in like 2014 or something like
three four years ago about the
difference between dorsiflexion and
plantarflexion and this he actually went
into his lab because we were texting
about this he went into his lab and ran
the EMG on himself like right away and
sent me the data report we were trying
to figure out if we should put your
ankle up or back honestly well we came
away with is that there's not too much
difference if you control for load so if
you point your toe up like this you're
gonna be stronger because the calf can
get more involved but if you control for
the fact that you're gonna be weaker
like with the ankle plantar flex you
don't actually see much difference in
activation so what we kind of came up
with back then his opinion might have
changed was you should kind of go with
what feels more comfortable to you or
one thing that I do a lot plantar flex
for the first eight reps or so and then
once I give out or I kind of reach
failure with that then I'll then all
dorsi flex and I'll be able to extend
the set and get a few extra reps I don't
do that all the time but if I am
training to failure that's one way to
kind of incorporate sort of like a
pseudo drop set type thing not a drop
set let's call it a pseudo forced reps a
pseudo extended set it's all made up
anyway
all right here we go
or that's a good one
say I went to like preppie 9 I know
those nice okay we're gonna finish off
with three sets to eight on the leg
extension then I'm gonna do a little bit
of calves we're gonna call it
there's a light I was like it wasn't too
light a little bit like can't believe I
got a drop two more Lando tonight that's
crazy I'm so excited for my parents to
get in here tomorrow it's my dad my
stepmom stepsister and my brother are
all flying down and we're gonna do like
all the amusement parks and stuff here
in Florida
I'm really excited they're here for like
a week I thought they were coming
tomorrow but apparently it's tonight I
guess I messed up my own booking on our
presents at eight to ten reps on the toe
press on the leg press I like this one
because you can do one foot at a time or
one calf at a time and if you guys want
to hear more about calf training I did a
updated calf science explained video on
it in my opinion I think it was my
favorite edit I've ever done I didn't
get a ton of views because I feel like
it's already been on my channel once a
whole lot of new information this time
around so you guys can check that out
I'll put it in the cards up here
somewhere
I'm gonna save on time and do both of
them at once
that's actually really interesting
because this calf is stronger for me
hey that's good forecast if I'm being
honest don't rain cabs all that often
did this to you I was like when I was in
the sixth grade I basically had the same
same exact cows that I do now man for
real like I had the skinny body but I
still had really big calves so I guess
to thank my parents got some
post-workout protein what so yeah I've
got my protein out in the car I'm gonna
show you guys that cuz there's a new
flavor the peas science just launched
and I'm really excited to try it okay
I've got the new flavor pea science
select protein so this is mostly a milk
protein isolate so you got a combination
of casein and whey so you got the slow
digesting casein and fast digesting way
oh and the flavor so the flavor is
strawberry cheesecake looks delicious on
the image will chunks the strawberry in
there I feel like this would be amazing
to bake with but I don't do that got
part two of my interview with John or
with your trommel and come out - we
talked about weigh-in Casey all that
stuff tell us good
that's nice man it's much smoother than
the other ones it's not it's not quite
as thick mmm that's fantastic
so now we're gonna go grab some food I
don't know if you have anything in mind
what you want chick-fil-a then we're
gonna grab some chick-fil-a post-workout
meal
I'm gonna enjoy chick-fil-a as long as
I've got this ball going so we're gonna
check in with you guys over there
suppose we decide to come to Chipotle
instead I was feeling something a little
more nutritious a little bit a little
bit more dense a little bit more dense
than a burger and fries man like I mean
it's least you got some beans you got
some fiber
squat and less people yes
which I was gonna run away Charlie look
at this thing yeah I already got it I'll
see you in a couple days man safe
travels enjoy Washington for me
say hi to Patti lifts alright I want to
check in with you guys over in Orlando
okay so as we made it to our hotel here
in Orlando Pam made it in from Canada
how's the flight good oh yeah so I'm
gonna go ahead and end the vlog here I'm
gonna take a couple days just to chill
relax unwind I'm gonna go ahead and end
this one here I don't forget to give me
a thumbs up if you liked the video
subscribe to Cap'n even you and I'll see
you guys in the next one