hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video I'm
going to weigh in on a bit of a fitness
controversy that's kind of happening and
in the social media space and that is
weight loss drugs versus lifestyle
choices and I think this is a false
controversy I think it is a false
dichotomy and I'll be very clear about
this in nine points
let's get to the point so
here's the thing to set this up
there is a new generation of weight loss
drugs out on the market FDA approved and
more and more people are using them
they are glp1 and Gip agonists these are
gut hormone gut peptides
and these drugs uh the most famous of
which is right the first really
effective one is known as ozempic AKA
somaglatide there's also's appetite and
it's coming out with all kinds of new
drugs on the horizon and what these
drugs do is they do a few things
actually very good for your health in
general and seemingly from all the
research we have and all the inference
from our path Pathways they activate and
how and but their their biggest thing is
so small stuff is they improve insulin
sensitivity and also other stuff but
they're big major beneficial effect is
that they absolutely Crush appetite now
to be more technically correct they have
a very powerful dose dependent effect on
appetite so if you take very little
amount of the drug you get a slight
reduction in appetite and that's okay
whatever if you take much more of the
drugs you can take enough of the drugs
in a safe and healthy manner this has
been tested over and over on large
groups of people even huge doses of the
drug relative to how much they Crush
hunger are totally safe and that's the
thing is when I say huge doses it's a
very small amount of actual stuff and it
can make your appetite basically just go
away
we don't want appetites to go away
because we still want people eating food
but as you can imagine if we titrate the
dog drug appropriately in a particular
patient that's taking it we can kind of
set their hunger levels at G anything we
want so if your normal hunger level has
you consuming 4 000 calories a day and
thus you're overweight and in bad shape
we can give you just enough drug to get
you down to 2 000 or 2500 calories and
over a long time you will lose lots of
weight and then just stay there if you
continue to take the drug it seems they
think now get negative feedback loops
from the research we've seen so far
are minimal if non-existent perhaps so
thus if you continue to take let's say
milligram of ozympic every week you get
that same milligram of effect every week
for a year and a half at least there are
uh other drugs that do this in a
different category of drugs altogether
modafinil for example uh so maybe the
the first neurologically enhancing drug
you could say the first smart drug ever
to some extent uh it's used uh mostly to
keep people awake for various things but
it also seems to be a cognitive enhancer
modafinil doesn't seem to have a
negative feedback loop you just take it
you get the same effect same effects
take it one day take the first time you
take in the 500th time you take it it
gives you the same identical effects
which is really cool so these drugs are
really neat and that they do this
now more and more people have been
taking them and some people in the
fitness industry
have brought up uh what they think is a
problem and they basically saying you
know if you give people this drug
it takes the onus off of them changing
their fitness and health habits for
example their their you know propensity
to make better food choices and you're
just masking the problem it's like
drugging away the underlying problem
right
and
there is
a lot to say about that there's a lot to
say about that and I'll kind of put
forward my thesis in nine separate
points and please let me know in the
comments what you guys think and if you
find the points contentious please let
me know on what
um inferential or evidentiary grounds we
find them pretentious and we'll get to
uh chatting in the comments about who's
marginally more correct or incorrect all
right so here we go so Point number one
it is absolutely true I do agree
um that
the drugs do not get you directly to eat
healthier they definitely get you to eat
less but eating healthy is still
something people should try to do and
something we should in the fitness
industry advocate for our clients and
our followers and Etc to do as well okay
so yes absolutely I don't agree with
just taking a pill and saying hey look
the pill solved at all because the pill
didn't solve it all
now
what did the pill solve there's actually
two situations here two issues
two problems not one one problem is
people eat too much
and two is people eat also unhealthy so
there's the amount of food they eat and
then what it is that composes that food
two separate problems they're
interrelated problems but nonetheless
they can be bifurcated into two separate
problems and modern weight loss drugs
and in the future more and more and more
and more effectively and for less money
you've essentially knocked out problem
number one like how much you eat is a
pharmacologically now solved problem
which is crazy to say I can't believe
it's 20 20. I I guess I can believe it's
2023 and I'm saying this we live in a
straight up future but like that's a big
deal like that's nothing we've been ever
able to say in the weight loss and
obesity space okay so like they give you
and as long as you respond well to drugs
almost everyone does especially if the
doctor titrates it and you are honest
about your responses most people can
take the drug and just get about to the
level of hunger that they want okay it's
a very similar effect to a blood
pressure drugs uh as far as the
landscape of effects like you doesn't
matter what kind of blood pressure you
have you can take it a small amount of
blood pressure drugs in a moderate
amount of blood pressure drugs
especially combined therapy will
absolutely get your blood pressure as
low as you want even low enough to kill
you okay and the same thing actually for
boner pills like if your penis is
medically capable of getting blood to it
boner pills absolutely will get you an
erection okay it's actually something I
read several years ago I was doing a
little research you know what I'm saying
boy everybody could use a little
enhancement you feel me for them for
those whiskey nights and I was literally
a sentence like by some well you know
accredited body that was like erectile
dysfunction is a pharmacologically
solved problem anyone healthy enough to
be having sex can absolutely get an
erection I was like holy shit I didn't
know they were that strong then you know
I'm saying a quarter of a Viagra Tab and
I'm like holy shit I have to go to the
hospital after this yes
they're just kidding but you know some
close calls there sooner or later this
motor will go away in any case I digress
that's where we're at with this new
generation of drugs with appetite and
essentially what kind of hunger level
you're experiencing so now hunger level
is something we can modulate entirely
through pharmacology
however that's part one and that's part
one of hunger and how much you eat that
part just got knocked out it's solved so
one of the big things I want to try to
get across to you guys and many of you
probably already agree with those that
don't I would love to consider this it's
a fucking win right let's take the win
if you imagine
the fight against obesity in some case
to be analogous to a battle of two enemy
armies
you know ozempic and all these drugs are
like Ultra slick stealth bombers that
just go in and like Crush enemy supply
lines without getting shot down the at
what point would you be like yeah man
but what's left over for the infantrymen
like motherfucker he's got plenty of
problems by himself right and the
infantryman does still have the problem
of fighting you know in close quarters
combat which the bombers can't
differentiate between Friend or Foe
ostensibly similarly we've we have the
capacity now to crush the calorie
problem people eating too much that
problem can just be gone if you take the
appropriate dose of one of these uh New
Generation drugs and we still have that
problem of healthy eating right so we'll
take the win on one of the problems see
what problem is left over
now
to the point of the fitness industry
people that have a problem with these
weight loss drugs would choosing better
Foods healthier foods knock out some of
helping you be healthier with your food
choices yes all of that but also
healthier foods generally are less
calorie dense and more filling for
longer so it actually would allow you to
deal with part of that problem as well
abso freaking lutely 100 percent
but 0.4 consider this
if we already got people huge
pharmacological help to control their
cravings and hunger
and they can now eat less and eat the
appropriate amount to get to the body
weight they want to get
their remaining problem is that they
should also be eating healthier for the
marginal but yet substantial health
benefits of whatever food you eat eat
healthier within that range for the most
part 75 healthy food 25 whatever fun
junk you want it's generally kind of the
consensus of what is a good idea
because you've opened up so much
bandwidth from not having to worry about
how much to eat because that's
automatically regulated now you have
more you can be more successful putting
the same amount of mental bandwidth
towards making healthier choices
that's a good thing and then you if you
are the kind of person that makes
healthy choices really well you can get
even leaner and wait even less if you
want that sort of thing and do it with
less drug and less money
now
the drug is actually good for your
health it seems to be a net positive for
health even for people who don't have a
weight condition because it's a insulin
sensitizer and things like that so we
don't have to be worried about like well
I want to get off this drug eventually
like people do with blood pressure drugs
by the way blood pressure drugs are also
like essentially neutral for your health
once they reduce blood pressure not bad
for anything else
so it is a myth to try to get off of
drugs that are not bad for your health
and be like fucking finally I'm off the
drug like who gives a shit are you
getting off food next you get enough
water get out of here like it's totally
fine to take this in perpetuity as the
benefits are enormous and the costs are
well pretty much just the financial cost
of the drug which at this point of the
recording this video is quite high but
inevitably 100 99.99 certainty the drug
cost that's going to come down like by
orders of magnitude and that it'll just
be ubiquitously available to everybody
when people say
some things they seem to not really
think through them much when they say
them uh I'm guilty of this at least 99
of the time maybe the following thing
will be evidence of that but when people
say well if you make it easier for
people to like not have to eat healthy
they just won't hold on a sec
if we gave everyone a genetic boost and
turned everyone's genetics muscle
building and fat burning wise into like
top five percent of Nigerians look it up
would most people just stop
that are currently involved in lifting
weights
and tracking their diets would most
people just stop doing that
I don't think so here's how this looks
some people absolutely would stop
because like finally it could just be
have abs and cool muscle bellies and
never do anything great first of all
how's that bad second of all
a lot of people who now don't have to
struggle in the gym for weeks and months
on end to get fucking basically almost
no results there's millions and millions
of people like that they get super
boosted into hey now you can get great
results like everyone else like you've
always wanted it's going to fill the
gyms with addicts that'll want to take
their physiques to the next next level
people always want to be more jacked and
leaner and if you give them great
genetics to begin with they're going to
get in the gym and mess it up maybe the
average will shift one way or the other
but you're not going to destroy the gym
industry by giving people better
genetics you know
does did anabolic steroids reduce the
number of people who went to the gym
because they're like fucking I'll just
take steroids or did it increase it
give that some thought for a second
so I don't think it's very likely to be
true that if you Empower people to get
rid of this problem
of how much they eat that they will have
any less incentive to become healthier
because right now that hunger and
Cravings are so burdensome they can't
handle the problem
right and if they have the hunger and
Cravings completely pharmacologically
zeroed out they might be like oh my God
like Fitness is something I can
realistically attain I can now be 150
pounds and here's another thing there's
a shitload of fat people that don't even
go to the gym because they can't control
their hunger and Cravings they're going
to be fat they don't even they're so out
of the range of realistically thinking
they'll ever look like they could be 150
pounds instead of 250 they didn't even
bother all of those people get zapped
right in after a few years of taking
these drugs into a realistic body weight
range where they're like well shit now
that I've got the weight loss thing down
I'm gonna go to the gym and get fucking
chiseled get a little beefier and in
combination with my never again having
excessive Cravings I'm going to be in
the best shape of my life my hypothesis
these drugs will probably Empower more
people to become Fitness industry
contributors and look at the rest of
their lives rather than fewer okay
now
Point number five
the retort is but it teaches people to
just take a pill
and never address the fundamental
problem
but my contention here is that there are
actually two fundamental problems first
problem is people eat like shit they
choose poor quality foods very junky
Foods that's bad this does not attend to
that problem
taking ozam pick will not fix that
problem at all
problem two is people are very hungry in
any given food environment specifically
ones in the modern free market wealthy
economies the United States western
Europe much of Asia
there's just a lot of really amazing
tasty food out that's super convenient
to eat and it costs very little and
people love to eat amazing Convenient
Food that cost very little and they do a
lot of it
and thus the hunger levels versus the
availability of food in society are
totally off balance and people gain
weight
the modern weight loss drugs can solve
that problem number two leaving us only
with problem number one
we just have one problem now is point
number six we Zapped away a whole
problem of people eating too much which
is incredible now a great thing is
before
here's an unbelievable benefit before
people who genetically had higher
appetites
um for their their environment in which
they're living
to weigh 300 pounds and if they wanted
to weigh 220
they were going to have to eat
very clean very low palatability very
healthy foods
almost all the time because if they went
to eating High palatability Foods they
would either be miserable and starving
or just start gaining weight to fade as
much as they wanted
the weight loss drugs we're talking
about here
can fix that second problem entirely
and more people who are overweight can
now live more like normal you guys see
skinny people going to the sushi place
and just ordering whatever they want and
they two two rolls and they're like oh
my God I'm so full
overweight people previously overweight
people can be like that wouldn't we want
overweight people to be able to lose
weight and still enjoy all of the fun
Foods they always wanted
versus having to eat like a machine the
rest of their lives which is the case
now
that I would give a lot of thought to
Point number seven
there is a chance that people become
emboldened
by the weight loss from appetite
regulation or down regulation rather and
they have more bandwidth to focus on
healthier eating it's really really hard
to lose weight and to restrict your
calories and to worry about that stuff
but if you don't have to worry about
calories at all with proper hunger
signaling you don't
then you can go out and eat healthy
you're like you can go to Whole Foods or
some stupid store that's a giant ripoff
kidding Whole Foods are great sort of
and
you can just pick healthy choices
squash and fucking spaghetti squash and
grilled squash that's healthy right
whatever like fruits and Grains and lean
meats and tons of veggies and cool
sauces to put on that stuff it's a super
healthy meal but you don't have to cut
the calories anymore you don't have to
worry about the calories you can still
count them if you want but you're gonna
stop eating intuitively
with the help of the drug whenever you
eat enough that the drugs like Naf ham
and it's just you have a lower hunger
signal so you naturally stop eating most
of your food in such a way that keeps
you at 150 pounds for forever okay if we
solve that problem people can now be
free to just in and have more bandwidth
and be empowered to try healthy eating
when some people have such an insane
appetite
to them eating healthy all the time is
just by definition because it is let's
not fuck around healthy food does not
taste as good as fucking junk food
there's a re there's I actually have
this to be with a few people who I
consider just this
thinking on the margins so to speak
nominal thinkers
like
you didn't you don't beat fucking candy
bars because everyone fucking wants them
they're the best
chips taste better period than
everything look at the fuck some rich
motherfucker have you tried truffle
fries the fuck out of my face Frito Lays
baby I'm kidding truffle fries are great
but they're also fucking junk food
because it's so hard to eat clean all
the time we can have people not have to
worry about that now they can be more
flexible to eat healthy when they want
when they should and also to eat less
healthy when they feel like it and it's
not going to affect their body weight
because the drugs have solved this
problem
now
last retort here is people finally get
to it and they go but what about
willpower
like shouldn't people be flexing their
willpower shouldn't you have to earn
your results and I do absolutely have
thoughts on that
first
the idea that the prime differentiator
between fatter people and skinnier
people is willpower is bullshit now
don't worry I'm not going to go jump off
the sjw hill or Cliff right now
willpower is absolutely one of the
factors that determines who is
grotesquely over fat and who is in great
shape people in great shape on average
have higher willpower but hold on a
second
that means that some people who are in
great shape have to struggle use their
will to try to make sure they're eating
the right amounts because if they just
go with what they feel like they're
going to get much fatter and and be out
of shape okay but I just said the
willpower thing was both potent but not
the biggest Factor what is the biggest
Factor probably by a nine to one margin
if I had to guess the biggest factor
that separates skinnier people from
bigger people is just their hunger
signaling which is genetic
straight up within a given environment
given food environment you can Google
This research if you like
adult body mass index which is a very
good proxy for how big you are
and you can only get to that size by
some combination of activity eating
activity is relatively normal throughout
the population so it's mostly eating BMI
for adults in a stable environment is
something like close to 90 percent
uh explained by genetic heritability
studies
it's genetics you just eat more
you like food better you fill up some
combination of those things and that
you've just fill up faster if you watch
skinny people how they eat they love
food too sometimes some of them are just
like foods are bad
but some of them love food and like oh
my God I love the sushi place let's go
you're like oh here we go watch this you
eat 80 rolls they eat one and a half
rolls and they're like oh my God I'm
stuffed and you're like you're fucking
kidding how
genetics
they did not most skinny people did not
get skinny or stay skinny and most
skinny people have always been skinny
because of that massive genetic
influence
they did not do it through willpower
some of them did most of them did not it
is a fallacy and a huge one Jake that
the only thing that separates really fat
people and skinny people is again in
that people just have to fuck want it
more just fucking willpower it's fucking
pathetic like word up
there is something to that
the rest of the thing too that is
straight up genetics you just inherited
that shit
so
if we take those people that did not get
the lucky card genetically and through a
cheap once weekly administered
pharmacology that makes their health
otherwise better as well
essentially make their expressed
phenotype genetics plus whatever else is
going on
to be roughly the same as that of a
skinny persons to get their hunger
signaling to be basically the same to
get their amount of food that requires
them to get full roughly the same to get
their Cravings roughly the same
then
all of those fatter people who had all
the same willpowers the skinnies but
just got overwhelmed by this tidal wave
of hunger now they can Flex that
willpower and get even leaner if they
want or take less drug and get the same
amount of lean but it gets better watch
this watch how those people that don't
have to use their willpower anymore on
appetite issues you guys have dieted
before it takes a shitload of effort to
die it saps away effort from the rest of
your life instead of having to use their
willpowered bandwidth on eating less
those people can use it on eating
healthier or how about this even better
they can use it to make to become better
people for their kids to look up to they
can become better at their jobs they can
pick up an extra thing of trash and put
them in the garbage to keep our
beautiful Society even cleaner they just
can do other better stuff with it versus
needlessly pissing it away on resisting
food intake because the drug now does
that for you
and here's the really big deal you may
think
understandably that that's a problem
because well what if everything was a
fucking drug like everyone takes drugs
for various things for society and then
we all get fucking soft bullshit and
here's why
obesity and the hunger that leads to it
is a problem
if we take that problem and
pharmacologically remove it from a
problem it's that our problem space in
the universe it's just not a problem
with salt
are we lacking problems to solve
has any one of you ever lost a relative
to cancer
why isn't cancer cured yet are there
enough people working on the cancer
problem what if we had robots taking
care of all of our physical duties like
taking out the trash Etc would that be a
problem for us because we no longer have
the willpower to take out the trash or
could we spend more time doing shit like
drumroll
curing fucking cancer or anything else
so as we automate and pharmacology and
genetic engineering and nanotech and you
know insane AI powered Computing we have
this problem space of all of our
problems in the world as they solve them
and put them into the solve problem pile
there is no shortage of leftover
problems
and if you think this all the way
through as all of our technological
advances filter through and solve solve
solve solve first of all there's just
less problems I kind of want to live in
that world don't you and second of all
if we actually run out of problems to
solve we live in literal Paradise
I don't want to spit in the face of
insanely net Positive Solutions like
drugs that reduce the appetite problem
all the way
there is absolutely something to keeping
whoever in society wants at least at the
edge of that blade
uh and diversity is fucking good for you
I'm all with Nietzsche or whoever the
fuck said that shit now Jordan Peterson
I guess
I'm not interested in a fucking sjw
world where everyone's a fucking pussy
and nobody ever has adversity and
they're like yeah
feelings 100 I feel you guys on that
there is no fucking shortage of
adversity
and if you motherfuckers feel like you
have too few problems because you take
enough drugs and all your problems are
gone up I don't have to worry about what
I eat anymore and I'm super healthy and
I'm live till 100 go solve all the
problems go to the inner city and clean
the fucking help clean the streets do
whatever take care of your kids better
there's always more problems and again
if you're really worried that we'll run
out of problems eventually tell yourself
that in your head one more time your
concern I don't even mock anybody I'm
just getting passionate is that we're
going to run out of problems oh my
fucking God can you imagine at least you
just have no problems that means you
have a genie essentially that grants you
every wish you could have pray to
fucking God that we get there eventually
and if this ozempic and that class of
drugs is one tiny step of the way there
I'm 100 in
right
here's the thing Point number nine to
that effect
is probably a good idea to work to make
everything easier or completely solved
then we can go solve the next thing and
the next thing and the next thing
yes because you have a car that means
you don't know how to stable and train
and take care of a horse
but instead
you could have a job that trains large
language models to solve every other
fucking problem we have
it's a matter of perspective and it's a
matter of understanding that just
because you get rid of one challenge
doesn't mean that you are now soft pussy
who's never going to get challenged and
is going to wither away and just spend
more time in Mom's basement you could
always do that but you could have always
done that we've had a standard of living
since the 1950s in the United States
where pretty much everyone could get
their food and basic Medical Care and a
place to live on minimum work per week
and so like anything you do now is bonus
points anyway so if now you have less a
problem of people having hunger don't
you worry yes that problem is no longer
an instrument by which people can
improve themselves it is not an
instrument on which they can flex and
make their willpower better because it
doesn't exist anymore just take the drug
and you're fucking done
lots of problems left over for us to
fucking get into and try to solve and
really improve our willpower and our
internal value as people because a big
part of having
um self-actualization and being really
at peace with yourself is being able to
work on making yourself better and
regularly challenging yourself and again
we have a shitload of problems left over
fucking world hunger world peace all
that shit mortality aging could be
solving Aging in the next 20 years think
about that I'd rather people spend time
solving aging than spend time looking at
macros and being like shit I'm eating
too much I'm fat
anyway
how's that for a rant all right guys
thank you so much see you in the
comments like subscribe Etc and uh
yeah fuck I'll throw this out if you
guys how many of you are interested in
hearing me rant more about life and
philosophy and
global politics and shit
just tell me I'm stupid and that I'm a
meat head
but if you want to hear more about it
tell me in the comments anyway see you
guys later