RP plus RP you welcome back dr. James
Hoffa here and you might be wondering
what's up with the change of scenery
well now we're in the backyard of my
beautiful North Philadelphia home why
well simply because the power ran out so
we're shooting outside today and having
some fun so it was a nice fun getting
this set up so today what I wanted to
talk to you guys about is a question
that we get a lot on our webinars and
the forums it seems like and that is the
use of down sets during your training
program so I want to kind of outline how
to effectively use down sets in a good
training program and give you some just
quick useful information on that now one
thing we want to be clear about when
we're talking about down sets these are
sets that we usually do after are
working heavy sets of an exercise that
we add afterwards at a reduced intensity
what a lot of people get confused are
down sets and drop sets drop sets are
when we kind of go down the weight stack
that metabolites style training where we
do a set and then quickly change the way
down and then do another set and quickly
change the way down and do another set
that's something slightly different with
the down sets what we're doing
essentially is moving through our target
sets for the session and then when a few
criteria have been met then we actually
take the weight down and do a few more
sets to add volume so we're just going
to talk about that a little bit just to
clarify I think some people been having
trouble with this so the use of down
sets is not just for adding pure volume
right the use of down sets is really
meant for you to add volume when you can
no longer do the heavy set so there's a
couple criteria that I like to use
before I start implementing and
programming down sets into my workout
program the first one is the easiest one
to keep track of right and that is when
you have a quota of sets that you're
trying to work through throughout the
week like if you have an m RV or an M a
V that you've figured out and you've
been doing a good job and calculating
how many sets you can tolerate
that's great so you know okay well today
I have eight sets of quads to get
through right and maybe you're doing
like high bar squats or leg presses or
something like that maybe eight to
twelve reps like a hyper tree range
doesn't really matter but let's just use
as an example a really good first
initial criteria to determine when you
should start doing down sets when or if
you should start doing down sets is when
you can no longer maintain the
repetition range
goal of that session so if you were
trying to do eight to twelve reps and
let's say the first set you got 10 the
second set you got 8 the second that's
using the third set maybe you got 7 and
you're like I'm not feeling super good
right that's probably a good time to
start thinking about using those down
settings right versus sometimes people
will start doing them really really
prematurely where they'll do like 2
heavy sets and do like six down sets or
8 down sets when really ideally we want
to get as many heavy sets in as we can
so rep for rep the higher the intensity
the more homeostatic Li disruptive that
activity will be so we want to fill up
our MRV and maybe with as much of those
heavy working sets as we can and then we
can start adding down sets to fill our
MRV and nav quota when we can't notice
you know when we can no longer get the
required reps right so if you're getting
like 10 8 7 and you're supposed to be
eight to 12 you're already dipping below
that's a good time to start okay I'm
gonna reduce the load and start adding
some down sets right another really easy
criteria to think of is when the
relative intensity and you can also use
the reps and reserve becomes too high
for that session so for every given
session we should have an intensity that
we've programmed might be like 85% of 3
by 10 or it might be a reps in reserve
it might be like three reps and reserve
two reps and reserve something like that
we can start using down sets in our
session when that intensity that
relative intensity has exceeded what our
goal for that session was so if you feel
like the goal of the session was three
reps in reserve but really you're
starting to push one repper and reserve
the intensity is just simply too high at
that point and we need to take it down
so that's a good time start implementing
down sense right so how do we do that
well for hypertrophy it's pretty easy
for our upper body movements usually
we're gonna reduce the load by about
somewhere around 10 to 15 percent for
our lower body movements it might be
closer to 15 possibly even upwards of 20
percent just because the weights are a
lot heavier now the weight reduction
doesn't have to be purely a numerical
thing where you go and you say okay well
dr. James said 15 percent right the goal
of the down set and their intensity
reduction is simply to keep you in the
same rep range that you were in so that
you can keep going at that same rep
range so if you started at 8 to 12 the
goal of the down sets is to reduce the
load in
so that you can still be doing eight to
twelve the goal is not to reduce it so
low that you go into that garbage volume
kind of dangerous territory so the
reduction is usually very mild right
sometimes you'll see reduction
recommendations upwards of like fifty
percent and that is to try and emphasize
rate of force development
characteristics now this is something
that is well documented it's something
that I have talked about in the past
however the more I think about it the
more I've sat on it the more I start to
think that's probably not a good way of
going about it
ideally any of you're afraid of force
development power explosive type stuff
should be done first trying to do them
as down sets when you're already too
fatigued from doing working sets it's
probably trying to like put a square peg
into a round hole right you're just not
you're too fatigued you're not able to
actually express those characteristics
so more often than not the intensity
reduction is probably gonna be in that
like 10 to 15 percent range maybe
upwards of 20 percent for leg days
simply just to reduce the intensity
enough to keep us in our goal rep range
or in our goal intensity range of either
a numerical like relative value or reps
in reserve type value so that's kind of
the two easy criteria that I like to use
for that now if you're doing something
that's not hypertrophy like so if you're
doing strength we can still use our rep
guidelines we can still use our reps and
reserve guidelines another thing that we
should consider when you're starting to
work into basic strength or maximal
strength loads is technique if your
technique really starts to break down
that essentially starts to factor into
your failure estimate right so that reps
in reserve should also include a basic
assessment of your technique so doing a
strength phase we can use down sets when
we're no longer getting the correct reps
the intensity is too high or our
technique is really starting to break
down and we're not doing this good of a
job as we can so that would be kind of
the big differentiator from a
hypertrophy phase where the loads are
generally light enough where technique
breakdown shouldn't be an issue and if
it is that should get factored in anyway
but for strength training like if you're
doing the powerless or weight lifting
stuff technique becomes increasingly
important under those heavy loads so
once technique breaks down that's part
of our failure estimate and we can start
using down sets there too well we only
want to reduce the load enough so that
we can keep going at that same target
rep range so if we're doing 5s for
strength
we do four by five and we try to get to
that fifth set we only get three good
time to start using down sets and we're
only reducing the weight enough so that
we can keep going at that five rep Rams
see what I'm saying it's not enough to
go into the 10 rep range or the 12 rep
range that's too that's too much of a
reduction it's just enough to keep us in
to that same range that we were in now
if you're doing something like power and
speed training where the movement speed
is the emphasis of that session that can
also be a criteria for using down sets
or reducing the intensity of your
movements so for example if you're
actually tracking movement speed and
explosiveness using like a accelerometer
like a Tendo unit or the M there's a
beast one there's also the band thing I
forgot what it's called there's a number
of different accelerometer devices that
we can actually look at movement speed
and if our athlete or our lifter is
starting to move below kind of the
critical speed threshold we can actually
start using down sets if we need to keep
filling more volume which is kind of a
unique scenario you might find yourself
in but it does happen from time to time
so those are kind of the big x form
we're gonna use down sets generally we
don't want our the number of down sets
to kind of be exceeding the number of
working sets that we're doing that would
be an indicator that the starting
intensity was probably too high so if
you're doing three target sets you know
at your first work load and then doing
four or five down sets probably what you
need to think about doing is maybe
backing off the starting weight and
actually try and get four or five target
sets in and maybe a couple a handful of
down sets to fill up that mrb ma we type
quota right so I hope that was helpful
but something that I think we get a lot
of confusion on and again the down sets
are just additional sets used to help
push you up to that MRV
and maybe volume when you can no longer
maintain at the current weight that you
are doing from fatigue or otherwise or
for relative intensity considerations or
things like that right so you want to
use them they're very very useful but
let's use them smartly and not always
reduce too much or have way too many
down sets we want to use them kind of
strategically so I hope that clarifies I
know we get a lot of questions on there
let me know either on the webinar on the
forum if this makes sense I hope that
was helpful
rp+ are for you I'll see
[Music]