folks hello I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
puration and today we are going to talk
about two things the first thing is
going to be about protein quality and
how much it matters for your gains and
what that means practically in your diet
the second thing is how to take care of
both psychologically and physically and
physiologically of a pet dragon so let's
get into protein quality first here we
go
protein quality actually is an indexed
measured variable that nutritionists
came up with which is awesome it's not
like some oh gez you know even if you
say like oh that's a high quality car
that's a great quality chair you bought
there Bob I don't know fuck by chairs
but uh you know that's probably not like
a Car and Driver Quality Index that's
Universal among all car Engineers but in
sport nutrition the way we measure
protein quality has has a few different
indices but one is probably the best
it's definitely my preferred scale it is
the protein digestibility corrected
amino acid score or
pdcaas
or podcas podcas do you have a podcas
you're like yes a podcast I have been on
a few like no no no no no I mean protein
what in any case that score essentially
in non-technical language kind of
measures two things
the first thing is how well are proteins
digested and absorbed into your
bloodstream and the second thing is what
fraction of that protein actually makes
it into useful function versus is burned
up as energy proteins once they're
digested are just a mix of amino acids
if the fraction of amino acids is
similar to that that composes your body
tissues then pretty much all the amino
acids kind of go to really important
useful functions and not much as left
over to just burn off for energy but
sometimes proteins especially of
organisms that aren't super closely
related to us the eaters like plants
have a crapload more of some amino acids
that we need and a crapload less of
others that we'd really like to have and
thus a bunch of the potential muscle
growth you could see from eating a
protein like that even if it was
digested absorb completely your body's
like all right time to build muscle
amino acids line up and amino acid like
first day of boot camp
and you're like we got 18 of you we only
need one the 17 of you just wait here
and then we need 15 of you other
motherfuckers we have three fuck are we
supposed to do with that so we just
don't have enough amino acids some body
processes are just rate limited so if
you're taking in a lowquality protein
which doesn't have enough amino acids to
do some very vital functions of protein
construction that process just will
proceed at its rate limiting step which
is like oh this kind of amino acid we
have not enough of it we're only going
to build enough complete proteins out of
it with what we have the other amino
acids that we don't need a lot of
they're actually just burned up for
energy which isn't a bad thing but you
don't exactly eat protein to me your
energy needs carbs and fats do that
really well you eat protein in order
well for our purposes to
yeah anyway Arnold Impressions that are
terrible aside protein quality comes
down to two things how well the proteins
are digested and absorbed and does the
amino acid content of the protein in
question match what your body needs for
Vital functions but also for muscle
growth and stuff like that and it turns
out muscle growth is a core vital
function so there's almost no difference
between those two
things this
pdcaas score range ranges generally from
100 although technically some proteins
like whey protein can rank it 102 or 104
it was originally based on egg as being
the highest quality protein the scale
then they tested wey and wey was like
you fools I'm immortal like easy Vegeta
SL Broly way I wonder if anyone could do
an impression of Vegeta and Broly from
Dragon Ball Z if you don't know who
those just turn off video fuck out
you're not in our fan base fuck off just
kidding please stay we love you we're
just all anime
nerds I wonder if anyone could do a
Vegeta or Broly impression actually tell
them apart I don't even know if the
voice actors can do that it's just a
very upset Japanese man in any
case at the very top scoring a 100 or
one depending on how you like it I like
the scale that goes off 100 scoring 100
you can see right here it's one but
close
enough is milk proteins and egg proteins
they give your body exactly what it
needs and they digest and absorb
basically completely you drink a bunch
away that shit's going into your fucking
body and it's going to get used for
Vital functions including muscle
building like 100% of it more or
less as you go down the list the various
other proteins don't quite make it all
the way into full utilization and some
of them even get to being not so great
as far as what fraction of them are
actually useful for your body to do the
things with protein we want it to do
yeah they shit sure should still count
for energy but don't count for muscle
growth and body repair and all that
other good stuff so the rank list there
you can see it yourself I'll just pick a
couple off here soy protein isolate
actually gets a 99% that's fucking great
beef gets a 92 pretty sweet uh chickpeas
down to
78 black bean 75 not terrible I think
it's worse peanuts are to
52 okay so almost half of the protein
you eat from peanuts doesn't do protein
things it does shitty versions of
carbohydrate things it's just used for
energy and if you look all the way down
what do you see the
enemy of modern Western liberal
democracy
gluten the thing that shall not be named
cannot be said I said it earlier I feel
bad I should go to church because I have
blasphemed gluten has a
25% pdcaas which means that fully 75% on
average of consumed gluten does things
that do not include muscle building or
repair or any of that stuff okay all
right and any food that has
protein any food was an exaggeration
huge quantities of foods have been
tested this way and have formal uh
scores that you can look up and there
there you go that's how protein quality
works
now what the fuck does that mean how do
shut up Mike tell me how to eat eat food
so that I can get jacked I don't want to
look at numbers I'm not a data nerd tell
me facts damn it all right stay calm
number
one
when they test diets on athletes for
example or on regular people or on
subjects in training and diet studies a
huge fraction of the time they're using
what are called mixed diets which means
they don't just get you the protein from
wey and eggs you just they give you
regular food or you report your regular
food intake and it's a broad spectrum of
all kinds of different protein
sources because of
this if you're
getting at least half of your daily
protein per day at least half from
sources that have protein quality scores
of above 90% or 90 or whatever you want
to call it 90 on a reference frame we'll
just say percent for convenience
then the rules derived from that data
probably apply to you very well here's a
rule derived from the data a gram per
pound is roughly the amount of protein
you need to maximize all of your muscle
gain and and fat loss with muscle
retention potential now here's the thing
a gram per pound is actually a slightly
overstated figure the reality is a
little bit below that you could totally
eat like 0885 grams per pound and you
would be totally set if your protein
quality was quite high but in a mixed Di
if you consume at least 50% of your
proteins from high sources so 0. n so
that means what counts on this list beef
microprotein which is a fungus based
vegan protein is actually pretty good
soy protein isolate if you want to be a
real man you eat soy everyone knows this
egg protein milk protein I'll tell you
almost all of the animal products that
you'll eat like fish and and chicken and
turkey and all that stuff they're real
close to 90 or above so if you're eating
whole food sources of largely
animal-based proteins you got just
nothing to worry about you never have to
look up protein scores and the gr per
pound and all those rules definitely
apply to you you don't have to start
being concerned with oh shit am I eating
too low of quality protein do I need to
eat even more than a gram almost
certainly not because the direct data
that they reference for this came from
mixed Source it's not like well in
humans consuming only egg and whey
protein then yes a gram per pound is
enough but in humans consuming mixed
diet well they need three grams that's
just not the
casee being that that's the case
you don't want to take that rule of hey
50% or more is totally good too far so
number two here is you still want to try
to get as much of your protein from high
quality sources which means probably a
90% or above pdcaas score and half is
cool but if you can do better than half
and it's easy to do awesome awesome
awesome awesome so you should always be
looking for essentially the cheat sheet
here is like egg Dairy and lean meat and
high quality vegan soy microprotein Etc
that should be the chunk of protein you
smash onto your plate that looks like
the size of your fist kind of every meal
of the day if you're doing that you
don't have to you could just tune the
fuck out we're going to get a huge drop
off rate Scott the video guy and views
of this video because they're just like
he told us twice to leave once if we
didn't know a stupid Dragon Ball Z
reference and twice because we didn't
need to pay attention to this
presentation anymore so yeah you just
don't have to worry about it a ton if
you're doing that stuff now if you were
eating a ton of lowquality sources what
does that mean you go into my fitness
pal and you're like oh I'm eating 350
gram of protein amazing I'm
overqualified but then you look at where
it's cting protein from and like 80% of
it's like breakfast cereal
oatmeal wheat bread
tortillas peanuts and all of a sudden
you're like oh that does have a lot of
protein in it that stuff and it really
adds up like a typical chipotle tortilla
has something like 10 grams of protein
in it
but fuck man that's a lot of gluten and
other types of proteins so protein that
your body can actually use for anabolism
it's got like three grams of that shit
so what happens if you're eating a lot
of lowquality proteins is if you're
super fucking anal and you're a super
fucking nerd like me what you can do is
take shit plant proteins that score
below 50% and count them as 50% carbs
50% protein you can't do this My Fitness
Pal you got to do it yourself manually
but what ends up happening is like let
let's say you eat a turkey 20 grams of
protein from the turkey turkey sandwich
and then you get 10 grams of protein
from the bread that's let's just imagine
that's it it's a shitty turkey sandwich
where the fuck is the Mayo what about
veggies cheese anyone a sandwich without
cheese is a sick joke but I digress so
let's say fuck it I can't even I can't
even do this analogy well turkey plus
cheese is 25 grams damn it and then the
bread total is 10
the total carbs for that is 40 what you
can do is say okay 10 is bullshit I'm
going to count that as a five so I'm
going to say instead of 25 grams of
protein that that sandwich has 30 grams
of protein but it sure shit isn't 35 and
then 40 carbs from the bread and
everything else but I know that five of
those grams of protein are going to go
be used for energy pretty much like
carbohydrates are and amino acids can be
split into uh ketogenic and glycogenic
but tldr you just count them as carbs so
you count five grams as carbs so now the
sandwich instead of you writing down 35
gram of protein and 40 grams of carbon
yay that's not what your body's getting
your body's getting much closer to 30
grams of protein not 35 and 45 grams of
carbs not 40 does that matter a ton no
but if you really care just know that
that's a thing you can do to ease your
mind about consuming lowquality
sources now
lastly if you are a vegan or you have
trouble getting a lot of high quality
sources some people live in that not so
you know Western World life yet and meat
is expensive protein is expensive so I
totally hear you on that complimentary
sources are a good start if you mix
beans and rice you get two things one is
a great actually a complimentary source
that is now a complete source of protein
and is pretty high quality and two uh uh
whatever that in beans and rice don't
miss you whatever it is that makes
Puerto Rican girls look all fuck God
damn baby what's up any case if you're a
Puerto Rican girl don't you come talking
to me that's what Mr Jared feather is
for are we allowed to say
that we just
did he won't turn you down from I'm just
gonna shut up in any case itse say what
don't make it worse don't make it worse
shut up Mike get back to the
presentation
ideally ideally you should get at least
50% of your sources from 90% plus
protein
scores the good news is microprotein and
soy protein are ultra high quality and
they're cheap as fuck and don't worry
about the overeating soy protein is
almost entirely a myth especially if you
combine it with microprotein a few other
sources you're going to be totally good
to go but here's the last butt and I'll
almost finish the video with this and
then just one more
thing a lot of people that eat a certain
diet that doesn't get them enough
protein will buy a some kind of protein
shake for supplement like a soy protein
shake or whatever egg whey doesn't
matter and what they'll do is they say
okay I need 150 grams of protein per
day my current diet gives me
75 fine I'm just going to have a 75 gram
protein shake like once a day and I'm
going to get 100% of my daily protein
that is true as nominally is true like
as you write it down it's a true
statement but your body doesn't absorb
digest and especially assimilate protein
into muscle in one big bolus as a matter
of fact guys remember those rules where
they said any more than 20 grams of
protein at a time your body just fucking
wastes it that's bullshit but it's not
entirely false it's not 20 but it can be
30 40 50 60 depending on how big you are
and it probably isn't 80 maybe Brian
Shaw or door Julius bson can fucking
half of that shake with one meal and
half of another or split it up under
thirds or learn how to cook with protein
powder so you can have more protein
packed ingredients and then you get your
protein relatively evenly throughout
your multi- daily meals that's how you
can optimize if you are supplementing
with protein if you're not getting
enough from your diet all right I hope
that's been very instructive um was that
the thing I was going to talk about yes
yes how to um take care of a dragon we
have to end this video on a really bad
note guys dragons aren't real just they
don't exist and uh when I'm hanging out
with my friends kids I like to tell them
that as early as
possible
um gotta learn sometime and if they did
exist last thing I'm gonna say because
dragons are scar right they fly around
right and they're rather maneuverable
albeit slow by modern military standards
and they breathe fire okay you guys ever
seen that movie The Wrath of smog W
whatever the fucking Hobbit that Dragon
pissed everyone off here here's the
thing I would love and when the gpts get
good enough doing like text to movie
very well I'm gonna fucking make a lot
of movies I probably shouldn't here's
one I want to see shit six
dragons against just one F35 lightning t
or even a fucking F22 Raptor you fucking
label them targets Sidewinders heat
seeking missiles like the fucking black
three variant the best one you fucking
kidding me bro hey Dragon you better
hold your breath you stupid
[Music]
motherfucker missile's out fuck you Lord
of the Rings I'll see you guys next
time