what's going on everyone a couple days
ago Robin and I landed in Newfoundland
so I'm here and Grandpa's Windsor which
is where yeah which is where the
provincial bodybuilding competition is
taking place I've got eight competitors
competing in that show I'm super excited
about
so we're asked to do an interview sort
of channel or whatever so we're gonna go
head over there and do that now and
Robin Jeff Barry this is the setup okay
yeah vlogging camera can you say
professional natural bodybuilder you
could say fitness model is that in in
the organisation like I said you can't
turn pro as a natural because that just
isn't available you can go as far as the
national title and so people didn't want
to have in and enhanced which is the
opposite of natural Pro guest posing on
natural stage you know what I mean it's
like the audience wanted to see what can
be achieved naturally not what I can do
when you're taking steroids with them
they're not coming so now there's just
no gasps poser so at all okay so guys we
just got finished up with the interview
and now we're gonna go check on a couple
of my athletes who are competing this
weekend my goal as a coach really with
this show is to push the carbs as high
as I can or some of my body builders to
have them fill out without seeing any
indications of spilling or anything
here in it may be puff like try to pop
this out a bit yeah there you go see
like you have crazy abs you need to you
need to crunch down on those you know
keep that smile the whole time really
good man you're filling out really
nicely
you feel that a lot from the last time I
saw you know isn't here and everything
what do you think let's say your back
came in like unreal holy [ __ ]
we're turning it awesome this
we are here at Fitness as you can see
they use the proper spelling a pansy I'm
gonna be doing a leg workout and I
actually haven't trained here before
this is the gym I usually don't train at
a new pool and I'll see you guys inside
are you doing time in the facility is
you know yeah and this price is just a
method to communicate stun on everybody
just so UK I think I'm the one I show
you lied in let you debate so direction
to the strength she just heard about
meeting your stupid lame get writer get
left oh she's a fake follow knowing that
move at my own pace you can wait notice
how you stop touching bread like it
losing weight one day you will see why
I'm truly great I'll be on the road till
them all like Willie Nelson is back 20 K
for a verse you need some help on a
track and ice wrap it all the way to
hell and I'm back without a cosign and
all up for myself on the map I was
chillin with a girl that I just met make
conversation got a facial slash to kill
me [ __ ] yes guess what she was upset
that's about the time she stormed off
steaming mad she was bad but I just left
her go why you sweat girls like a fur
coat in the summertime you're a nerd bro
never leave work never furlough think
you're [ __ ] Whitney k sure bruh
ready on time say two words on sippin
drinkin Merlot started drinking early
still the same girl half killer half
nerdy so up are my 20s they pay one hell
of a journey
Bob Dylan told me don't trust no one
upper thirties damn drank this a
LaRhonda supreme amount of money that I
spent on what I want is abstain all
surreal how we live this good off of a
drink and I swear I threw it off for the
team drunk off for the him truly fail on
the CODIS a lie
all I do is work focus this Drive
splitter fish full of fatty I'm a smoker
to drive I'm a thread now some of y'all
can really only hope to survive
grab a glimpse I'm as rare as a guest
forget a web browser mother thought it
was apparently next out here and I'm
blessed I come in sound every girl in
the city's not my snow and all the
parents get stressed I'm a new friend
with blam finesse working now so I could
carry the West I'm prepared for the test
and I'm ready after the five says live
the whole Bay with my biceps caution if
you try to follow my steps you a trip
abroad get exhausted and collapsed bus
these haters carry germs on cautious
giving death I just can't [ __ ] it
everyone my circle stays the same socks
enjoy the lifestyle
baaz after-party is it raised in Vegas
where they have the view get some girls
grab a few but only bring Nevada still
rappers imitate the style I'm not even
mad at you I'm not even on say I just
overshadow you yeah I'm in my own land
run my own pace
chasing nobody marathon my own race I'd
do a foot of a year yet I sold base they
be trying to run next to us but it ain't
no space I'm feel like life just wish
the hyperspeed glass a place the
difference between yourself and me is
you this piece it's a garden full of
flowers grew as well through the semen
if I ever said I'm never scared to smile
when we mean it I dreamed about the top
I had a vision then I fainted you know
the work of the first thing you and I
are in agreement and this is a long hard
but I'll work harder than tomorrow so
come back in five years and we can talk
about achievement
she doesn't worry what are you just
doing wrong things
either in circular
I worry about a lot of things but I
don't worry about you know stretch
achievement
so this is Newfoundland and this is
where we are