if you stop doing these 10 things before
your weight training workouts you're
going to have higher quality sessions
that lead to a better muscle building
stimulus and ultimately more growth from
week to week and month to month so pay
attention and make sure you've got all
of these covered if you want to maximize
your results the first thing to avoid
before your workout is cardio now a
light five to ten minute warm-up is
totally fine but when it comes to
full-on cardio sessions especially those
higher intensity variations performing
it immediately pre-workout is basically
the worst possible time because of that
extra systemic fatigue you'll be
creating which then reduces your ability
to train at your full muscular capacity
during your workout now if it's not
necessarily your goal to optimize
hypertrophy 100 then you can just do it
whenever you prefer but if making those
sweet gains is your top priority at the
gym save the cardio for another time
post workout is ultimately okay or you
can just do your weight training and
cardio separately altogether the second
thing to avoid before your workout is
muscle activation exercises whether it's
specific isolation movements to wake up
your Lots or get your chest firing more
efficiently or the all too common banded
glute activation work you see all these
booty influencers doing on Instagram at
best this stuff is just a waste of time
and effort and at worst it's actually
counterproductive if you go overboard
and you end up pre-fatiguing the
targeted muscle before your heavier
muscle building sets activating a given
muscle during your workouts really just
comes down to selecting high quality
mechanically sound exercises that train
the muscle through its specific function
executing those lifts with proper
technique and taking the set close or
all the way to failure as long as you're
doing that the targeted muscle will be
working effectively regardless of any
pre-workout activation movements you did
or didn't do the third thing to avoid
before your workout is static stretching
now if you're doing specific dynamic
stretches or Mobility type of work based
on your individual needs and that's
different but traditional pre-workout
stretching of the muscles you're about
to train is not only completely
unnecessary from a warm-up or injury
prevention standpoint but it actually
has direct negative effects on lifting
performance by reducing muscle Force
production and power output which is
only going to lead to a weaker
hypertrophy stimulus overall now exactly
how significant the negative effect
would be just depends on how
aggressively you're stretching and the
overall volume and duration involved but
in any case there's no upsides to
pre-workout static stretching if there
is a potential downside side and so
there's just no good reason to bother
and don't underestimate the value of
basic time saved either whether it's on
this point or any other points that we
mentioned you know if you normally train
four days per week and you stretch for
say 10 minutes per session that's 35
hours that you'll end up saving by the
end of the year and after five years
it's an entire week the fourth thing to
avoid before your workout I know this is
technically a double negative but that's
skipping the warm-up process altogether
so you don't need to be doing cardio
muscle activation static stretching a
random laundry list of Mobility drills
and foam rolling however the one warm-up
that you should be including is a basic
weight acclimation sequence for the
actual exercise that you'll be
performing during your workout that's
going to help you get a feel for the
movement warm up your joints and
connective tissues and ramp up your
nervous system to perform each lift at
your full capacity you don't need
anything too extensive here but the
general idea is to start out with a
lighter weight for slightly higher reps
and then increase the weight while
lowering the Reps until you reach your
working weight for that exercise and a
good approximate template you can use is
about fifty percent for eight reps 75
for three and then a hundred percent for
one meaning if you are planning to lift
200 pounds for your first muscle
building set on a given lift you'd warm
up with 100 pounds for eight reps 150
pounds for three reps and then 200
pounds for a single round now keep in
mind that these sets shouldn't fatigue
you in any way whatsoever okay they're
purely meant as a warm-up and typically
you only need the full sequence on the
first major compound lift for a given
muscle group so if you're returning back
and you're doing pull-ups rows and pull
Downs then you could just do those three
acclimation sets for the pull-ups and
then for the other two a few moderate
weight reps to get a feel for things
would probably be enough or if you were
doing squats followed by leg presses or
dumbbell presses followed by cable flies
but the same thing would apply though
the fifth thing to avoid before your
workout is AB routines now quite frankly
there's no need in the first place for
any of these 8 to 15 minute body weight
six pack AB shredding belly fat
scorching whatever routines you see all
over YouTube and social media
minute
damn hey you can't spot reduce fat in
the first place and B the ABS are a
muscle just like any other and so they
should be trained for hypertrophy using
the same principles as any other muscle
group meaning enough resistance to get
close to failure proper rest periods
between sets and gradual Progressive
overload but if there's any time to
definitely not bother with these high
rep AB pumping sequences it would be
immediately before your weight training
workout because once again all you're
doing is pre-fatiguing yourself and
using up strength and energy resources
that you want to be preserving for your
main hypertrophy work if you're going to
train your abs directly then just
incorporate it into your actual weight
training session if you're finding these
tips helpful don't forget to subscribe
to stay in the loop on future videos and
the sixth thing you want to avoid before
your workout this one isn't referring to
the entire workout as a whole but more
specifically the workout for your larger
muscle groups and that mistake is
performing isolation exercises for your
smaller muscles before the compound
exercises for those bigger muscles which
can then create weak links that prevent
you from training those compound lifts
at your maximum strength capacity an
example would be doing triceps
extensions before shoulder pressing or
doing curls before pull-ups and pull
Downs front Dela raises before chest
pressing rear delt flies before rolling
movements Etc keep in mind that your
biceps and rear delts are going to be
involved to some extent during your
compound vertical and horizontal pulling
movements and your triceps and front
delts are going to be involved with
vertical and horizontal presses and so
you don't want to pre-fatigue those
muscles and then have them end up as the
limiting factor during those bigger
lifts instead you want to do your main
compound work first to ensure that those
major muscle groups are getting an
optimal stimulus and being worked to
their full potential and then perform
your direct isolation work afterwards
now most people are aware enough to not
do say older triceps work before chest
and shoulders or all of their biceps
work before back but a common mistake I
do see pretty often is people mixing a
bunch of movements together throughout
the workout so they might start off an
upper body day with a back exercise then
maybe go do some curls followed by a
chest movement that's in triceps maybe
another back exercise some front delt
raises followed by shoulder pressing
because that's definitely still
something you want to avoid and if you
need some help getting a proper program
laid out with an effective sequence of
exercises that you can follow then I'll
show you where you can access that for
free in just a minute here and keep in
mind that this concept applies not just
within a given workout but also between
different training days as well for
example it wouldn't be ideal to train
biceps the day before a back workout
same goes for triceps before chest or
even shoulders before chest okay instead
make sure to map out your training
during the week to minimize that overlap
between different body parts so that the
performance from one muscle group isn't
being limited by fatigue in another the
seventh thing to avoid before your
workout moving more toward the nutrition
side pretty basic one but it should
still be mentioned and that's consuming
a very high fiber and or high fat meal
within close proximity to your session
to optimize training performance you of
course want to be as comfortable and
mentally focused as possible during your
workout and there is an element of
personal preference here but you
probably don't want to be loading up on
high volume foods that are going to sit
in your stomach and have you feeling
bloated and gassy during your workout
both for your own sake and for the sake
of those around you so ideally just
stick to a moderate sized meal anywhere
from 30 minutes to 3 hours before the
workout depending on what feels best for
you fasted training is an option if
that's your thing but if you are going
to train on an empty stomach just make
sure to get some protein in fairly soon
after the session is over if if you want
to optimize your results on a similar
basic note the eighth thing to avoid
before your workout is going to be
dehydration or at least let's say
sub-optimal hydration which can
negatively impact physical and mental
performance now there's no set amount of
water that every person out there must
consume pre-workout or even per day
because it depends on different factors
like your activity level and the type of
climate you live in but generally
speaking just aim to get in enough water
to where your urine is mostly on the
clear side throughout the day and you
ideally want to already be in that state
leading up to your workout the ninth
thing to avoid before your workout is
excessively dosed pre-workouts now
obviously underdose pre-workouts are a
big problem as well and are pretty
common in the industry especially now
with ingredient prices on the rise
however I'm also not a fan of companies
that swing the pendulum all the way to
the Other Extreme and load you up with
10 12 15 plus ingredients either there's
no reason why you should need a huge
laundry list of different compounds and
stimulants just to perform a basic
hypertrophy workout and not only can
over stimulating yourself actually have
the opposite effect and reduce training
performance in some cases but it's also
more likely to lead to a crash
afterwards interfere with sweet produce
adverse longer term effects and it's not
something you want to become reliant on
either the realistic purpose of a
pre-workout is to give you a modest
extra boost in the gym by optimizing
your overall energy strength and focus
and too many Blends out there are just
complete Overkill the goal here isn't to
get you cracked out every time you go
into the gym I don't see any reason why
an effective pre-workout stack needs to
contain any more than about three to
five individual ingredients that's
easily enough to cover your bases
without going overboard and if you do
want to check out a pre-workout that was
specifically created with this in mind
meaning research backed ingredients only
in their proper doses but while also
striking an optimal balance between
complexity and Effectiveness without
excessive stimulants then you can check
out our real science Athletics
pre-workout pureform which I personally
formulated myself you're getting 6 grams
of pure l-citrulline along with 2 grams
of malic acid to improve overall
muscular strength and endurance a
moderate 200 milligram dose of caffeine
balanced out by 200 milligrams of
l-theanine to increase energy levels and
provide a nice grounded Focus throughout
your session without crashing later on
and then 3 grams of l-tyrosine to boost
your mood and motivation further alright
and lastly 10 thing to avoid before your
workout is going into the gym without a
concrete plan in place so maybe you know
which muscle groups you're going to be
training but you don't have a preset
routine in terms of the specific
exercises the exercise order volume rep
ranges Etc or a record of your previous
session in terms of how much weight you
lifted and how many reps you did per set
if you want to build muscle effectively
and consistently without spinning your
wheels like so many people out there do
then there's no reason at all to not
have a structured program laid out and
to not be tracking that program on paper
since Progressive overload is the
underlying driver of hypertrophy over
time the primary focus should be on
small steady improvements in training
performance and there's no way to
achieve that more efficiently than
through objectively tracking things step
by step and not only that but I'd also
recommend that before your training
session you sit down and briefly review
what you'll be doing that day okay the
exercises and the weight slash rupture
generally aiming for just to get your
focus on point and put those clear
targets into your mind and if you need
some help getting a concrete plan in
place for yourself that lays everything
out from start to finish in terms of
days in the gym exercises sets rep
ranges Etc then make sure to visit visit
shawnell.com custom just fill out the
short form there and I'll send you back
a free training and nutrition plan that
you can get started on whether your
primary goal is to gain muscle loose fat
or potentially do a combination of both
the link for that is in the description
here are two more videos I'd recommend
watching now make sure to subscribe to
the channel to stay in the loop on
future videos thanks for watching guys
and I'll see you in the next one