you're training for strength rp6 or p8
or P10 does it even matter
soon to be Dr Milo wolf from Wolf
coaching him today we're discussing the
relationship between rpe or how close to
failure you're training and your
strength improvements before we get into
the video let me give you a very quick
primer in less than 30 seconds on what
rpe and Reps and Reserve is rapson
reserve just describes how many more
repetitions at the end of a set you
think you could have done before
reaching failure rpe is kind of the
opposite of that so essentially you
would just subtract rir for example
let's say you could have done two more
reps from 10 and that would be your rpe
rating from 0 to 10. so an rpu of 8
would be a reps in reserved two and so
forth let's dive into the findings from
this method analysis by Zach Robinson
and colleagues by the way Zach is
awesome give them a follow if you don't
already when combining all the findings
from about 25 studies into one aggregate
finding it looks like overall how close
to Value you train and what RP you train
to doesn't really seem to influence how
much strength you gain at all if
anything contrary to what some people
have been preaching and saying for years
that you know trading close to failure
is really important for straight
adaptations because you're trying to
improve maximum strength so specificity
in how close to failure train is
important it seems like actually the
benefits for strength that you see are a
bit worse closer to failure compared to
a bit more sub maximally closer to say
three to five reps of Reserve or rpe
five to seven so if RP doesn't really
matter for strength
what do we do there are a few
considerations the first one I want to
touch on is the distinction between
repetition mediated changes in rpe and
load mediated changes in rpe during a
discussion with Zach Robinson the author
of this paper what we got into was kind
of the difference between training with
more weight versus performing more
repetitions and how that influences rpe
and whether there's a difference in how
much strength you would get from either
approach either using more weight versus
performing more repetitions at the same
weight and whether there's really a
difference between how those two would
influence strength adaptations what it
looks like is that there's a pretty
consistent relationship between how much
weight you're lifting and the
improvements in maximum strength that
you see in other words specificity does
seem to apply in terms of how heavy you
should be lifting if you're a power
after trying to improve your 100 Max on
the squat bench deadlift and you're not
training heavy and by heavy I mean you
know 80 plus percent of your max pretty
frequently likely there's something
you're missing out on if by going closer
to failure this allows you to use more
weight on the bar and a greater
percentage of your max that's likely
positive for strength so if you used
less weight and had a lower rpe however
if you went to a higher rpe by just
doing more repetitions per set but using
the same weight that generally wouldn't
lead to Greater strength adaptations in
other words much more so than being
mediated by how close to failure you
train strength adaptations made more so
be mediated by how heavy are you lifting
let me give you an example in less than
30 seconds to break down how this would
work in practice let's say for example
with 85 of your max we know you can do
eight repetitions you're doing a set
with five repetitions of 85 percent of
your max in other words that's an RP 7
set three more reps in attack there's
two ways you could increase rpe here
either by doing more reps up to three
more reps pushing that setup to rp10 or
by doing more weight for example 90 of
your max 45 repetitions which could also
push the RP up to 10. the former example
where you're doing more reps but not
changing the weight that change likely
wouldn't result in more strength
adaptations on the other hand lifting
more weight on the bar that would result
in greater transportations so when an
rpe change is driven by an increase in
load on the bar that will result in more
strength adaptations in all likelihood
on the other hand if an rpe change is
driven by an increasing repetitions per
set but no change in weight in all
likelihood that's not going to help you
gain more strength it may actually be
slightly worse due to more fatigue and
so forth in other words for a strength
program your focus should be on lifting
heavy but not lifting close to failure
necessarily the trade-off between how
much additional fatigue you get from
lifting closer to failure versus how
much additional weight you're able to
lift is something you need to consider
but don't just train closer to failure
for the sake of it doing sets of five or
more reps if you're trying to be
specific lift heavy weights for low reps
and rpe ideally would still be
relatively low for example a single at
RP 7 with say 90 of your max is likely
going to produce about as much strength
Improvement as a triple at 90 at about
RP nine nine and a half because in the
this example you're just doing more reps
and that's the only thing pushing the
rpe up so train has Abby in terms of rpe
we train relatively so maximally and
that's kind of the key for strength
adaptations right well there's one more
consideration first string sports like
power lifting for example hypertrophy is
likely relatively important we also need
to consider how does rpe and how close
to failure you train influence
hypertrophy as we reviewed in this video
right here it looks like the closer
failure you train for hypertrophy the
more hypertrophy you see in other words
it's kind of a disconnect between how
training closer to failure influences
strength adaptations versus how it
influences hypertrophy adaptations
importantly though four relatively low
scale movements like the squad the bench
deadlift hypertrophy improvements or
increases in muscle size getting bigger
is likely going to contribute to getting
stronger as well so how do you balance
these two considerations on the one hand
trading sub maximally seems better for
strength provided you're lifting pretty
heavy on the other hand you kind of will
lift maximally or closer to failure for
hypertrophy and you need some
hypertrophy to optimize strength well I
think that's where training in the off
season and non-specific training comes
in further into the off season when
you're not close to a competition and
you're not really trying to maximize one
repetition maximum strength right then
and there that's where training closer
to failure and a lighter rep range
really comes in clutch so what I would
say is when you say more than about
three months out from a competition
including some more maximal training Say
closer to RPS of eight to ten or within
about two reps of failure that's going
to be beneficial for increasing muscle
size and thus in the long term
increasing your strength as well then
the closer you get to a competition the
more sub-maximal your training should
generally be while still trying to
maximize how much weight is on the bar
for any given set generally that will
come via reducing the amount of reps you
preset rather than pushing the rpe way
up this is because as I mentioned
pushing the rpe up inherently doesn't
seem to improve strength adaptations so
just make sure that when you're
increasing the low on the bar you're
also reducing the repetitions so that
rpe stays in a reasonable place and you
don't get the additional likely
excessive fatigue that comes from
pushing close to failure too often
especially for strength where again you
don't see a benefit of doing so so here
are my practical recommendations for rpe
or how close to failure you should train
for strength when you're in the off
season most of your training should
likely be pretty hypertrophy orientated
so when you're about more than three to
four months out from a competition a lot
of your training should take place
pretty close to failure So within about
two reps of failure all the way to
failure sometimes especially on
Accessory movements that aren't quite as
specific to your main lift then as you
gradually move closer to competition
most of your training should reduce in
terms of rpe so you should probably
train mostly between RPS of five and
seven but you should still be trying to
maximize the low on the bar the way you
accomplish that is by generally
performing a lot of lower repetition
sets say sets of about one to three but
keeping rpe is between about five and
seven for the most part with potentially
some higher rpes very close to the
competition just in order to get a feel
for what your capabilities might be and
for you to be able to select openers for
Midday or just see where your strength
is at a bit more accurately anyways
that's the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe if there's
anything want to see leave a comment
down below and I'll get to that as well
more videos coming every Wednesday and
Saturday now until the end of time or
until they don't pay my bills and I'm
homeless and I can't make videos anymore
probably about two weeks in any case
enjoy your week and I'll see you in that
next video
peace