[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy is
it a stretch to say that stretching
between sets can enhance muscle and
strength adaptations a recent study has
added to the overall literature
examining this let's overview this study
and then we'll fit it into the rest of
the literature
[Music]
22 trained individuals were recruited
and assigned into either stretching or
normal group all subjects train two
biceps focus and two triceps Focus
sessions per week for a total of eight
weeks the program involved very high
volumes including 28 weekly sets for
each the biceps and triceps from
isolation exercises and if we included
the compound exercises it totals up to
46 weekly sets for each the biceps and
triceps the program was designed to
replicate fst-7 a method created by
bodybuilding coach Harney rambot fascia
refers to the thin sheets of connective
tissue that surrounds organs such as
muscle tissue and it's hypothesized
people with thicker fascia might have a
harder time building muscle the core of
fsd7 training involves performing seven
sets of an exercise with short rest
between them to maximize the pump which
is claimed to stretch out the fascia and
thereby benefit muscle hypertrophy to be
clear fst-7 itself doesn't directly
involve stretching between sets rather
the claim is the pump is what stretches
the muscle From the Inside Out by
volumizing it on bodybuilding.com's
YouTube channel there are actually a few
popular videos documenting some fst-7
workouts so part of this study will
actually provide an insight into the
potential effectiveness of this training
system now I should mention fst-7
typically involves performing 7 sets on
a certain exercise only at the end of
the workout this particular study
actually involved seven sets at the
start and end so it's not identical to
fsd7 so bear this in mind nevertheless
all subjects rested 45 seconds between
sets in accordance with fst-7
recommendations and two minutes of rest
between exercises were given the normal
group simply rested passively between
all the sets the stretching group for
the first and last exercises in a
training session stretch the train
muscle so the biceps were stretched on
the biceps Focus days and the triceps on
the triceps Focus stays the stretches
were held for the full duration of the
45 second rest interval at a 70 to 90
percent pain and discomfort level both
groups took every set to concentric
muscular failure within the 10 to 12 rep
range loads were adjusted each set in
attempt to maintain subjects training
within this rep range per set throughout
the training period total calorie
protein carbohydrate and fat intake were
comparable between groups ultimately
total training volume was lower in the
stretching group versus the normal group
since sets and Reps were the same
between both groups we can deduce this
means the stretching group lifted lower
loads across their sets this makes sense
since static stretching can lower muscle
Force production the stretching group
likely would have had to reduce the
loads across their sets to a greater
extent to stay within the 10 to 12 rep
range causing them to accumulate lower
total trading volume versus the normal
group despite this lower total trading
volume one rep max strength gains on the
biceps Co and triceps skull crusher
increased comparably between both groups
hypertrophy was measured through
thickness of the middle biceps region
lower brachialis region long head
triceps upper region and long hair
triceps lower region here are the
hypertrophy results showing their
average increases for both groups with a
95 confidence interval and the
individual data points shown behind
essentially there was no difference
between both groups except as a long
head triceps lower region where average
gains actually favored the stretching
group however as the researchers
mentioned we should be cautious of this
finding in my view the individual data
underneath doesn't present a convincing
picture of stretching between sets
producing definitively more hypertrophy
at this region many individuals saw
similar gains with a few outliers on
either side which likely drove the
average differences between groups
overall there were some pretty
lackluster hypertual results for various
subjects most subjects lost size in
their low
causing the average for both groups to
reflect a decrease in size for this
region various subjects also lost size
in other muscle regions
concluding the new study stretching
between sets largely failed to enhance
muscle or strength adaptations we know
fsd7 training was replicated in this
study using very high volumes and short
rests between sets and for various
subjects it's evident this style of
training produced poor hypertrophy
outcomes presumably the excessively High
volumes had something to do with these
lacklust hypertrophy outcomes including
the loss of size at various regions in
fact subjects were performing on average
9 to 11 more isolation weekly sets for
each of the biceps and triceps versus
what they did before the study this
abrupt increase in volume for many
subjects was probably too much for their
body to handle as the researchers
describe it could have caused excessive
damage in the working muscle that
oriented protein synthesis to repair
rather than typertrophy
to be fair to fsd7 we mentioned this
particular study involved seven sets on
the first and final exercises of a
training session whereas fst-7 normally
just involves seven sets on the final
exercise it remains possible if the
study followed fsd7 normally the results
of the study would have been different
now this is not to say the study's
program was unanimously terrible for
everyone since there were some
individuals in the study seeing pretty
good hypertrophy demonstrating how
training can be quite individualized
another potential conclusion from this
study relates to the pump subjects
likely achieved an incredible pump from
this style of training remember is
claims fsd7 stretches fascia by weight
of the pump yet it's crucial I mention
I'm unaware of any evidence supporting
this notion moreover as we've examined
previously at the house of hypertrophy
there's minimal evidence suggesting the
pump directly or powerfully stimulates
hypertrophy and I feel this particular
study indirectly further supports this
idea since various subjects experience
the lackluster hypertrophy no there are
numerous ways you can go about
structuring a program designed for
hypertrophy strength or even endurance
with so many options it can be
overwhelming but Alpha progression is a
phenomenal app that can simplify this
process for you the app can generate a
high quality program specify your
training experience what equipment you
have
your training goals
whether you want to focus on neglect
specific muscles how often you want to
train and how long
to help motivation long term your
progression is presented graphically
during your workouts the app provides
Progressive overload recommendations
through its algorithm dissecting your
past performance
by using the link in the comments and
description you'll have two weeks free
of all its features plus twenty percent
off a subscription if you do purchase
the app the house of hypertrophy will
get 50 so this sincerely helps to
support these three videos thank you
[Music]
here's a table for all the studies
examining the effects of stretching
between sets on hypertrophy and strength
the first ever study on stretching
between sets for hypertrophy did find a
muscle I poetry benefit in untrained
subjects and one other Study last year
found a slight hypertrophy of benefit in
one muscle but two other studies and now
this new study opposed this one of the
studies also found a benefit to
stretching between sets for isometric
but not leg press strength but this is
only one study finding some kind of
strength benefit to stretching between
sets therefore since the majority of the
literature fails to find a benefit we
can't say stretching between sets is a
validated method to enhance gains now
there are different of ways you can
stretch between sets from the duration
you hold the stretch the pain levels you
endure from the stretch and how you
transition to the stretch most of the
studies are Divergent in these areas
making it difficult to pinpoint if a
precise method of stretching between
sets could be superior I'm wondering if
how you transition to the stretch could
matter for hypertrophy specifically the
majority of the studies in the table
involve subjects Upon finishing their
final repetitions of a set moving over
to perform a stretch however the study
last year finding a benefit to
stretching between sets for Soleus
growth involves subjects immediately
transitioning into a weighted stretch
after the final repetition of a set this
type of stretching between sets could
benefit hypertrophy because during the
lowering phase of an exercise the
elements within muscles that produce
stretching forces are in a stiffer State
compared to if you just stretched
passively and so immediately
transitioning into a stretch after the
lowering phase theoretically takes
advantage of his stiffer stretching
forces which could better signal
hypertrophy in fact there's another
study which I did not include in the
table suggesting this type of stretching
between sets to be superior it's a study
by Silva and colleagues which reports to
have found that immediately
transitioning into a calf stretch after
calf press repetitions benefited
gastrocnemius hypertrophy however the
reason I did not include this study in
the table is because it's not published
the results of the study were merely
presented at a conference nevertheless
it's possible this type of stretching
between sets could benefit High poetry
more than moving over to perform a
static stretch yet more research is
needed to verify this and it's worth
mentioning in the published Study last
year finding a benefit to this type of
stretching between sets it only
benefited the soleus muscle and the
benefit was quite small moreover the
gastrocnemius didn't grow more with this
type of stretching between sets which
conflicts with an unpublished silver
study since that reports a greater
growth in the gastrocnemius let us not
stretch out this video any further and
proceed to our summary
[Music]
with the addition of this new study the
majority of the published research fails
to find stretching between sets enhances
hypertrophy or strength but none of them
finds compromised hypertrophy or
strength either with stretching between
sets the studies are Divergent in the
precise ways through which they had
subject stretch between sets so it
remains possible a particular way to
stretch between sets could be superior
I'm wondering if immediately
transitioning into a stretch after the
lowering phase could benefit hypertrophy
but there's limited evidence that can
properly validate this for the time
being finally I have a free Ultimate
Guide to bench pressing ebook that
covers these areas feel free to get it
in the link in the comments and
description
foreign
[Music]