what is going on everyone we finished up
with the FIBO Expo here in Germany today
today was the last day and I'm super
excited to be going for a workout with a
very special guest you guys obviously
know by the title who it is but this is
our first time training together I'm so
excited about it we're just here at the
hotel now grabbing a quick pre-workout
meal so I think I'm gonna be getting a
club sandwich club turkey sandwich I
think of us and I'm gonna get a try one
of these German beers as well so and I
get that I'll show you guys how it look
hopefully it's good there was a beer
here that everybody kept recommending to
me so I've tried the Kolsch beer which
is brewed here in Cologne and I've tried
the probably butcher this but I think
it's ready burger Pilsner I think I like
the Pilsner better so I'm gonna go with
a glass of Pilsner as well please thank
you you're alright pre-workout beer I'm
sure my special guest would approve of
this he's a big beer guy I'm sorry
[Music]
and that's good that's so good
how was Germany been it's been great but
very exhausting there's a four-day Expo
compared to like the typical two day in
the state so it was a lot of going and
yelling because the music is so loud and
but it was it was awesome getting to
meet all you guys really boy alright so
here's the pre-workout meal this is a
turkey club sandwich so there's some
turkey tomato lettuce one egg and a
little bit of bacon I really rarely will
eat bacon but when in Germany and then
I've got some of these chips they look
like they might be barbecue yeah I think
so this looks like it's gonna be
delicious
I'm gonna dig in and then I'll check in
with you guys over at the gym
all right guys so I'm here with Alberto
Nunez natural pro bodybuilder thank you
for doing this with me say what senior
yeah you too
you guys who don't know Alberto and I
met I think first in 2014 at the muscle
mayhem that was where I turned pro and
Berto was my basically like number one
inspiration then and still today he is
he is the man so if you guys aren't
familiar you need to check out his stuff
I don't think any natural bodybuilder
has really I think made maybe as much of
an influence as you guys collectively
have your whole team so it's a real
honor man Thank You Man thank you Ennis
it's good to see like you're a part for
our squad man it's like between you and
man it's like two guys that like even
Matt like he loves bodybuilding yeah he
loves natural bodybuilding so true yeah
thing dude and repping like that it's
been yeah Thank You Man yeah you guys
made it made it cooled it to be a
natural body builder so yeah we really
appreciate it anyway we're hitting an
upper body workout today Yeah right yes
kind of on the road on the remote you
can make use of those reps we have no
plan just for contact so just muscle
confusion is there anything you want to
start with like you usually start with a
pusher well I think it's always easier
to start with some sort of pole okay you
know especially because like just
balancing anything you're on the road
and yeah that's true you know your
routines all thrown off yeah I agree
so some sort of pole is and especially a
row is pretty easy to get over the row
sounds good to me
all right now let's start with the rope
[Music]
all right so exercise number one we're
gonna be doing a dumbbell seal row
this is Alberto's bread-and-butter so
maybe I'll let you explain what the
basic rationale is yeah you did you have
the best intentions if you're an
ambitious lizard sometimes with rows
it's very hard to attain clean progress
and with this it's the cleanest roll
you'll ever feel there's it's you have
to be looking to cheat to cheat on this
and then also if you do deadlift if you
do squat it saves your torso for those
days that is what I found the biggest
you saw out of it though
yeah you keep a fresh torso and if you
add a rep if you add weight you know
it's clean so how many sets and how many
reps are we gonna hit I think we should
start off with like three to four sets
and I like to rolling into higher rep
ranges personally okay
four to six reps or something at some
point kind of your form has to break
down exactly yeah it's hard to leave
with your scapula and right with this
the key thing is like the disc brakes
first so this should be the first thing
and
maybe as we go through I'll get you to
[Music]
[Music]
laughter 18 left a couple reps inside
just to save them because I have not
done these and so long it's so easy to
maintain control you know so do you guys
haven't tried them I definitely
recommend giving these a shot looked
around and it took me like five minutes
tops to figure out how I'm gonna do this
yeah biggest thing it's like you have
benches that you can like move around
yeah if you have that you're it's hard
to cheat and then a big thing with rows
if people forget is like your head
position matters right like you can kind
of take your scapula of retracting by
pulling your head forward
cuz you feel tension here and you
writing it on the roads so they push in
a cable row like just getting really
hard so people start doing this
right right right and I'm not even
finish me off yeah the rest you're
bringing yourself forward instead of the
bar okay back your head if you feel
tightness here so you can I think
getting something and with this because
it's right in your face people tend to
like really only do that double chin
right and your scapula is just really
free to move as much as they can
whatever the sign says I've got a crazy
laptop right now okay so exercise number
two we're gonna be doing a horizontal
push so we're doing this it's a slight
incline chest press here so what are you
thinking four sets and reps I want to do
some cluster work cuz it's pretty
efficient and I guess the theme today is
we're not in our usual setting it's not
our jam it's not our equipment we're
kind of short on sleep and when that
happens to me my pressing is probably
what takes the biggest hit so by doing
some sort of cluster work where I know I
have like one extended set right that
all afternoons focus on this one and
and I'll be able to give it a lot of
good hard reps yeah we'll go with that
so maybe eight or twelve and then okay
so when you say cluster set what we're
gonna do is we're gonna hit eight to
twelve reps on the first set then we're
gonna put the weight away for a second
catch about four to five deep breaths
okay get right back into it it's gonna
feel like the last four reps of the
first set and then we'll do that maybe
like three or four more times okay so
three or four total cluster says yes
when each cluster set involving like a
slight and pause in between then an
extra it like an extended set a lot of
good work in a short amount of time that
should be good how many clusters like
okay two four one four two five five
rescue breaths for more honest rescue
breaths for me more yeah ' and I like to
go before I actually want to go like
just a bit before that seems to be the
sweet spot
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
they start to get progressively harder
really quick yeah does that number -
that was perfect up I saw the first one
like this is going to be just right oh I
do one more
dig deep enough I've given you you're
like working visa make
yeah
let's go
are you alright
if you do this
sometimes I'm a central crack arrest you
let it go and I'll take along and then
like well that's happening yeah it's
like recovering it's like I think I
misunderstood I thought you said we were
going to do that cycle three or four
times and I was like bro okay I got she
was always like very quick and efficient
yes okay so we're gonna superset pull up
with a tricep movement we'll do some for
I guess the short head or just something
where our hands up to the side did you
get a lot of long head from the pull up
through yeah yeah yeah yeah my triceps
eventually start to burn from each other
are you doing these neutral grip for
okay what would you do like more with
them do you mean you're like I think
that's how it should be yeah I agree
for me it's wide grip even though I find
it harder saying yeah way more like way
more lat what are we shooting for here
I'd say with pull-ups and it's very easy
like one in the tank
okay whatever one in the tank is and
we're gonna shoot
down over here yes all right okay let's
do it
[Music]
all right so it'll finish it if you will
kinda what we did with that chest press
we're doing a little cluster there's
little sets after the first set we're
gonna do that with the pull-up it should
be quite good it's gonna work so we're
gonna do probably like I mean at this
point I may get like each reps
controlled and then we'll do like
clusters of two reps probably for me
okay sounds good let's do it
I said
[Applause]
I worked
[Applause]
I'm gonna go in here oh that's fine
that's fine cool you get more reps
that's fine
to mark
[Music]
[Applause]
that's pretty brutal
[Music]
no longer on that last night nothing
left man that's probably the craziest
set whatever you want to call it I've
done at an expo yeah I'll say that much
the thing with the pull-ups it's like
knowing how many reps you have in the
tank it's very easy yeah who can't tell
with other things but you know when you
have one left and then like it yeah all
right what's next
lateral raises biceps and then up next
we're gonna do
I think another superset we're gonna do
some lateral raises and some bicep curls
but they're not just here every day by
step internal or lateral raise we're
gonna use kettlebells for the lateral
raises if you don't have kettlebells a
lot of gyms so don't have pairs when it
comes to kettlebells so much options you
can use something like this you could
just use your standard plate but we're
going to use this for a lateral raises
and then also for the curl it's pretty
good that's convenient cuz we're doing
it more so for the lateral raises but
what I like about this is that the load
never gets ahead of where the doulton
starts so like you never get that
zero-gravity lateral raise where you
know the dumbbell is up here is always
gonna be hanging it can be very hard not
to feel it okay don't remember having
done them with kettlebells actually if I
have it's only just like a light warm-up
or something yeah we're going to kind of
lean forward just a bit and instead of
going straight to the sides because see
how you run out of room yeah you're
basically going to bring it forward to
in your midst after airplane and as you
can see you have so much more done there
all right and then on the way down we're
gonna try to keep our hand above our
belly button because those first few
inches there's just so much elasticity
from the rotation yep and if you just
kind of keep it here okay so we're just
gonna kind of float in that mid-range
idea with it elbows or the wrist
slightly out in front you're almost like
you do with the Machine really that's
the way the if she's put you right there
yeah especially with the high res man
you're gonna feel those and all right
you just chase the pain if you're what
hurts the most that's exactly what you
should be all right I'm gonna follow
your lead all right let's go here we go
great
it's perfect awesome I like a little
bend just to make the lever a little
shorter because it inserts here you know
yeah just a few joints too far away kind
of I could be the opponent of like doing
the leg extension with the pad on your
toes yeah I know yeah that makes like
doing this makes it easier to actually
work right
[Music]
these expressions in real wait to do the
turtles yeah okay I'll go here first so
you're going kind of a slight Bend and
then mid SCAP so kind of humorous little
bit more forward bend it'll be back to
hip
all right and then I touch my elbows
your elbow touch my hand under seven
hunt right there
lean forward touch my hand touched my
hand there you go
such both these points
[Music]
forward okay man I've never done them
like that not even close I don't know if
I'm just tired or if it's really that
hard yeah so quick you can yeah so quick
it feels like a different exercise in a
way but I do have a crazy side tell pump
so the right muscles are working to be
okay I'm going a little bit more yeah
that was the hardest part I mean your
delts have to be isometrically active to
keep you yes here all right yeah so it
just its own it's the tension just the
whole way through which I guess makes
sense I mean you're only in that
mid-range
yeah and you always do them like that oh
no this is different man I feel like I'm
gonna be sore in places I maybe haven't
been just doing a machine he locked into
the exact same plane of motion too so
it's nice to kind of take yourself out
of that rhythm you know
[Music]
that's money
yeah okay I think I kind of start to get
a bit more of a hang of it as I went
along like keeping it out front as
though in most deaths yeah yeah alright
let's do some curls new same thing for
do 15 20 and then dead cluster
[Music]
like I haven't
say the biggest thing like I noticed
training with you there's our first
workout together is it's like in person
there's much more intensity than I think
you may be last recording because your
training can seem as it is very very
calculated very precise I don't think
you realize that effort until you
actually see you doing it because it's
really hard you know but you make it
look easy because it's so controlled I
guess but I guess that's just the way
your style you know yeah yeah you guys
I'm just like there's some like
high-level pros and I'm like dude I wish
I could do that yeah I know I could get
away with that yeah you could if you
wanted to respect yeah
[Music]
okay
and our last one was that
that's crazy how many you get on this 15
have been three fours
those are a bit different you find your
hands slip in there and let it slow and
kind of let that happen okay
[Music]
yep four breaths get back in that's what
you think you ready
[Music]
those are so good man I haven't done
cluster sets like this forever
I'll occasionally throw it on yeah I'd
like to finish something out but it is
time efficient like you saw it's
actually so good for these Expo workouts
because usually you just have a trash
workout because you're not used to the
equipment and like just chase the pump
but with this man you pack a lot of
volume and everything you have to that
for that precise I feel like it just
does yes and yes great man I love it
cluster boys come on
we go two or three towards the last one
that's it thank you guys I just want to
say thanks to Berto for taking me
through the workout it was I would say
the best Expo workout I've probably ever
had it was nice man there's a different
style than what I'm used to if you guys
liked it man make sure you go check out
overdose Channel I'll have it linked
down there in the description
like the video if you liked it subscribe
if you happen to be new to the channel
and we'll see you guys the next one