when there's four people yelling to you
like that two of them are jacked one of
them is aing hot ass exercise science
student girl no joke man you get some
dudes in there there's a hot grad
student these mother will try to kill
themselves for that yeah I like to
think of myself as quite good looking if
I see myself trying hard in the mirror
I'm like oh yeah you want to impress
yourself Mike it's a whole other thing
we have a whole lot of ser part of this
channel folks welcome I'm Dr Mike Fon
sounds peration we have an awesome
special guest today this is Dr Eric
Helms is a competitive weightlifter
competitive powerlifter competitive
strongman
athlete have you competed in strongman
before I have that makes one of us comp
a pro bodybuilder pro- natural
bodybuilder which is awesome awesome
awesome I'm also very close to getting
my Natty Pro card in an alternate green
world and Eric is one of the core top
people for evidence-based information
from a guy that isn't just a science
nerd even though he is but he also lives
the life walks the walk he trains almost
daily he is a bro in every sense of the
word except the part that confers low IQ
and makes you say stupid things speaking
of stupid things it has been said many
many times that there is a limited
ability to apply studies to the real
world from for bodybuilding purposes
which is totally valid there are many
reasons for this internal external
validity e eological validity sample
size population and they're all really
good reasons there is a reason however
that people have stated may or may not
be a good reason here Dr Helms is going
to sort us out and the reason is
something like this people say look the
people in the training studies
recreationally trained undergraduates
most of them from University of upsa in
Sweden I know where that is it's in upsa
it's in Sweden yes and so um these
people don't know how to train hard they
don't train hard thus anytime you see a
study that says XYZ will grow you XYZ if
you go to failure that's not real
failure that's pretend failure they're
nowhere near it and even if it's an R
study it's like 10 R cuz people in
training studies don't go hard they're
not like us and is it a valid view Eric
tell us a story about all this well
first off thanks for that introduction
Mike and I would say that the only thing
I'm actually competitive in is
bodybuilding probably why is able to get
that Pro card eventually the rest I love
I have done and we'll leave it there
thank you for demeaning yourself please
continue that's you start that's how you
get people's trust oh I always demean
myself up front especially with women
that's right um so to answer your
question most directly I think the
answer is essentially it's completely
false and it's from the truth people in
training studies actually train
comparably hard to people in the real
world I people who conduct training
studies actually thought this through so
here's the thing you have to think about
who are the participants because they're
not just people from the University of
upsa they are also people who decided
that they want to participate in a
research study usually they're not paid
or paid very well so they're very vient
they want to be there correct they're
science interested they are also people
who like to please the researcher and
that may not not even be a character
trait of them but that is the social
environment you're in when you join a
study you're given a participant
information sheet that's normally
absurdly long because you have to please
the Ethics Committee they love filling
them out they do uh you're explained to
it you're given informed consent your
walk through a familiarization session
and then you start training and you're
told what's going to happen and training
is supervised and you have typically at
least one if not a team of a mixture of
undergraduate and graduate research
assistants and poent potentially a
postdoctor you know someone with a PhD
or just a PhD student who is there
because it is something fundamentally
important to them as a researcher they
need to do it for their PHD they need to
do it for their career and they are
very careful to make sure that the
methods go the way they're intended so
you have someone who's voluntarily
decided to join a study and wants to
please someone who is running a study
who is very motivated to make sure that
it is experimentally controlled in the
way it should be and what I think is
happening in the comment sections or in
the conversations you see where people
assume that going to failure is just not
happening especially in untrained or
recreationally trained participants is
they're basing it off their experience
going to the gy gym mhm and I will
concede that if you go to the average
gym in most places and you just watch
someone on a lap pull down they're
probably finishing around a six seven R
let me real quickly uh add my two cents
into that um I think there is a
population in the gym which absolutely
does that and worse 12 R the person
who's like doing arm curls like at this
speed with no resistance for like an
hour you spot reducing but there are
also very many regular ass people in the
gym that every set ends in concentric
failure and then some for STS that's
also very common so what I'm saying is
it's absolutely true to say a lot of
people in the gym don't go hard but it's
also true to say a lot of randos go hard
as and like that also happens so
it's not even true to say that all
people who are just starting in the gym
or don't have an experience don't go
hard dude I've had beginners try to kill
themselves in there sure sorry please
continue and no and you're right there's
actually been experimental research
where they've taken people who are
trained recreationally trained and two
to three years of consistent training
three times a weekish something like
that that that's a decent average
description of literature the specific
study I'm thinking of was less than that
okay two years then I I think it might
have been even just six months or longer
okay and the point is is that they asked
them are you training for strength or
hypertrophy um and then on bench press
uh what loads do you use for your 10
reps and then they had them actually
load that 10 rep load not their 10rm but
what they normally do 10 reps with in
the gym and then they had them go all
the way to failure after warm up or no
they warmed them up they brought them
through yeah so really prepar these
people do their best yeah they had an
ecologically valid motivated session
which is not what most people have in
the gym unless they have a workout
partner and then they push them to
failure and you did get to your point A
diversity of actual
true what how many reps could I have
done and there were a sizable number of
people who were at good RS you know what
I would say is 02 three very few people
are actually going hitting failure on
their 10th rep very few and there were
maybe I think a third of them who were
at a five r or greater but onethird is
not even a majority it's a it's a
sizable minority um and there are maybe
some contexts where that being your 10
rep load if you're doing a high volume
protocol or something like that that
make maybe just fine um but I would say
that that is also not the same
as a training study that is being
conducted with a specific rir or
especially with the guidance to go to
failure where it's being supervised and
the people who are joining it are these
people motivated to try to please the
researchers now in research on failure
we're comparing failure to non-failure
groups or actually just your typical
resistance training study they will
typically Define the loads they're using
and the proximities to failure in one
way or another if they're actually
having them trained to failure the ideal
scenario is that that they're reporting
that as momentary muscular failure which
is arguably the most objective
definition of failure where yes You
observe them attempting to complete a
concentric rep and they fail to do so
momentary muscular failure I actually
just prefer momentary failure because we
don't actually know if it was muscular
which is a valid critique but
nonetheless we are observing the person
in the lab try to attempt a rep and they
fail are they sandbagging though don't
know but you don't know for anyone so
the same don't know whether that's in
the gym or in the real world but aren't
gym guys 10 years guys in guys on drugs
aren't they tougher guys can't we assume
that the other people are
sandbagging I mean more frequently than
not maybe but I don't think it's a fair
comparison to say a high-intensity
trainer who goes to momentary muscular
failure in bodybuilding is the
comparison we must have in these studies
because that's actually not most the
people complaining about these studies
not applying to them see this
ubiquitously from people who quote
unquote train hard I've been a personal
trainer for the very start of my career
then a strength conditioning coach and
now I'm a bodybuilding coach and I do
seminars I do train people in person
occasionally in different settings
academically um and I've trained
alongside weightlifters who gone to the
Olympics powerlifters at the ipf World
level um I have trained alongside
strongmen like you said uh and I've
trained alongside many bodybuilders and
I can tell you that even in those
communities regularly train to failure
even when it's prescribed is somewhat of
a rarity for real failure for real
failure like momentary muscular failure
first I'd say that's not necessarily
always the ideal way to train well
that's for sure our viewers will know
that yeah and when it is it is something
that even those athletes are asking like
oh I that's why I have a workout partner
that's why you see him Pumping Iron them
training together and you know right so
Arnold standing behind him like one more
oh God damn it Arnold you know he has to
do another rep would he have done the
rep of Arnold wasn't there maybe maybe
not and these are Olympians yes right so
motivation and pushing to failure I
think is something that everyone knows
is challenging yeah um but absolutely in
sporting populations it's done
consistently but I would say even more
consistently it occurs in the lab in the
lab because session after session study
after study yes you have a defined
criteria if it's momentary muscular
failure you're going to observe that and
the the occurrence of sandbagging is
some unknown amount that I think is
quite low based upon who's deciding to
participate in the study you can just
see yourself out you don't even have to
show up if they were paying tens of
thousands a week for these studies I
could see people showing up and flubbing
the failure but like have to be there no
you would probably drop out sooner than
you would just decide to fake it every
time you know there are other
definitions of failure sometimes people
report RMS repetition maximums and that
is kind of unclear what's actually
happening in the literature um what
typically is operationally really
happening is they establish a tenorm
initial
which is typically like a 10 RP is the
most reps you can get at that load you
may have tried another one Maybe not
maybe it's just slow maybe the
researcher decided maybe you stopped and
then throughout the rest of the study it
says and we maintain the 10rm what that
really means is that at some point you
were able to do more than 10 reps and
they increase load and they just didn't
do a very good job of describing it
ideally they do describe this and you
see a progression model which means
you're getting up to a 10 RP you're
going down to a 9 or8 back up to a 10 RP
but you're always staying close enough
to they can see when you progress past
the prescrib load sure so far what we
have people who sign up for the studies
are not randomly sampled they want to be
there and they demonstrated that every
day that they show back up they're not
getting paid at least not much nominal
Amounts is ton of their time they're
very interested they signed up for it
another thing we have is based on your
personal experience which is quite Grand
you've actually trade with a bunch of
people and you're like it would be a lie
for me to say that strong man and
bodybuilders and power really train
harder than the people that I've seen go
Harden studies you've observed studies
you've conducted also true so far
correct now I will say if you were to
remove the researchers from that
equation yes no no no but why would we
remember the internally valid critique
these studies guys don't go train harder
yeah the guy by himself without
researchers who gives a we don't
care because they never happen to to my
so that last thing I want to expand on
one last point with you Eric I've been
involved in training studies we were
instructed by the sheet in which you
write out your methods to continue
verbal reinforcement of certain kinds
through the set especially towards the
end of the set so you have some guy Gary
He's lifting and needs to get 10 reps
come on Gary let's go Gary Come on
Gary finish one more one more you got it
good good stuff like when there's four
people yelling at you like that two of
them are jacked one of them is a
hot ass exercise science student girl no
joke man you get some dudes in there and
there's a hot graad student
these will try to kill
them elv for that we are I like to
think of myself as quite good-looking if
I see myself trying hard in the mirror
I'm like oh yeah you want to impress
yourself Mike it's a whole other thing
we have a whole lot of Serial Killer
part of this channel in any case can you
speak to that yes is there like a
crickets environment where people go to
failure gym and they all sit back and
like very well or is it like we're
getting into it tell us about that psych
since the ' 80s it's been established
that verbal encouragement the social
environment uh external feedback that's
more recent all these things music all
can improve acute strength or endurance
performance so you know if you hang out
and you got your office and it happens
to be next to the lab where they have an
ergometer you're GNA
hear nice job 10 people screaming that
at the same time
go nice job you know it's it's this
constant thing and you have typically
multiple people and you're going to have
an abundance of spotters because again
ethics they're quite close to you
actually yeah and there's a study
showing that spotting improves strength
performance makes sense you're conf feel
more liberated yeah you're you're you're
more likely to go for the rep that
you're unsure that you can get there's
also another human there with a social
expectation of you trying correct it's
weird not to try when people are there
like all right try your best there's six
grad students you're like yeah
these people yeah it's hard not to try
when you have a room full of positive
people who are motivating you to do it
you signed up to be in that room correct
So based on all of this and based on
your perception you're comfortable
saying that the very least I don't want
to put words in your mouth at the very
least the supposition that people in
studies don't train as hard as real
people in the real world is unfounded
and maybe at best it's actually just you
would bet money it's not true where do
you stand between those two the places
where I'm most confident that the
training is as hard as what is described
in the methods is in research papers and
if that research paper and being very
specific here is one where the training
would look hard on paper it's harder
than what's being done in the real world
on average now you you don't have a team
of five undergrads yelling at you
everywhere exactly so I'm trying to
rrange for that yeah now now you could
set up a study when you compare a
failure group to a non-failure group
where they're doing uh 10 by5 with their
10rm you know so they're intentionally
stopping at what is roughly a five R and
that would be semi hard but not that
hard right no one's claiming that that's
hard training correct those are studies
designed to train how hard designed to
test how hard do we need to train to get
the results that we want yes yes okay so
when studies that claim they're going
hard they're going hard yes for
real for real absolutely and some of the
protocols are downright brutal you know
oh my God there's a reason I don't do
training studies myself I'm like that
would die at set number seven yeah there
is some bfr research that shout out to
my buddy Omar for for fun he decided to
show how hard it was and it was sets to
failure on bfr front squats that's a
cruel joke yeah
he he he basically collapsed you know um
there are studies where they're
comparing low load to high load training
where for example out of Brad shonfeld
had 25 to 35 RMS on leg press people
yelling at you yeah and so terrible we
do that on the RP channel to voluntary
bodybuilders and in one of uh those
manuscripts I was reading to discussion
and they noted and of course eloquent
you know scientific writing that uh this
may not be ecologically feasible due to
the number of vomiting occurrences in
the group yes it's so feasible there's a
trash can in your gy yeah
there you go I love it so basically when
hard training is experimentally tested
it's hard period when people say they do
hard training and I meet them in the
wild maybe I go maybe I need to see it
though and it doesn't matter if they're
30 pounds heavier than me and have an
ipb Pro card 100% honest well why would
it I know a lot of those guys they train
like you know insert uh outdated
gender-based insult here you like that
that's how I you you you managed to say
it without saying it yes which that's
saying something that's say something
without saying something unbelievable
that's the best note we can possibly
finish on guys follow Mr Eric Dr Eric's
my god um see I used to saying Mr Nick
Shaw is my boss and beats me if I get
that wrong uh Dr Eric Helms is a
researcher in New Zealand of all the
stuff he also looks exactly and is
Captain America he is on 3dmj which has
an unbelievable Vault of I don't know a
TR
in-depth whole courses on YouTube you
can sign up for that there's a crapload
of free YouTube stuff you can get from
these guys they have awesome websites
awesome social media you have published
I've lost track of how many books you
have out books Google Eric Helms find
his ship you are going to have an
explosion of science-based influence
ideally in the area of your mouth what
that last part's nonsense see you guys
next
time
[Music]