hey folks Dr Mike here with Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
how to deadlift for growth
if you're gonna deadlift for growth now
here's the deal the deadlift
has been maligned in some cases by
myself personally as maybe not the best
growth exercise why
the range of motion isn't amazing
not a whole lot of muscles are being put
under a stretch it's not exactly sure
which muscle is specifically the focus
because the deadlift does such a good
job of Distributing loader for many
muscles there it's difficult to have a
situation where it's really a Target
muscle without altering the deadlift at
a pretty fine level of technical
execution and probably most importantly
the stimulus to fatigue ratio of the
deadlift because it is so so so
fatiguing is often just not as great as
other exercises that are comparable for
example if you want a big back your
option is to deadlift versus bent row I
think bent row is usually a better
choice doesn't mean they're always a
better choice though and in some cases
especially for beginners intermediates
and in some other special cases
deadlifts are an excellent tool for
growing muscle
but
how you use deadlifts to grow muscle is
a big deal and can be the difference
between being like ah man why'd I do
deadlifts again for six weeks I just
feel like shit and I think I'm not much
bigger versus wow I'm glad I included
deadlifts and I can see these thick
slabs of beef on my insert muscle group
here
specifically I have seven tips for you
today as to how to improve the way you
do deadlifts if you choose to do them
for muscle growth and I'm assuming that
you already have calculated that the
deadlift will be a good enough stimulus
to fatigue ratio exercise for you to
make it a logically valid alternative at
least some of the time compared to other
stuff you're doing in the gym
all right
first number one
is picking the right deadlift for the
job
in my view if you're training the glutes
for example two very good options for
the deadlift are deficit Sumo which
seems to Target the glutes very much and
the deficit puts the glutes in a huge
stretch which is a huge part of the
growth process or a conventional
deadlift that looks like a stiff legged
deadlift in most of its execution
however you bend the knees the entire
time just enough to keep the tension off
of the hamstrings your back is flat your
knees Bend as you go down just enough to
keep the hands out of it and you go to a
deficit so at the bottom your glutes are
stretched like crazy because your back
is tight and preferably you wear a good
weight lifting belt and your hamstrings
aren't the fundamental Prime movers
because they have been put into
insufficiency by you moving your knees
forward your glutes are the absolute
Pride mover number one and number two
are also at a loaded stretch at the
bottom of the movement sounds like a big
win for the glutes
if you want to train your back it's the
best kind of deadlift to do is probably
the conventional kind and as a matter of
fact from a deficit
the thing is the deficit is made from
you bending your knees a little bit more
than usual bending your hips a bit more
than usual and or rounding your back a
little bit if you start with higher reps
and ease in you will not automatically
die and have a herniation of the spine
while rounding the back of the deadlift
but if it's for higher reps if it's
under control and it's to a good deficit
some degree of back flexion and then
extending the back on the concentric is
gonna really grow the living shit out of
your back quite safely I might add
deficits I'm sorry deadlifts that are
not in this two category of things we
essentially have three types of
deadlifts deficit Sumo deficit
conventional for the glutes and then a
deficit regular conventional with a bent
back for back
if the deadlifts you're using for
hypertrophy are not in that uh situation
or if they're not one of those three
does that mean they're going to be
functionless no does that mean I think
you could be using something more
effective yes
in most cases absolutely so if someone
does a deadlift for hypertrophy that's
not one of these I'm interested to hear
their reasoning but I'm assuming that
maybe they didn't do a lot of reasoning
or just haven't thought the issue
through for example a lot of people like
rack pulls I'm going to tell you one of
the only reasons that people like
rockpools is to be able to put a lot of
weight on the bar and have a chance to
yell so the whole gym is impressed or to
delude themselves into thinking they're
working very hard ifb Pros are amazing
at doing this the rackpole is mostly a
gigantic waste of time although it's a
great way to isometrically grow your
traps
the rackpole is just not a very thought
out movement
I'm not so sure what it trains and don't
worry its Advocates also are not sure
what it trains what about the hexbar
deadlift especially with the handles
turned up well if you bring the deadlift
close to your center of gravity it
begins more to be a leg movement in a
partial range and less of a back
movement your legs are stronger than
your back which is why you can usually
hex bar deadlift more than you can
regular deadlift but even if
especially if you use the handles that
pop out
the hex bar deadlift is a very partial
range of motion which again you can use
a shitload of weight to do exactly what
I'm not sure and I don't even know what
muscle is targeted anymore because the
quads the adductors the hamstrings the
glutes and the back all spread the load
so evenly in a hex deadlift it makes it
the perfect candidate for maximum load
lifting because you milk all the muscles
out on their best anatomically favorable
positions but you really don't put any
muscle at a disadvantage put it under a
loaded stretch and as thus I'm not sure
what the target fried Birch View is of
course there are exceptions to this but
generally speaking I do prefer these
kinds of deadlifts to the ones that many
people do I would say erroneously by a
small margin for hypertrophic gain
number two tip is to do slow controlled
eccentrics it is really fun to drop your
deadlifts really fast if you're a power
lifter and you want to go for very high
percentage of your max lift without
accruing as much fatigue as you need
dropping your deadlifts or writing them
down because you're not allowed to drop
on competition having your hands on it
but writing down pretty fast is a really
really good idea if you're using the
deadlifts for growth we already know
that essential contractions are at least
a very powerful for growth if not even
better than concentric attraction
so then why the fuck would you drop the
deadlift well the reason is do you want
more reps or more weight if you have to
eccentrically control your deadlifts you
get more hypertrophy but it is more
painful to Your Ego because you're not
as strong as you thought you were huge
recommendation there and it takes the
injury probability and shrinks it
substantially
at the expense of the ego of course
number three tip is to do a very gentle
touch at the bottom you can do a full
stop at the bottom but then getting the
deadlift off of the floor is actually
pretty hard work and that requires a lot
of neurological drive and the movement
from static to start from from isometric
to concentric isn't particularly uh
hypertrophic but a gentle touch allows
you a nice little stretch reflex it also
puts a shitload of tension on the
muscles that you're targeting when
they're under their maximum stretch in
the lift and because it's very gentle it
is a super super low risk it's just a
matter of kind of finding out where the
floor is noting it touching gently and
coming back up and because you have to
control all the way down slow you have a
very powerful eccentric contraction all
the way to the loaded stretch holy shit
that's a recipe for big ass games and it
will make you soar and you will notice
that shit
number four I recommend sets of 5 to 15
repetitions anything more than 15 reps
is really just a cardio thing with
deadlifts and then you're not really
training a muscle in most cases anything
less than five is not enough volume per
set to grow as much muscle as possible
so that's kind of ruled out the other
ends of the range
number five
consider the systemic and axial fatigue
you're imposing especially by arranging
your workout within the week and picking
what movements you do for the other
exercises for the week
it's probably not wise to do deadlifts
and stuff like a deadlifts and good
mornings and two different kinds of bent
rows and flexion rows in the same week
and if you're going to do some of those
things in the same week I'd say move
half of them out to the next time you do
a program and then the ones that are
remaining push away from the deadlift so
that you get some even distribution of
how much you are straining your spine
and your back and all that stuff you
don't deadlifts really beat the shit out
of you axially they load the spine a ton
which isn't a bad thing it's just very
fatiguing and also they beat the shit
out of your muscles a ton specifically
muscles in your lower back if you need
them for stability and power generation
and other lifts you had better make sure
the deadlifts occur after those lifts or
there's a few days between when you
deadlift heavy and when you squat heavy
or when you do good mornings and when
you do stuff like a deadlifts just be
smart about it and understand that your
lower back and your core and your
ability to load actually through the
spine can be more limited than your
other sources of fatigue so you're like
write down your plan you're like it's
not that many exercises how the fuck am
I so beat up because you noticed oh four
to the six back exercises I chose really
involve a lot of spinal loading heavily
involved the lumbar muscles and the
spinal Erectors all the way through and
I just like okay I should have known
they don't recover as fast which is
really the case
number six
keep your Technique spotless and slowly
progress in load over time
why is this advice for the deadlift
specifically I mean it's true for
everything but with a deadlift I think
people get carried away and even
bodybuilders have deadlifts in the
program they end up like just putting a
shitload of weight on the bar just
fucking going to town everything goes
out the window and it just turns into an
ego lift there are many many top Pros
who still do this their entire financial
situation or at least proximately
depends on them staying injury free and
they go and deadlift six seven eight
hundred pounds plus and make Instagram
posts about it on the one hand mad
respect you're strong shit on the other
hand the fuck are you doing are you
trying to use this deadlift for strength
as a side hobby sweet as long as you've
accepted injuries no worries but if
you're thinking this really helps
hypertrophy if you really really want to
help hypertrophy you can make sure that
your Technique is always good and you're
gently progressing in load over time you
may still eventually get very very
strong in the deadlift but it has to be
a situation where you added five or ten
pounds every time not one where you
usually lift four plates and you come in
and you're like I'm fucking feeling it
Brothers put five fucking Wheels on the
bar you know if you're call plates
Wheels you're the fucking man
lastly Point number seven
when you're training your glutes with
deadlifts you can do them at the
beginning middle or end of the workout
generally is a very favorable effect
if you're training your back I would
recommend that you stay save your
deadlift for the very end of the workout
for two reasons reason number one is
your back will be so beat up by the time
you get to deadlifts it'll already be
the limiting factor
in your deadlifts your glutes and hams
can easily power the deadlift and if
your back is still really fucking strong
too you need to stress your glutes and
hands of shitload put a shitload of
volume and weight through them to get
the effect you want for your back but if
your back is already tired and it's
going to give out
technique wise and you're just not being
gonna be able to straighten yourself out
anymore when it's tired you're going to
need that many fewer sets and Reps and
load to expose your glutes and
everything else to that's a really
really really big deal
in addition to that
the deadlift systemically fatigues you
like crazy approximately five sets of
deadlifts later you look at the pull
down bar and you're like fuck that I'm
just trying to go home and of course you
won't go home because you're tough
you're gonna go do pull downs but you're
not going to try as hard as you could
have if you did them fresh do your whole
back workout and don't you worry
deadlifts are so stimulative and so
the raw stimulus magnitude is so high as
long as you do any deadlifts at the end
of your plan your back is already tired
you won't need to work very hard for
Dallas to be very effective but if you
do them fresh you're gonna need to work
really hard for them to be effective
because you're fresh and that's going to
beat the shit out of you for the rest of
your workout I would say it's thinking
about it in reverse of course if you
want to deadlift as much as you possibly
can sure shit you better done the first
but that's not the goal Regional muscle
hypertrophy is the goal that especially
for back you want to do it after a whole
bunch of Montrose after pull Downs all
that stuff folks thank you so much for
tuning in if you want more nerdy stuff
like this and even nerdier we have a
members section for you guys YouTube
membership it's like five or six bucks a
month and you get extra videos I think
one video extra per week
and we have a team full round Forum we
can build you a plan for diet for
training it's all included there's a
huge discussion forum where you can
always post a bunch of your training
videos we'll analyze the techniques get
back to you can ask me personal
questions there's an only fans component
I'm kidding hopefully YouTube doesn't
banish for that comment in any case
thanks for tuning in guys and I'll see
you next time