[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at a variety of
different exercises for developing the
forearms and grip strength I actually
think the forms are one of the most
underrated muscles for looking jacked
especially when wearing a t-shirt when
the only muscles really exposed are the
forearms and the neck so you want to
make sure you're not neglecting them but
Before we jump into it let's cover some
basic anatomy first now many trainees
think of the forums as a single muscle
but there are in fact over 20 different
muscles from wrist to elbow these
muscles can be split up into an anterior
compartment on the front and a posterior
compartment on the back the interior
muscles perform wrist flexion and finger
flexion so anytime you curl your wrist
or anytime you grip something you'll be
training the front of your forearm and
the posterior muscles perform wrist and
finger extension probably the most
prominent muscle on the back of the
forearm is the brachioradialis which
along with the biceps flexes the elbow
however well it will be active in normal
supinated curls because it sits on the
back of the forearm it's gonna be more
active when the wrist is pronated as the
biceps will be put into a biomechanical
disadvantageous position so for this
reason the first exercise we're going to
cover is the reverse grip curl now here
you can use either an EZ bar or a
pre-loaded barbell whatever feels more
comfortable I personally find the semi
pronated grip on an EZ bar puts less
strain on my wrists you want to take a
thumbless grip which is gonna get more
of the interior muscles involved by
preventing the bar from resting
passively on your thumbs and as you grip
the bar you want to think about clamping
your 8 fingers into the base of your
hands as hard as you comfortably can
some training is fine that putting the
wrist either into slight extension or
slight flexion can help improve their
mind muscle connection with the
brachioradialis so you can experiment
with that while keeping your elbows
pinned in at your sides curl the weight
up until you reach maximum elbow flexion
and then lower the weight back down
under control 1 paper from marine Ian's
colleagues found that peak torque for
the brachioradialis occurred between 100
120 degrees of elbow flexion where as
peak torque for the biceps was closer to
80 degrees this might imply that
performing partial reps in the top half
of the range could help target the
brachioradialis over the biceps so as an
advanced intensity technique
after completing 12 to 15 full reps you
can extend the set by doing top half
reverse curls now other than just using
too much momentum I would say the most
common error here is letting the bar
rest in your hand or on your thumbs
while this isn't necessarily wrong it
will make the lift easier and target
less of the forearm overall the next
exercise we're going to cover is the
wrist roller which is in my opinion one
of the most effective movements for
working both the front and the back of
the forearm since as one hand goes into
flexion the other goes into extension
now here I'd recommend standing on some
kind of elevated box or riser so the
Rope can hang a bit lower you want to
load the rope with a light weight and
lift the plate up by twisting your
wrists backward once the plate reaches
the top reverse the wrist motion
allowing the plate to go back down as
you actively untwist the rope rather
than just letting it fall and I think
the best way to overload here is by
incrementally adding weight or by
gradually increasing the total distance
that you move the plate with the same
weight by doing extra rounds now one
common error that I see here is holding
the roller well out in front of you and
while this isn't necessarily wrong it
will most likely cause your front delts
to fatigue before your forearms so I
prefer to keep my arms and more in by my
sides with a flexed elbow which is also
going to isometrically tax the
brachioradialis and the biceps to a
degree as well okay up next let's have a
look at the barbell towel hold is a more
functional exercise that's gonna have
more carryover two other lifts such as
heavy deadlifts and rows and my opinion
this is one of the most underrated
exercises for developing a pure grip
strength so you want to set up a barbell
in a squat rack just above knee height
so you don't need to dead lift the
weight up first wrap to small gym towels
around the bar so the ends of the towels
overlap in your hands and grip the
towels as hard as you can while lifting
the bar up the few inches off the pins
until you reach full lockout you'll want
to start relatively light even for
roughly 30 second holds from there you
can overload by adding time up to 45
seconds then adding some weight and
repeating starting back at 30
once again you can also load these from
a pull-up bar however even putty weight
can be difficult at first so if you're
looking for a challenge definitely give
these a shot they're also a bunch of
other more basic isometric grip focused
exercises like farmers walks standard a
barbell holds that I'll train the same
basic thing however I like using the
towels because they allow you to tax the
forearms and develop grip strength
without having to load as much weight
which can save time and spare other
assistance muscles from generating as
much fatigue also with traditional
barbell holds it's tougher to train
finger flexion quite as much since you
can just let the bar sort of sit in your
palms as opposed to literally crushing
the toggles in with your fingers all
right up next I want to cover one of my
favorite forearm drills which is the
pleat pinch some athletes count pinching
strength as its own feet apart from
gripping in the palms and this exercise
is really going to strengthen up the
digit flexors of the anterior forearm so
here you want to grab two plates
side-by-side and pinch them up off the
ground by squeezing your fingers
together as hard as possible and
recommend starting off with two five or
ten pound plates eventually graduating
on 225 pounds or even thirty five pound
plates and if you're really trying to
beef up your hands as much as possible
these can also be loaded with the thumb
plus one finger at a time so for example
you can hit your thumb and index or your
thumb and pinky fingers individually to
really specialize now but I mostly like
the plate pinch because it allows you to
target each side individually which can
be helpful for identifying and
correcting left to right grip imbalances
and if you find your finger slipping I
definitely recommend using chalk and
while these grip based exercises will
undoubtedly build the forearms they're
mostly training isometric strength so
I'd like to quickly cover a few
exercises that take the fingers in the
wrist through a more dynamic active
range of motion at first we can train a
crushing strength by using a hand
gripper
this might be overkill if you're already
doing some of the previous exercises but
it does make for a convenient way to get
some form training in at home while
taking the fingers through an active
range of motion now as a body builder I
personally still really like the basic
dumbbell wrist curl for lagging forearms
now it may not be as functional or have
as much carryover as some of the others
but it will hit the anterior forearm
really well it's really simple to
perform and it's easy to overload that
gradual
adding reps or weight over time and
since we're isolating a single joint in
a relatively smaller muscle group I like
to stick to higher reps in the 15 to 20
zone and similarly you can train a wrist
extension by flipping your arm over
positioning your wrists just off the
bench and doing 15 to 20 reps with
slightly lighter dumbbells now when it
comes to training frequency and volume I
definitely don't think hitting your
forearms directly is required for
everyone as they're already gonna be
getting a lot of indirect work from any
pulling and dead lifting in your program
however I would say that to really
maximize their development some
isolation is necessary especially if
they're a weak point for you and you can
start by simply adding in one or two of
these movements once or twice per week
and then assess your progress from there
or if you're really looking to take your
forearm training up a notch and you can
check out my forum
hypertrophied ID on my website which
i've knocked down to just 5 bucks for
this video that discusses the anatomy
and biomechanics and the scientific
research on foreign training in more
detail than I could go into in this
video and it lays out a 8 week forearm
program you guys can incorporate into a
variety of different splits so I'll have
that as the first link in the
description box down below if you guys
would like to pick it up and show me
some support for the work that I'm doing
over here on the channel and that is all
that I have for this one guys don't
forget to leave the video a thumbs up if
you enjoyed it subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next one