[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike inter-cell here for
Renaissance period ization Renaissance
diet book 2.0 overview chapter 12
monitoring your progress we recorded it
a little bit earlier and here it is
dieting is all good in theory and you
could make a sweet diet using chapter 10
designing your own diet chapter but how
do you know if it's working well you got
a monitor right there's not any complex
system or action that someone sets in
motion with no monitoring everything you
your hair conditioner doesn't assume
it's working properly in your house it
monitors the temperature and matches its
performance to the actual result so when
we look at monitoring your progress the
first thing we have to do is examine
some normative standards because people
think okay how lean should I be or how
over fat or how much fat is okay and a
lot of folks get really caught up a case
in point for both males and females it
doesn't seem to be a body fat number
that is too low in other words I used to
do body composition testing for sports
division 1 athletes Olympians you read
out there are some folks a lot of folks
it doesn't matter what you read out to
them when you get their body fat they're
gonna be like oh geez
right so if you say you're 12% fan
they're like oh my god 12% oh and they
grab something that has fat on it
immediately in shy way if you say you're
5% fat I grew 5% is that good or bad
right if you say you're 1% fat which is
almost never gonna happen you know I
think there's some people that will
still find that to be like oh geez
that's one that's 1% too fat and I want
to be 0% fat so because there's that
trend who want to be completely lean
which is busy logically impossible you'd
be dead we got a sort of set up some
boundaries for what's decent right and
there's a range so for males
five percent is competition lien in that
area circus five percent maybe two
percent up maybe two percent down it's
nowhere you can be for a long time ten
percent and up is the only real
sustainable Pro fat percentage for most
people but you can dip as low as five
percent a little lower for some number
of weeks and months and be just fine on
the top-end
for performance and health the average
number is twenty percent if you get much
fatter than twenty percent it's not
really clear that's great for your
performance and it's probably not
amazing for your health so give those
numbers some thought now if you were
twenty two percent and you're making
crazy muscle gains you're a shotput or
you're a powerlifter
don't you worry about a thing but if
you're at you know twenty two percent
you go to the doctor and he's like I
can't tell you you're healthy and also
you want to be a bodybuilder so you want
to see your muscles and you don't really
see a whole lot it's probably time to
lean up a little bit it's certainly we
you know if you're twenty-seven
twenty-eight twenty-nine percent as a
male and you're like that whatever I'm
getting huge it's probably not the best
idea from performance muscle or health
let's get to females females get as lean
as ten percent for contests sometimes a
little lower than that but they have
more sort of essential reproductive fat
the males females at ten percent in the
requisite areas judged by bodybuilding
are just as lean striated glutes crazy
crisscross abs the whole deal females
generally start to lose the ability to
have their periods below 15% fat on
average it's not a good idea to hang out
below 15% fat because it's actually
really bad for your health
a long term especially for bone health
so 15% plus is a healthy normal range
for females up to about 25% is a highly
athletic range depending on how its
distributed in your genetics so if
you're a female between 15% and 22%
you're lean real lean and if your
performance athlete you're doing
phenomenal now if your performance
athlete or it's a regular person trying
to stay in shape you're female unless
you're over 30% fat there's a really no
cause for health concern and probably
just a trade-off of how you want to look
how you want to feel how much fat loss
I want to do so females will get a body
fat read up it says 28 percent they're
like oh my god it's the end of the world
it's not for females up to 30% it's just
fine it's not really predictive of any
kind of disease or any kind of really
crazy performance loss or anything like
that up to 30 percent is cool you can be
significantly fatter than 30 percent and
be a-okay it just probably not a good
idea to purposefully exit that range so
if you're female and you're gaining
muscle and you're a 25% and your coach
is like let's get you to 35% there'll be
a ton of muscle all along that journey
maybe stop at 30 right but if you're at
32 percent you're performing super well
you love how you look and your doctor
says your health is super good don't you
worry about a thing
nothing's going on so now that we kind
of know the sort of range is there way
more about that in the book by the way
let's talk about we actually get those
values for ourselves how do you test
your body fat how do you test your
muscularity right in the book we have a
list of 12 methods of body composition
analysis and they're scaled and ranked
by sort of a trade-off of cost and
intricacy right so some of them are very
intricate and very expensive timewise
money-wise equipment wise access right
you probably just walk into a hospital
and get an MRI for your body fat
whenever you want unless you that's perk
of the job or something that'd be
amazing right and but those methods tend
to be the way more accurate and precise
on the other hand there's methods that
are super rough super quick and easy but
they're not super precise we're gonna
try to go through a couple of these
today just talk about them super briefly
and then talk about the ones that really
work the best on an average for most
people in the real world so I'm just
gonna list these out body weight is a
measure it's a proxy for body fat
percentage and muscularity especially
for body fat percentage for people in
the fitness community it works very very
poorly right cuz you're gonna be 200
pounds of solid muscle you could be 120
and pure fat totally possible body mass
index writes your fat to height
relationship it was probably a bit
better than body weight and predicting
how fat you are it works really well for
large populations insurance pools things
like that medical field for folks in the
fitness community live
very important estimate very poor
measure body circumference right your
waist-to-hip ratio measuring your arms
and legs starts to get a little bit more
to actually start to measure stuff about
how your body looks and how your body
looks can inform as to what percentage
muscle and fat very roughly super super
rough targets there but can be used as
pretty good guideposts like you could
you start at a forty inch waist if you
lose fat you're gonna be losing inches
off your waist every month it's gonna
happen if you're not losing inches off
your waist your diets probably not
working right
BIA by electrical impedance analysis
shoots a harmless current through your
one part of your body and detects it
through the other and as the current
passes through your body the more fat it
meets the more resistant resistance it
meets the amount of current detected us
will sort of indicative of how much fat
versus how much not fat you have lean
tissue including muscle the BIA is
usually a really not so great device
this error rate is really high so you
get a number and that number probably
doesn't correspond to exactly anything
going on but if you're using one every
week that number changing can indicate
which way you're going so if it's going
down you're probably getting leaner if
it's going up you're probably not
getting leaner right but just that
number ply doesn't mean much if it says
15% G's you could be anywhere from eight
percent to twenty two percent or
something like that and you would be
none the wiser but you know if it's
fifteen percent and then a month later
it's thirteen percent then a month later
it's you know nine percent or something
yeah you're probably getting leaner
right rep strength repetition strength
what's your set of ten on the benchpress
what's your set of ten on the squat the
pull-ups so on and so forth if those are
going up you're probably gaining muscle
over the long term especially if you're
used to those movements and the
techniques not a huge factor if they're
going down especially if you're in a fat
loss diet and then going down fast you
might be losing muscle it might not be a
great thing great thing to keep mirror
details like if you look in the mirror
and you notice how many abs you have if
you're running out of ABS are probably
getting fatter if you're getting more
cut you're probably getting leaner a lot
of bodybuilders use this especially
closer to a show when body composition
devices that are measurement based more
scientific devices start to not predict
well because they're not designed for
such low body fats and in the end if
you're a bodybuilder or to compete in
physique sport how do you look in the
mirror is actually the only thing
because I don't care you know if mr.
Olympia has 12% body fat but that that's
hidden somewhere that no one sees who
cares if you're stripped up that's the
only thing you need clothing fit is
another one look if your clothes are
fitting the getting looser and you think
you're getting leaner okay you're
probably getting leaner right if you're
closer we're getting tighter maybe
you're getting a lot of muscle maybe not
I may be getting a lot of fat skin folds
skin folds take a train operator who's
done thousands of skin fold themselves
in order to be good and it takes the
same person every time if you have
access to that skin folds are pretty
decent if you don't if you do them
yourself just waste to do them yourself
that are decent which we'll get to in a
bit but if just a random like a buddy of
yours the gym does it oh my god if it's
a different person every time it's a
total waste of your time the bod pod
it's actually measuring how much air you
displace it measures your volume it
knows how much away that way it
estimates your density tells you how
much is fat and how much is muscle very
decent has good uses underwater weighing
the water version of a bod pod
incredibly rare nowadays but for a long
time considered the gold standard of
body composition assessment really sweet
but you got to go into like a little
mini pool at the bottom of a laboratory
in a building in a kinesiology building
at a university it looks like where they
filmed like a Saw movie kind of creepy
you're probably not going to get the
opportunity to do that is they're
shutting down most these places for
other types of body comp daksa dual
x-ray emission technology absorb
geometry to be correct extra is so so
the DEXA shoots x-rays at you and
they're almost completely harmless so
you get way more x-ray exposure and you
know flight across the United States and
an airplane so it's not unsafe it's
super super accurate and precise but it
does have some caveats we'll get to it a
bit there's something called visual
densitometry that you'll see more and
more you're gonna stand in front of a
camera you're gonna rotate alright and
you're gonna tell its body weight you're
gonna type in your body weight and based
on how you look the camera is a you know
standing on a point exactly some
distance away from the camera and
there's reference markers it's gonna
tell you exactly how much volume you
take up and because it knows your weight
you can calculate your density and
actually do a pretty good job of
estimating your body fat without
shooting x-rays at you which is cool I
kind of like the x-ray thing it makes me
feel like Superman so lastly
the most accurate the most precise not
even any comparison body fat and muscle
measurement device is magnetic resonance
imaging MRI the thing is it takes like a
thousand dollars to run the machine one
time right you're not gonna get it you'd
imagine being like oh I think I have a
concussion and the doctors like alright
we'll get you in the MRI you're like you
guys just my whole potty slippin doctor
20 it doesn't really work like that
right but for super advanced scientific
studies they can MRI and tell you how
many grams of muscle you gain in your
bicep that's pretty impressive it's
nothing you're gonna render you in real
life so speaking of real life how do we
do real life recommendations for what
things to use because I told you there's
12 of these things right well we're not
gonna use all 12 that's insane what do
we do to actually do a good job in
tracking our own progress and maybe the
progress of our clients if we're helping
other folks out with their fitness the
bodyweight gotta take it bodyweight
tells you if your hypocaloric isocaloric
or hyper caloric and over several weeks
it's very accurate it's very precise and
it can do a really good job
take your bodyweight 2 to 3 times a week
very good idea rep strength we have a
weekly knowledge of your rep strength
because every week you train with
weights hopefully and you know how
strong you are and you know if you're
losing muscle or gaining it or at least
maintaining your muscle mirror and
clothing you can probably check monthly
like if your clothing is starting to fit
looser one day and the next day it fits
tighter you just had some salt sort of
this and that and you're just bloated
but on a monthly basis and you give
every month your clothes are getting
looser and your body weights going down
you're probably doing a good job with
your fat loss program
maybe yearly or twice a year you could
do visual denn sciama tree a bod pod or
a DEXA all right why are we saying to
not do a DEXA if it's super precise
super often okay it's not the x-rays
we're worried about most decks of
devices you can get decks at once a week
every week and only bump up to the
bottom end of the minimum radiation
exposure recommended for human beings in
the United States that's not it
the reason that you don't want a DEXA
too frequently is because the DEXA
actually does have an error measurement
it's one or two percent right and the
one or two percent like if you get an
error of one or two percent but you do
index that every two weeks even every
month if you lose if you gain two
percent muscle per month you're a rock
star that's incredibly rare if you lose
two percent fat per month if you're
doing real well for yourself but you
could go a whole month get a DEXA and
just because of the error it could look
like you lost no muscle at all even
though you did it could look like you
gained a bunch of fat even though you
didn't so we recommend and the decks are
cost money it's like a hundred and fifty
bucks a pop get a deck set every six
months or every year get it in the same
phase if you're at the end of a fat loss
phase get it next to them the next time
you get a DEXA and compare it to that
one do it at the end of the next fat
loss face that way the body water is
roughly the same the density is really
similar and you can get a real good
measurement don't over measure and get
super crazy week to week oh my god my
numbers are off right not the best idea
in the world um
slightly more for the folks that are a
bit more advanced and want a bit more
numerical stuff take your body weight
every week and take your skin fold
abdominal skin fold and if you don't
know what that means
you're not advanced enough for this tip
so don't worry about it
you take your abdominal skin fold once a
week in millimeters you write it down
you're going to develop a correlation
after you get your Dex's two times a
year of what your body fat is skin fold
abdominal with your weight and you're
gonna be able to get a body fat
percentage and measure muscle mass and
fat mass with that method that's a
method the very very much advised by a
good friend of mine Broderick Chavez at
team evil GSP on instagram if you guys
follow him it really knows what he's
doing if you use that method it can be
really really good the thing is you
can't be neurotic about it cuz it's
gonna fluctuate it's just a good data
collection tool remember folks the
purpose of monitoring and progress is to
stay informed and stay on the right
track not to drive yourself nuts