this machine is a built-in cambered bar
for that ball or deep stretch now as you
can see Mr honey ranad is in the way
again putting his hand onto Chris's
chest again I guess almost purposelessly
is my personal opinion no offense to
[Music]
anybody hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am the
co-creator of the RP hypertrophy op a
professor of exercise and sports science
and a mega critiquer of people that are
in better shape than me on the internet
oh that last one sounds weird but that's
what we're doing today we are going to
look at Chris
bumstead's chest training some of his
tricep training and his back training to
see if it's up to muster and if we can't
level a few basic criticisms that are
all positively meant to let you get more
out of that training and if you're
trying to look like Mr seum maybe you
can take our advice here that we give on
this channel in addition to his basic
template and make the best for yourself
so you can have huge triceps Mega packs
and a back big enough to push everyone
else out of your life and leave you
lonely
forever yeah why not let's get into it
I'll fail here and just help me get a
few full right here perfect again this
is a great technique very good Ecentric
control super deep stretch at the top
some folks will say that if you just
come up to here that's good enough BS
you want as big of a stretch as possible
on this to really cook those
LS come on lock it in Chris come on and
a pause at the bottom at that stretch I
really really love it seven more Chris
eight ah bent Rose these aren't the
worst bent Rose I've ever seen he's
getting some really good stretch and
good contractions I would adore if Mr
Chris bumpstead bent over considerably
further and thus it would require for
him to use less load he could get a
deeper stretch and he would be able to
maximize his back growth while
minimizing his fatigue which means over
the long term he'd be able to maximize
his back growth even more and minimize
the fatigue that would prevent him from
growing other muscles as well so I think
it's an allaround good idea to bend over
considerably further in your rows than
most people bend over it is called a
bent over row for a
reason four nice come on all right ooh
okay so we got one arm dumbbell Rose I
love the fact that Chris is getting a
really big stretch at the bottom because
you don't have to do it with two arms it
allows you to extra stretch the one side
of the back and it does pet peeve the
out of me when I watch people doing one
arm rows but not getting a full stretch
it's like this is precise ly the
exercise that you can leverage for this
thing this is what it's best at this is
its best marginal comparative advantage
to other exercises why not do that it's
like you know hanging out with your
friend that's like super awesome and
giving you and giving BJs and being like
what do you want to do tonight like I
know let's watch Disney movies together
and cuddle like
yeah but what
about
this is really good he's doing great
technique on this he's rising up just a
little bit for a good leverage Advantage
there but then as the row stretches him
out he's lowering a bit for more
lengthening more tension this is
honestly really great technique you'll
notice he's not he hoing like crazy it's
all very controlled he's also not using
a gazillion pounds if you use more than
150 lbs on the one arm row you're
probably doing it wrong and he's doing
it very right this is really really
great technique perfect form seven good
I love his training partner queuing the
out of perfect form number one use your
power Chris get in
there
more shees beautiful excellently done
and quit as soon as he couldn't do
another highquality rep which is exactly
the point of failure we usually want you
guys back training is dope and Chris
Bumstead he does it so well but with
Versa grips you can personally train
your back way better why Versa grips
aren't magic they're just this really
trippy device that's kind of like a
strap but it's so airtight that as soon
as you get your hand over and it's
bolted in your fist is going to have to
break off of the bar for you to lose the
grip which means you can drive all of
that tension all that mind muscle
connection all of that technique
emphasis into your lats into your
shoulders into whatever muscles you
happen to be training and then you get
the best possible result for those
muscles the grip assistance tool known
as the Versa grip is number one in the
industry that's why I use it and now
we're officially endorsed by them but
I've been endorsing them for years
because they just work folks there's a
link in the description to download give
that a click and if you want your train
to get better it'll straight up make it
better give it some
thought good come on Chris squeeze
good drive drive drive chest good on few
observations one Mr Hy rambod has what
looks like a preposterously expensive
watch
I don't know anything about watches I'm
just an idiot and it looks very shiny to
me I have roughly the intelligence of a
crow and as if I see something that's
bright I want to pick it up and look at
it he also said that he wants Chris to
focus on the squeeze and then he touched
his chest I'm not a big fan of tactile
queuing uh I think sometimes it works
but for folks as experien as Chris I
think it has a very low marginal utility
and I think that emphasizing The Squeeze
is not the best use of time because I
think emphasizing the central control
and the stretch is a superior way of
training it produces more muscle growth
but that's just me being really nitpicky
otherwise the technique looks quite good
here I would like to see Chris open up a
little bit more have a little bit less
of an elbow angle because he's doing
kind of a combination push SL fly
nothing wrong with that but I would like
to see him try a pure fly where he keeps
his elbows very little bent and really
stretches super deep in that position
good good keep going keep going what's
up panata uh panata is they're Italian
so that's how you say it properly they
need to make
aith yeah the closest thing they have to
that is the panata Dual handle it's not
pronounced panana what is
it panana okay so it's panana this is
the uh converging press from it's
excellent I believe it has um an
adjustable bench where you can change
the incline angle and maybe even make it
flat and the bench slides back and forth
it's it's really quite a very good
machine
it's also cool because it opens you up
at the bottom by stretching your peex
out and then closes in at the top um
I've used it before it's incredibly
smooth almost everything makes is pure
gold and I really love this machine
among many others and and it's also cool
because the handles are quite um long
and you can choose to take a little
closer grip a little wider grip little
super wide grip so there's something
here for everyone dve it up
good good keep going come on Chris this
is good he's getting a really deep
stretch which is awesome I would love to
see him control the Ecentric a little
bit to control The Descent a little bit
more make it a little slower I would
love for him to pause for one or two
seconds at the bottom to really get that
crazy deep stretch in the pecs but other
than that I think this is a really good
technique Drive good come
on one more one more good good drive
lock it out yeah uh four STS are curious
um I always just prefer to do all the
Reps myself and then do an extra set
later to get more of uh stimulus Force
reps can allow you to continue to
stimulate the muscle even past its usual
failure exhaustion Point um I think
that's okay I think the stimulus to
fatigue ratio is not ideal because when
you're going so far past your exhaustion
point and someone's helping you to move
it I think the fatigue that you summate
from trying that hard towards the end of
a set well after the end of a regular
set can just not be worth the small
addition in stimulus um it's also from a
track in perspective kind of a curiosity
because how do you know if you're
getting stronger if you're making gains
how do you know you're learning the
movement and mind muscle connection
yourself without relying on someone else
to help you push I think it just adds
more variables to the equation than we
would like so in most cases I'm not
really for partner assisted lifting um
it is fun and it absolutely brings you
closer to someone physically and
emotionally so what I would really like
to see H do ideally is just lean over a
little bit further and look Chris right
into his eyes and and ask the question
we all ask each other as men is there
something more here than just a
friendship
maybe two go oh man I really like that
machine sometimes you just look at a
machine and the angles look like they
just up interesting close grip from
Chris here which means he's not going to
be able to do a whole lot of locking out
which for the chest really isn't
important anyway so no big deal I um
we'll see how deep he goes and how deep
he takes the stretch I normally would
have taken a slightly wider grip to
preferentially train the chest but I
don't think this is the wrong answer
here so let's see how uh how this goes
very good come on
Chris yeah so uh this machine is a good
machine but I say it's not a great
machine and here's why the way the lever
arm Works means the load is going to be
relatively higher as experienced by your
joints connective tissues and muscles
closer to lockout and relatively lower
closer to the stretch and I think it
should be reversed a lot of machine
manufacturers have done this with their
machines over the years to do what is
called accommodating resistance that as
your position gets stronger you're
stronger from here to here than you are
from here to here the load gets heavier
so that you can have an equal amount of
stimulus all the way up and down for
overall body strength this is a superior
way to train it's the best for
hypertrophy it's been shown time and
time again that emphasizing the Deep
stretch is actually Superior to having
that accommodating resistance all the
way through lockout so what I would like
is for this machine to have an
arrangement and this is actually very
easy on modification to make to a
machine like this with just a bit of
welding little spot welding never hurt
anyone essentially change the direction
of lever arms such that the weight is
the furthest out horizontally with
respect to gravity at the very bottom
and that as you push the weight comes up
all the way until it's barely effective
at the top and that means a huge stretch
component and a smaller contraction
component which I think would make this
movement much more close to Ideal
squeeze good two more
push push come on Chris good did pause
at the top I like that push again one
more partials Now give me five partials
go one go two go partials are great idea
in this exercise bottom end partials
when you're no longer strong enough to
lock it out you do partials with the
Deep stretch position and that's a great
way to extend a set and get even more
hypertrophy good
job more control on the Ecentric would
be great here there's uh little quick on
the Ecentric reps one of the reasons why
people like to rush the Ecentric is the
fact that they get really in their head
about the RP hypertrophy
app training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same they get really in their head about
I want to do more reps and if I can make
each repetition a little bit quicker and
easier I can do more reps but we're not
there to do reps we are there to
stimulate the muscle as much as possible
so if you can slow the Ecentric and that
gives you fewer reps but it maximizes
how much muscle growth you stimulate
that's a good thing the other thing is
controlling the Ecentric hurts it's
really uncomfortable and so a lot of
people will continue to move a little
faster me included when sh hits the fan
to try to get through that quicker so I
don't experience as much pain so
definitely something to keep in mind oo
my God Scott the video guy we need one
of these machines in our Gym Bro oh man
it's like the perfect machine I would
say dude hell yeah it's got all the
things so this machine is a machine
press with first of all a skull crusher
attachment behind and uh with the Easy
Bar version and also a built-in cambered
bar for that ball or deep stretch now as
you can see Mr honey randbot is in the
way again uh putting his hand onto
Chris's chest again I guess almost
purposelessly is my personal opinion no
offense to anybody and uh he's actually
directly getting away with Chris getting
a bigger stretch with the cam so I would
say if Chris took maybe a little bit of
a wider grip or similar grip and uh Hani
moved his hand out of the way Chris
could touch and pause at that bar to his
chest and that would be a huge deficit
huge stretch huge growth this would be
the best of all worlds push seven now
it's working not this became a working
set okay with me he just said this just
became a working set and then Chris
failed no my friend Mr honey this just
almost ended being a working set and now
you are going to do some four straps now
that's me being an charitably I
think what he meant to say was now that
we're super close to failure the
fractional stimulus from every
additional rep is really high which is
totally true and I think he's going to
help him along to milk that out a
little bit
more good one more yeah Rush decentric
on that I don't love that I don't hate
it but I don't love it
go good job put down keep it
move they sure are doing a lot of
exercises I am inclined to believe this
was all in one day right this is all in
order in one day and I don't think Chris
is used de sheets interesting and it's
nearish to the Olympia nearish to the
Olympia and lot of novelty I hope he
recovers from this lot of
volume
I I I I honestly strains my imagination
as to what people think putting their
hand on someone is doing I think that if
you're really having trouble feeling out
some muscles someone can touch them for
you to help you feel out where they are
especially muscles that are behind you
so back muscles lower lats Etc I think
someone touching those lats while
they're moving and telling you hey
really focus on pulling from here I
think that's uh not a bad idea but I
think chest is someone of Chris
bumstead's training age knows exactly
what his chest feels like it's always
connected to a mind muscle also the
chest is preposterously easy to connect
to my muscle in most cases um I think
the utility of having someone touch your
chest and remind you that it's there is
quite small not really any downsides of
than personal comfort of someone
touching all the time uh which again I'm
just being pnic but I'm not a huge fan
of but I just um maybe to me it just
doesn't make a whole lot of sense but I
I absolutely could be wrong good we'll
do one more set I think you're pretty
toast my chest is pretty toast right now
one more set my chest is pretty toasty
good sounds like a good time to switch
to something
else so on the order of the
exercises with the chest any stimulus
stimulative exercise to the chest are
really just all good you can do your
flies first you can do your presses
first whatever feels better for you
there really no wrong
answers as for the order of the
exercises here I don't see a grand logic
any
more um complex than let's try a bunch
of different machines and hit a bunch of
different angles
there's quite a bit of redundancy they
use several different kinds of flies
several different kinds of presses they
do do some flat pressing and some Inland
pressing which I like and some flying
which I like but I would say one fly
movement one incline press and one flat
press it's kind of all you need for each
chest training when you're doubling up
or tripling up on various fly movements
you could just do more sets of the same
movement save that variation for months
later come back to a new machine and hit
it so here's the problem if you're
always using six or seven machines in
your chest training you only have access
to six or seven machines when the Fel of
them get stale what do you do you can't
keep training them they're stale they
hurt your joints now they don't give you
big pump they're annoying you hate doing
them what is the alternative do you
switch other exercises where you've
already worked through others maybe
they're all getting stal at the same
time so I like to do is take two or
three chest movements even as many as
three or four per week split up to
different sessions leave another three
or four movements completely out of my
plan do that plan for 1 two three months
maybe for beginners 3 four 5 6 months
when chest exercises start to get stale
I take the one that are most stale I
throw them out of the program and I
replace them with ones that I haven't
trained in months I program them with
very low volumes and then I get a
crapload out of them so it's kind of a
rotating system that's how I prefer it
versus doing much longer exercises or
much longer routines with a whole bunch
of different exercises in them at the
same time all right if you guys are
enjoying this video and you want to see
more we have an unfiltered sort of
unrated for sure members Channel video
If you subscribe to our membership Link
in the description below then you can
see that video and many other un
filtered raw unedited videos and a ton
of other content give that a c three two
yeah good slow good job that's it so
he's coming back up quite fast and
that's not ideal you want to come back
up slow reduces injury risk increases
the amount of muscle growth potential
you get out of the exercise so yeah I
would like to see that addressed
ideally that's why he Mr O look at them
lats his lats got lats and I love how
he's able to pop his shoulders in that
pose when I do that pose
it just looks like someone giving up on
life
beautiful yeah yeah yeah that's a fifth
title right there he was correct he did
in fact win a fifth Mr Olympia shortly
after the recording this video again we
got some tactile stuff going on I just
Chris bumps at his line of people trying
to touch
him I got a lot of love for that but
also a lot of jealousy as you can tell
right
here beautiful come on so Chris has
plenty of ental control especially up
toward towards the top of that stretch
it looks like he's Mega putting an
awesome stretch on his lats he's coming
down quite low but he's not trying to
touch his chest or anything I used to be
a big advocate of that but after
perusing the literature most recently
turns out the peak contraction isn't the
most wise use of your time in the gym
and so focusing on that top stretch
focusing that control really getting his
lats to pop out at the top I think makes
this uh what I would call very good
technique all right so from what I can
tell very good technique um especially
on those one arm rows I would like to
see Chris do a little bit more of a full
range of motion especially on that
eccentric by a small margin he was doing
very well I would love for him to
control his descent more I think he'll
just get more out of the movement with
less fatigue I would love for him to
bend over further on his bent rows and
potentially choose machines that are
better at accentuating that deep stretch
and that contraction but honestly we
don't often have a choice of all the
machines in the world that are perfect
and the machines that he does use he
uses them pretty well so I would rate
his back training uh as uh you know 8.5
out of 10 and I would also rate his
chest and tricep training at roughly 8.5
out of 10 I would say the biggest areas
for improvement if you're watching this
and you want to copy it for yourself try
to do a slightly full range of motion
slightly deeper into that Ecentric on
chest on triceps and on back emphasizing
that pause and that Ecentric control at
all times technique technique technique
Chris is doing a great job you can take
these lessons and do a superlative job
because your genetics probably aren't as
good as his you will see the kind of
growth that's very meaningful to you
even though with just a great job he can
be five time Mr Olympia in your case you
might have to go above and beyond to get
all the Gams you got coming to so in any
case that's my analysis what do I know I
don't know not much but if you want to
see other videos of us critiquing folks
and all with the best in mind unless
you're a charlatan like Dr Oz in which
case you uh yeah so I was going with
that see you guys next time wait guys
don't leave there's this other video
YouTube wants you to click on so you can
continue on your RP khole and learn more
and also be entertained and maybe
question your sexuality go ahead and
click on the video nothing bad will
happen