how many of you guys have ever heard not
to eat past a certain time at night or
else who knows what that or else is and
crazy elves come and get you that's
always what I thought it was I'd
probably take on a couple L's I ate late
at night I kept waiting for them to show
up but nothing ever happened so it turns
out nutrient timing by itself accounts
for roughly five percent of the variance
in health most of it coming down to that
little tip right there if you eat about
three to six times a day for most people
you get all the nutrients you need and
you supply your body with energy how do
you guys think it feels to take a call
from your boss at 5 PM so you have
another project stay late at work when
it's one of your alternate daily fasting
days and you haven't eaten all day right
you pick up the phone like who's this
like I'm your boss I don't have a boss
man I just need a nap let me call you
back tomorrow when I have food right
that's a little bit weird so usually
three to six meals is best fit to your
own personal schedule and your own
lifestyle goals