I'm a freak of nature strength wildly
average physique probably lifts but I
wasn't always this way here's the power
building program I'm using to keep
getting more jacked and stronger
we're back Milo wolf here soon to be Dr
Milo Wolf coming at you from Wolf
coaching today we're breaking down my
power ability program why it's designed
the way it is and how you could use
inspiration from it to build your own
power building program if you want to
learn about the science behind power
building check out this video here
otherwise if you want free programs that
include power building length and
partials and all sorts of other good
stuff check out the newsletter below if
you subscribe I will send you 15 free
programs including power building
programs with that being said here's my
program I have historically grown better
when trading muscle groups a little bit
more frequently additionally my bench
really benefits from higher frequencies
up to four or five times a week
including variations like the Cross grip
bench or incline pressing I trained six
days a week four of those days are full
body days and two of those days are
upper body only days in order to keep
fatigue of the spine or spinal Erectors
in check I only have three of those full
body days include any sort of squatting
or deadlifting variation on day one I
start with my competition deadlift sumo
followed by my accessory squat hyper
squatting on both of these exercises I
keep about five repetitions in reserve
as going closer to failure doesn't
improve strength gains additionally
going close to failure would cause a lot
more fatigue I also keep repetitions at
about five percent as I still want to
get a good deal of hypertrophy even from
these power things or strength specific
exercises I don't usually do more than
two or three sets of these main lifts as
doing more of that wouldn't really help
out my strength by that much but it
would take away from the hypertrophy
training I'm able to do and that's a
bigger priority to me right now after
these two exercises which can take quite
a bit of time I follow it up with some
arm and shoulder work all of this is
superseded so as to save time you can
check out a video about this hair but
essentially I'm doing four exercises one
for my biceps one for my triceps these
are superseted and then one for my side
and rear delts and one for my forearms
again these two are superseded the
general structure of compounds for lower
body followed by upper body accessories
or isolation lock or upper body
compounds followed by lower body
isolation work it's a general structure
I follow and order should take a full
body approach if I do lower body days
personally I find that by the time I get
to like exercise number two three four
my energy is minimal so I prefer
spreading out my lower body work across
the week as well in terms of allowing
for sufficient volume mode accumulation
across the session which is likely
important for growth across the week
you'll notice that a variety of replicas
are used for the most part I'll be
training between 5 and 20 reps but
occasionally there may be some higher
rep work in there as well so for biceps
I do the easy bar preacher curl the Easy
Bar preacher curl doesn't lengthen the
elbow flexors all that much because your
shoulder is slightly flexed but the most
resistance and the preacher curl is
relatively close to the bottom position
and in fact to emphasize that I use
length and partials I superset these
preacher curls with dumbbell overhead
Extensions by using an overhead
extension we're able to lengthen the
long hair of the triceps more and get
more hypertrophy that way I also use
dumbbell overhead extensions as opposed
to easy extensions or barbell extensions
because I can see safely go close to
failure on these in fact I will
generally aim to go about two reps in
reserve on the first set of an exercise
all the way to failure on the last seven
exercise when I'm performing this for
hypertrophy after the curl and overhead
extension superset I then move on to
machine later erasers and dumbbell wrist
curls the reason I'm doing machine later
raises is a because it's pretty low
fatigue I don't need to stabilize
anything as opposed to a standing Bumble
lateral raise and B because I don't have
to hold on to anything so even though
I'm super setting the wrist curl which
uses my forearms and the lateral raise
there is no overlapping fatigue on both
the machine later arrays and the
dumbbell wrist curl I will do length and
partials only going about halfway up
relative to how high it could go
generally across a training walk I may
add a seller to Hero there to these
isolation exercises or any exercise that
I'm doing predominantly for hypertrophy
if recovery allows if I'm still super
sore and my performance is struggling I
will generally keep volume the same
until I'm adapted to it so that's
session number one by pairing the
heavier compound lifting for the lower
body with some pretty quick upper body
isolation work the session overall
doesn't take too long the second day is
essentially the opposite I first start
with some compound words from my upper
body which I didn't do on day one and
follow it up with isolation walk through
the lower body the key thing here is
that this isolation work doesn't really
Target my lower back very much and so
between days one and day four I am able
to have my lower back recovered pretty
well from the deadlifts and from the
high bar squat this in turn allows me to
lift more on day four when I'm doing my
lower body lifting again and hopefully
that should lead to more strength
adaptations so on day two I'm doing some
bench my main benching variation is
actually the close grip bench press it's
just what if I was comfortable and what
I want to get stronger at so for my
first two exercises I superset the close
grip bench with a dumbbell rope on the
close grip bench I stay relatively far
from failure because my aim without
exercise is to build strength with the
dumbbell row I will go close to failure
again about two reps in reserve on the
first set to about failure on the last
set you'll notice that across the week I
don't really go below five reps this is
because I mostly care about hypertrophy
and I don't really care about my
wonderful Max right now if I were to try
and max out in a few months time I would
gradually shift my training to being
lower reps especially on those main
lifts like the closer bench like the
high bar Squat and the symbol uplift for
essentially all hypertrophic exercises
across the week I'm doing length and
partials length and partials seem to be
a pretty good tool for gaining
additional muscle mass so that's why I'm
doing the following the bench and row
super set I then do overhead press as a
lighter variation for overhead pressing
I do so much care about getting it
stronger but I also care about going
with your shoulders and in fact I think
the overpress is a slightly underrated
exercise for the side belts while I do
want to get stronger at it and I'm
performing it twice a week actually I am
also going quite close to failure with
the last set always being taken to
volitional failure just like any other
hypertrophic exercise this is the
lighter overhead press day and I have a
heavier overhead press day at the end of
the week where the overhead press is
performed fast to maximize loading which
would probably lead to more strength
adaptations following the obat Press I
then have my lower body isolation work
specifically I do reverse Nordic curls
to Target the quadriceps in a lengthened
position supersed with seed light curls
which again Target the hamstrings in a
very lengthened position by flexing the
hip to a greater extent compared to a
lying leg curl and there's actually been
one study looking at this where the
hamstrings glue morph as a result of
doing seated like curls rather than
lining like curls due to the greater
muscle length being achieved I then
follow this up with a super set of hip
abduction and hip adduction training
certain muscles like the rectus femoris
that's both a hip flexor and a knee
extensor or the bicep femoris short head
the short hair the hamstrings or the
glute medius and Minimus or the adductor
longus and brevis these muscles don't
really get trained very well at all
during compound exercises for the lower
body like a high bar squat like the
super deadlift and so train them at
least once a week gives you some pretty
good hypertrophy for not much additional
work so I make it a point in hypertrophy
training for people who really want to
take their lower body size up to include
at least once a week or maybe twice a
week isolation work for these muscles
that otherwise don't get train very well
during compound exercises that's day two
Again by supersetting a lot of exercises
and by only having compounds for one
part of the body I.E the upper body or
the lower body this allows me to get the
sessions in generally within an hour and
a half or so next on day three this is
mostly a hypertrophy day I do use it to
sneak in an additional battery across
the week but this is mostly done for
hypertrophy purposes my three other
bench days across the week involve flat
pressing and I want to include at least
one incline pressing variation so my
upper chest doesn't completely vanish
since most of my benching while across
the week is pretty heavy and doing a
variety of rep ranges across the week is
better for hypertrophy I make sure to do
around 10 reps on this session on the
incline bench press exercise since I'm
training a bit further from failure on
the other bench days I train a bit
closer to failure on the incline press
day specifically I go all the way to
volitional failure on every single set
so I superset the 45 degree incline
close grip bench press the close grip is
used to accelerate range of motion a
little bit in my linking position I use
this exercise and superset it with a
cooldown following this incline bench
and pull down superset I follow it up
with an incline dumbbell curl and skull
crusher superset you'll notice that both
of these exercises require the same
equipment namely a bench and some
numbers when constructed supersets a
very undervalued aspect is whether or
not it's practically feasible by using
the same equipment for both exercises
you can ensure that even in a busy gym
you're able to do this and get your
session done in a reasonable time frame
on this day this is my lighter work for
my arms and belts as I mentioned a
variety of our Pages across the week is
better for hypertrophy so in this case
I'm doing sets of 20 to 30 reps with a
full range of motion the incline curl is
not a great exercise when you're doing
length and partials on the incline curl
it may actually become a pretty
effective exercise because now you're
taking a part of the range of motion
that is otherwise quite easy there's not
much tension and you're loading it
sufficiently heavily to hopefully make
that lengthen position a lot more
challenging and a lot more stimulating
after this incline curl and skull crash
for superset I then move on to reared
out crossovers I think this is a a
really undervalued exercise for the real
adults because you actually get a deep
stretch in your adults which you
wouldn't really get on most other
shoulder exercises you don't really get
it in a bilateral face pull but in a
real dog crossover which is essentially
the opposite motion of a chest crossover
you can get a deep deep stretch which
will likely lead to more apertrophy I
also made sure to take two steps forward
to slightly increase the resistance in
the bottom position in a stretch
position finally I end a session with a
Ab and calf superset those two exercises
don't have any overlap they're not super
systemically fatiguing I don't get out
of breath so I can superset them safely
without influencing or impacting
performance in any detrimental way to
muscle growth and also it kind of makes
ab and calf training a little bit more
enjoyable and engaging which let's be
honest it usually isn't I choose the
Rope cable crunch because it's a really
easy exercise that doesn't cause a lot
of fatigue where you can really focus on
extending your spine and flexing your
spine as opposed to your hips I also use
the single leg leg press calf raise
because it's the most convenient way I
have of trading my caps I don't need to
find any dumbbells with kettlebells to
do standing calf raises I can just sit
down there's no spinal loading involved
really I do my calf raises I do them
single leg because the machine isn't
heavy enough for me to do both legs at
the same time and a heavy rep range
personally I found that calf training
above about 12 reps seems to really burn
the bottom of my feet and so I typically
avoid anything about 12 Reps for my
calves and go pretty heavy again I
perform length and partials on my calf
raises there's actually been one study
looking at length and partials versus
shorter partials versus a full range of
motion in the calves directly and yeah
lengthen partials led to more growth day
four this is my second relatively heavy
lower body day for the week in this
session I start with my main squat
variation which is the low bar Squat and
follow it with my deadlift accessory
which is the audio same set wrap rep and
Reserve scheme as a first Sumo that
lifts and hybrid squats early in the
week sets of five with about five reps
in the tank for the audio specifically I
do lengthen partials and I use a a
deficit audio this is going to really
Target your hamstrings glutes and
adductors at long muscle lengths which
is actually one study now showing
greater hypertrophy when doing latent
partials versus full range of motion in
the hamstrings and in the glutes again
because earlier in the week on the sum
of the lift my other hip extensor work I
trained pretty far from failure pretty
sub maximally I make sure to go pretty
close to failure on these audios
generally on the last set I'll actually
aim for momentary failure where I try a
wrap and it doesn't go all the way up
and I just fail after low bar squats and
rdls I will follow up with more upper
body isolation work for my arms and
shoulders Again by doing this I'm able
to get in and out the gym in about an
hour and a half as opposed to like a
three hour session which somehow does
wind up having to do after the RDL I
superset a cable curl with a bench with
a cable set up behind me to get a deep
stretch with a cable overhead extension
the cable curl with a bench and with a
cable set up behind you at about hand
height at the bottom of each rep
accomplishes a few things one it's a
very stable low fatigue exercise due to
just being sat down so
by having the arm come behind you at the
bottom of every wrap you're able to get
a deeper stretch on the long hand of
your biceps similarly to an inline curl
number three by having the cable set up
at hand height at the bottom of each
wrap there is a great deal of resistance
at the bottom in that length and
stretched position compared to something
like an incline curl the overhead
extension well it's just good exercise
for hypertrophy as I mentioned earlier
because by having the arm up overhead
and the should be quite flexed it
lengthens the long head to a greater
extent compared to say a push down also
again the same equipment is involved
cable is needed in both cases a bench is
also needed but by having the cable in
both cases you can just stay in the same
place and do this exercise back to back
then I move on to yet another superset
this time before getting again my side
belts and my forearms again these two
exercises require similar equipment now
you might think
Milo doesn't the more wrist roll fatigue
your forearms which that interferes with
cable ladder raises well you might be
right however what you can do is you can
use straps on the cable libraries to
essentially take your equipped out of
the equation so while you do have some
form fatigue when supersetting wrist
curls with cable lateral raises by using
straps you're able to make the superset
quite effective and not really impact
the performance on either exercise
moving on from day four we go into day
five where I start the session by
supersetting a medium grip bench press
That's my third bench radiation for the
week with a t-bar row there's not really
a super strong rationale behind the
medium grip bench press it's just
another bench variation that's
reasonably specific to my main bench
which is close grip and I'm gradually
trying to get better at wider grip
benching historically I've always sucked
it while you're benching so I'm trying
to get better at it by incorporating
some medium grip bench press and
gradually widening that grip the t-barro
does a pretty good job of providing some
tension in a lathe position and by
Design you cannot get super short muscle
lengths on the t-barrow so it becomes a
pretty good exercise as far as the
length and the work is concerned then I
move on to a dumbbell fly and dumbbell
pullover superset this session does
Target the chest and back specifically
pretty heavily you'll have noticed that
throughout the week I only ever do one
exercise lives for chest and or back
within a given session this is the
exception the dumbbell fly is a great
exercise for the chest provided you can
handle it in terms of pain because it
targets the chest most heavily in a
lengthen position it is very challenging
in that bottom position and as you get
the dumbbell up and up until the
shortened position for your chest it
becomes easier and easier the same goes
for a dumbbell pullover for a long time
I thought well we don't really want to
use a Donald pullover because it's a
partial range of motion and that's worse
while actually given the recent research
on length and partials and how important
that is for hypertrophy it's actually
become the opposite where the dumbbell
pullover challenges your Lads and
terrorist major most strongly in that
very length in position and that will
likely lead to more growth overall again
I'm doing the dumbbell fly and dumbbell
pullover for higher reps because I want
to make sure that across the week I'm
getting a variety of replicas in for
each muscle group to maximize
hypertrophy and some recent analyzes
have shown that this leads to more
hypertrophy finally I end the session
with yet another ab and calf superset as
bodybuilders we kind of have to train
calves well unless you're blessed I
don't know ABS again unless you're
blessed but I kind of have to and
supersetting it makes it more time
efficient less boring more engaging and
doesn't really take away from my results
in fact it kind of makes sure I rest
long enough between sets because if I do
it on its own I will literally just rush
through the sets to get them because
calf and app training is
potentially the most boring thing ever
so just a touch on the decline crunch I
think the decline crunch when performed
properly as shown on screen now can be
an extremely effective exercise and
perform properly I cannot do more than
about 12 reps so you don't even need
additional weight it's just a great
exercise the reason it's great is
because in the bottom position around
parallel to the ground is where you have
the most resistance and that is also the
lengthen position so when you're
performing it properly the decline
crunch is both very challenging and very
good for hypertrophy finally day six day
six is a bit odd first I start with a
bottle overhead press as I mentioned I
want to get stronger at the overhead
press but I'm also looking for
hypertrophy so I'm actually going all
the way to volitional failure on that
last set similar to close grip entering
earlier in the week and to Sumo
deadlifts and to lowball squats I'm
doing it for sets of five because I
still want a good hypertrophy stimulus
from it similarly to the other power
lift like the Sumo that lift the bench
the lower squat earlier in the week and
doing sets of five repetitions because I
do still want a good hypertrophic from
that set after all that pressing I
superset a soft touch close grip bench
press for high wraps with a machine Row
for High Reps as well this is a pretty
close variation of my main bench the
only real difference is I'm throwing it
for higher reps and with a soft touch as
opposed to a deep sink into my chest as
I usually do it's just to get more
practice of benching with a relatively
similar variation in this case because I
am doing it for hypertrophy and because
a soft touch is more conducive to
hypertrophy as a result of producing
more tension to control the bar at the
bottom position compared to a deep sink
where you're just letting the bar rest
essentially it's more conducive to
hypertrophy so I'll make sure to also do
more reps around 10 and Grow Big close
to the failure I actually go to pretty
much volitional failure on all sets for
this exercise and then I superset the
close grip bench with a row variation
you'll notice that across the week
There's a pretty even split between how
many of my back exercises or rowing
variations and how many of them are pull
down or vertical pulling variations this
is because different muscles are
involved when you're doing say a
vertical pull versus a row so you want
to make sure there's a roughly even
split of them across the week within a
given training program following this I
do Bulgarian split squats on the Smith
machine why do I do this there's a few
reasons first I use the Smith machine
because it's very stable I can go to
failure and not have to worry about
getting thrown off balance and failing
the set due to that I can actually fail
the set when my quads actors and glutes
are unable to produce enough Force
anymore secondly it's pretty safe I
could just be right away any time and
it's cool third a single leg variation
like a split squat allows me to get more
volume in pretty close to failure
Without Really fatiguing my lower back
for a deadlift session that's happening
two days later finally it does provide
some squatting-ish variation to
hopefully get a bit more practice in
with the general movement of squatting I
follow this up with three pretty
controversial exercises now I'm not
gonna lie to you these last three
exercises I kind of skip half the time
first I do some back extensions I'm
doing back extensions because there's
some research that actually doing some
lower back training directly can help
people with non-special specific chronic
lower back pain so if you're someone who
has back pain obviously consult your
positions I'm not giving you any medical
advice here but just be aware there's
some research that may help additionally
it may or may not help me with my squad
on deadlift but that's a topic for
another video and then I follow it up
with a superset of neck curls and neck
extensions these two exercises I purely
do because I think a bigger neck looks
kind of cool I haven't actually done any
like training in years like five years
so I figure hey if I can do this once a
week and get some additional size that's
cool and I'm not at any risk for
obstructive sleep apnea so I don't have
to worry about that so I figure why not
do it there's a fun inside I actually
did get tested for sleep apnea maybe
like three years ago and I had an
extremely low score so I don't have
anything to worry about and that's why
I'm really not concerned at all about
sleep apnea being sitting anyways that's
the program to recap this is a power
building program for the most part I am
focused on hypertrophy but I do
incorporate some relatively heavier sets
on the main lifts just to get a Little
Bit Stronger at them over time and at
some point point I might decide hey let
me switch up my training a little bit go
a bit heavier on those main lifts cut
out some of the fluff work and max out
on the main lift and see you around that
this is my training split so it may not
work great for you however it's heavily
inspired by the 15 free programs I'm
giving away in the description as a
newsletter if you sign up to this
newsletter you'll get 15 free programs
that will do all the thinking for you
give you a very effective program
incorporating length and partials and
all the training slides describe to this
video here anyways that's the video if
you liked the video please comment like
subscribe if you want to see more
personal style videos like this one
about my training my nutrition my
day-to-day I can even review a technique
or review some memes let me know in the
comments below and I will see you guys
in that next one peace
you can't escape Yankee nope you can
escape I was I was joking I'm sorry you
can go
please no attack me goodbye Kitty
screw it