you're higher on the pad and your hips
are wide that might make up for the toes
not being pointed out as much play with
your foot position get as much forward
knee flexion as possible that's going to
benefit your quads way way more overall
really solid the one thing I'll say
about the leg press and something I
disagree with Dr Mike isal and J feon is
the usefulness of the leg press as a
quad exercise versus like a glute
exercise I actually think that the leg
press is probably a better glute
exercise an Ador exercise compared to a
quad exercise when you break it down a
press is a lengthened partial for the
gluteus maximus you start the lift in
90Â° of hip flexion and you go into a
fully lengthened position for the glutes
provided you do it properly meanwhile
for the quads it's a full range of
motion which is totally fine but based
on some more recent evidence most of
which was in the quads by the way
lengthen partials might actually lead to
more growth compared to for of motion
and so if I had to say the leg press was
squarely a quad exercise or glute
exercise I would probably put it more so
into the glute category which is totally
fine just something to be aware of if
you're lower on the pad you're probably
have to point the toes out a little more