all right what is going on guys so in
this video I want to share my current
thoughts on training volume and I want
to piggyback off a recent video uploaded
by Jeff Cavaliere called workout volume
is killing your gains so last night I
was reading through a recent article on
the training volume threshold in mass
for search review and it made me think
of this video from Jeff because this new
study over here from Barbelo and
colleagues actually did find that higher
training volumes led to significantly
worse growth just five sets per week
caused the most hypertrophy and 20 sets
cause the worst and at least for the
pecs literally killed some gains so in
this video I want to add some new
evidence to the volume discussion here
on YouTube share some of my own thoughts
and expand on Jeff's discussion of
whether or not volume is actually
hurting your gains in which context that
may or may not apply first I want to do
a super quick a crash course on what we
currently know about training volume
leading into this new study which on its
surface does seem to contradict what the
science has been saying so far up to
this point there's a lot of evidence
showing that there's a clear dose
response relationship between volume and
hypertrophy this was shown in a 2000 17
meta-analysis pulling together 34
treatment groups in 15 separate studies
and it pretty much just means that more
volume causes more hypertrophy if you
increase the dose you increase the
response however there's also clearly a
point of diminishing returns where you
can keep doing more volumes but you'll
see very little extra progress for it
and we don't know exactly where that
point is and maybe we never will because
it's so individual but for most people
in most muscles it's probably somewhere
between 10 to 20 tough sets or working
sets per muscle per week
in other words up to 10 sets if you add
sets you'll add muscle somewhere after
10 sets things start to taper off and
then further down the line there's
another point where you actually might
start losing muscle due to overtraining
and as of now this is the prevailing
model of training volume in the
scientific community now what Jeff was
saying in his video is that a lot of
people have become so fixated on volume
that they aren't even really exerting
themselves anymore and I think that's a
good point I've also noticed this myself
some trainees see optimizing volume as a
way of getting out of applying
appropriate intensity or effort so Jeff
was saying this lack of training
intensity caused by an overemphasis on
volume is killing your gains so to kick
things off
quickly cover this new study from Barb
following colleagues just so everyone's
up to speed with where the science is on
volume right now now the study was
pretty simple
they split 40 young men with at least
three years of training experience into
four groups one group did five sets per
muscle per week one group did ten sets
another 15 is the highest volume group
did 20 sets per muscle per week they did
a push-pull leg split but it was only a
three day per week split so they were
only hitting each muscle once a week so
they hit push once a week on Monday pull
on Thursday and legs once a week on
Friday so this was pretty much a bro
split the exercises were the same
compound movements for all groups so the
only difference was the number of sets
they did per week on each exercise and
then after six months of training turns
out that the lowest volume group doing
only five sets per week saw the best
gains in the highest volume group doing
the most sets saw the worst gains and
I'll admit these results look a bit
confusing at first they really do seem
to contradict the prevailing volume
model we laid out at the beginning in
fact at first glance this study seems to
point toward a model that looks exactly
the opposite the more volume you do the
worse cajon's you get however there are
two key factors we need to understand
about this study first first of all even
though the subjects had three years of
training experience their lower body
strength suggests that they actually
weren't very advanced at all in other
research shows that the more advanced
you are the more training volume you can
benefit from and the less trained you
are the less volume you need for
progress so these subjects were less
trained maybe it's not so surprising
that they responded best to the low
volume protocol and even though I do
think that is a factor I think there's
actually something much more interesting
going on in this study which is a per
session volume threshold basically the
idea that in any given workout past a
certain number of sets you don't get any
extra benefit when it comes to
hypertrophic stimulus from that workout
now we don't know exactly where that per
workout upper threshold is but in the
mass article Greg Nickels references
some rodent research looking at the
muscle protein synthesis in a single
workout in the response seems to cap out
somewhere around five sets so let's just
assume for the sake of argument it's
somewhere around five sets per body part
per workout now let's say I had you go
in the gym and do 15 tough sets for your
chest in one workout
you probably feel pretty wrecked at the
end and somewhere around halfway through
the workout your quality of training is
gonna start to decline as well the form
will get sloppier you do have less
weight
you less focused and so on but if I now
told you to split up those same 15 sets
across three workouts spaced throughout
the week now you could probably get much
more out of those individual sets in
terms of work quality and also not
feeling as wrecked after the workout so
going back to the barbell oh study
remember the highest volume group was
doing all 20 sets in a single workout in
all of those sets were taken to failure
so I think that rather than supporting
the idea that volume is killing your
veins outright I think this study just
adds another layer of nuance it doesn't
only matter how much volume you should
do in a week but also how much volume
you should do in a single training
session and this comes back to the
importance of splitting up your training
appropriately instead of just clumping
all your volume in a single workout it'd
probably be best to split that workload
up across at least two or more workouts
throughout the week so coming back to
Jeff's video about whether or not volume
is killing your gains
I think this latest studies did in fact
show that overdoing it with volume
especially in a single workout can
certainly impede your progress and
potentially kill your gains remember
that 20 set group actually lost some PEC
sighs so in light of this new data I
want to lay out a few situations where
volume into effort can interplay with
one another to either kill your gains or
maximize your gains so first we'll start
with this scenario Jeff was talking
about in his video where volume is high
so let's say 20-plus sets per week per
body part but effort is low so you're
consistently leaving five or more reps
in the tank that approach will kill your
gains because most of that volume is a
junk volume you're just not training
close enough to failure
you're not stimulating the largest
highest threshold muscle fibers you just
won't grow much from that training style
next let's look at a scenario where we
say okay intensity is what really
matters so let's start taking every set
to failure
so now effort is high but you don't
adjust your training bump
so now effort and volume are both high
this is also bad because they're so much
more likely to over train
this will also most likely kill your
gains and this was shown in that 20 set
group from the Barbelo study next let's
consider a scenario where we keep our
effort very high so we're
so consistently taking sets to failure
but this time we drop our training
volume down clearly the bar below
studies showed that this will lead to
gains in fact I think this is a great
low volume programming strategy for busy
people who want to have quick workouts
in other words you can still make solid
progress with just a handful of all-out
sets to failure for each muscle group
each week but if you're gonna take this
low volume approach the intensity has to
be very high now in my opinion this
isn't the most optimal way to Train but
it can get you most of the way there and
it certainly won't kill your gains so
for the right person this approach makes
perfect sense lastly I want to look at a
fourth scenario this is actually my
favorite way to approach programming
where you're trying to stay in this
optimized zone of the volume gains curve
generally speaking that's going to mean
a moderate to high volume of training
again fine-tune to your training status
and so on but also a more moderate level
of effort where you're generally leaving
one to two maybe three reps in the tank
and occasionally going to failure and I
just want to tweak your volume as you
assess your progress in recovery in my
opinion this is the best way to optimize
gains and it can be easily fine-tuned
and individualized so even though option
three can certainly have its
applications I'd personally rather go
with option four because pulling back
slightly on effort won't significantly
hurt your gains we know that when it
comes to muscle growth the difference
between going all-out all the way to
failure and leave in a couple reps in
the tank is very small whether good or
bad so leaving those few reps in the
tank has no downside unless you leave
more reps in the tank than you should
that does have an upside it will allow
you to do more high-quality volume which
if spaced and managed properly
throughout the week will lead to your
best gains so guys before we wrap it up
I want to do a quick shout out to all
the Black Friday info for this weekend
so first up everything on Jeff Jeff or
calm is going to be discounted all
weekend and on Monday so if any of you
guys are looking to grab one of my
training programs or the nutrition guide
you can get the discounted rate until
Monday also you can save 25% off a
subscription to the mass for search
review this weekend so if you've been
thinking about stepping up your
scientific knowledge of training and
nutrition now could be the time to sign
up also rise is doing a full home gym
giveaway valued at $10,000 so I'll link
that giveaway down below
if you'd like to enter and if there's
anything that I missed I'll make sure I
put the details up here on the screen or
you can always check out my Instagram
I'll be posting everything over there
explaining what's going on for Black
Friday and I also realized that volume
is a controversial and complex topic in
this video might just bring more
questions and answers for some people
but I think that's okay
and regardless if you want to learn more
I'll have two other videos that I did on
volume and other really helpful
resources like dr. mike is or tells at
volume landmarks linked down below if
you'd like to read up some more on it so
guys that's it for this one don't forget
to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed
the video subscribe if you haven't
already and I'll see you guys all here
in the next one