[Music]
hey folks dr. marcantel here for
Renaissance cleard ization hypertrophy
made simple video series number five if
you want more details hypertrophy guide
central hub and Renaissance period
ization website or more of our long-form
YouTube videos also on this channel how
long should you rest between sets hugely
common question turns out it's actually
not that complicated here you go
you just have to check four boxes and
then you can do your next set after one
set ends you got to check all four boxes
to begin your next here they are box
number one your target muscle has to be
able to do at least five more reps in
the next set so if you just finished a
set and you're like oh I think I can do
one you gotta rest longer okay at least
five reps why five because anything less
than five reps is just not an efficient
use of your time as long as you can do
five reps percent there's gonna be a
very stimulative set and cause a lot of
muscle growth relative to other sets of
other rep ranges as well number two your
cardio has to not be the limiting factor
for the upcoming one so if you just
finish a set of curls and if you start
again too soon it's your breathing
that's gonna limit you you don't want to
start yet you want your breathing not to
limit you with only the target muscle
limit you want to feel on curls when you
can't curl anymore not because you're
breathing too heavy next you want to
start the next set when your nervous
system and more like your psychology
isn't gonna limit you on the next step
so once you feel strong and are ready to
do another heart set up here then it's
time anything short of that it's not you
just did a set of leg presses and even
your breathing's calmed down but you
look at the machine image you're like oh
my god I think is gonna kill me oh
there's no way I've got enough gussto
enough like oomph to do another set
don't just rest and after a couple
minutes you guys know that feeling if
you look going man let me add it I'm
ready that's a good sign that's when
you're ready to go don't go any sooner
than that number four last one you don't
want any synergists other muscles that
are helping limit you on the set so for
example if you want to do another set of
curls you don't want your forearms to
still be burning and think to yourself
okay I just do this set of curls right
now I'm gonna have to quit because my
forearms are burning not my biceps give
yourself time rest make sure your
forearms are not burning any more then
when you do the sets your biceps will
limit you not your forearms here's the
deal let's do some quick examples of how
long that can take are these are
hypotheticals but they really do work
and
life calf raises on the calf machine
well how long does it take for your
target muscle to be able to do at least
five more reps on the next set with a
typical working wait ten seconds maybe
what about cardio there's no limit this
cardio is not a taxing thing on calves
if it is go see your doctor really soon
nervous system psychology I mean how
hard are calf raises you're ready to do
calf raises as soon as the burn wears
off which is like 10 seconds later
and lastly synergists there are most
synergists where there's literally just
your calves so that means and you see it
in bold every 10 seconds we can probably
do a set of machine calf raises and
that's just enough time can you rest
more sure if you'd like but you don't
need to rest more you can condense your
training and be super efficient if you
like without giving up any hypertrophy
on the other hand it's not all that
sweet barbell squats with like 500
pounds for working sets here's the deal
and how long after a last set of squats
that you do or the last one you just did
are your quads ready to do another five
reps are well 60 seconds baby right your
quads are pretty good they burn for a
while I feel weird I'm in about a minute
after your quads feel ready to go here's
a problem they're not remotely the
limiting factor here your cardio he'll
be breathing heavy from set like that
maybe for three minutes afterwards
what about nervous system psychology not
until four minutes later like okay I
think I can do another set here's the
problem your lower back still on fire
the synergists are have been limiting so
you have to lay down or sit in a comfy
position or in a weird way and then
maybe five minutes later your lower back
clears all of its lactic acid and then
you're ready to go again remember you
have to check all the boxes the last
ones the limiting factor that means five
minutes later is the first time you can
do another set of squats with 500 pounds
so when people ask how long should I be
resting we do exercises easiest answer
in the world when you've checked all the
boxes and that really depends on your
individual circumstances folks thanks
for tuning in see you for the next video
[Music]
you