welcome back Real Sports Science doctor
here again today we're reviewing someone
else's training and nutrition advice
specifically we're reviewing the advice
of someone who used to be an absolute
beast on the Sumo for example and in
general just very jacked and now does
YouTube videos for a living not that I
can speak
since you know at any rate I've seen a
lot of Greg duet's videos pop up on my
subscription feed but to be honest I
haven't really watched many of them but
that changes today let's see whether or
not his claims actually align with the
science on the topic this video is
entitled build horseshoe triceps best
and worst exercises for optimal growth
let's get into it after you can't get
any more reps you're done you can't it's
a struggle yes instead of stopping you
not
stopping it seems he's about to
recommend training past failure which at
this point I can say I recommend we just
don't have any evidence on the topic and
while there is a positive relationship
between how close to failure AKA
actually failing the first rep goes and
hypertrophy namely the closer to failure
you take a set the more hypertrophy you
get when it comes to going past that
failure point we just don't have the
evidence to support it just yet but
maybe I'm speaking too early here and
maybe he'll go into the video and say
something completely different but
that's my take on going past failure
okay the three best top three the dip
okay dips but not regular dips you got
to change it up you can't just throw on
a bunch of weights on your belt and
stand there and press it any way you
like if you do it like that you could
get injured it's not being done right we
want to focus on the triceps and not the
chest the chest is going to get enough
work from everything else you're already
doing so to get focused on the triceps
you have to be vertical so when you're
doing your triceps you have to stay
upright like this okay you cannot get
into the lean and a lot of people will
do this okay if you start leaning
forward and pressing you're changing it
into almost like a crossover and your
chest is flexing don't lean forward stay
upright with regards to not leaning
forward to minimize chest involvement I
don't think I really buy into it it kind
of reminds me of the advice for lateral
raises of not shrugging up in reality
the motion of abducting your arm out and
the motion of elevating your scapula is
going to come hand in hand I don't think
you can really minimize that involvement
likewise I think that in the dip the
main thing is just get full elbow
flexion range of motion get a full
stretch on the medial and lateral head
of the triceps but the degree to which
you lean forward is going to be mostly
personal preference and comfort a lot of
people I've coached when they try and
stay upright in the dip get more joint
pain and so if you're someone who finds
that they have more joint pain when
dipping with an upright stance or
posture consider just leaning forward a
little bit and see how it feels but a
lot of people do it wrong they lean too
far forward they're ego lifting trying
to throw on too many plates on theirself
oh I can dip a 100 pounds watch this and
they're cheating and they're using too
much shoulder and you can get hurt you
don't want to injure your rotator cuff
you don't want to get your shoulder
injured doing a dip exercise okay so
it's a great exercise it's not the
number one but definitely give these a
try I'm not a fan of the fear mongering
here the truth is that when it comes to
different exercises we just don't have
the evidence to say that oh this
exercise will cause more injury as long
as you ease into an exercise your body
is robust and will adapt to different
positions I think fear mongering
typically all it does is set you up with
negative beliefs around pain and injury
where for example if you're always
taught that hey don't round your back
during the deadlift because it'll get
you hurt you will develop a belief
around the idea that if I round my back
during the deadlift or if I end up in
spinal flexion in daily life I will
experience pain and those beliefs are
not really helpful when it comes to
long-term pain prevention so I'd say
don't fall for the fear of moning see
how it feels in all likelihood you will
be fine but listen to your body as well
and indeed I think this is a general
stance among physiotherapists this isn't
injury prevention advice or anything
like that but that is just my
understanding of where the evidence is
at when it comes to the sort of
biopsychosocial model of pain number two
tricep press
Downs it doesn't matter which bar you
use you can use the Straight bar the
Rope the V bar long rope short rope it
doesn't matter it doesn't matter what
you think use the one that you like we
all have a different Anatomy we're all
made a different way some of us get
elbow pain if we do tricep press Downs a
certain way some of us don't okay you
need to do these exercises they're so
fundamentally sound in terms of building
muscle it's such an easy and great
exercise to do if you have a pulley
system well I agree with the idea that
you should use whatever attachment you
prefer there's not a huge difference
whether you use a straight bar or rope
or like an angled bar provided you're
getting a full stretch in the triceps
and a decent range of motion you'll
probably be fine as long as it's
reasonably stable as well so if you get
pain with one over the other or you just
have a preference for the Rope cuz it
looks cool that's totally fine however I
don't agree with push Downs being the
second best tricep exercise I have a
whole video on the triceps here that you
can check out but I just don't think
they're that good in fact I think
they're one of the most overrated tricep
exercises on account of they only really
Target the medial and lateral head well
they don't fully lengthen long head and
so if I'm looking for an isolation
exercise that is already designed to
train the whole triceps very well it's
an isolation exercise where the whole
goal is to build specifically the
triceps you may as well pick an exercise
that lengthens all three heads
effectively and that would be and
overhead extension but having your arm
overhead you're more effectively
lengthening the long head and likely
leading to more hypertrophy indeed some
research has shown more hypertrophy when
training at lower muscle lengths Lean
Forward make sure you're leaning forward
lean lean forward and don't stop halfway
a lot of people do this wrong they'll do
tricep press downs and they'll go like
this no really lock it down as far as
you you possibly can go so I don't think
the evidence is there to claim that one
leaning forward does all that much and
two that you want to get that lock out
if anything the evidence on Lower muscle
lengths I just mentioned suggests that
potentially missing the lockout part of
a movement at Short muscle links like
the bottom part of a press down could
actually lead to more hypertrophy and
that's something we call length and
partials so I would say don't feel the
need to get that bottom half of the rep
if anything on a lot of movements I
think the bigger mistake people are
making is to not get that full stretch
you want to go to full extension the
triceps really work hard at the end or
the extension full extension of the arm
if you don't go all the way down you're
certainly missing out what's weird to me
is that the triceps are involved
throughout the whole range of motion
right they're responsible for elbow
extension for the most part minus a long
head also doing shoulder extension and
there's not really any other major elbow
extensors right so the triceps are
involved throughout the whole range of
motion but they're not more involved at
lock out during a push down the only
thing moving is your elbow the only
thing moving your elbow is your triceps
and that doesn't really change whether
you're at lockout or in a more stretch
position I would just like to see
exitation for this one claim but hey so
if your triceps look like this when you
do it you're not going far enough up you
want to go further ahead if you're
standing too far upright you're not
going to get as much extension as well I
agree with this I think missing out on
the stretch is a big mistake when it
comes to hypertrophy that being said I
still don't get the idea of Leaning
forward to get more of a stretch I think
for most push Downs most people will be
just fine staying upright you can still
get if you can curl all the way up by
standing upright and get a fully flexed
elbow guess what you can do the same on
push down don't over complicate things
yeah try to keep your elbows to your
sides if you can if you can't they're to
the side big deal it's still going to
work the tricep you can't not work your
triceps if you're extending the arm you
can't if your elbows are out it's still
going to work your triceps if you get it
in tight you can work the long head a
little bit more a little bit more but if
it hurts if you get elbow paint it's not
worth it so remember Comfort is more
important than just doing it the most
optimal way if you do it slightly off
you're still going to get 90% of the
benefits and that's a lot better than
being injured and getting AO benefits if
you can't do it cuz you hurt yourself
putting inside the fear mongering around
you're going to get injured if you do it
slightly the wrong way it will have you
I do 100% agree with the idea that hey
if you have a decent technique you're
getting like 90 plus% of the gains
already slight tweaks to your Technique
aren't going to make that much of a
difference so whenever you're lifting
yes aim for the best technique possible
but if for some reason because you're
tired or you haven't had the focus so
what have you you find that your
Technique wasn't actually optimal don't
freak out it's a very small difference
and in needed for now the main pillars
of good technique have been summarized
in a paper I worked on recently that is
on screen right now basically just have
a decent Tempo reach long muscle LS for
the muscles involved ideally consider
minimizing momentum from other muscle
groups and you'll be most of the way
there with technique next the number one
one best exercise you can do for the
triceps it is the skull crusher super
set with close grip
bench okay very specific it's not just
one exercise but I call it one exercise
cuz every time I do this I do it like
this Skull Crushers contrary to the name
we don't want to crush our skulls with
the bar okay so typically people would
do it like this and lower it to their
head and press it up we don't actually
want to do that we want to lower the bar
behind our heads okay so if you're
laying down on a bench you're not going
to lower it to your head you're going to
lower it behind your head so straight up
I don't think this is the best tricep
exercise by long shot but it's not
terrible either so I think the version
of a skull crusher he's recommending
here is a strange hybrid between a skull
crusher and an overhead extension and it
kind of resembles a bbell skull over
where you do both shoulder extension and
elbow extension at the same time so you
are lengthening the long head to a
slightly greater extent than you would
during a Traditional School Crusher
which is good for hypertrophy however
it's worth noting that going Beyond
failure by doing your school Crushers
and then doing some close grip benching
isn't really supported by the evidence
we don't really have evidence on going
past failure and the evidence we have on
same muscle group supersets or
essentially Su setting two exercises for
the same muscle group don't really
suggest there's any additional benefit
for muscle growth as compared to just
doing traditional straight sets instead
that'll get you increased range of
motion and allow you to just safely do
the exercise you don't want to crush
your head it makes Common Sense common
sense you don't want to crush your head
behind the head safer also use an easy
bar not the straight bar the Easy Bar
allows you to bend your wrist and puts
less strain on the wrist I think
categorical statements like the Easy Bar
allows you to bend your wrist and puts
less stress on the wrist is made up
right there are going to be people who
find it more comfortable on their wrists
or on their elbows or on their shoulders
by using an easy bar versus a barbell
but this categorical statement simply
isn't evidenced by any study to my
knowledge might there be differences on
average between say the barbell and the
Easy Bar let's say you coached a th000
people maybe you found that most of
those prefer the easy bar that's totally
fine to claim that on average most
people will prefer the easy bar but I
think making a categorical statement
like this just isn't really supported so
they're bending down they're going
behind their head it's good and they go
up like this and then they go all the
way up to here that is pointless the
exercise should stop at eye level once
you can see that bar you see it you stop
and go back you're taking tension off
the triceps it's not working harder than
last time anymore it's just relaxing
it's taking the day off at the top oh
man I've made a whole video on constant
tension here but essentially the idea
that you always want tension throughing
the whole set and that's going to be
better for hypertrophy there's just not
any evidence to support that clean
ultimately whether you keep tension on
the muscle the whole time and get few
reps or whether you take many breaks
between reps and don't have constant
tension you'll have to do more reps in
one case and few reps in the other case
but as far as hyper is concerned we just
don't have evidence to say that constant
tension is truly better so while I'm
open to the idea that future studies
could show that hey constant tension
training is good for hypertrophy for now
it's just not something you need to
worry about too much after you can't get
any more reps you're done you can't it's
a struggle yes instead of stopping you
not stopping you're going to continue on
and press up okay so from the side
you've done these exercises you're all
done and then you press it to the chest
and extend like this so the set gets
extended the close grip bench press I
would have had in my top three exercises
to do on its own on its own Merit the
reason I didn't is because you're
already going to be Bene pressing for
your chest so the triceps is already
getting a significant work work out from
doing the bench press especially if you
go with a shoulder width grip The Wider
you go the more chest the more narrow
you go the more triceps okay so you're
already doing your bench presses to
build up your chest you're already
getting some tricep development there so
we're trying to Target specifically just
the triceps not do as much of the chest
so that's why I have it like this by and
large I do agree with Greg here I think
that the wider you go the less range of
motion you get at the elbow the less of
a stretch get on triceps that's fair
enough with that being said I still
wouldn't have included the close grip
bench press in my top three tricep
exercises unless you're going
predominantly for medial and lateral
head growth indeed when you're benching
your long head of triceps gets
lengthened at one joint while being
shortened at the other there's evidence
in the hamstrings in the squat for
example or in the rectus femoris in the
squat for example that if you're
lengthening a muscle at one joint while
shortening it at the other that prevents
that exercise from meaningfully
stimulating hypertrophy in that muscle
for example when you're squatting the
hamstrings are shortening at one joint
but lengthening at the other and thus
when you actually at hamstring growth
from squatting you don't really see any
meaningful growth in the hamstrings the
same applies to the long head of the
triceps during the bench in our
likelihood and this is why broadly
speaking compound excises with the
exception of for example a skull over
which actually targets both functions of
the long head allowing it to shorten at
both joints at the same time generally
compound exercises will do a good job
with the medial and lateral head that
are only responsible for elbow extension
but they typically won't do a very good
job when it comes to a long head and
therefore when it comes to overall
tricep growth the best single choice is
going to be an isolation exercise that
allows you to lengthen and contract the
tricep effectively and now the three
worst tricep exercises to do in
descendingly getting worse order
overhead dumbbell tricep extension so
you basically grab the dumbbell you go
behind your head and you press like that
okay I used to do these and I used to
complain all the time that it hurt my
elbow and I complained all the time
because everyone said you going to stick
your freaking arms to your head and I
couldn't do it I'm like I can't do it I
can't I cannot do
it so you can't just fix your anatomy
and say it can do it if you can't do it
your shoulders in a more vulnerable
position it's more likely to get hurt
it's funny cuz earlier in the video Greg
is all about individual differences in
anatomy and potentially in what causes
pain and what doesn't cause pain and
yeah here he's using his own experience
having some pain in the shoulder during
overhead extensions to claim that
categorically for everyone overhead
dumbbell extensions are not a good
tricep exercise but in fact it seems to
be quite the opposite based on the
reasons I mentioned earlier in this
video so I'm not disputing that this
exercise might not have been an ideal
for Greg because he got pain from it but
I am disputing the idea that it's the
worst exercise because that's simply not
true and it's simply not as effective as
a better version of this exercise so
this way to do it is kind of silly so
instead of doing a vertical tricep
extension there's a better way to do it
don't do it like this standing or seated
and you just do that and look that's how
much my arms are coming out too bad
that's what's going to happen you need
to allow your elbows to come out if it's
going to hurt you can't just force it to
do it okay you can't so the better way
to do it okay you need to Lean Back Lean
Back and do the rock away you lean back
and you do the same motion and you're
able to get more extension in the back
so you're able to go further behind it's
going to work the long head even more
the entire triceps going to get more
development so rather than doing it
standing or upright lean back and do it
like that behind your head hopefully
that makes sense so the inam bench here
is really just allowing coach Greg to
have his arms a little bit more in front
of him which seems to be more
comfortable for him however based on how
he's doing it here it does seem to be
reducing the stretch on the long head a
little bit that doesn't mean that this
exercise is better categorically just
because it allowed coach Greg
specifically to have less pain in doing
this exercise number two the second
worst exercise you can do the tricep
kickbacks and you love doing these it's
so simple it's so much it's right there
unfortunately it's not very good at
doing anything it's not going to put a
bunch of muscle mass on your tricep it's
putting your shoulder in a vulnerable
position again you're having to hold
yourself up here and you're trying to
kick and swing the weight back every
time coach Greg says a position is
vulnerable take a shot you'll be wasted
by the end of this video additionally I
think Greg's thinking here lacks
internal consistency right earlier in
the video he's like don't miss the
lockout that's really where the triceps
are working the hardest and we you get a
bunch of growth and yet when you get to
a tricep kit back where with a dumbbell
essentially the only portion of the
movement being trained is the lock out
all of a sudden that doesn't do anything
and so even internally from one exercise
to the next Greg's thinking doesn't
really generalized it's not consistent
if you can't apply certain principles to
your exercise selection that is a bad
sign as a coach so you can't use enough
weight for this exercise it's not very
effective and there's so many better
choices so why opt for something
suboptimal when there's better choices
so enough with the Kickbacks they're not
doing it it's not hard enough there's
other choices that you can do I mean if
you're desperate and you love it so be
it do it at the end of an exercise or
add it on to another exercise as a super
set so you finished your exercise tricep
press Downs you're like oh I'm going to
Super I'm going to do these after be my
guess but just don't think that it's a
mass building horseshoe building amazing
exercise so I agree with Coach Greg that
the kickback is not the best tricep
exercise however he said a couple things
here again once again he said that super
sets were a good idea when in reality we
just don't have the evidence to claim
that they are for hypertrophy and
secondly more importantly his equating
the weight you're using for the amount
of tension on the triceps for the amount
of growth you'll get from it this line
of reasoning doesn't really work because
ultimately your muscles don't actually
feel how much weight you're using they
feel the tension that they are producing
through active tension production you
know the tension your muscles are
producing to lift the weight and through
passive tension which is the tension
your muscles experience as they get
lengthened importantly neither of these
correlates perfectly with how much
weight you're lifting right because
different exercises involve different
moment arms so for example if you're
doing a lateral raise like this with
your arms very bent versus with your
arms very straight the distance between
the axis of rotation AK your shoulder
and the weight is substantially
different so even if you're using the
same weight the amount of tension being
experienced at the muscle level and the
amount of hypertrophy it will cause is
dramatically different and so when
you're comparing different exercises you
can't just look at how much weight
you're lifting and how much hypertrophy
that will cause that's a super
reductionist and simplistic way of
looking at different exercises and how
effective they are for hypertrophy the
worst tricep exercise you can do for the
triceps is
this have you seen some of these workout
videos that these Fitness influencers
make you want to make sure the elbows
Stay Together the entire time and you
will really feel the
triceps tricep exercise triceps no any
exercise that doesn't use weights a
weight a resistance of some sort is not
going to build your muscle this is not
enough to build
biceps this is not enough to build
triceps this is not enough to build
freaking delts no you need to have a
weight you need to do real
lifting if you can't do all these
exercises and you're at home you can do
some wall push-ups you can work the
muscle if you don't feel it working hard
it's not effective this is not not a
freaking tricep exercise it's lucky to
be a stretch maybe you could argue it
belongs in a yoga class it is not going
to build muscle okay so that's it the
top three top three worst exercise
subscribe click the Bell buttons follow
me on principle I agree this is by far
not the best tricep exercise he is right
and wrong though about the claim that
you need weight to build muscle
ultimately what matters to your muscle
is that you're sufficiently close to
failure in a given set you're in a
effective rep range you get a stretch on
the target muscle you have a decent
Tempo on each repetition and so forth
for certain exercises there may not be
any external weight like a dip or a
push-up and yet you're still growing
muscle potentially optimally and indeed
for some very untrained or very
recreationally trained people certain
movements you just don't use any weight
and they can still be optimal for growth
so again don't just think that the
weight you're using correlates perfectly
to how much stimulus you're getting
anyways that's my reaction to coach
Greg's takes on the best and worst
tricep exercises for hypertrophy
honestly over overall I'll give this
like a four a lot of it is just
platitude heavy where he's heard some
stuff in the fitness industry and he's
kind of just repeating it verbit him
because he's heard it and believes it
and there's not a whole lot of critical
thinking or internal consistency in what
he's saying or really a lot of citations
to back anything up here a lot of the
thinking is a little bit reductionist to
my liking so for example assuming that
the weight on the bar perfectly
correlates to how much stimulus you get
with that being said his executional
movements and some of the movements he
selected are at least decent and so I'm
not going to give him like a zero but I
think a four is pretty appropriate here
it's worth keeping in mind though that
this video was released 3 years ago and
at the time we had less evidence on
certain things like the stretch the
contracted position and so forth and so
I am giving him some slack for that
maybe a 5 out of 10 anyways no hate at
all towards coach Greg just my honest
review of his take within this video if
you like the video and would like to see
me a sports scientist react to any other
people within the fitness industry leave
a comment down below letting me know who
you want me to react to that's the video
If you enjoyed it please comment like
subscribe and I will see you guys my
subscribers in that next one peace