[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura John and today I'm
going to demo a peanut butter protein
pudding this is not in any of my
cookbooks this is something that I just
made it home one day and posted pictures
on Instagram and you guys were
interested in how I got protein into
this and I have recently started to do a
lot with tofu and again tofu can kind of
get a bad rap you know people just think
immediately if you don't like it it's
kind of like Oh tofu I couldn't eat that
this is really good I mean my daughter
helps me make this and she always wants
to taste it afterwards and I mean yeah
obviously kids are brutally honest and
she doesn't taste anything in it other
than peanut butter so we're gonna start
with the tofu this is a this is a firm
silken tofu which is sort of a weird
combination if you buy the brick tofu at
the grocery store there's always like
firm extra firm you know all these
different ones the silken tofu is shelf
stable so I find that I'm actually get
mine at Whole Foods
I can also order it online from thrive
market but it's just shelf stable just
in a box so this is a silken tofu that
is a firm it's so contou fit and you
don't have to drain this you know a lot
of that's another reason why tofu gets a
bad rap because if you want to saute
tofu you do have to go through a process
to get that ready to prepare that but
when you use it in puddings and
smoothies and things like that that
extra liquid is totally fine you don't
have to do anything prep wise with this
which is nice this is powdered peanuts
and then we have some vanilla cinnamon
and nutmeg
and this is sugar-free peanut butter
syrup so we're gonna process this okay
you do want to go ahead and process the
heck out of this because texturally if
you are a little bit nervous I have
found if you're a little bit nervous
about like Oh am I gonna taste the tofu
if there's any tiny little nugget of
tofu and they're gonna be like oh
actually said the tofu so you want to
just blend this blend this blend the
Splenda so it's super creamy and smooth
and that won't that way you won't be
reminded with a bite that you have to
chew you're not gonna be reminded that
it's tofu in there so just blend it
until it's really really nice and creamy
and you do want to refrigerate this
overnight because the flavors come
together it thickens up a little bit
more that's really important
[Music]