so if you compare those two sets that i
just showed you then you should be able
to see the difference if your set looks
more like that first clip versus the
second one then that's just not going to
cut it as far as maximizing muscle
growth is concerned what's up guys sean
aliwani
realscienceathletics.com and in today's
video i'm going to be giving you one key
indicator that you're not training hard
enough in order to build muscle at your
full potential so this is something i
see all the time in the gym and it
really could be significantly slowing
down your rate of progress if you don't
address this so we've talked a lot on
the channel about the subject of
training effort and that's because it
really is the central factor that
separates the people who only achieve
modest progress from those who achieve
outstanding progress you've got to be
consistently pushing yourself within a
close enough proximity to true
mechanical muscular failure on your sets
if you really want to grow that's the
most basic primary trigger that
initiates the entire muscle building
process from the ground up and the
commonly accepted definition of muscular
failure is that it's the point in the
set where you can't complete any more
reps in proper form despite giving a 100
maximum effort so that either means that
your form is solid but the bar just
won't move any further no matter how
hard you try
or it means that the bar is still moving
but your form is broken down and so
that's why you stop the set and that's
usually referred to as technical failure
but what can often happen and this is
the key point here is that people use
technical failure incorrectly they
actually use it a lot of times without
even realizing it they use it as an
excuse to terminate the set early in
other words as the set goes on and
starts getting more and more difficult
and more uncomfortable the lifter will
start gradually altering their form
because their body is trying to find the
path of least resistance and basically
find a way out of the discomfort so
they'll start using more body momentum
when they don't even really need to be
they'll stop controlling the negative
they'll shorten the range of motion by
maybe cutting out a few inches from the
bottom or the top of the rep they still
have that raw muscular strength in order
to keep the weight moving in proper form
if they really wanted to
but instead they voluntarily modified
their technique to make the lift easier
and as a justification to stop the set
because if they just kept their form
solid all the way through okay no
excessive momentum controlling the
negative keeping a full range of motion
that would be very challenging because
as you approach real muscular failure
the reps gradually slow down they get
more and more grindy and more
uncomfortable and most people just don't
want to go through that so they do all
these things to avoid it and then they
call it technical failure it's basically
like
like faking it for the most part you're
kind of pretending to reach muscular
failure and of course there are varying
degrees to this you know if those form
breakdowns are only happening to a
smaller extent but you still end up
training the targeted muscle reasonably
close to its legit failure point um then
of course you're still gonna make gains
with that style of training and this
isn't gonna totally kill your results
but if you're taking this too far then
it could be having a real negative
impact the entire goal of a muscle
building set is to get in those last few
really difficult reps where the muscle
is being challenged right up near its
maximum strength capacity and so by
allowing your form to just fall apart
and then stopping the set you're
directly short-circuiting that entire
process the targeted muscle isn't
actually getting close to failure and
just to be clear i'm not recommending
that you always train to failure um
that's not the point here i think about
one to two reps short is a good zone for
the bulk of your sets but the point is
that you do need to be training close to
legitimate muscular failure and also to
understand where one to two reps in
reserve actually is you also have to
understand where failure is otherwise
you have no reference point
but back to the main point here there
are tons of examples where this whole
sort of fake technical failure concept
comes into play
doing curls and then as soon as it
starts getting difficult you know
swinging the weight back while letting
your elbows and shoulders drift away
ahead doing push downs where you're
really leaning into it and hunching your
shoulders forward
using excessive momentum on rows doing
free weight presses and then gradually
cutting out the range of motion from the
bottom
kipping your legs on pull-ups when it's
not even really necessary to do so
excessive backward leaning on lateral
raises okay this could apply to pretty
much any exercise so let me give you an
actual example here and i'll just use a
basic curling exercise for eight reps so
this is what it might look like for
somebody who is faking muscular failure
all right so like any set the first few
reps are gonna be pretty easy and smooth
sailing reps one to three no real issue
rep four things start getting a bit
harder and now at rep five that's when
the discomfort kicks in and so the form
starts altering to compensate there's
backward lean the elbows drift forward
less range of motion faster negative no
real change in bar speed but ah
technical failure so that's where the
set ends even though the biceps
themselves were nowhere near their true
failure point now here's an example of
what a set taken to actual mechanical
muscular failure would look like where
the biceps themselves have actually run
out of strength for real and that's why
the set stops alright so once again the
first few reps are going to be pretty
easy remember that the only real purpose
of these initial reps is to get to the
more challenging stimulative reps later
on so around four reps in reserve it
starts getting tougher and more
uncomfortable now with three reps in
reserve this is when the real challenge
starts but as you can see the form stays
solid two reps in reserve it burns it's
uncomfortable but still using a full
range of motion elbows aren't drifting
too far back is relatively straight and
the biceps are truly being challenged
which is why the weight is slowing down
even though i'm curling as hard as
possible here so not altering the form
to find a way out the only way out is
when the biceps have truly run out of
strength so that's zero reps in reserve
assuming we're keeping the form 100 on
point the whole way through
so if you compare those two sets that i
just showed you then you should be able
to see the difference if your set looks
more like that first clip versus the
second one then that's just not going to
cut it as far as maximizing muscle
growth is concerned and by the way
speaking of maximizing your results if
you do want to grab a free step-by-step
program that you can follow to make sure
that you're on the right path toward
your goals then after this video is over
make sure to head over to shawnell.com
custom fill out the short form there and
i'll send you back a structured training
and nutrition plan that you can follow
based on your current physique and what
you'd ultimately like to achieve the
link for that is up here as well as down
below in the description box
but uh coming back to those two clips
the key point to understand here is that
if you're training to real muscular
failure the bar speed should be
gradually slowing down from rep to rep
as you approach the end of the set now
there is a caveat to this which i'll
explain in a second here but on most
exercises most of the time what you
should have if you're legitimately
training hard and maintaining solid
technique is you should have a gradual
slow down in bar speed probably
somewhere around that three reps in
reserve mark and then it should
increasingly slow down for each rep
after that and on most exercises a true
all-out zero reps in reserve grinder
that should usually require at least a
four second concentric up to as much as
like seven or eight seconds in some
cases you know if you're doing a ten rep
set and reps nine and ten are moving at
the exact same speed as reps one and two
you're most likely not training anywhere
near true muscular failure now the
caveat to this is that depending on the
resistance curve of the exercise
in some cases you're gonna have a more
abrupt stop versus a gradual slowdown
and that's uh specifically for exercises
that have a really sharp descending
resistance curve where the beginning of
the lift is really easy and then the end
of the lift is really hard
in that case you're not going to get
that steady gradual slow down assuming
you're lifting with maximum force on
each rep an example would be a dumbbell
lateral raise where the first half of
the range is extremely easy because
there's minimal load on the shoulders uh
since gravity is pulling the weight
straight down but then the top half is
extremely hard for a dumbbell row same
thing
most machine lead curls would be another
example okay on a handful of lifts
you're going to get a more sudden stop
where you're still able to push through
the first portion of the rep pretty
easily but then you'll kind of hit a
sticking point toward the end so on
those lifts it's just kind of a judgment
call on when exactly to stop but again
for most exercises you will get that
more gradual slowdown in rep speed for
each rep closer to muscular failure but
the bottom line here is that unless
you're allowing discomfort to dictate
your lifting technique then you should
be able to maintain solid form while
reaching muscular failure at the same
time in most cases i would say that
technical failure is actually voluntary
the exceptions being for a few
really big technically complex exercises
like squats
deadlifts maybe you could add in bent
over rows
overhead barbell presses you know
there's a lot going on there so form can
definitely become a factor in stopping
the set but aside from a handful of
heavier more complicated movements you
should be capable of keeping your form
intact and training the targeted muscle
to its true failure point at the same
time and if not all the way to complete
failure then at least to around that one
to two reps in reserve mark which again
is where i'd recommend centering the
majority of your training anyway if you
found this video helpful then again
don't forget to grab your free training
and nutrition plan over at shawnell.com
custom if you're looking for no bs
premium quality supplementation options
to fully optimize your muscle building
and fat burning results without all the
usual hype and gimmicks then make sure
to visit realscienceathletics.com this
was all formulated by me using research
backed clinically dosed ingredients only
and you can use code youtube15 to save
15 off your first order here's two more
videos i'd recommend watching now you
can follow me over on instagram for more
daily tips and information don't forget
to subscribe and turn on notifications
to stay up to date on future videos let
me know in the comments what you want to
see next and i will talk to you again
soon