morning everyone it is Friday January
the 5th 6:30 in the morning and today we
are on our way to LA for the LA fit Expo
[Music]
[Music]
what's going on guys we made it to LA
and they managed to lose three of our
four pegs somehow so we're stuck with
only one bag but it's all good we're
going to the hotel right now and then
we're gonna go grab some food and head
to the gym after that so I'll check in
with you guys just check in here at our
hotel downtown LA and we figured first
we'd go see what the gym situation is
like in the hotel itself yeah it's
really a classical looking I guess like
I need a key to get in there but looks
like there's some benches and some free
weights
we'll probably stick to golds it looks
like there is some like free weights and
stuff in there I couldn't get any cuz I
needed the key you hungry Oh classic
like how vintage this place is cool
definitely haven't really liked I
haven't heard anything today I just had
like a subway breakfast sandwich
whatever the airplane food they had to
serve us which is not good so we're
gonna go grab something that whole foods
there's like a gold close by the hotel
so we're gonna go for a quick workout
there but I'm not gonna film that
tonight we're trying to get like a good
workout in tonight because I have a
feeling it's gonna be a lot busier
tomorrow after the expo I'm going to get
a solid training session in tonight or
whole foods and then we'll check in with
you guys a little bit later all right
guys so we just got back from Whole
Foods I'm gonna you guys gonna give you
guys a quick look at what we got so let
me wanted something a little more
healthy just because they're a little
more nutrient-dense I should say because
I haven't eaten too much too yet today
I forgot the salad is just like lettuce
broccoli some turkey cheese blueberries
and
that looks delicious to me and then this
is my bear mode meal so I'll show you
what I got here
got some brussel sprouts some sweet
potatoes or some like sweet potato fries
some mac and cheese in there rice
chicken broccoli just a whole bunch of
goodness and I also got some of these
for a little bit later and Steph is the
real MVP
she brought her chromecast so we're
gonna like I think maybe have you know
on the bed uh-huh you wanna chill here
if you put on an episode of lost
okay yeah we're gonna do that have a
meal and then we're gonna run to the gym
think you can eat more than oh my
goodness this poor guy
go alright everyone so we're here at
Gold's Gym we're actually in a plaza
right now it's pretty busy I was just
thinking and I was just saying to
Stephanie that is exactly I guess one
year ago today that I was coming here
for a workout with John Venus Rob live
set and I ran into rich Piana alright
may rest in peace miss rich actually and
he was in the thumbnail for that video
and I was just looking back and at this
point in time last year I was at 60,000
subscribers on the channel now since
then we've gone up to 474 I think it's
480 I think we hit 480 today so we're
just closing in on 500,000 which is
crazy for me to think but anyway we're
gonna go for a workout at Gold's Gym not
gonna record this workout just because
we're thinking that's gonna be like a
crazy busy weekend and that's okay but
we're probably not gonna get great
workouts in the rest of the weekend so
we're gonna go hard in the gym tonight
and I'll check in with you guys tomorrow
actually I'm gonna check in with you
guys a little bit later tonight when
rashon gets in so I'll see you that
definitely I just made it back from the
gym and right now we're on the line with
Air Canada they still haven't brought
our bags so as of right now all that I
have to my name it's basically this
outfit so hopefully that will come in
before tomorrow because we have the expo
tomorrow I'm just setting up this desk
in this whole situation over here to
film the mythbuster that's what I'm
thinking I'll do is I'll put this chair
kind of behind here put this up against
the wall and then film it that way
that's gonna be live on the channel
right now it's about the anabolic window
we just finished up our workout I
haven't had any protein yet it's been
about an hour so that kind
boils it a little bit I'm not too too
concerned about that because we ate very
soon before the workout so if you have a
pre-workout meal that's in very close
proximity to the workout
I think the post-workout meal matters
less but if you guys are interested in
hearing all the science behind that
check out that video I'll put a card to
it somewhere here over my head and yeah
we're just basically waiting on rashon
to get here or Shauna's coming to LA
with us for the whole weekend and then
back to Florida actually so yeah I'm
gonna get this set up maybe record that
video a little bit or finish up some of
my notes and check them with you guys in
a little bit
I need your shorts man they're gonna be
I mean like honest this is all I have we
need a sharpie marker we're gonna write
PE sign how is your play man really we
lose our bags and you get first class
I know morning everyone it's the first
day of the LA food Expo today as you'll
see so we're in the same clothes I was
written yesterday Air Canada didn't come
through with our bags we have like two
hours till we go to the expo so I
decided to get myself a new pair of
pants so check them should be good yeah
these are Sean's we're gonna run out and
try to grab some like some kind of
athletic wear something like that Steph
has it a little bit worse so this is the
the make up situations pre Expo makeup
room this is a disaster basically like
didn't have any of her stuff so she just
like ran to Walgreens or whatever and
bought a bunch of stuff but Michonne and
I are gonna head to Starbucks right now
get some breakfast we've got a video
going up in the next hour or two I think
we're gonna finish some edits on that
then head over to the expo and hopefully
meet some you guys it turns out science
didn't bring any extra clothes either
like they're not a clothing company
supplement company so they didn't have
any extra clothes so staff went to
Target you got a $4 pair of leggings
they look good they were there were 797
and then I got an extra 30% off
clearance these are like it I feel like
that's a solid outfit so we're gonna run
to like oh maybe Zara or Target or
something I'm just gonna try to get like
a plain black t-shirt and then we're
gonna head over it's gonna be good
so this is an amazing change from
British mummy right now
yeah that's how you went you oh you went
yeah oh you a lot I just really like it
cuz I've a university right now studying
kinesiology oh cool I just like how you
put in like the scientific stuff what's
your name
Andy Andy nice to meet you man I'm Geoff
but I ran into it I
[Music]
fine wear a dress to this long to man
only and be a player shopping so we
managed to get two things I just got
like clean pair of black track pants
these are like 20 bucks hmm and then
just a plain black t-shirt hmm
and so that's what we're going with it's
good enough for today and we'll check in
with you guys at the expo it's pretty
freakin crazy here already man like just
trying to get here Oh Patti
[Music]
thank you guys all right that's a wrap
[Music]
tomorrow or Monday Mythbusters Monday
Monday you get more videos more often
now right yeah two to three I've got got
this guy right behind the camera so yeah
me and my little brother this is the
magic all right so that's gonna wrap it
up guys we're gonna head to Gold's for a
workout I think we're Sean's gonna do an
edit but I might have a few things to
say there check up with you guys in the
gym so we're here back at the hotel and
the Gold's Gym that we're gonna go do a
quick push workout at apparently close
at 9:00 and it is 858 so obviously not
gonna make it there tonight I'm so we're
just gonna go check out the hotel gym
right now do a quick push work over
there I never had the chance to actually
look at what equipment they have there
so we're gonna find out to like a couple
basic exercises get a little bit of a
pump and then we're gonna call it a
night and my throat is destroyed like
today it was four hours just absolutely
non-stop that was the first Expo where
there was never a single break in the
line which is awesome like is really
cool this is yet to see everyone and see
how many people showed up to the booth
I'm just talking that much at all so I'm
feeling pretty wrecked right now but get
a good work honey should be a little
less crowded than Gold's Venice yeah you
got a smith machine over here black hole
now we'll do a little push workout so it
is totally off the cuff that is my first
time seeing this equipment but I think
what I'm actually gonna do I'm gonna set
this bench up you're gonna do some
incline presses here 10 to 12 reps I
don't want to go too heavy because like
I am feeling pretty gassed from the
expert I have to be honest so I don't
want a little bit too heavily rather
work in the 10 to 12 range tonight and
then that's gonna be the the main
incline press so a lot of upper chest
but a bit of shoulder work there then
for our assistance
we're gonna do this back deck right here
seems I could be doing enough and then
for some extra shoulder stuff we're
gonna come over to the dumbbells yeah it
dumbbells that go up to like 50 pounds
so we're just going to do some simple
lateral lateral raises with the
dumbbells do a little bit of rear delts
so I think I'm for rear delts I'm
actually gonna use that reverse PEC deck
over here and maybe finish off with one
burn out set on the dip machine over
here just bodyweight as a finisher so I
feel like I can actually have a pretty
sweet push workout in here now so we're
gonna do that now and actually I think
what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna
overlay a few clips over where I was
just talking so you guys would have seen
like a few clips of the workout as I was
explaining it so I'm actually gonna put
my headphones in listen to some music
get in the zone
have a good workout so I'm not gonna do
too much like informative vlogging with
this one I'm gonna have all the coaching
cues that I use for these movements in
the description box so I have a full
workout in there plus the coaching cues
I just want to say thank you guys for
watching if you did come out to the
booth at the expo and say hello I really
appreciate you thank you so much stay
tuned for the next vlog guys we're gonna
do a full workout at Venice Gold's Gym
the mecca for Sean's gonna do a sick
edit over there I'm so you can look out
for that next vlog be going up in a
couple days thank you guys so much for
watching hit the thumbs up button if you
liked the video subscribe if you're new
and I will see you guys next time