Sam solic is by far the biggest Fitness
influencer in the world at the moment so
I decided to analyze every single
workout he's done this year so far he's
done 460 sets 15% of those sets were for
his chest 20% for his back and 16% for
his biceps interestingly only 11% of
Sam's total training was for his quads
yet 25% went to his triceps one quarter
of Sam's total training is triceps
training yet Anatomy research tells is
that the triceps are less than 4% of
total body muscle while the quads are by
far the biggest muscle in the body at
almost 30% of total body muscle also Sam
trains to failure 96% of the time but
almost all of his sets not taken to
failure were for his forearms so if we
ignore the forearm work fully 98% of
Sam's training was done all the way to
muscular failure I also examined the
range of motion he used on every set the
most common rep range he used and using
all this information in this video I'm
going to to provide the most analytical
science-based critique of Sam sik's
training on the internet I'm going to do
that by highlighting three good things
that you should definitely apply to your
own training and three bad things that I
think are either a waste of time or will
give you suboptimal results now I'm
going to start with the bad stuff but
keep in mind that I will be going over
the good stuff as well and there's one
thing in particular that I think Sam
does better than any Fitness influencer
that I'm aware of and I'll get to that
later in the video first after watching
days worth of Sam solic videos the first
thing I noticed is that his technique
could be better Sam is obviously a big
proponent of what he calls ego lifting
which is when you simply try to move the
weight allowing yourself to swing and
sway rather than being really strict
with your form and Sam definitely does
more than his fair share of cheat reps
now I would say that I'm actually less
of a technique junkie than most
science-based coaches I think that you
can still get solid gains with so-called
bad form as long as you're pushing
yourself hard but I still doubt those
gains will be optimal in fact I recently
published a study on optimal training
technique for muscle growth and we
discovered that there are two main
things to focus on when it comes to
lifting technique the main thing is that
you need to use a range of motion that
gets the muscle into a deep stretch on
this point I'm giving Sam a B minus Sam
doesn't always use a full range of
motion for sure but that's okay as long
as you're getting the muscle into a deep
stretch and while Sam often does get the
muscle fully stretched there are too
many times when he doesn't to get an a
rate for example on the incline press
here he's stopping at least 3 or 4 Ines
away from his chest which isn't the end
of the world but it isn't ideal I'd
rather see him strip the weight back and
touch the bar to his chest so he can
really feel that deep stretch in his
pecs and here on preacher curls you can
see that he's cutting out the bottom
quarter of the range of motion where his
biceps would be the most stretched and
we now have two studies showing that on
this exact exercise the bottom half of
the curl is the most anabolic part of
the range of motion so if you're cutting
out the bottom part I would say that
you're missing out on some potential
gains in fact whenever I do preacher
curls these days I just stay in the
bottom half the entire time the other
thing we found in our study is that it's
important to control the negative rather
than just letting the weight freef fall
so when it comes to controlling the
negative Sam gets a B+ he usually does
control the negative pretty well even
when he uses some momentum to get the
weight moving but there are also just
too many examples of him letting the
weight free fall to get him an a grade
ideally as he gets closer to failure
he'd make a conscious effort to resist
the weight on the negative always being
in control especially on that final rep
where muscle activation is the highest
overall I'll give Sam a b-grade on
training technique the next thing I
quickly noticed is that Sam will more or
less just completely Wing his workouts
he doesn't have a structured training
plan he hops in the car roughly Maps out
a workout in his head on the way to the
gym and then he'll even often improvise
the workout in the moment based on how
he's feeling the problem with basing
your workouts around whatever you're
feeling that day is that it's really
hard to guarantee that you're actually
progressing if you're just picking
different exercises at random you'll
quickly hit a plateau and start spinning
your wheels in the gym in fact I would
say that this is the number one thing
that causes people to fall into that
dreaded lifetime intermediate category
after getting past the Newbie phase in
order to keep making progress after your
first year of lifting it's crucial that
you use Progressive overload all
Progressive overload means is that you
add something to your workouts over time
that's usually done by adding some
weight or a rep to each exercise but if
you're just randomly switching exercises
in and out what'll happen is when it's
time to hit that same exercise again you
end up just doing the same weight and
the same reps that you did last time
this is truly a progress killer now
elephant in the room Sam is clearly
still making gains just fine and an
intuitive approach to training can
clearly work for some people especially
if you have gr genetics or supplemental
enhancement in fact the supplement
aspect of this is pretty big with the
right anabolic enhancement you can make
gains even while training suboptimally
in fact research shows that you can
build muscle without even training at
all as long as you're taking the right
substances enhancing is kind of like
getting a second newbie phase where
really anything you do will work but
even with enhancement once you
eventually reach that plateau again you
have two options get smarter and more
structured with your training or
increase the dose of anabolics obviously
the safest solution is to get a plan put
it on paper or put it in your phone and
track the weight and the number of reps
you do I personally do this for every
exercise but even just doing it for your
heavy compound lifts would make a huge
difference so for example you can track
your squats presses and heavy pulls and
then kind of wing it for the lighter
isolation stuff like curls lateral
raises and chest flies now to Sam's
credit you do want to give yourself the
freedom to switch exercises in and out
if you're feeling pain or if you're just
really in the mood for something
different for example Sam immediately
switched his chest workout to a back
workout after feeling his chest tighten
up in this workout on January 8th I
think that's a smart move but for the
most part you do want to keep most of
your exercises and most of your workouts
the same for at least a month or two so
you can make sure that you're adding
some weight or some reps to those
exercises also to be fair Sam could
totally be tracking his workouts off
camera but I didn't hear any mention of
that from any of the videos that I
watched and I definitely got the
impression that most of the time he's
just completely winging it overall I'm
giving Sam a C+ on program structure
third Sam uses a body part split or what
many would call a bro split this is
where you train only one muscle per
workout so he'll do chest one day then
back the next day then he'll do an arm
day and then a leg day there's two main
issues with this first as you can tell
it ends up being very disproportionate
in terms of how much volume each muscle
gets so far this year Sam has done 113
sets for his triceps and only nine sets
for his calves and just six sets for his
glutes and his tricep volume is more
than double his quad volume despite the
quads being eight times bigger now Sam
has said that he's trying to focus on
his triceps right now but this is fairly
normal for a bro split because you have
at least three upper body days for every
one leg day yet from an anatomical
standpoint your legs have way more total
musculature than your upper body and
it's not even close so unless you
already have great leg genetics your
legs may start to lag behind on this
split there's also an issue with junk
volume in this workout from January 21st
Sam did 13 sets for for his chest plus
two drop sets but the best studies tell
us that you tend to max out the amount
of growth that you can get for a single
muscle somewhere around six to eight
sets per workout so after you've done
six to eight sets for a single muscle in
one workout any more sets that you do
after that probably aren't doing much
this is why some people call it junk
volume so rather than wasting all that
energy doing 13 sets in one workout for
one muscle I'd suggest splitting that
volume in half and putting six sets on
one day and seven sets on another day
day now it's possible that because Sam
is just so big he can use more volume in
a single workout than you or me and I
guess it's worth mentioning that
probably 90 plus% of ifpb Pros do follow
the same split as Sam so it could be
that if you get to that unnaturally high
level of muscular development the rules
change or that with enough enhancement
the rules don't really matter anymore
that said when I spoke with Dr Mike
isrel about this someone who I'd
consider an expert on both the natural
and enhanced side of bodybuilding he
said that enhanced guys would also also
be better off following a more
science-based training split that could
be a push pull leg split or an upper
lower split or even a full body split I
think that those are all better options
for the vast majority of people again
because they allow for a more even
distribution of your volume across your
body and they're less likely to lead to
so-called junk volume overall I'm going
to give Sam a C+ on his training split
okay let's dig into the good stuff first
to his credit Sam trains very hard this
is extremely important if your goal is
to maximize muscle growth beyond the
beginner stage and I do think that
simply training hard is more important
than any of the previous stuff I talked
about you can optimize everything else
on paper if you don't push your sets
hard it doesn't really matter that said
too much of a good thing can be bad and
in this case I think it might be Sam
goes to failure a little too much for my
taste like I said Sam has done 460 sets
so far this year and 440 of them were
all out sets to failure I do think most
people would run into recovery issues
with that much failure training for me
only about 30% of my training is taken
to failure I usually do three sets per
exercise and I'll take the last set all
the way to failure on my first two sets
I leave one or two reps in the tank keep
in mind one or two reps in the tank is
still very hard training I see people
leaving 10 plus reps in the tank all the
time at my gym even serious dedicated
bodybuilders but yeah I think a
combination of failure and non-failure
training is smarter than just going to
failure all the time that way you still
regularly get to remind yourself what
failure feels like but you're not doing
it so much that it hurts your recovery
but even though he does take it a too
far in my opinion I'm still counting
Sam's High effort as a good thing
because he seems to genuinely enjoy
failure training he does seem to be
recovering from it for the most part and
even though he has had a few injuries
it's hard to say if that's due to
failure training per se or the super
high loads that he's using or something
else so even though I'd personally tone
back on it failure training is still far
better than sandbagging your workouts
and not putting any real effort in so
given his preference for failure
training and what seems to be adequate
recovery I'm going to go ahead and give
Sam an a grade on effort the second good
thing is that Sam uses smart rep ranges
when I analyzed the number of reps he
did on every set this was how it broke
down 11% of his sets were in the 0 to3
rep range 40% in the 4 to7 rep range
another 40% in the 8 to 12 rep range and
9% was above 13 reps so clearly the
majority of his training is coming from
a moderate rep Zone from 4 to 12 reps
and for hypertrophy I think this is
great all rep ranges can in theory lead
to similar muscle growth however doing
too much High Reps can be very
exhausting and doing too much Low Reps
may give you unnecessary joint strain I
think I do a little more High rep work
than Sam does just because there are
studies showing that using a variety of
rep ranges is better than only doing one
rep range but overall this is pretty
bang on for someone whose main goal is
muscle growth I'm going to give Sam a a
grade on his rep ranges lastly and most
importantly Sam clearly loves training
probably more than any Fitness
influencer that I'm aware of he's super
consistent he does exercises that he
enjoys and he has a good time in the gym
obviously hard workouts require
discipline and there will always be days
when you don't feel like going to the
gym but finding ways to make your
workouts more enjoyable is always a good
thing and Sam clearly has that mastered
and he gets a a double Plus for
sustainability and enjoyment and even
though I was kind of tough on Sam in
this video because I wanted to give him
a rigorous science-based critique All
Things Considered I think Sam deserves a
b-grade for his training overall even
though there are areas that could be
more optimized I personally rank
sustainability and enjoyment and effort
so highly that his high score there does
boost his overall grade from me and even
though I didn't get a chance to talk
about Sam's diet in this video comment
below if you'd like me to do that in a
future video and in the meantime you can
download my nutrition app
macroaxis like having me as your own
personal nutrition coach but for a tiny
fraction of the cost I use macr Factor
myself for all of 2023 to cut 30 lbs of
fat and now I'm using the app to guide
my bulk for 202 4 and you can see from
my habits dashboard I haven't missed a
single day so far this year I think the
main thing that separates
2 weeks for free or you can check out
the first link in the description box
down below thanks again guys so much for
watching don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one