red light therapy well known for
reducing inflammation improving eyesight
improving collagen elastin improving
eyesight's a curious one I don't think
it's well known for that one red light
therapy seems to potentially have some
positive effects on skin health and
maybe a little bit on local inflammation
that surface level whether or not it
gets through and gets into the deeper
parts of your body is both highly likely
and not in evidence and so far all the
research on red light therapy seems to
leave us in the conclusion of it
potentially has a little bit of promise
for a few things but is not a
revolutionary treatment that's going to
make a huge difference in your life it's
very good for empowering the
mitochondria the PowerHouse of the cell
that sounds as dumb as it actually is
folks that's all nonsense it's the rage
in athletic performance we know how
objective those people can be from other
videos we've done people like to get
expensive things and sit inside them and
get blasted with rays and pretend those
rays are doing something and sometimes
they have small minor effects on some
subsystems of the body and most of the
time they do diddly dick but they all
cost $80,000