hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization mini bulking is it a thing
or is it total BS well let's find out
what is mini bulking
it's like mini cutting but different
mini bulking is if you take roughly two
to six weeks in a dedicated caloric
Surplus while training very hard
with the anticipation of gaining some
combination of muscle hopefully much of
it and fat hopefully not a ton but
always and everywhere when you're
bulking you should expect some fat gain
to come along for the ride two to six
weeks of bulking and usually bulking
slash muscle gaining slash massing
whatever you want to call it uh usually
that is best done for like
8 to 16 weeks for some reasons we'll
describe shortly but mini bulking isn't
total BS because it does have its uses
for example
two uses that are are quite effective
one is you don't have the time in your
schedule to do a long protracted bulk so
do you you do a mini bulk instead and
then maybe you'll do one later after
it's not like that's all the muscle
again you're gonna have that year
because it won't be that much
but
just for scheduling reasons you can't do
any more
a good example of that is like you have
six weeks right now to train hard and
eat well and you have to go on like a
three week business trip vacation combo
and you're like I'm not going to muscle
gain through that that's just like a
huge clusterfuck and so I'm gonna bulk
for six weeks now I'm gonna maintain
through that vacation come back do a
little mini cut and then start bulking
eat after 12 weeks so totally fine
totally fine use case a very related one
is typically after a very intense uh
competition prep fat loss diet after
show prep
people say okay you show prep diets over
you should maintain after to let your
body recover hold on a second you're
like five percent body fat the hell
you're maintaining your body's slowly
like dying it's like dude this ain't
cool feed me and what you want to do
after a show then is do a bulking phase
in order to put on actually quite a bit
of fat intentionally because putting on
fat from five to six to seven to eight
to nine percent body fat as a male and
anywhere between 10 and 15 as a female
actually makes you healthier and more
anabolic like it makes you more likely
to gain muscle if you're fatter because
when your body's lean enough it's like
dude everything you feed me I'm just
gonna store us fat anyway because we're
dying out here I'm out of body fat
forget muscle are you nuts it's like
parts of your bathroom and kitchen at
your house or falling apart and you're
like hey we got extra money what do you
think revamp the deck your wife's gonna
be like what are you fucking crazy we
gotta fix the house first then maybe
we'll build a deck same idea remember
your body you get lean enough it values
body fat like crazy because it's like
this is a problem is not supposed to be
this low so it's actually good to bulk
rapidly after a bodybuilding show not
crazy rapidly but like yeah I gained
like two pounds a week of tissue so that
at least most of those two pounds are
some large fraction can be fat so yeah
you're getting plenty of muscle on the
rebound but you also gain lots of fat so
that afterwards that six week period is
over you can take a little break and
then start bulking and actually have it
be very very effective so why not just
bulk that fast and then after six weeks
slow it down to normal here's the
problem you just trained Ultra hard for
months and months and months during your
fat loss phase your training fatigue is
very high it's not ultra high because
you deloaded for the show little Act of
rest after the show but you're still
pretty beat up I mean show prep beats
you up so afterwards we if you can do
about four to six weeks of rebound
bulking rebound Mass gaining
you gain you know gee whiz like a
percent of your body weight every week
that's probably pretty good and after
six weeks you went from four percent fat
to ten percent fat or something you'd
meet maybe even less there's a lot of
that's gonna be body water or something
it's gonna be muscle so maybe got back
to eight percent fat from four percent
fat in six weeks and that's like yeah
that's a lot of facting but that's good
that's what you want and it's also
plenty of muscle gain the end of that
process though after that six weeks of
bulking you that's six weeks plus the
previous 14 before that most of which
were spent in high volume really hard
training and all that training during
the Diet phase was spent in a deficit
where to training beats you up even more
than normal so you're training fatigue
you're just like dilapidated right dude
nothing hurts my joints don't work
nothing hurts gonna everything hurts my
joints don't work this is terrible
you're completely gassed out at that
point you can't keep bulking because
bulking number one underlying 100
must-have for a good massing diet good
bulking diet is to be able to be healthy
and motivated and strong enough to
continue trained for weeks and weeks and
weeks and you're no longer in that
position so you have to stop your bulk
take a maintenance period of several
weeks or an active rest period you're
basically hardly train at all for two
weeks really heal up and then you can
either do a little mini cut clean up a
little bit and then go bulk or just go
right bulk from there so that's totally
fine
but that means you have to have like a
four to six week bulking phase that is a
mini book and in that situation it's
totally fine another situation in which
mini bulking can do really well is if
you have a client that you're coaching
who has built up a ton of diet fatigue I
mean they're just like they're wrapping
us and they're ready to eat everything
and they're just like totally devoid of
energy and everything like that
and let's say they have another fat loss
diet that for some events and wedding or
whatever they have to they have six
weeks of break and you could just do
maintenance right and maintenance
absolutely heals diet fatigue in most
circumstances but it heals so at a
moderate Pace on a normal Pace because
it's maintenance
But like after six weeks they have to
diet for another 10 weeks to get their
leanest effort to go on some Cruise
vacation that they want and take some
pictures and who knows
so you have six weeks
because you need to heal as much diet
fatigue as possible
the best way to do it is actually to do
a very mild Surplus an extra 250
calories per day on top of maintenance
is technically a surplus
very well
but in addition to that
because it's a surplus there's something
absolutely magical it's not really
magical it's just science but isn't
science and Magic the same thing I
should just go be a elementary school
science teacher if only I was legally
allowed within 500 feet of an elementary
school be the first place I would go no
wait not that sounds totally wrong my
parole officer if you're watching this I
just take back everything I said
if you run six weeks of Maintenance
you'll heal a good deal of diet fatigue
let's say you'll heal 70 of the diet
fatigue you had but fucking Christ that
last 30 starting 30 diet fatigue means
you won't make it that 12 week diet
afterwards by week eight you'll be like
I'm done I can't do this anymore I'm not
sleeping I'm gonna gnaw my arm off
hungry I have total lethargy I'm
starting to lose muscle this is terrible
lose your hair fuck all that
but if for those six weeks you don't go
maintenance you just go to slight
Surplus there's again a surplus heals
you in a big way and it recovers diet
fatigue in a way that maintenance takes
much longer to do so after six weeks of
a mild Surplus you maybe only gained
like two pounds of body fat maybe maybe
probably less
but you have 100 reduced your diet
fatigue so now that 12 week diet you
have coming up which you had to do
schedule-wise anyway you're gonna rock
right through that those two pounds of
fat Jesus that's like a week and a half
fat loss who cares you rocked it out
because you bought yourself an extra
four weeks of fat loss from eight to
twelve but only one and a half of those
is required for burning the fat off that
you accumulated so it's worth so in
those cases mini bulking no actually
there's something to it however
downsides of mini bulking because what I
don't want you to do is stop watching
right now because we see the way
monetization works if you keep watching
we make more money here and not only do
I collect Lamborghinis as maybe you know
if you watch this channel before I'm
technically speaking my Butlers go by
the Lamborghinis I don't want to be
associated with Commerce it's kind of
icky I don't like money exchange I'm too
rich I don't like to touch money or see
it I like make sure somebody else is
doing it but Scott the video guys coming
in some money Lately from all these
YouTube videos he's uh Scott what's your
car of choice here are you you're a
Jaguar addict aren't you 911 he's got
like it's not like a fleet of 911s uh
but he's got like five like five you
know what one of them is like the the
yellow Racing Stripes one you know you
don't take that out on a night out with
your girl so he has to have another one
that's just like midnight blue but then
like on a sunny day you want the red one
this is how we're living so please
continue to watch because we're gonna
make us a lot of money which is awesome
but you get even a slight side benefit
and the side benefit is don't just be
like hey okay fine this is Great Click
mini bulking whatever
it works clearly you're just talking
about it for 15 minutes how it works it
has downsides just because something
works in some contexts doesn't mean it
works in a universal context and doesn't
mean it's not on average worse than
another thing that's even better
like yes if you earn a battle against
zombies a pistol works it's better than
not a pistol but what about uh some kind
of uh carbine setup with a fucking scope
grenade launcher yeah now we're talking
so what is that equivalent that is
bulking for 8 to 16 weeks
what do we get from that that we don't
get from mini bulking a couple things
first an appreciable amount of muscle
that you can see on your frame takes
months to gain
and if you've got months take months
because you want an appreciable amount
of muscle imagine someone's like how's
your diet going you're like yeah man
just look finish this bulk like go fuck
man you feel big no
you don't nope six six weeks this ain't
shit I think I gained like a half a
pound of muscle oh holy shit slow clap
nah
balking you want a lot of muscle so you
do it for longer
that being said there are other very
compelling even more compelling reasons
to do it for longer in one stretch
because you could say Okay mini bulk
mini cup mini bulk fine however
the calibration required in Mass gaining
can take a few weeks
such that you don't really get into the
groove until like you're halfway done
with your mini bulk
getting into a Dependable Auto regulated
Surplus
how do you know when you start bulking
that you're eating at a surplus you
actually don't it's an educated guess
and they can be wrong you can think okay
my maintenance calorie is three thousand
so many 3250 to gain that's actually a
really good buffer for how much to gain
like 250 calories it's like half a pound
a week protected gain that's a really
really good rate for many people to gain
a lot of muscle and not so much fat
right and much farther above in Surplus
maybe just leads to a lot more fact in
and just a little bit more muscle gain
but what if you're wrong what if your
actual maintenance calories are 3 200.
now you're at a 50 calorie Surplus
the fuck per day what are you crazy
you're gonna gain weight in like two
years you'll be five pounds bigger or
some crazy shit like that fuck that so
it turns out that you have to measure
your weight for two weeks straight and
then you notice on your measurements
like huh yeah I'm definitely not in a
surplus this happens to me all the time
I I used to think my maintenance was 3
500 calories I ate at 4 000 calories for
weeks and my weight just dropped and I
was like what the fuck and then I
realized my maintenance at the time was
like 41.50 oh my God is that ad like 4
600 calories per month which was awful
by the way just get really sick of food
but it worked I didn't find out it
worked until three like four weeks into
the process can you imagine if I only
did many Bucks I'd be like well I got
two weeks left of actual bucking did I
did four weeks of the equivalent of like
if you're going on a trip on a plane it
was just four weeks of just taxing on
the runway and then finally two weeks of
actual flying like what that's insane I
thought about a ticket to do around the
world flight for six weeks yeah that's
actually most of that's in airports
that's nonsense so it takes a while to
figure things out and it's not helped by
the fact that if you exit a fat loss
phase and begin a bulk you get this body
water transition stuff you gain like
five or ten pounds in the first like
three days just for extra body water and
they're like fuck yeah I'm in a surplus
maybe not you might still be at
maintenance it's just fat loss to
maintenance automatically piles on a
bunch of body water you because that
body water takes man just like a week or
maybe two weeks to settle in you have an
inherent giant fraction of your mini
bulk that is a totally like black box
opaque process
you don't even know if you're bulky if
you have 8 to 16 weeks you get through
those first two or three weeks and you
know you're on track and you point the
arrow of gain directly at the Target
because now you know where to point it
and now you know where it points and
then the next 14 weeks of bulking are
like beautifully executed with precision
here's another benefit those 14 weeks
week you know three four five six Etc
you develop a momentum to bulking you're
you dial in your daily schedule weekly
schedule of nutrition your workouts
start to really as they say in
bodybuilding click you're getting used
to your new leverages you're getting
used to the pumps and the soreness
you're figuring out your volumes really
well because all that changes when you
go from a fat loss or maintenance into a
bulk
now you start gaining strength
and because you've been doing the same
exercises for
weeks and weeks and weeks you're getting
really grooved in on them and not only
are they making you stronger but they
feel better that your joints feel better
because you're in the right position
your muscles feel better because you're
really exposing the muscles
and that kind of momentum and mass
gaining is a real thing so if you're
like just get into the fucking Groove
you're like hell yeah these workouts are
feeling good I'm getting stronger I've
got my eating figured out I know what a
surplus is and I have a week left of
bulking what
that's so stupid that's like a party
that's just getting fun and everyone's
like all right Tracy's throwing up in
the bathroom everyone has to leave she
hates it when she's throwing up and she
doesn't want anyone around who the fuck
is Tracy I'm here for Sandy's party like
Tracy is her roommate you got to go home
fuck this I'm still party call the
police of course the police come beat me
with batons here's a part of you idiot
throw me in jail happens every Monday
but
I used to leave a party when it's really
fun don't leave the bulking party until
you've had a good time like when is it
good to leave a party when just when you
first notice it's like not as fun as it
was and you're like yeah the good times
aren't coming back it's 2 30 in the
morning everyone's too tired then you
leave that's how you leave a bulk when
like you know it starts to be like I'm
getting a little too much fat and my
training's kind of stale now now you
leave but that's 8 12 16 weeks into a
block that sure shit is not six let me
tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy
app with over 28 preset programs already
in the app you can choose to make your
own you can modify an existing program
or you could just run the programs
exactly as they were written by me
personally this app programs everything
for you exercises weights sets reps
frequency the whole thing after every
single workout on every single week the
app adjusts to your unique parameters
with every single input we have over 250
exercises in the app with detailed video
tutorial links to every single one you
never have to be confused about tech
people form ever again I'm guessing
right now you're pretty interested in
the app download the RP hypertrophy app
today
you could say okay fine but we can Rush
a fat loss phase by simply losing more
per week than normal if I don't want to
lose half a percent per week I can lose
one or even 1.25 per week in a mini cut
and get the same tissue loss in a few
weeks six weeks that I would get in
maybe nine weeks with a conventional fat
loss phase and I don't have to lose
muscle and you know what that's totally
true if you can survive it it totally
works the problem is it doesn't work in
Reverse for muscle gaining for bulking
there's a speed at which you can gain
muscle
and if you take the Surplus and multiply
it by two the muscle you gain per unit
of time doesn't multiply by two it
multiplies by 1.25 or so
and guess where the remainder comes from
extra fat a ton of extra fat so if you
say okay look I'm not going to box for
six weeks at a slow pace I'm gonna bulk
for six weeks at a fast pace and thus
whatever it takes you idiots 16 weeks to
gain your boy's gonna gain it in six it
is actually totally possible but the it
is tissue and the fraction of that
tissue that's muscle is way lower if you
try to gain it at six weeks then if you
try to gain it in 16 because muscle is
slow to pile on and it works but it just
takes time so if you construct a bunch
of tissue with a huge calorie Surplus in
six weeks most of that tissue is going
to be fat and then like you're gonna be
like hey I got there faster than you
idiots and they're like yes you are
successfully fatter really quick you're
like yeah but weight lose weight
whatever whatever you have to tell
yourself is you cry yourself just sleep
at night grabbing your own newly fat
titties ooh fat titties my titties are
lean right now that didn't feel good I
want fat tits God damn it in any case if
you don't want giant bat man titties
don't rush right 0.25 to 0.5 percent of
your body weight per week is the golden
zone of muscle gain so if you're like
fuck it I'll just gain a percent every
week unless it's post show and you're
intentionally trying to get fatter don't
do it don't rush and thus a mini bulk is
a bad idea
and to be completely honest folks where
does mini bulking get most of its not
adherence but interest from and I'll
tell you straight up this is not
politically correct but it's just true
you probably have a whole Channel called
This is not politically correct but it's
just true
most of the people interested in mini
box are just fat phobic because they're
very inordinately afraid of gaining body
fat
and they would be better served with the
psychological calm and Lessons Learned
and toughness that an 8 to 16 week
muscle gain phase would have but it just
gained at 0.25 per week I mean
that might mean that after 16 weeks
you've only gained like six to eight
pounds
and like
four of those are muscle and three to
four of them two to four pounds of fat
let's say it's three pounds of fat that
you gained did you do a three week mini
cut and all that fat is gone so all of
your worrying about I'm gonna get super
fat after three weeks of mini cutting
exactly after your bulk ends you're back
to the same body fat except now you have
a net whatever four pounds more muscle
than you did
and while you're gaining it one quarter
of a percent of your body weight per
week
during that bulk there's not a time in
which your friends are like dude
no offense bro we've been friends for a
long time but like
you're fat it's disgusting I don't want
to be out in public with you anymore
it's just embarrassing this is not going
to happen
because it's so subtle only you can tell
but for the fat phobic folks it's always
only they can tell and I feel that it
sucks
so
if you're fat phobic I would recommend
still gain for longer but just gain only
at a quarter of a percent you will find
that it's quite Pleasant everything's
harmonious and smooth and there's no
reason to freak out
because freaking out and doing mini box
and
taking away your ability to get really
jacked over time with full 8 to 16 week
long mask any phases doing that is as
Arnold Schwarzenegger with no doubt say
bullshit like get out of here and go bug
for real we used the bug for years on
end nine see you guys next time