you might be making these three protein
mistakes and here's how to fix them
first you might be having too much
protein a met regression by Morton and
colleagues showed that you only needed
around 1.6 g of protein per kilogram of
body weight per day to maximize muscle
growth all of this additional protein is
essentially costing you money and
causing you to miss out on having
additional fruits and vegetables for
example instead that could benefit your
health the second mistake is having your
last meal in the day too early a study
by troling colleagues showed that having
100 G of protein after a training
session can actually result in your body
using that protein for at least 12 hours
afterwards for muscle growth this might
be useful before you go to sleep since
you're not eating while you sleep having
a big protein feeding before you sleep
may be beneficial the third big protein
mistake is a lack of consistency in
getting your total daily protein into
him a big culit is breakfast but try to
identify a protein source for each meal
that you'll use to get sufficient
protein in that's why