so today is the first day that I'll be
carving up for my photo shoot so a few
people have been asking me how it is
that I'm approaching this sort of
peeking process and I'm not really
thinking of it as like peeking for a
bodybuilding show or anything like that
I'm planning on doing a couple photo
shoots while in California and I'm not
going to do any water or sodium
manipulation or anything like that I'm
not even going to track it carefully
really the only thing I'm going to do is
just increase my food intake over the
next two days eating into the shoot and
then after this shoot I'm going to keep
myself in a slight surplus so that I
remain full I'm as lean as I really need
to be to do this sort of a photo shoot
it's not really a bodybuilding shoot per
se like I would do leading into a prep
so I'm happy with how I look now it's
just a matter of filling out so I will
be eating in a pretty big surplus over
the next two days so I'm gonna do my
best to show you guys all of my meals or
at least most of my meals the
best-tasting ones anyway as the day goes
on I'll just kind of play it by ear I
don't have a like specific goal in mind
like a calorie or macro goal I'm
basically just kind of kind of gonna
basically kind of just gonna self coach
and see how things are looking visually
but I'm probably going to be somewhere
in the range of like 3,500 to 4,000
calories for the next couple of days
which is a pretty big surplus for me so
I'm definitely excited about that and oh
I did forget to say I did waken I forgot
to say I did wake up this morning at a
new low weigh-in of 150 3.0 pounds so
that's the lightest I'll be weighing
probably for at least another year or so
because yeah now I'm excited to just get
on with the process of building muscle
and improve my weak points instead of
one cup this morning I'm going to do
actually instead of half a cup this
morning I'm doing two cup art back
instead of half a cup this morning I'm
doing a full cup of oats
guys this is meal one we've got one cup
of egg whites one whole egg some cheese
and veggies and stuff and then one cup
of oatmeal and some watermelon water so
guys so it is now 4:17 and I've only had
really had one meal I had the bowl of
oatmeal at breakfast and maybe that
wasn't the best choice because oatmeal
fills me up like crazy for forever so I
actually haven't eaten until now so
we're going to go on the mall get some
extreme pita and I'm going to tally up
the macros that I've had so far and then
see what catching up I have to do
tonight
and I might be able to actually have
something really really good so that
could end up being a blessing in
disguise check with you guys a minute
here's what I ended up getting
so I've got Porter chicken white meat
here corn and potatoes with gravy should
be a decent amount of calories in that
bad boy
all right so you get two cookies
don't be increased
do you mean that and
one and one mm in one car purchase
okay
for two seconds oftentimes on the
channel or on snapchat or wherever we
often be eating really high calorie
foods and then when I knew people
face-to-face have knives people will be
like
food and in reality oftentimes Robin and
I will just leave a lot of the food
behind and we've gotten pretty good at
just eating to our appetite and stopping
once
so for example if I was to show you guys
three cookies like that what I usually
don't show is after I eat it there's
usually like at least half of it left
remaining so normally I wouldn't like
smash three cookies but that's what I'm
that's how that works it's okay to eat
some high-calorie foods along with you
good idea of what you take me with I
said I think I am going to eat all three
of these to let you guys know the
difference
save these for later that was a bad
choice of pre-work oatmeal I'm like
super tired right now guy just feel so
bloated and just like super sleepy well
it was like a turkey dinner plus would
have won like two subway cookies it's
like not much but I'm not used to you
okay come closer
turn to the side to your belly sticks
out more
belly doesn't sick
yeah
it's really good
move the cookies out farther
and now pull your sonic code again link
look at the cookies
they now look back
okay all right guys well welcome to the
voiceover for this final training
session before my photo shoot in
Sacramento California first thing I just
want to talk about is whether or not you
guys like the raw footage better or when
I edit it up more typically I'll edit
out all of my like ohms and ahhs and
pauses and things that I have to say
over but some people have been saying
that I'm over editing my videos so I
just wanted to get your guys feedback on
that please let me know in the comments
below if you like it better a little bit
more raw or if you'd rather me to just
get rid of the fluff in between it
really makes no difference for me
obviously it takes a little bit longer
to edit it if I have to cut all of the
fluff out but if that makes it a better
listen and a more entertaining watch
then I'm more than happy to do that I
just wanted to get your guys feedback on
that so onto the workout itself I kick
things off with some shoulders and this
is actually a full-body workout and the
idea here was to just sort of go in
there and get a pump and keep things
light even though I did incorporate some
intensity techniques so the first thing
you would have seen there is me using a
technique called my Oh reps and it's a
system of training that was developed by
Borge fagioli I think I'm saying his
name right but if you guys want to read
more about that just check out his
concept of effective reps essentially
you take a set to failure rest for say
three or four breaths do another five
reps rest for three or four breaths do
another five reps rest and you just
repeat that cycle until you can no
longer get another five reps and the
whole idea I guess the theory behind it
is that you are activating more motor
units because you even with lighter load
you reach the higher threshold motor
units if you take the set to failure so
you're essentially doing more and more
reps closer to failure and
those effective reps and I do find it to
be a good intensity technique especially
if you're not able to go heavy like me
because of the injury and the last thing
I just want to touch on really briefly
here is how to train when peaking for a
competition so the main thing that
you're trying to do here is just fill
out the muscle with glycogen so one
approach would be to just take the whole
week off or maybe take three or four
days off altogether and certainly that
would work when you're resting your
stolen glycogen but what I've found is
that just doing some light training in
the couple of days leading into the
event is a better way to sort of get
those nutrients into the muscle and that
might be a little bit bro but it does
make some sense from a blood flow
perspective that training the muscle
lightly would sort of direct those
nutrients into the muscle and
anecdotally I've found that training
versus not training tends to lead to a
sort of fuller harder look so for the
rest of the vlog I'm going to make my
trip to Sacramento and I hope that you
guys enjoy these final few Clips yeah
Jasmine and oh great
whoo that would probably be good you
know pretty expensive organic something
like this like just a pizza to help with
calories guys I'm like feeling really
bloated like I think it's from all the
oatmeal ID this morning that's what
Robin says anyway so I'm just trying to
find a way to get some calories in
tonight because I really only had those
two meals I was in to say I actually
picked up one of those this morning when
I was from the egg whites these kind of
bloat me too
I found like sugar just makes me kind of
gassy and that's kind of how I feel
right now
yeah
alright guys so here is one day out from
the photo shoot I've got regular omelet
and oatmeal oops and half a cup of
oatmeal and I actually I'm going to
switch this around I actually just got a
message from Pat who was my client who's
competing in the muscle man ham that he
just made light weight which is awesome
we've been held up at around like a
hundred and seventy pounds for the last
couple of weeks and then for whatever
reason today he woke up at 167 and I was
like don't eat or drink anything else
and you'll make weight as a light weight
at 165 and I just got the text that he
made it so that's really good news now
we can start refeeding him and having
him coming in absolutely massive in the
light weight class which is a really
good place to be at the top of your
weight class usually tell people not to
worry about it but if you are really
close then you should try to go to the
weight class below
make the meeting Tara hey is he looking
shredded should be everything all right
what's up guys so we just arrived in
Sacramento and just checking out the
hotel room here that's really good
location better than when I competed
because it's actually right next to each
ace which is the restaurant we don't
have in Canada this is the hotel room
now I'm good
Pat's been watching some manners food
got the food drawer here
beef jerky that's you Saudi yeah rice
cakes okay and a few nibbles out of the
mountains I see yeah variety they just
have to oh man I'm gonna get into some
of these yeah go ahead
oh oh oh
can I get a front of a bicep just for my
my youtube I'll just step back and like
let's go looks good
oh gosh I didn't name right
I got you shaking in any water no tap
water I guess and oh man you picked up
some good stuff
nice so what do you just like go to the
Walmart yeah I went to some like organic
stores I don't know anything else all
right
and this is a nice nice little spot
thought I'd like yeah in the fridge and
yeah I think it's a little nicer than
the spot I was at it's definitely a
better location this is like the other
place was super far away from the venue
and everything they give you a bunch of
free shots but like well like you don't
have a door so there a wall personal
performance just personal this is gonna
give me confidence and I know it's hard
out there so really it's subtle man come
back the last Patty's and there's some
stuff
okay I'll probably take some mint
chocolate man I wrote actually good
that's my sister that's my shift yeah
get the full light alright guys so it's
just past midnight I just finished up
some work I had to do on the computer
and now I'm just getting ready to go to
bed so tomorrow first thing in the
morning I think I'm going to go pick up
a camera as you can tell I'm blogging on
my phone now which is kind of difficult
to do so I didn't get a whole lot of
clips for you guys today but tomorrow
should have the camera ready to go and
my photo shoot is tomorrow at 1:00 p.m.
so yeah I probably didn't load up as
heavily as I had initially planned but
it was like a long day and I was eating
on the go and like I said it wasn't it
wasn't really the same sort of precision
like I would give to
a show prep so you know like I don't
necessarily need to like just peak for
this shoot and then it's like done it's
like that one event so I'm fine with
like a lighter load
and I think that I'm looking fine like
I'm holding condition just fine and I'll
have a big breakfast tomorrow and get a
pump and then be good to go for the
photo shoot which I'm excited about
and yeah excited to get a workout in
tomorrow too so anyway I'm gonna hit the
bed and guess I'll check in with you
guys tomorrow and this will probably
conclude this vlog so if you like the
video don't forget to like the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys in the next vlog