[Music]
that Trifecta combo diet weight training
Baseline physical activity together is
the best possible thing you can do for
your Health and Longevity currently as
of the video Creation in 2024 by a mile
nothing comes close that's it it is so
so powerful for your health and a lot of
people just go about this the wrong way
they're go I need to get healthier what
supplements can I take what foods can I
avoid and the answer is healthy diet to
lose fat steady daily physical activity
on average and tough resistance training
program with weights that is a humongous
medical boost like no other it's a big
deal hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength and today this video is the
first in a three-part series probably
one video every week for the next 3
weeks about the simplest diet ever yes I
think we have designed the simplest diet
ever that's also effective at RP I'm
going to talk about it but this
introductory video talks about why diet
is tough and why it's worth it and why
you might want to pay us some money
later to buy our simplest diet ever so
that I can have money so that I can be
happy I'm never going to be happy but
having more money is cool in its own
right all right so why do people diet
why should you diet why should you
consider it a couple of good reasons
because you might want some combination
of the following things to happen to you
you want to improve your
health you might want to feel better day
to
day you might want to be able to do more
fun physical activities with more energy
and less risk of injury and less feeling
like it's inconvenient you might want to
be stronger which is cool dieting can
help and you might want to look a
combination of more muscular and let's
be honest leaner and that dieting to be
leaner is such a huge fraction of why
people diet and there's not a damn thing
wrong with that diet is the solution to
all of these problems or at least a big
part that's our claim but how can we
make that claim is it really true that
diet is so powerful for all these things
can diet really make you a lot healthier
can it make you feel better day-to-day
can it make you be stronger and look
better Etc I would say this I think diet
is the most powerful single way to
accomplish all of those things let's go
through a few of them one by one and
talk about how diet can help for muscle
gain it is just a fact that if you don't
get enough regular protein and enough
calories to fuel the muscle gain process
you might not gain any muscle or your
muscle gains might be a tiny fraction of
what they could have been protein and
calories for muscle gain is pretty close
to something like Fuel and oil for a car
yeah you can have a car but if it
doesn't have fuel and oil in it it's
just probably not going to go very far
or anywhere at all now for muscle gain
regular weight training is also a
critical component if you just eat well
you're not going to gain a ton of muscle
but very importantly if you just train
hard and you're eating really sucks
you're underdoing the calories and
protein by a large margin you won't gain
much muscle and it'll be really
disappointing but weight training plus
good diet is a portal to immense
muscular gains and it's a big deal now
on the training side we've got that
covered with the RP hypertrophy app and
for advanced folks that like complexity
we have the RP diet coach app with a
super super Advanced AI diet coach in
your pocket but it assumes that you want
some complexity the diet that we've
designed for you that's being promoted
in this video is way way way simpler
something to think about all right what
about fat loss how does Diet play a role
in Fat Loss should you be dieting if you
want to lose fat the core of fat loss
the most powerful way in which fat loss
can happen is the creation of a caloric
deficit your body needs a certain number
of calories to keep all of its systems
and structures intact and powered you
give it less than that and it looks
around and goes all right cells who's
going to give me some fuel to make sure
I fill up all the core functions liver
Li's like dude we're doing an important
job here brain brain's like are you
kidding me you want me to siphon off
neural
components to burn for calories so we
can get Dumber fine brain you're always
pricity heart heart's like bro I run
this shit go fine body fat he's like yes
what are you doing uh just kind of
sitting around not much do you have any
spare calories what I do but shut up and
give me your spare calories and boom
body fat starts to be drained off to
fill that deficit that you've created
and guess what that makes you leaner
over time now can the Body Hit up muscle
it can but if you're eating enough
protein and training with weights the
muscle's like no no no I'm doing a very
important thing here yeah I'm not going
to give anyway any of my muscle size to
burn for calories and the body's like
okay okay fine hey body fat what are you
doing again body Fat's like I swear to
God I don't have anything left shut up
give us the rest of yourself so that we
can be lean that's how the core of fat
loss dieting works and you might say
okay look fine but there are two ways to
go about creating a deficit one is
eating less dope respect but kind of
also fuck that because I like to eat
food
but the other one is just doing more
physical activity dope respect here's
the thing cutting out a little BS little
junk a little extra fat in your diet is
10 times easier than doing way more
physical activity let me give you a
scenario really quick you have a person
that has like half a pint of ice cream
to a pint of ice cream or a doughnut
once a day every day on top of a
perfectly Clean Diet not the usual case
much better than the usual case most
people have even more bullshit through
the day they could cut out but if you
take that doughnut away from them for8
weeks while they're doing a hardcore
diet to try to lose fat you are taking
away something like 300 calories guys
300 calories of additional physical
activity depending on how you do it is
like 30 to 45 minutes of pretty intense
incline walking in a treadmill every
single day so which one's easier to do
just give up the dut for eight fucking
weeks or grind your ass on that
treadmill all the goddamn time and as
the calorie amounts of cutting become
deeper yeah your food gets hit up but
not a ton if you typically cook with a
lot of oil cooking with just a cooking
spray can eliminate 30 minutes of
cardio's worth of effort from your day
that you would have to do otherwise
they've tried this they've studied this
into the ground and it turns out that
doing way more physical activity to burn
a ton of calories off is just way harder
and less sustainable than taking a
little bit of BS out so again here diet
has a bigger impact for Less effort on
your fat loss Journey than does increase
in physical activity now a moderate
level of physical activity sustained
through the diet can make fat loss
really easy but it doesn't have to be
psychotic psychotic physical activity is
both insanely fatiguing destroys the
rest of your ability to do anything you
can during the day and during the weeks
and also just it just doesn't make a
humongous difference in how fat your fat
losses occur but diet modifications make
a huge difference in a very convenient
way so once you get your moderate level
of physical activity set in stone and
you're training with weights the
preponderance of the fat that you're
going to lose is diet diet diet so diets
a real big important concern if you've
ever seen someone try to just exercise
their weight loss off because they're
like I don't do diets I'm still going to
eat what I like mostly you've seen
people fail on the other hand if you've
seen people do diligent diets with some
amount of exercise you've seen a lot of
people succeed what about for health is
dieting good for health well check this
out leaner folks and people who get
leaner specifically from from being
fatter to leaner and people who change
their eating from less healthy to more
healthy typically boost their health
markers both the short-term ones and the
long-term ones shortterm would be like
blood pressure long-term would be like
glycosilated hemoglobin uh A1C losing
fat especially substantial amounts uh 10
15 20 pounds in the course of months has
an effect on blood work and health
markers both short and long term that is
more powerful than pretty much every
single other intervention including all
of modern medicine so far I'll put it to
you this way if you had a pill that you
could take for 12 weeks that did as much
for your overall health as simply going
onto a hypocaloric diet and losing 12
pounds in those 12 weeks this would be a
revolution in medicine it would be
something we've never even brushed up to
15% of the way there up until now it's a
huge deal the number of Health variables
that improve when you lose body fat and
when people get leaner and get on a
healthy diet is staggering it's like
maybe almost all variables improve it
really is wild fat loss dieting for
people that have a little extra body fat
is like a Panacea it's a heal all it
doesn't heal all but it improves your
health on almost every single Market
combine a fat loss healthy diet which
you can do through the diet we're going
to introduce to you at the end of this
video and of course many other ways if
you're just doing this yourself you
don't ever have to buy our shit and and
weight training a regular physical
activity that you might do through the
RP hypertrophy app or in your own
methods if you combine diet weight
training and a general high level of
physical activity moderate to high
something like 8 to 12,000 about 10,000
steps a day on average for most people
that Trifecta combo diet weight training
Baseline physical activity together is
the best possible thing you can do for
your Health and Longevity currently as
of the video Creation in 2024 by a mile
nothing comes close nothing comes close
assuming you're getting decent sleep if
you don't sleep everything falls apart
but that's it it is so so powerful for
your health and a lot of people just go
about this the wrong way they're go I
need to get healthier what supplements
can I take what foods can I avoid and
the answer is healthy diet to lose fat
steady daily physical activity on
average and tough resistance training
program with weights that is a humongous
medical boost like no other it's a big
deal now what about for weight loss yeah
getting leaner is cool but just sheer
weight loss like I'm 200 lb I want to be
150 physical activity matters a bit but
what we've learned is if you try to
upregulate your physical activity a ton
to really lose weight your body
downregulates it for you it makes you
feel sluggish throughout the day so now
you're training really hard but your
step count Goes Down And if you try to
boost both you make your body makes you
so fatigued you're like I can't even do
this anymore your chance of burnout is
really really high so physical activity
matters and so far that it's not super
low so if you get to about 10,000 steps
a day that's really kind of top end of
what you need as a core level of
physical activity that's kind of like um
what's a good analogy properly salting
your mashed potatoes the salt isn't the
big variable that determines how good
they are but it has to be in place
proper salting and you're good then you
know how much milk you're putting in
there how much butter you're putting in
there how much potato you're putting in
there whatever garlic onion powder
whatever you use to season your potatoes
those are the real things that make the
difference in flavor so just the same
way a moderate level of physical
activity is a good Baseline for weight
loss but diet is like 80 % of the rest
put in other words a little bit more
formally and
mathematically diet differences probably
account for something like 80% of the
variance in why some people are heavier
and some people are lighter I mean can
you imagine a world in which it's not
the case you look at someone who's 600
lb and you look at their diet in- depth
like they live in a metabolic War they
can't leave it's total control and it
turns out they eat about the same amount
of food as someone who weighs 100
pounds really has that ever happened
I'll spare you no it hasn't diet is the
most critical component of how much you
weigh is it prejudicial to look at
really fat people in the wild so to
speak and be like I bet their diet sucks
yes which is why you don't say it out
loud it's rude but is it also true yeah
almost always a huge fraction of the
variance of why some people are heavier
and some are lighter why some are fatter
why some are leaner is the diet if you
want to lose weight for health for its
own purpose for Aesthetics or just
because that new ver Wang dress came out
and you like have to have it but they
don't make it on a fucking size two
Scott is size two a good size or a bad
size for women to have size two is
pretty small yeah oh a small better you
sick
fuck in any case you want to lose weight
you had better be controlling your diet
diet works it works to make you leaner
it works to make you more muscular it
works to make you lose weight it works
to make you way healthier but a lot of
people don't diet and don't have success
with it because dieting is tough and
it's tough for two main reasons reason
number one pretty
straightforward higher calorie very
tasty foods are really tempting to eat I
mean imagine dieting in a world in which
the grocery store just had boiled meat
boiled
vegetables brown rice pre-cooked for you
there were no stores there were no
snacks that's all Society had for you to
eat how many people would really be
struggling with obesity we already know
the answer to that question because back
in pre-1 1930s America and most of the
world it's really people just kind of
got together what they could and there
was not an advanced confectionary and
fast food industry and convenience food
grocery store industry to really feed
you a bunch of really good junk that
tastes awesome and has tons of calories
and obesity was incredibly rare even
among wealthier folks that could afford
to be obese if they really tried there
just wasn't a ton of food around that
you really just desperately wanted to
eat because it was so godamn good and
full of calorie but nowadays I mean try
to go somewhere in any major city in the
modern free world and not be inundated
with everpresent like hey do you want a
hot dog hey do you want a slice of pizza
hey we got cheeseburgers two for one I
mean it's really crazy and look I'm not
going to lie to you this shit tastes
fucking amazing and it's loaded with
calories and that's a big problem it's
annoying and it can throw people off
even if you're trying to do a diet as
soon as that diet makes you hungry bro
you guys ever Scott's video guy you ever
uh deep into a diet and you walk by or
drive by like a Burger King or
McDonald's and the fumes hit that
fucking nose
yeah it's it's like I don't even know
what that smell is it's like fried
goodness it's like just fried it's just
fried and whatever it's so funny because
we didn't have any uh long evolutionary
history of frying stuff but the the
molecules the carbohydrates fats
whatever burnoff that comes off from
that smell just goes right into the
neural centers for like you need you
need to turn around and look at what
that is you need to eat it you're
starving this is the solution to your
problem right now now the good news is
modern anorectic drugs like OIC tepati
glp1 agonists Etc they're really
effective and can actually improve your
health but it's a big fight between that
and Ultra tasty food and you got to go
out of your way to get the drugs and you
have to be diligent with them and they
work best if you do a proper diet here's
the problem that leads us into problem
number two for why dieting is really
tough in most cases how you design the
diet itself can have a huge impact on
even your hunger levels and this gets us
to point number two dieting right can be
really damn complicated so part one
Higher calorie super tasty foods are
tempting to eat and they're everywhere
that's how you get fat but you're saying
no more no more being fat I'm going to
diet right and how you design the diet
itself impacts hunger levels and impacts
the effectiveness of diet hold up design
guys here's the problem I'm not an
engineer I'm supposed to be designing
diets I'm just trying to lose wait what
the hell is this rocket science and the
thing is it's not rocket science but
sometimes it feels like it's a joke and
it's kind of close
most diets have you count this and that
measure this and that track this and
that in an app I got to download this
fucking app now and apps are great for
serious folks that have dieted before
and want Ultra Ultra Elite results
that's what the RP diet coach app is
designed for I use it every day it's
fucking amazing as a matter of fact if
if I didn't have access to my RP di
coach app you would see a full scale
panic attack but I'm on that side of the
fence which is like I've been doing this
a while and I know how to do it and I
know the information density is super
appropriate to my level of knowledge and
my level of giving a shit because this
is this is what I do for a profession so
all that stuff all that nitty-gritty
stuff works but it's just not for
everyone kind of to throw an analogy in
there is so when I go to a doctor and
I'm sick I want a pill to take daily so
that I can get better and not be sick
anymore I don't want a junior medical
degree so I can mix my own medicine and
crazy shit like that but you go to
someone for a diet and they're like okay
here's your Macros here's your calories
here to portion out your meals and
you're like what and they're like here's
how you Comm them here's a Tracker like
okay all right if doctors gave me that
kind of advice I just be like ah dope
dope dope so where's the pill that I
take to get all this done that's what I
want and it's totally understandable so
it's cool that they do have pills at the
doctor's office that can make you feel
better and in a similar way we at RP
have designed a diet that is attempting
this kind of level of Simplicity or
something close to it in diet realm
wouldn't it be great if someone made a
diet so damn simple that you could just
put it right on your fridge and just
plug and play and what do I mean by Plug
and Play we built a diet that requires
no measuring of any kind just looking at
stuff and be like it looks about the
right size legit no weighing throw away
your food scale well don't throw it away
it's a good piece of technology Jesus
what's wrong with you no apps no
tracking no math at all no adding no
subtracting no dividing that's for sure
pretty good at adding and subtracting
multiplication tough dividing I just no
good at and maybe one of the best parts
no changes to the diet with different
workouts different schemes D Lo
accumulation none of that crap good news
we designed that diet we built it and
it's called the simple Science Diet by
RP trademark uh registered
trademark there is a link for that very
diet in the description of this video
click on it give it a look see what you
think it's actually packaged into what
we call a beginner bundle which if
you're not so fresh on becoming the big
the best exercise scientist ever and you
just want a simple approach to get you
really good workouts really good diet
Rel Etc that situation that we're
selling for a very very low price has
all of that bundle together plus this
super simple science dial give that a
look in the description of this video
and next time we'll actually look
through the diet analyze how it works
give you some awesome recommendations
and try to pimp it again so that you buy
stuff bye stuff see you guys next time