[Music]
oh my what was this bullshit I'm trying
to I'm trying to get it up we'll take
some viagras or something I need see man
viag all right get the out of here
you're
[Music]
done hey folks Dr Mike here fros SS
periodization let me tell you a story I
was taking a walk uh started short walk
it was going to be short walk but turned
into long walk I end up walking to
Toronto Canada which is how they it up
there and if if you know the accent you
know the accent or just have shitty
accent impersonation abilities and I was
walking down the street just exploring
Toronto and uh Omar ISU was just there
and I was like uh what's up Omar and
he's like not much just kind of thinking
a showing up to your house and doing a
little training and a little collab and
little chatting while you do your D Lo
workout and I was like you know what
Omar let's get into my
goldplated private four rotor helicopter
which follows me everywhere I go
and uh fly over to Detroit and get this
fucking workout collabed on and Orma was
like o yeah okay fine and then so here
he is so we walked back together we
walked all the way back to Detroit
Michigan good General warm-up the
helicopter followed us yeah yeah yeah um
Omar is in his classic what I would
describe as some combination of American
kickboxer and tiger king outfit and me
because I'm a fashion Superstar ficado
um you can see I'm in my autism shoes
that the shoelaces where's your Crocs
somewhere else that I honestly I don't
even know if this is the real mic it
could not be I've met you a few times
and it always was the Crocs always was
the Crocs and you know what Omar people
actually sometimes wear different shoes
I can't accept that I can't accept
change as a matter of fact I refuse to
accept it makes me unacceptable but also
I'll say um like that's why when you
asked hey what do you want to train like
you know you train very effectively
you're very intelligent we could train
legs we could put you through the ring
and I said let's do something that's
never been done before a D Lo work
together let's go real hardcore so we're
here mostly for the banter but maybe a
couple cool technique cues and maybe
we'll push you a little harder than we
push me let's do it man I've never
pushed myself that hard what does that
even mean though yeah I know in the SNM
space exactly what it means but in the
training space I'm not so sure or so
interested in finding out as a matter of
fact no and I think most people that
train of failures do so because they are
failures you know so like today it's
like a D Lo yeah whatever you're just
like checking the Box about what you
really are and reconfirming to the world
that you're never going to become anyone
by failing in the gym as well as in life
you guys give that some thought let's go
do some training all right so I'm
actually de loing my part of my upper
body which means we're going to do a
chest exercise a tricep exercise a
shoulder exercise and then a bicep
exercise I'm only doing two sets of not
that many reps pretty far from failure
just to give the muscles a little bit of
a stimulus help them recover a little
bit and then I have uh basically more
than half a week of almost entirely time
off and then I start my last 5we push
into my mock contest prep little Peak di
situation thank you that being the case
yeah yeah yeah that being the case oh
people just need to know that I'm I can
do this I'm prepping I'm prepping and uh
when I train chest every single session
that I do which is twice a week I always
put my calves before my chest work and I
know that if allart's famous or any one
thing it's having Cales so large that
people argue about whether or not
they're made of 100% Synthol or just 99%
Synthol true and so Omar would would you
like to do Cals with me for the first
exercise no okay let's do Cavs and then
we'll see how you feel afterwards no
great we'll do caps now we made that
tumultuous to be honest walk it was like
how how long did it take us from Toronto
to Detroit days and I thought that was
one giant C exercise think about it 50
lot of reps right but I'll do this with
you we'll do it so Cavs what I'm going
to do first is I'm going to warm my
calves up so I don't even get on the leg
press cuz that's what we'll be using yep
I'm just going to sit here for a second
on this little ledge and do like eight
reps and I'm also practicing the
Cadence not sure what you're doing but
you could easily just go after me yep do
you want to do everything even at the
same time I'm just seeing what it feels
like okay yeah you're doing it wrong
thank you this is my first time though
uh Cales or sex this is sex this is forl
it is so you know half your foot on half
off and then tilt your hips as far
forward as you can so you can uh lock
your knees out and pre-stretch your
calves and then go as low as you can and
hold it for about two seconds come up
and then don't Peak contract hold just
come right back down so you hold for a
while down there pulse up and back down
so sorry how long did I hold down there
Mike down there you hold two seconds up
there you hold zero
seconds
yeah good but come down slower up quick
down slow wait for it up quick down slow
wait for it up quick down slow I'm like
a child you need to explain every rep to
me I can see you're good you're good
that's good good enough warm up yep and
then we can hop on the leg press to do
leg press calvs yeah let's do so we go
right to three plates or yeah pre-loaded
okay yeah yeah now I I would typically
I've been doing four plates but since
it's Del Lo I'm going to take it a
little easy yep and I've actually had a
big Revelation with caps
so Milo Wolf Dr Milo wolf has been
pioneering research and thinking
about how much does the loaded stretch
matter and it seems like a lot and so I
took that insight and I changed my calf
training recently from emphasizing the
peak contraction and full range of
motion to kind of doing a Mele in Peak
contraction where I'm like eh I just
push a little bit but they spend most of
the time in that deep stretch position
I'll tell you this my soreness has been
fucking outlandish in my cabs my growth
has been like better than it's ever been
so I'm loving it so that technique that
I'll illustrate here is precisely to
emphasize that deep stretch and not the
peak contraction so I've never done this
before go right to three correct all
right I mean I'll follow you you tell me
how many reps Omar I can show you the
world shining shim ing Splendid I was
hoping you're going to start singing and
all I got was that I want a rendition I
want to be serated fully extended knees
yep sit in the bottom position for three
whole seconds yep pulse up and then
slowly Centric back
down control The
Descent
yes sit longer at the
bottom oh it was fake stop holding the
PE contraction God damn it look I'm not
being serated like do it right there you
go yeah hold the stretch
[Music]
y well the Cavs will be sore guaranteed
Tom moral let's go do chest yeah
[Music]
100% so we're just going to do some
chest presses I'm going to do one warmup
set and then that two work sets eight R
some shit like that what I want to do
here because I'm D loading is focus on
quality of the movement pattern good
technique but also a lot of really good
stretch and full range of motion because
I feel like I feel like it's not
accurate know from the literature and
physical mechanisms involved that um a
focus on the Ecentric and a deep stretch
actually promotes a slightly
rehabilitative Vector for muscle and
Joints so it actually heals you up joint
wise a little better than if you cut the
ROM so so a nice deep stretch is super
awesome specifically for D loing because
it promotes um a little bit more joint
recovery than normally how do you
program your DLo then like what does it
look like uh why do you do it in
particular why do you find it beneficial
the function of a D Lo is to do two
things primarily it's to drop fatigue
yep and secondarily it is to maintain as
much Fitness as possible while fatigue
is being dropped so to me D Lo should be
executed roughly when you're no longer
be able to make consistent mini PRS in
your lifts because you're got too much
fatigue interfering you can no longer
adequately present them a robust
overload and training it's like if
you're the analogy is a terrible one but
if you're banging and like her vagina
hurts and your dick hurts and no one's
having any more fun like it's time not
to bang anymore like it's time to go get
some OJ a sandwich watch a couple of
sitcoms and
then hydration is really important
yeah
perfect good enough yep and might r one
more yeah awesome we should title this
video world's toughest
training yeah like that's the title the
thumbnail is Total War and just like our
had my head in a nuclear explosion I'm
down so it's been shown a few times that
easy super easy training in most
contexts helps you recover more than no
training at all especially if it's like
a week of off it's actually you recover
faster in most cases not all uh with
just a little bit of training when I say
a little bit my D loads are typically
half the Reps half the load and half the
sets like normal yep so this is what
you're witnessing today witnessing the
Majesty of the DLo I said Mike we're
going to do something crazy something
they've never seen before because they
think they want to see people go to tent
training really hard but this is like
chicken noodle soup Soul this
session good slow 2 second pause keeping
your chest Sky High
[Music]
yes
yes go
motherfucker hell yes and then slow big
chest and rack good stuff nice dip time
dips I just barely use no almost no
weight at all get a good stretch use
like a 30 % of my muscle power and the
rest for my legs and as I do more
reps I let my arms take over more like
looks like a weird hop but then at some
point I can do reps yep going it feels
nice so that's your warm up just like
that
correct very good I love that you're
pausing at the bottom so that's right
the Lotus stretch length and position
fun fun fun did you say lotus stretch I
said loaded stretch like loaded I
thought you
were I'm not that clever so the
sweatshirt like explain to me
bodybuilding attire M cuz I'm still
trying to get the pattern down how many
layers when do you take the layers off
when do you look yourself in the mirror
for the first time yeah what do you feel
when you take a look at yourself in the
mirror how many times do you like you
know self flatulation late at night like
walk me through totally so I wouldn't
know much about bodybuilding attire
because bodybuilding attire truly to be
representative is Stringer tank oh hold
up W Stringer hoodie on top of that oh
then on top of that regular hoodie then
on top of that your Arnold Classic
jacket right and then on top of that two
layers of Hoodie big ass headphon now
the lower body there's Jorts are an
option um you can do like young law
pants children like those nowadays and
you are preferably wearing shoes that
are like um one of those high top like
like uh raver like you know raver kid
shoes like that I'm almost what Mike say
I this is the real talk way more colors
you know and they're really big sure and
then so you show up to the gym like that
and I think you take off the jacket kind
of right away but then uh with every
work set or even exercise as you get
more pump delicious you take off another
article
[Music]
clothing I tried to dress today like the
first dude to get his ass kicked in the
SE movie now that's an aspiration I can
get
[Music]
behind well mik let me teach you
something you probably never heard about
there's no Solutions there's only
trade-offs thanks Tom yeah Mr Mr doctor
we're we're more cordial oh I see yeah
doctors for the bedroom oh my that's the
authority of that right shoulders yeah I
want you to be a third I'm tired of
trying to seduce you with in endos for
two fucking hours now let's bedroom
Build It Up better I'm telling you you
know about the cool but at some point
bro like it's literally November it's no
fat November like don't you know what's
up no saving ourselves for the big guy
upstairs H this is going to be me folks
on the internet yeah when you catch a
meme that's relevant at the time please
understand that is almost certain you
are the 900 millionth person to use that
right it is no longer funny it's just
annoying yeah so when you say after me
posting a pick of me shirtless yeah on
November 2nd oh Dr Mike you ruined my
noof fap November streak no motherfucker
there is no streak no fap November is
not a thing anymore we know you're
beating off you beat off earlier today
and also so nobody does know fact
November and it was like a totally
random haha funny thing in 2009 it's
over it's over I will say I experienced
uh something similar but just like you
know with calf jokes like I started in
2012 but 2013 I was like pretty good but
the jokes will persist so
yep are people still using Omar CF jokes
uh like somewhat like I mean it's kind
of like a I guess it's supposed to be a
recognition that like hey like I know
your stuff like this this a there's a
reference that show that I know yourself
but I appreciate it all the same but you
know after Mike I'm sure what you're
saying about no fap and you posting
photos of yourself after the 10,000 time
you're like I might be good I might be
good try to grab at the end of the
handles it might you a better range of
motion yeah and then just try to pause
at the top for a moment just above
parallel got and then slowly control
that acentric on the way down Mike's
using good weight on this I give you
respect what was this bullshit I'm
trying toing I'm trying to get it up we
take some VI or something I need SE man
Viagra kind of all right get the fuck
out of here you're done you're cut off
from cut off further exercise we tried
yeah
biceps so sorry technique on this one
keep your chest upright for a nice
little stretch at the bottom little
pause down there come up little pause
just control no rot so M just kind of
like this you can rotate if you'd like
Omar pretend that you're Picasso and
this is a a world of
paint understood don't lean over Lean
Back even more Omar chest up and lean
back so you get a big stretch down there
yeah there we go no no easy days today
sir do you need to compete to find
fulfillment in bodybuilding mik I've
already done that so what is the act of
competing that creates another layer for
you let's say I want to get it right I
want to peek properly and show my best
possible physique on stage I haven't
done that yet I came close one time when
uh
200 and 21 was that the last time no the
time before that so you did
2022 Mike 2023 I did again and sucked
what happened I overtrained
overtrained so you just want to be able
to leave your mark or within yourself to
be like I'm satisfied with the effort
that I put in over X number of years and
this is me a culmination yeah of all the
years I get that and you know if I get
like a master's Pro card I wouldn't
fucking hate that either yeah mostly the
reason I do bodybuilding competition is
like I've built a pretty cool physique
and I want to show it off and have other
people formally recognize like oh he's a
very muscular lean man and maybe I'll
buy his RP hypertrophy out that was fun
right yeah let us know what you think in
the comments below if you unsubscribed
sorry it was nice having you see next
[Music]
time