[Music]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpi app is here to help it creates a
diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your bowls
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
Wolcott
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
welcome back weekly webinar dr. Mike dr.
James here to answer your questions as
always dr. Mike are we doing you know
yeah I feel circling the drain James
mm-hmm but on a serious note I'm doing
fine I just got off a log flight from
California where we were shooting all
kinds of crazy videos and you and I got
a chance to hang yeah mm-hmm but other
than that I'm ready to go okay well
let's get to it we got a whole bunch of
questions jump right in
see an Opie not to be confused with
Thanos that's what I was thinking like
Fanta yeah your name could be what you
playing
he says Mike and James I recently joined
rp+ and been loving the content I
started watching lectures about how
perfect people quickly realized it's out
of my depth and then I need prior
knowledge
could you please record a content that
they need to cover before I go to
lectures yes all of the older videos
that are all of the basic courses mm-hmm
they're literally on our peoples so like
we have exercise physiology course by
dr. Jason Miller is very long and very
intense and once you get through it
you'll understand that virtue stuff but
well yeah there's a bunch of other
basics level kind of courses on there so
just poke around for a little bit and
they might even be organized by like
beginner in advanced released they were
for a wild and yes there definitely
organized by date so there just look for
the exercise physiology general question
number one also very Theon ot says I
have read that you could potentially put
on muscle mass while in maintenance
calories but that depends on your body
fat percent backed up by publications or
is a nonsense
um no it's backed up applications the
thing is is that um there are sort of
like better ways worse ways to do things
there are ways to stack the deck in your
favor and stack against you gives a
concomitant sort a logic question would
be like you know I've heard that you
know with a fraction of the testosterone
avails females can still put on muscle
good yeah so why do I need my tests for
to put it on faster goddamn so yeah you
can put it on maintenance but there's a
big hard limit to that at some point
because you can
once you get down to the single digits
in value fad you're probably not
replacing fat and putting in muscle
first of all there's part of your answer
the second part is even if you're at a
law - five percent maintenance is not
the best way to gain muscle because the
hyper caloric conditions offers a bunch
of stuff in support of muscle gain and
if you want a ton of insight into that
we have a huge explanation of that
Renaissance tayo 2.0 book where we talk
about literally y8 hypercolor condition
what does it do the muscle gain and
there's like Jesus Christ there's
probably ten supplements
yeah that's really not a product of just
having a low body fat so like the idea
that you could just be at a low body fat
and then just do maintenance and then
just gain muscle would defeat the whole
purpose of needing to do any sort of
massing and cutting cycles which we've
already kind of determined is necessary
that's more of a product of your
training age than anything else right so
like if you are putting on substantial
amount of muscle mass at maintenance
calories that's really just a product of
you being more of a newbie to either
dieting and/or training that's really
the issue so when we say maintenance it
literally means maintenance is in no
change right it is maintaining what is
or if it already has happened so it does
happen it to a small degree but not to a
robust degree and it's not saying that
you should plan and program for that's
the idea yeah general question - barber
hip thrusting duty consider staple food
hypertrophy does this movement deserve
the hype in your opinion thanks in
advance Tiano so it's actually a really
timely question because that one study
just came out showing that the overall
hypertrophic stimulus from deep squats
was actually higher as far as in that
muscle growth than with an equivalent
number of sets of hip thrusts and I'm
that study is just one study so I
wouldn't take it too far but that
doesn't line with the experience of
myself and many other coaches including
Jared feather has a bit of a I do found
that to be a little suspicious though it
makes me wonder - like a couple other
factors that could have contributed
today totally so so I don't say is this
here's my hypothesis and I think it's
probably correct you know which dose to
say if it's other hypotheses I haven't
had an idea if they're correct or 6040 I
think this one's with 80/20 guests that
I'm making and see if James agrees with
me I think that uh very deep Simo squats
and deep sumo deficit deadlifts and
or about walking lunges have a higher
Ross stimulus magnitude the ability to
cause glute hypertrophy then set percent
then barbell hip thrusts or any other
kind of hip thrust but the stimulus to
fatigue ratio is probably worse
so a barbell hit thrusts and other kind
of hip thrusts probably don't grow much
muscle in the gluts set for set which
could be offload a sense of them
especially per week
like workout you can only do so many
sets of anything that Brett Contreras
who is the glute master writes these
programs so it's like four or five six
glute workouts per week and everyone's
still alive and growing great glutes and
his workouts will add a ton on various
different kinds of hip thrusting
including barbell hip thrust and so I
think that if your goal is to grow
overall the biggest glutes possible
you're gonna be eating a steady diet of
barbell hip thrust so to speak or hip
thrust in general which you can
absolutely supplement them with squats
and lunges and deficits bed lifts if
you're going for your showing up to the
gym and your goal is overall body
hypertrophy don't have a lot of time
maybe not a ton of sessions a week your
goal is to get big legs and big gluts I
would use barbell hip thrust judiciously
maybe not at all because with lunges and
deep squats and deadlifts you can get a
whole bunch of the rest of the leg and
even the back and not have to piss away
a ton of time on an exercise that has a
high stimulus to fatigue ratio SFR
barbara thrusts but a very poor Str
stimulus to time ratio so and not so
great lost endless magnitude which serve
undercuts all of those that's my my
opinion on that
James way thing I think that's a pretty
spot-on the thing with the the glute hip
for us is it and anybody who's done this
can attest that to really get it where
you want to feel it you have to play
around with the technique quite a bit
it's not like with squats and stuff like
yes there's lots of technique involved
in the squat but for the most part if
you go all the way up and go all the way
down you're hitting most of the muscle
mass that you want to hit without really
having to think too much about it where
as the glutes or the hip thrust you
really got to kind of finagle your foot
position yeah the the bar position
whether you're pushing on the flat part
of your foot or your heel you know it's
like it's a lot of finagling so I think
it's a good glute movement it doesn't
have quite as much systemic spillover as
something like a squat or a deadlift the
thing is like the squats the deadlifts
the lunges they're just easier for
people to get right like ninety percent
of the time thus getting back to what
Mike was saying like they have a really
high raw stimulus magnitude most people
can do it and not fuck it up right
so you're just gonna get a lot out of
those movements so I think using those
movements in combination with some kind
of like glute bridging every now and
again it's probably the best way to get
the most glute hypertrophy if that's
what you're going for the nice thing
about the bridges again is that they
don't spill over like there's only so
much squatting and deadlifting you can
do whereas like how much loot bridges
can you do like I don't know a lot right
there give me your glutes take a lot of
punishment I mean like you have to walk
around all the time so it's feasible
that they may have to sustain higher
workloads kind of like how your
abdominal muscles have to sustain higher
workloads to really get robust
hypertrophy so it stands to reason that
you might have to do quite a bit of
glute thrust but you can only do so many
deadlifts right that's the idea all
right Omar he era with comments from
Doug more tomorrow
hey Doc some specialized in certain body
parts back in particular how many miles
should I do it before taking maintenance
phase I'm currently massing and doing as
much quote unquote right as I can
control sleep 78 hours a night he plenty
et cetera after all so after maintenance
phase is a good idea to keep
specializing in my back we've got an
even spread of training for each muscle
group then do another mate that's phase
and probably with a mini cut after they
go back to specialize right back again
thanks guys and Doug shamora says dr.
mike has a video and electro series on
bringing applying body parts it's
actually called bringing up like body
parts I think he talks about a two to
one wave so from what I understand which
could be wrong to mezzos in a road to
blast lagging by a part of the measure
of maintenance repeats great advice he
gives us always hope that helps and then
he actually linked it very cool 40
minutes in this is dress dog thank you
so much for that link the addition of
the dogs comment you know a 2 to 1 3 to
1 is totally fine what you don't want to
do is to specialize in a body part or a
muscle group for so long but it becomes
stale right so I think a three to one
block or sorry three a three mezzo block
is the longest James and I would usually
right cuz after three nasty mesocycles
for the love of God there's just not
much left to give you're gonna have to
go to maintenance almost certainly any
way to reduce systemic fatigue and
systemic volume sensitization so at that
point you definitely back off with your
back you don't bang it hard to remain
it's which is a common problem James you
ever see that people like maintenance
but I'm still focusing on my whatever
body partly
that's not what means doesn't make any
sense yeah they trying to get full on a
diet that's completely contradicts
itself but I think yeah two two one
three one and you could even do four to
one if you can survive it but if you're
basically in a four-to-one at the end of
that and you're like forth motorcycle
and you're like man my neck has fucked
up I'm not even hitting PRS anymore I'm
super tired my elbows hurt my shoulders
hurt what am i doing the answer is
nothing you should have stopped earlier
James yeah I was just gonna add four
like that's where those mini cuts can
become really handy where you can do
like to write mini cut and then you
might be able to bang out another two
after that where I was like trying to do
four in a row oh man that's just tough
for anybody so consider using that mini
cut tool if you plan on doing like out
more than two or three months at a time
to really extend out the length of some
of those specialization phases yeah and
you can do just one maintenance phase
and get back to bangin on whatever
muscle group is your priority just make
sure it's actually recover and actually
be sensitised you don't want to go back
to a muscle group and just yeah actually
not even be excited or train it anymore
I am just back away from it for a while
remember well this is largely true once
you've cemented your gains in a muscle
group they're just gonna be there so
don't worry about like oh I just have to
keep banging it away or it'll shrink
it's not gonna shrink
but if you find a maintenance following
appropriately no worries you can always
come back and hit early yeah and more
likely than not your maintenance volume
is probably less than you think
so hard to mess up yep mark Conway says
hi Micah James UK superfan here boy hey
that was Australian that's both I have a
few questions relating to recover for an
injury just a bit of background first
last year I picked up with mild
hamstring injury during hypertrophy
block
I think the trigger were walking lunges
as I was emphasizing the forward lean to
target the glutes more well I feel
slight discomfort during the first rep
of my squats and deadlifts
it doesn't negatively affect my
performance however I had to avoid stiff
leg it's a good mornings as I feel a
sharp pain during the exercise a slight
discomfort on Sundays when walking
uphill or stairs although it does here
have been proving slightly as time goes
on that last part is pretty important I
initially purchased RP powerlifting
templates for days and went through a
straight phase I chose not to do in your
direct hamstring movements it wouldn't
affect my squat and deadlift I've just
now completed a motorcycle use an
forgive me jump on my found I was able
to perform the deficit deadlifts and
hamstring curls without aggravating the
injury that I don't actually compete as
a power lifter
training of one for a couple of years so
I decided to purchase the male physique
training templates 5 days this is my
primary goal of hypertrophy I'm not
planning to move to the 10 to 20 range
and having just successfully finished a
block in the 6 to 12 rep range using the
4 date PL templates my questions relate
to what you guys recommend going forward
first one is would it be best to avoid
exercises that cause a bigger stretch eg
deficit deadlift its only injuries fully
healed you know my performance is
improving but I would say and we're
gonna take these one at a time or I'll
get my answer them James will give his
is any movement that doesn't really
cause you to discomfort or pain and
biomechanically doesn't look like it's
gonna be injurious like deficit
deadlifts actually make you bend your
knees more and use your hamstrings less
than regular deadlifts potentially it
just quads more if it's not bothering
your hamster and I just I just totally
fine I think this stage of your recovery
so I wouldn't worry about it at all but
if an exercise is is bothering you then
yes I think you definitely have a
problem I would say it's just fine but
if it's a causing a bigger stretch it's
not fine weeks definitely get other to
make your shift feel weird don't fucking
do them until things feel better dreams
yeah largely agree with Mike I think I
would just add on top of that it's not
necesarily the stretch so much is like
just causing you pain like now I would I
would think it would be fair to assume
that things that have a bigger stretch
component are more likely to cause you
pain and discomfort but that might not
necessarily be true you might find out
I'm doing stiff leg it's really are
bothersome and doing 45 degree back
raise is not for some reason maybe
because it's loaded maybe because it's a
lot lighter whatever so I would just you
know kind of maybe put a caveat on that
and say it's not really the stretch it's
just like what is actually causing you
pain that's really what you want to
avoid stretch you know is usually good
for hypertrophy at least to some
reasonable degree so I wouldn't
necessarily avoid the stretch itself
just avoid the pain yeah and then a
second one is since I can perform a
hamstring curl have no issue should I
continue to push from any emfe in this
exercise I would say absolutely yes with
the reservation that just take it slow
and adding sets of adding load and then
actually ties in to your next question
as with a 10 to 20 represe aid recovery
more than 6 to 12 rep range do the
lighter loads there's contra
counteracted by increased volume so it
won't increase recover any more but what
it will do is produce a slightly lower
risk of injury that occurs any one time
like a cute or re-injury because it's
just a lighter load so no one rep is
probably going to do you in and by the
time you're fatigued enough to really
have to try towards the end of the set
the total forces are just not that high
and it's probably not gonna cause injury
so I actually would say that probably
the ideal way to go about this is to do
plenty of hamstring curls and whatever
compounds through your legs that don't
hurt and slowly but surely increase the
volume and the weight you're using in
that 10 to 20 range probably about 15 to
20 range is better and as you go weeks
and weeks and months and months of that
with no issue slowly get into the
heavier weights with hamstring curls and
the 10 to 15 range then get into some
lighter hip movement hip hinge movements
like maybe 45 degree back raises or very
light good mornings lighter ssl/tls
slowly work into that and as nothing
happens and you're fine d load d load
proactively on the hamstrings this is
one of those post injury delivery
proactively is absolutely the way to go
not reactively is a reactive leader
apologist mean after you read your
injury exactly the ultimate reactive d
load so plenty of practice deals and
then like six months from now you'll
just not even remember you had an
injured hamstring and you'll be just
back to normal but it's that like I've
used this general process that I've just
described and James probably as well I
don't know how many times with how many
muscle groups to the extent I don't even
remember all the muscle groups I heard
it works every fucking time
is he's up on the volume as soon as you
get hurt try the higher up more isolated
movements that don't hurt it or just
irritated a little do them with very low
volumes until you feel nothing abnormal
slowly raise intensities and volumes in
those high rep readers until your
training mev to MRV in the higher rep
ranges with those isolation movements
that slowly work back into the compounds
and then you feel nothing and then
you're great and then you're healed yeah
very very good and just one last note on
that just be careful this is gonna sound
really goofy especially given that good
answer that might just said but be easy
on the hamstring curls hamstring is kind
of one of the more exceptional muscle
groups in that it's very fast twitch and
you can kind of overdo it easier than
you might think especially on an
exercise that's relatively easy and I
mean easy
so it's one of those were like if you
take out a lot of hip hinge movements
because of the injury and then you're
like okay well I'm gonna compensate on
hamstring curls you might add one set
comparatively than if you were not doing
hip hinge movements it's just one of
those were like you can only do so many
hamstring type movements and I would I
would be surprised if your mev to MRV
window opened up more than like one to
two sets in this case you know what I
mean so just be easy on the hamstring
curls actually they were super glad you
brought that up because there's a little
bit of a danger here that you're not
training the hamstring movements that
are hip hinge and more hardcore you make
it that desire to be like okay I'm gonna
make up for it yes this is more volume
on the isolations and the problem of
that is you that fundamentally that
injury could still be a weak spot you
might not feel it on the like curls to
you're gonna do so many of them you
never feel it until your cumulative
fatigue is so high that one time how the
light curl it snaps at you and then what
you're down with all your hamstring
training for a while so great advice
James and that goes sort of in dovetails
with my advice of like yeah any video
Murphy is fine but start on the very low
end and make sure you never feeling
anything we're gonna go super super slow
there's no Roger totally alright and he
also says thank you so much for all the
content you guys put on it craze RP to
anyone who will listen and if like it
gave me a reason to love my daily
commute all right what's our pleasure
Sean will call Reuben says hello guys
not a question just the funny comment
I've observed over months of watching
webinars how your voices especially mics
change and tone every time I bring up
statics that training the record I do
use em EDM a be training and have
purchased physique template 2.0 I just
have gen-pop people I help / train who
use statics that trainings we all do we
all have I totally get it
sure so I want to be knowledgeable that
area as well so I can up the best I can
this so actually funny enough I just
wrote this into the Mercury book a whole
guide of training a little lake mini
guide James a tldr I didn't tell you
this yet but I squeeze that into the
individualization chapter right after
your sport or your training hybrid
between for sports section
okay I think you'll really like it it's
like basically like a 10 step 10
checklist plan for high str training
like training and rush right and statics
that are the way to do that like you're
not
going to expand volume when you're
already your peak number of sets you can
do at any one session so it's absolutely
grace this virgin Aries book is a pain
in the ass cuz we keep thinking of other
things yeah alright books down and were
like oh shit what my luckily we're not
interfere with the timeline yet cuz Mel
is editing and we'll just doing it
during her edits so we're not behind
schedule but yeah so he says I want to
be knowledgeable in area as well so I
can have all those best I can so that
section is gonna help you a ton because
it's gonna have a ton of other tips on
how to help folks who don't have a lot
of time he says I just find it funny in
a good way when Mike's not Ursula
Slayton turns in a frown I mention what
static says yeah I'm really sorry about
that um the thing is it's like a fucking
like lizard brain reaction from me
talking about a medium or V for so long
and people reflexively coming back to
defend their static sets as great and
trying to figure out ways of like but
but you could just just manipulate this
variable and it's like Mike my is sort
of like in Russian it's called cuddle in
the moment it's like the oh my ultimate
response to people who go too far down
that well what about your straight sets
is the argument against adding sense
every single one of those principles
applies to adding weight but you seem to
not be arguing against that I've looked
literally shut down like Instagram
threads like that where the guys like a
like yeah I guess right is he I'm just
so used to like completely ignorant
arguments to that it's probably just a
reaction I'm super sorry does not direct
it it's all good all good all right
number one actual question so a couple
months ago asked you guys have you heard
of any medications why directly affect
fat loss pathways as opposed to news
affecting things like I can't just need
an appetite a similar note and of course
I understand this is not necessarily an
area of yours but do you know if there
are any patients a blunt or affect
muscle growth I remember reading on
certain forms very long time ago before
getting waned over space community many
people sign up totally claiming that
ever since a servant a or B medication
most of the often SSRIs antidepressants
benzos etc they have found extremely
difficult to progress in the gym I know
multiple people who take these who are
hitting all-time pr's
I find it very highly unlikely I think a
lot of those are gonna have more
psychological issues than physiological
issues yeah even when they change
nothing about their training yeah they
might just not be trading as hard never
and tell do you guys know if any
medications directly affect on tomalak
pathways or similar to fat loss is just
one conscious change lifestyle factors
mean so metformin directly once about
anabolic pathways
it also synthesize d2 insulin safe heat
over a high carb diet tree with high
volumes and Mikey worth the effort but
maybe not it's definitely worth it if
you're taking growth hormone but it's
probably not the effort or not so also
like high doses of ibuprofen can do that
for sure um I think that statins the
cholesterol control medications cause
really weird muscular problems I'm not
sure if it's catabolism but it calls
muscle pain also the weird shit
I'm sure tons of medications cause
muscle loss or blunting the thing is
like you have to like it's one of those
reasons it's one of those things where
like you were given that medication for
a reason and it's probably a more
important reason than how much muscle
mass that you're carrying around at any
given time you know what I mean it's one
of those like funny things where people
get like we just maybe like reevaluate
your priorities like if somebody's
giving you a really powerful drug like
that it's probably because you have a
really powerful problem that needs to be
addressed you know yeah like muscle
growth yeah muscle growth can sit on the
backburner for a minute yeah number two
probably a super basic question it's had
me scratching my head for a while
we know the training with heavier loads
is likely better for faster twitch
muscles and training with lighter loads
is like the better for slow-twitch
muscles but the entire point of training
is to clinical disrupt the body toast
Isis to grow when trading a muscle in
that way that it's not predisposition to
perform while be better I think that for
example training faster which fibers of
heavier weights which it would be
training to a strength that the lighter
ups would be better since it would be
challenge the fibers more so it actually
doesn't challenge the fire so remember
we got to already two competing
hypotheses in your paragraph John this
is all mentioned good faith for you know
exercise of just illustrating critical
thinking you're and you're one of our
sharpest guys not here so you'll
appreciate this so if you said well here
the entire point of training to disrupt
the body just say touch to grow
interesting hypothesis you also said
here later that you would challenge the
fibers more so what are we trying to do
we try to disrupt more are we trying to
challenge more right so like you know if
you had someone who's trying to get
better wrestling what would challenge
them more going against a world champ or
going against like 12 weasels well the
weasels old fucking Tara's ass up I'm
not sure that would make you better rest
so maybe it's not disruption disruption
is definitely a byproduct or there may
be some local disruption that we want to
the fiber specifically but remember
local disruption is much better when the
fibers actually contracted produce tons
of force the fibers we want and/or get
enough falling here's the problem of
heavy load training for low volumes it's
probably not enough volume to stimulate
a lot of growth in the slower twitch
fibers it's the right idea but just not
enough of it right the problem with
lighter load training for the faster
street fibers is that they're sort of
used the entire time the lighter load
training is done but not without a ton
without a lot of contraction but they
sell out metabolites and even from
surrounding fibers and from themselves
so - by the time they get to the
higher-ups going close to failure
they probably reach failure really quick
and not failure because they can't
produce a ton of tension anymore they
never really got to produce a ton of
tension they just get me inundated with
metabolites and actually literally they
literally freeze up right so that's been
shown that fast twitch activation and
high reps close to failure is actually
much lower than we thought because they
take a ton of fatigue from metabolites
so it never gives them the ability to be
challenged so the goal with training is
actually a combination of specificity
overload will bring a variation here in
a second the specificity is do what the
muscle does that you're targeting or the
fiber does that you're targeting best
the second one is do that hard right so
do multiple sets of very heavy weight
for faster twitch fibers and really tons
the sets of tons of reps of lighter
weight for lower fibers or fan of slow
twitch fibers so and so forth here is
where that the disruption in a way that
it's not predisposed to comes in that's
just variation so after you train
anything in a certain way even in the
optimal way it just becomes resistant to
hypertrophy so then maybe if you've been
training your faster fibers a lot
recently changing it to training with
higher ups can train your trainer slower
twitch fibers more and all of a sudden
they're growing better which means
you're backing off on the faster your
fibers and letting them re-- sensitize
and then you're gonna be hitting them
hard later again so that's definitely a
thing but we just have to remember that
the disruption has to occur even the way
that challenges the fibers more and the
heavy load versus higher ups probably
concomitant the challenge those fibers
the best way possible otherwise it's
like trying to ride your bike at 90
miles an hour or trying to become a race
car driver driving 15 miles an hour like
which the wrong - wrong things you
should have switched those - James yeah
and
that answer was really great I'm just
trying to think of like a scenario where
you could flip the script that makes
sense and for it's one of those where if
you do like a what's it called a sanity
check on that idea it just kind of falls
apart where it's like okay so am I gonna
try and use the thing that's meant to do
like you said like am I gonna use the
racecar to do the marathon or am I gonna
use like you know the the moped to do
the drag race you know so like it just
doesn't work out so however you wanted
to even approach that alternate
hypothesis in the real world it just you
just be doing a lot of nothing
unfortunately so but it's a good
question I appreciate it it might keep
me very busy and then he says fall off
to party you guys say they're good proxy
for determining and exercises hitting a
muscle well as the pump because the pump
indicates disruption to the muscle that
is also itself independently anabolic
and it may not indicate as much of a
disruption as it indicates a huge
intramuscular metabolite summation which
water might go into and pump up to
basically diffuse but yeah certainly
indicates infrastructure as well I'm
assuming when you say proxy for that
includes all factors like loading zone /
intensity as well okay so let's see
we're going to that the assumption is
true my layman brain will again think it
would be the opposite of faster twitch
fibers are really good at heavier
weights though I would something they're
proficient in cause greater destruction
something too badass
so but that's exactly it so here's an
sr-71 blackbird right it flies at Mach 2
point you know 7 1 or some shit like
that
you know that's great how do you disrupt
the Blackbirds engines we sure as hell
don't turn them on slow for a while
you fucking blast them and it disrupts
the fuck out of them but they're also
great at that right because they can
produce so much force that it's very
disruptive right in in and you take like
a lawnmower engine it can only produce
so much force she's just not blasting it
how do you disrupt it well you just turn
it on for a long time and then it
eventually causes a lot of damage just
by staying on for a long time that's
like the slow twitch component so the
thing is that faster fibers the way they
produce disruption is summing up a
shitload of intracellular metabolites
causing physical mechanical damage
through high tension how do you do both
of those you have to activate the fuckit
of them which means super high forces
ideally right off the bat and number two
is to report a shitload of tension which
again means activation so it's only when
they feed into their best uses that they
can be just
to the most it's not like they just get
disrupted by anything they're not used
to right and so she you can also think
of it this way Sean in that the muscle
fiber types have different overload
threshold criteria right and that's why
they differ between the different
activities right so you're type ii
fibers literally don't generate robust
hypertrophy unless they are challenged
in like those anaerobic high force
activities and by subversive like your
type ones are so good at doing oxidative
and like long slow distance type stuff
their threshold is actually doing a
really hard version of that and that's
when you'll actually see more increases
in protein turnover and stuff like that
so it's not just the outcome it's
actually the input as well in this case
so the reason why they respond better is
because you actually have to challenge
them in a way that they're already good
at so that's the idea so that the
overload criteria for those fibers if
they're not uniform across all muscle
fibers they're slightly different within
each kind of fiber type you get to give
it that way yeah and there's making
things better
by doing things they're not used to is a
problem in the directionality of
training - that's a specificity
violation imagine he took top caliber
wrestlers and made them do distance
running that makes them better wrestling
no not really
I'd make them a little bit better at
running but it wouldn't even make them
that much better running because they
sock it running on even in shape to just
fuck the month they we just get shin
splints and actually wouldn't even
increase their cardio ability much in
the first couple of sessions because
their shin splints would stop them
before their lungs and heart did so
they're better off wrestling more than
running and if we wanted running to
improve their cardio we'd have to have
on board them first so that's something
to keep in mind yeah
number three just an update to anyone
whom who whom I struggle with no wonder
who your made anyone who I think it's
who might benefit yeah oh it might
benefit anyone who it might benefit uh
who I'm not sure or you could say anyone
who might benefit yep
to anyone who might benefit you guys
might remember a few months ago I
complained about our bearable foot pay
while doing calf exercises yes you guys
said it sounded like plantar fasciitis
I'm a physical therapist fellow Jenna
very intelligent guy PhD it actually
wonder if he has a PhD or if he has a
doctoral and a bunch of certifications
to definitely trust him and he said it
doesn't actually plantar fasciitis now
I'm not a physical therapist I did my
best to follow along but it just I took
away is that it's something you do with
all the motor units and my calves not
activating properly especially factoring
in the recent discovery that the calf
muscle itself actually extends all the
way down to the leg and wraps underneath
the foot which blew my mind okay and
combined with testing that shows that I
have absolutely horrible single leg
balancing abilities he said that my calf
isn't doing a good job of activating all
its motor units properly hopefully that
made sense not really
so anyways us now we're doing pickup the
same thing like now we're doing single
leg balancing and functional stability
training to train my calves to properly
activate sounds like bullshit and I
think it seems to be working I just
found it fascinating hopefully if I'd be
able to help someone else if yeah I mean
if it's working that's great I I would
be a little skeptical of that personally
but it's one of those things like it's
kind of hard on you if it's working so
right how does not activating a muscle
cause you pain and also like the I mean
the connective tissues with the calf
muscles can reach down towards the foot
but the actual muscle belly is I might
have to do a double check on that but
I'm pretty sure it doesn't actually go
into the foot there are intrinsic foot
muscles but I don't believe that that's
part of the calf I might have I might be
wrong on that but that's my suspicion
like you you don't dude yeah I think
they and largely at the ankle I don't
think they go into the bottle your feet
outside of you know where the ankle is
so I'm a little suspicious than that but
if I'm wrong come on pretty uh pretty
out of our of depths but sure sounds
interesting you know all the related
stuff we know to physical therapy I
would Rais and I brought that but hey
it's worth it if it's getting better am
I even getting better for completely
different reasons but it's worth a try
Tim Moore's said hi guys after
completing almost every book of our pee
are there any other books we offer from
other authors you would recommend yeah
the rest of the books from Rp goddammit
consciousness books that are really
informative and are useful for training
or dieting yeah so all of our accounts
book the muscle strength pyramids Homer
a superb red knuckles books art science
of lifting Bradshaw
hypertrophy text which just got
republished in edition number two is
where I would go to next and all of Chad
Wesley Smith Java not trading books
there's so many and they're so great
James yeah this is when we answer a lot
so if you guys are watching the my
screen share you see it says address
briefly please and that's on purpose
because we we said we tend to get this
one seemingly every other week so those
are all really good and then if you have
all the RP books there's actually more
than a few textbooks listed in all of
the references of the RP books so that
would not be another really good place
to start
James what's the book that you
co-authored called integrated
periodization that's the short version
of it Tim get ready for a beefy book
passing as intellectually intense it's
gonna cover all of sport training so
have fun holy schnikeys and James is
across all right
Brandon Armstrong said I asked this
question last week but you guys
mentioned that you thought I'd answered
on previous video a few weeks back I
checked all the webinars going back to
mid-december and even research from
channel 4 any guides on florrum training
there are no there were a couple of
questions regarding forums with nothing
to do and definites my questions at
least I could find that being said the
first question is copy paste so please
forgive rewrite of any bad jokes I also
had a few more questions come to mind
some sense I threw them all there as
well alright I need to strengthen my
forums for power lifting in future meter
day purposes with double overhead grip
hasn't got much if any stronger so I
think maybe I've reached the point where
I might need to do some targeted grab
training proper fashion also kind of
like a pharmacy better match the size of
map or arms I assume I would like to
select exercise for both me AJ in
powerlifting
what would you suggest me good exercise
options for strength and also
hypertrophy purposes in the past I've
had a hard time selecting for exercise
for this also if any of them have an
imagination exercise like bar hold how
do you structure reps so the way you
structure reps for a bar holds is just
time weight and time so you hold them
for you know whatever you time yourself
you start time and you see how you know
once you know you like three to five
seconds left and you let go stop notice
the time write it down and then next
time you have a goal goal time to beat
by little by little by little and after
you exceed a certain amount of time you
know anywhere from 30 to 60 seconds
depending on your target you increase
the weight on the bar and you progress
like that so time holds are fine I don't
find them to be super duper effective
what I would say is to do a variety of
wrist curls or a really good idea
especially one
in which you let the dumbbell slide down
towards your fingertips on the way down
so you do it off of a bench and curl all
the way up and slide down very central
control standing wrist curls where you
do the same thing with a barbell cable
machine those are really good and I
would also recommend a gripper work a
gripper work is really really good
because like so the iron mind captains
of fresh gripper you might want to start
with a trainer and then buy the number
one and once you can close the gripper
four reps close them for reps and
they're really good and slowly but
surely your grip should improve careful
with fatigue management and monitor your
performance don't just do grip so I just
do grip training never write anything
down and they've been getting weaker for
weeks because the grip can be
overreached not because it's not falling
telogen is because it's so goddamn much
so I would absolutely focus on that sort
of thing yeah those are all really good
recommendation so you know you already
probably picked this up from what Mike
said but mostly you're focusing on kind
of like the wrist and finger flexors at
this point I wouldn't really spend too
much time doing any of the extents or
type form exercises and then what we
find is that it this operates the same
way that most periodization practices
operates where you have a phase that's
focused on hypertrophy those gripping
muscles right and all those exercises
that dr. Mike listed are good you can
use virtually the same rep ranges and
stuff too right like ten to twenty five
or thirty any of that stuff same thing
applies right once you eventually make a
transition into that your specific
preparatory period whether it's for
power lifting or BJJ either ones same
idea right you switch to things that are
harder so that's when you might start to
do more holds you might start to use the
grippers and you might be doing things
in like the four - excuse me forward to
eight rep range something like that
we're really increasing the force output
really decreasing the reps so you can
increase the intensity and then towards
the end as you move into like you're
peaking or competition phases you might
actually start taking out a lot of
direct grip work unless you still find
that it's a big limiting factor and you
might just focus on the grip work that
you get from the training like picking
up the deadlift and stuff like that or
that you just have less you're doing in
your your competitive training and
that's probably good enough at that
point unless it's still clearly limiting
factor but you could also make a
argument and you know dr. Mike and chime
in on this if your grip is still a
limiting factor by the time you make it
to the competition portion of your
annual plan like man it's already too
late at that point there's not really a
whole lot you can do so at that point
it's more of a fatigue management thing
your best and you know attack it hard
again the next time yeah last thing if I
say is when choosing your reps
sorry choosing the time if you're doing
timed holds I would treat every sec
every rep as one to two second
equivalent so like a five to ten rep
effort with a timed hold is between five
and twenty seconds depending on how you
want to count that yeah number two I've
noticed Irish phases as I near 20 weekly
sets from those body parts if they have
more trouble sleeping in regards to
quality with a slight drop off in time
slept as well however I still feel fine
when I'm lifting and honestly feel
stronger at this point then at the
beginning of the mezzo currently on week
five so at least in terms of performance
in the gym it doesn't feel like I'm
starting to under a cover this seems to
be my only symptom that I noticed and I
usually finish the less note about
twenty weeks that's an average for most
body parts due to this is it possible if
this is my only symptom that I maybe I'm
not under recovery well actually you by
definition under recovering because
you're hitting PRS my running
performance doesn't seem too affected
either when I train
let's depends on what you mean by too
affected goes down then so I really
can't tell if I'm really at my MRV MRV
severe folks I look service announcement
amenities Hofstra isn't easy to figure
out the week you start on her
performance stuff is when you've hit you
like the eight-year MRV if you actually
but go ahead James was saying he's doing
like clearly he's doing like a
concurrent lifting and running a
training program you hit your MOV when
all of your training modalities start
going down at least I will tell you man
it's tough to say if you haven't if
you've underperformed you might have
figure a Murphy it might be just an
instant but if you aren't
underperforming you have not hate your
MRV so there's a definitely like there's
no like was that there's no false
negatives with MRV yeah okay
tattoos don't exist yeah like you think
you've hit MRV but you haven't that's
not a thing because you shouldn't be
thinking that if there's no under
performance you for sure haven't hit
ever he says I wanted to get you guys
thoughts on this and help me oh sorry
says I want to get you guys thoughts on
on this helping you determine if I'm
really hitting member of e nope I do
occasionally go through periods or sleep
is difficult for one or two weeks at a
time so I think moderate decreases
asleep other than missed or recovery
from sleep is enough to stop them as
even the performance tool increasing no
it's absolutely not James yeah so what
you're probably experiencing more likely
than anything is just over reaching
symptoms there's a higher systemic
fatigue yeah so sleep disturbances are
like a classic overreaching thing and
what reaching doesn't necessarily mean
that you are in the danger zone it just
means that yeah you're putting in a
really substantial amount of work maybe
you a combination of the lifting and the
running um so it's not uncommon for
people to have sleep disturbances when
they are kind of teetering on that
overreaching things so that's probably
what you're experiencing especially like
if it goes away after you D load and
then your sleep goes back to normal
classic classic symptom it's like
textbook overreaching kind of stuff so
you'd you're close to your systemic MRV
but you just clearly not at it which is
just fine I've been using the RP diet to
fill my weight lifting performance for
years and our peace simple science-based
approach has been instrumental to my
success with the new RP diet app
following our peace principles is as
easy as entering my goals and schedule
in choosing my favorite foods the app
builds a diet to my exact needs reminds
me to eat my meals and adapts to my
body's changes every single day and week
the RP guide app is a huge help in my
quest to become the best athlete I can
be and if your goal is to be your best
it will help you number 3 depending
enter number two the answer this more of
a pointless but I'm posting it anyway -
regarding massive links I find I usually
make it so these five weeks if not more
before I start to notice any symptoms of
reaching MRV everyone I started in mezzo
I don't get quite swords
it is usually rather challenging with
decent pumps despite being alone so long
in the meso so I don't think I'm
starting to low yeah I would agree
usually around 10 to 12 weekly sense
depending on the muscle group of 3r I
currently increased weekly sets by two
per week stop doing that to it auto
regulated fashion you have to increase
by number of sets but the set
progression algorithm in our P website
tells you which is for lack of a better
term like are you recovering well if
guess increase sets by however much
it'll convert mine and relative
intensity for three up to about one RI
are through each mezzo I was wondering
if you guys think I might benefit from
being in
more aggressive volume progression and
if so what recommendation would be I
think you need to do in an auto
regulated fashion which one so exactly
how resolution yeah it's hard it's hard
to say like cuz even like sometimes even
increasing like two sets per week per
muscle group would be considered an
aggressive already an aggressive
approach right and it really just
depends on you yourself so just to go
back to what dr. Mike was saying there
you know I don't think it's it's like
inherently bad to have like a
pre-programmed to set increase per week
if you know that that is typically how
your mesocycle progresses very
consistently but I still think what Mike
said is probably the better answer which
is like auto regulations probably better
so like um that type of prescription is
is perfectly fine if you're using it in
conjunction with auto regulation right
yes so if you're just using it as a
blank like two per week you could be
overdoing it or you could be under doing
it and in this case it you might be
under doing it if you're suspecting that
you're not quite getting up to MRV at
the five week mark or the four week mark
so number four I asked a question a
while back about rep range of
hypertrophy of compilers and purposes
and you guys said five rep sets are also
on the table I just want a clarification
of this I'll make sure I'm not
butchering the message if I were to
start a mezzo 10 rep sets by the end
have worked toward five upsets
increasing specifically through the
mezzo if I'm not wrong but roughly 20
ish weekly sets does that sound like a
likely bad idea it might at 20 legally
sets I think it's probably okay on paper
what I would prefer as you did a mezzo
where you had things that are exercises
that start in the five ish rep range and
the tennis rep range and everything in
between
you just increased weights and volumes
on them slowly and kept the rep range is
roughly the same then another mezzo you
did in the sort of four to six or four
to seven range in another mezzo in the
lower ranges that way because adding
that much weight to the bar while adding
volume can really throw off your
recovery by adding a little too much of
both as far as sets and all weight at
the same time yeah so just keep in mind
so like if you were to say like our five
set excuse me five rep sets okay for you
know hypertrophy and powerlifting like
it's a it's a yes but it's at the
bottom end of yes you know it's like as
far down the the yes ladder as you can
go so it's like Mike said it's probably
better to operate within some ranges
that are kind of hitting a spectrum on
on average of whatever rep range goal
that you're hitting so you know one you
might have a phase that is kind of
within five to ten where you might hit
like eighty six you know seven type sets
things like that you might have another
phase that's between late four to six so
on average you're hitting around five
but not necessarily a hard five things
like that are probably a better strategy
than just using a set by rep and
assuming that you can make linear
increases in intensity and or volume
across that mesocycle because that's
just unrealistic in my experience yeah
number five how many first rezo's at
five rep sets against no I should know
it's killing me sorry I can't let it go
it's not that you're just doing sets of
five I just want to make that clear so
like can you do sets of five for
hypertrophy yes
should you be just saying I am doing
sets of five for hypertrophy probably
not best practice that's the idea here
right yeah sets of five are okay as the
bottom end right prop but like you know
like maybe like five to ten for a mezzo
one like 4 to 8 4 to 6 for mezzo two
something like that like at that point
you're starting to Teeter into that
strength range so just to be very clear
on this we're not advocating that use we
do sets of five for hypertrophy all the
time necessarily it's something that you
can do but it's not necessarily
something that you should do exclusively
yeah so he actually gets into this exact
question if I'm ending my hypertrophy
muscle fiber up sets that makes me
question what I thought I would do rep
range wise for strength phases and
scientific principles strength training
as mentioned the percentages we didn't
cover that I found are ER and rep range
in regarding strength phases well you
guys are commended as a good range to
work with restraint phases I have always
been a little fuzzy about where to start
strength work quote-unquote and what
point the rep range is better suited for
peaking well like you know sets of five
to ten or really like if we're talking
powerlifting terms six to ten is good
for straight hypertrophy sets of three
to six a good for general strength that
would be where would you strength work
and sets of one to three are good for
peaking
are you you know and like in you know
for kind of traditional sports we would
use five to ten as kind of like a
transition zone and a hypertrophy zone
and then they would move into like you
know slightly less increments like four
to eight maybe three to five and then
maybe one to three if they were really
doing some like maximal strength type
stuff but for powerlifting you kind of
shift all that down a little bit more a
little more concisely Harrison Katyn
says hello is dr. Megan James thank you
for answering my questions last week
they were really helped clarify some
things by the way my last name is
pronounced Canton cool yeah glad we
hoped I'm glad we got your name figured
out my question this week is that intro
to sport exercise just dropped on
YouTube in a doctor mic make mention of
rpu you explained well enough then what
that is in the video however I wasn't
able to find anything on our pre
strengthened by the Google is there our
P standalone site no also where the test
scores you mentioned not yet created the
RP you thing was a very long-term
project so nothin yeah but all the
knowledge is there that will eventually
very likely be a reality but we're still
building all the courses about second I
pull soon we recently did some heavy
block pulled singles I was able to pull
the 605 pretty easy for an RP 8 off a 3h
block for suma which the percentage
compared to deadlift off the ground
depends on how big the blocks are and it
depends on the lifter ton so no good
answer there and it says eg max black
hole should be 105 or something heavier
than pull from the floor most of the
times when you see people make those
numbers than making them up or just a
place to sort of roughly start but you
already know where to roughly start
because you already know when RPE and
weight and a block so you have more
information we can every give you also a
word to the wise a block pulse for soon
will do almost nothing for almost no one
because that are off the floor and you
can always sumo Bowl I know people who
had max deadlifts in the 650s who's sumo
block polled a thousand plus you know
fucking thing for them yeah so I think
just to kind of get back into like what
the actual question is asking right so
it's like can you use that
recommendations like yeah maybe maybe
not but like the bigger question is like
why are you using the block pull right
yeah you're using the block pull to
emphasize a slightly different range of
motion and to probably use more weight
than you normally could
so a reasonable answer would be you know
kind of greater than 100 percent of the
same reps and I our goals that you would
do off of the floor would be like a
reasonable answer because if the whole
point is to overload a particular range
of motion with more weight than you
normally could do that's really the
answer and then after that it's kind of
just guessing check because it's pretty
easy to overdo it I agree with Mike on
that last comment though about black
holes for sumo I think that's okay kind
of thing like rack pulls for
conventional stuff like that that's
probably fine but man for sumo it
doesn't seem to be a good use of your
time
[Music]
Daniel hacker says so I had this issue
happen to me a few times I don't like
your help and I told you to fix it
unless it doesn't need to be whenever I
do dumbbell split squats after the first
set or to my body and Chris's feeling of
nausea and bubble guts well under five
my heart isn't beating too fast it just
seems like I put the dumbbells out a
minute or so into my rest period slight
nausea ensues sure the set is hard but
I'm not at zero RER I've had to cap my
workout for this exercise of two sets
per leg and had another quadrant of
traditional volume in the session
because if I didn't they actually I
would just take too long complete from
yeah it's an efficient sailor to fix
this once again I don't feel it's
cardiovascular I don't feel like my legs
have absolutely nothing left in the set
also ideas after hour deals and calves
that obviously doesn't help but that's
how cookie crumbles in my program right
now what does the nahji feeling happens
I know your boys getting up there 18
each and for 14 reps each leg postural
sets well when you lift a ton of weight
with a huge muscle mass which is what
you're doing and you're a really big guy
now you incur a shitload of total body
acidosis and that will just cause you to
wanna fucking throw up so just stop
getting bigger and stronger really
welcome to the club because a lot most
of us deal with that kind of shit all
the time
Charlie vomits almost who tries had dry
heaves almost every leg workout Audrey I
Drive even probably about a third of
them so shit sucks man fucking nut up
there's no way around it not even a lot
or not eating at all doing these fast in
the morning workouts it definitely helps
a lot so something you can look into
later but that would be my number one
guess yeah you have kind of the added
benefit of having a relatively unstable
compared to like up squad or something
it's like an unstable type move it when
you do it with one leg and so what you
also get with those unstable movements
there's a lot of just muscle activation
that's not necessarily contributing to
the force output of the muscle action in
question so when you do that you also
just getting a lot of spastic kind of
stabilizing type activity in a lot of
the other muscles the antagonists and
agonist and unrelated muscles just to
keep yourself in position so what you
are doing is basically activating a
shitload of muscle mass and you're a
relatively big strong guy using a lot of
weights so now you're just activating so
much stuff that you're getting this
acidosis effect and that's most likely
what's causing it so my car to hit on
that but it's you could you could you
can look at you see this a lot with
cyclists who do like sprint cycling one
of the most painful things
yeah after watching Jeff do the fucking
bike ergometer was awful watching
somebody like Mike and Charlie do leg
press and then somebody like yourself if
you got like really really big legs or
really big hips and you're doing that
single leg thing and you're getting a
lot of muscle activation yeah just
happens it's normal and Danny's James
Jack now man he's a fucking big dude
that makes perfect sense to him he got
the steroid hack he's not yeah
just upgraded big-time taxes or hacks or
I'm just kidding
that's great I haven't seen him in a
while I know you haven't bumped into him
in Florida
huge huge arms sweep good problem samuel
l.jackson oh hi docks I've got a
question about lactose intolerance you
know it's 2020 let's start being
tolerant of lactose folks
yes volatile my girlfriend is quite
sensitive to lactose and she gets
diarrhea after consumption so she's
think she has got lactose intolerance
she went to the doctor with the problem
who said she should try to avoid
consumption without a further
explanation she now tries to avoid
consumption which is quite difficult
sometimes especially since she doesn't
know for sure she is intolerant is there
any way to test if she is I'm not sure
that's actually a quiz question for the
doctor but Samuel actually later says
she's got a new point with the doctor
coming up soon would like to know a bit
more ask the right questions just tell
her to ask for a direct test of lactose
intolerance I think that's something
that you can I mean like there are food
allergy tests that have direct tests
that you can just ask for and takes
oh yeah that's something that you can do
and then so we've loved it but also
could you guys recommend any sources for
more information
you could read about lactose intolerance
of almost anywhere Wikipedia is a good
start and then he says here that she
found a lactase tablet on the internet
which are supposed to counter the
problems associated with consumption in
the case she goes out for dinner that
would be nice
those works you never know for sure that
there are some very used in the cooking
process do you guys know if there's a
viable option if you have lactose
intolerance it's a super fucking vile
wash and it's a miracle cure it just
gets rid of it completely for several
hours how does dr. Mike handle lactose
intolerance I don't think like those
tabs to my shits not that bad unless I'm
drinking whole milk for some fucking
reason so then I can I have eaten them
before they work great I just buy yeah I
don't know where you're from Samuel but
yeah in the United States we have
lactose free fucking everything so I
just don't have to rebuild I can have
all the cheese's and cakes my cousin
lottery but if the lactase tablet if she
tests it like has a glass of milk with a
lactase tablet or you know ten minutes
after the lactase tablet cheap drinks a
glass a glass of milk and she doesn't
have diarrhea she almost certainly has
lactose intolerance I don't actually
just do that at home test stay at home
because in case the lactose isn't what's
doing it that she's still gonna get
diarrhea and you're gonna be out and
about we're white that's all I gotta say
I used to have intolerance and somehow I
grew out of it but when I would have
milk just even skim milk I mean I would
get like gassy explosive spray it was
awful I still get that are you yeah I
have two NF Landrum do you would you get
like but chaffing yeah for sure man and
you like oh man it was awful yeah awful
and like you're on your stomach doesn't
it hurts before you fart there's a huge
bloating it's crazy yeah I would get
this is like super TMI for listeners but
like if you guys know the feeling of
like when your groin is chafed from like
walking around too much or something
like that I would get that like in my
ass and for whatever reason it went away
over time but I was using the lactase
stuff for a while and that definitely
helped me out a lot I think I literally
just had enough Saito gainer with milk
to my body was like you know what just
fuck it we're making bacteria we're on
board all right Steve Blair says hey
Doc's just started a mini cut and I have
knocked my volumes down slightly for my
last mini cut to see if I'm above my MB
can get away with less volume if
finished my cup without any loss in ruck
strength product presuming that wouldn't
indicate I have lost any muscle and
would still
Manvi correct it's a very short time so
it's hard to tell but yeah if you don't
lose any strength I would say you're
probably fine yeah it's kind of hard to
because like sometimes the fatigue of
dieting might just be enough to have a
shitty day every now and again but yeah
I think for the most part that's that's
pretty spot-on I normally use only make
up all uses of starting volumes to my
subsequent bulking know so since the
extra calories roughly bump in the up to
MeV weights all right after we read that
if normally use my many cut volumes as a
starting Williams for my subsequent
bulking that's though since the extra
calories I might actually feel a still
the other way yeah I was gonna say might
actually beat your steer any these might
actually be less then he says if I don't
lose rep strength on my mini cut would
it be okay to reduce is starting long is
on a bulk to probably yeah yeah we we
just use the ghetto stimulus estimator
algorithm where you go off pumps and
summarize of my muscle connection let's
stuff like that
that's quite better like if you feel
like you're getting old workouts that
it's probably good if you feel like it's
way too little there's no way and that
you don't get so or nothing happens it's
probably not enough
ya know number two looking at the sample
programs on the diversity guides I
noticed that the starting bones for
exercises go up at the start of each
mezzo but extra movements are also added
a increased frequency is the extra
volume from the new exercises not enough
or volume increase to overcome the
increased mev of later and other cycles
by itself it can be if you increase less
volume and don't add exercises but there
are other reasons for adding exercises
including variation and the specificity
of using certain exercises and certain
rep ranges and the problem of continuing
with very heavy exercises as opposed to
adding in exercises in the lighter rep
range so if you've run the guides you
know everything I'm talking about and
and not to mention in July come you
start to peter out like how much you
probably benefit from any single
exercise a little bit over time your M
V's just go up really on that and also
like if you say okay there's only so
many sets you can do per exercise per
session easy it split open all sessions
and ideally the problem of doing the
same exercise like three sessions in a
row like why not add another exercise
yeah you don't have to add another
exercise it's just a very good feel by
which to add sorry we can leave this one
alone but it's also a really good
strategy for kind of transitioning into
the higher rep phases later on
like when introducing something like a
leg press in mezzo 2 is not a bad idea
if you're going to be doing like
metabolite leg press in mezzo 3 versus
like just sticking with high bar squat
the whole time you know what I mean
and he says adding sets to old mu
movement seems to be a big jump in
starting those or Seth Williams so this
is just just an example it's just a
sample some people have a pretty gnarly
adaptation curve where they there any
egos up by like three to five cents per
mesocycle until they do desensitization
phase that's a thing so if it's too much
for you absolutely do less right folks
remember sample programs are just
examples and there's tons of people who
they will break down this example to its
to the t dot the i's and cross the t's
for me on this example exactly why did
you do this what we have good reasons
but they may not apply to you in your
specific case so make sure not to do too
much
it's like why are you good question
because when you see something dramatic
because we've actually advocated for
like not making that change within a
mezzo cycle on the webinars before so we
don't see it across mesocycles it would
seem weird but yeah so it's good
question number three the new person fee
guides mentioned that rep ranges should
be kept with the same four movements for
mezzo mezz oh yeah that should be but
that's a good idea since I've got
limited equipment to preserve variation
I've been keeping the same movements but
increasing rep ranges gradually over
several mesos that's fine we're not
going to reduce new movements would be
better starting with a greater mix of
our ages and just keeping them constant
over the messes instead eg rather than
progressing three movements for a body
part over three muscles from 6 to 10 10
to 20 20 to 30 instead just have
movement 1 only 6 to 10 always 10 to 20
and 1 always 20 to 30 I get you a blend
of that actually have a couple of sets
of each so have squats let's say you
have skin hack squats a lot of squats
hack squats leg presses squats you could
do most of the set six to ten one or two
of the sets 10 to 20 leg presses need to
do a couple of the set six to ten a
couple ten to 20 and a couple twenty to
thirty hack squats you can do one set
six to ten maybe zero one or two sets at
10 to 20 and most of the sets of 20 to
30 so there's a way for you to have kind
of mix of all
yeah and if you if you are working with
limited equipment sometimes it is good
to alter those rep ranges a little bit
across the different phases where like
you might have mezzo one you're doing
squats six to ten you can lighten up the
load a little bit just a little and
still be in largely that same rep range
and mezzo to so you might do six to ten
and then like eight to twelve right
which is like a two rep average
difference where you're kind of
lightening the load a little bit to
accommodate like the the length of the
diet the fatigue associated with that
you could do the same thing where you
might be like emphasizing that ten to
fifteen portion of the 10 to 20 range
and then like the 15 to 20 portion of
that 10 to 20 range like same idea kind
of like little sub breakdowns within
those rep ranges I mean it's we like to
use them as kind of like these three
right but you can get creative if you
don't have a lot of equipment and like
like if you don't have a legs press hack
squat and you know other other pieces of
equipment if you're like okay we'll have
squats and other like barbell quad
variations yeah do one that's like six
to ten and then maybe eight to twelve on
a different day then you get to the next
phase and it's 8 to 12 and then maybe 10
to 15 you know you can do things like
that to you that's fine yeah
[Music]
in past webinars you mentioned that 10
sets a rough guide for the maximum
precession volume a muscle group before
definitely considering how big frequency
is there a minimum number of sets that
would suggest reducing frequency and
combining session give my better Rosa my
getting better results yeah anything
below 2 to 3 like if you've got one
workout with one set and the workout
with to another were three for the love
of God just do two fucking workouts into
three each yeah it was good number five
I'm struggling for hip Hinch variations
my home gym with changing the stance
width and Arielle's be considered enough
variation yeah totally stance width and
foot positions though sumo rdls
conventional already Al's wide grip wide
rdls snatch grip rdls and different foot
positions sometimes you can have are
deals with your feet six inches apart
sometimes with your feet you know 18
inches apart total for out good mornings
fuck man you got all kinds of variation
and then sometimes it's nice to have
different barbells like if you have a
cambered bar you can do you know like
regular stands good morning camber bar
good morning like stuff like that really
easy all right Josh Kosh
says hi hi jump dunk guy again for a
second I thought it said drunk guy again
and I was like wait what she'd been
drinking an ass that's me lost questions
yeah
only one drunk man for my year long
jumping journey I'm sorry it's good it
was just funny I just make me laugh I'm
avoiding the blender effect by simply
programming distinct phases basically
along the force velocity curve a pyramid
of jeans references rp+ video strength
endurance maximal strength strength
power power I have strength endurance
maximal strength and power covered
however the one phase that I'm having
difficulty program is strength power
I have something weeks to play around
with in between maximal power or maximal
strength and power
would you mind providing general
thoughts / key questions for me to
consider below work to the load ratio
I'm thinking of six weeks of programming
in one week of D load I know this is
pushing it the other option would be
three weeks on one week off repeat twice
I would be grossly in favor of that
second option James oh yeah that was
definitely gonna say that so the thing
when you switched to higher intensity
phases like maximum strength power and
stuff you're typically not always but
very typically your mental cycle length
will shorten to accommodate the the
intensity of the exercise so I think
what would be a better idea is just
repeating a couple of those phases and
keeping it like three to once and that
would be way better than trying to go at
six to one you exercise selection I plan
to work out four days a week focused on
four key movements day one speed squat
quad focus day to spread hamstring focus
the three hats bar jump quad hamster and
before jump date build elastic volume
I debated including this because I
recognize this is taxing on the body but
at some point need to actually jump
that's day four I think I'll try to put
a day or two between this and the next
workout so I can be fully recovered and
then it says we'll work the body other
body parts and the levels and he
thoughts I'm not a structure the week to
ensure a recovery / National
Registration powertrain let me just go
back to the days one through four here
real quick so this is not a bad idea I
would still like to see a maximal
strength type day in there because
that's gonna transfer really really well
into jumping performance so I think you
could probably swap out
speed squat and just do like a you know
squats for like triples or something
like that maybe and you might have to
reorder this this you might have to
reorder it a little bit if you're gonna
so here's kind of the deal right so if
you have a couple max strength phases
you can just swap out day one with a
high bar squat as like your maximum
strength the thing is like once you
start switching into like days we are
overlapping a little bit of maximal
strength stuff with a little bit of
power stuff then you might want to
reorder it a little bit so that you have
like a really fresh power day when that
might be like one where you do the hex
bar jump on day one and then maybe have
the sprint day and then later in the
week you do that maximal strength it's
not that the maximum strength isn't
important but you're making a shift in
the priorities where you say like that
was important before for a phase
potentiation purposes but now I'm
actually starting to rehearse the
activity in question which is the
jumping and so then you might do a quick
exercise or shift there but other than
that those look pretty good for to me
yeah and like sometimes you can do like
there's a name for it fuck there's
actually a name for it where it's
basically like they have a couple
specific jumps that are like sport
specific jumps there's one for
volleyball which is the one where it's
like the jump the the run and jump you
would do to spike the ball there's a
name for it I can't think of it same
thing for basketball like like you would
do a jumping drill that's like you
charge the lane and jump towards the net
I guess if you were gonna you know if
charge and dog kind of thing those are
things you could also start including as
you get closer and closer and closer to
dunk day and who knows maybe you'll
actually dunk it ahead of schedule that
would be pretty fun progressive overload
volume I plan to keep it fairly simple
start up three sets plus one cent per
week based on how perhaps soreness or
speed deprecation so I would argue
against that don't add volume in an
intensity phase just increase the
intensity make sure you're at your m ee
to MRV which is a very wide window for
these things and you should be fine just
make sure you're increasing intensity
not volume yeah you own are gonna really
drive the volume up when you're in those
like strength endurance type phases and
then once that's over
you're probably gonna take what would be
like a Tuesday on your strength
endurance day chop the volume but per
in half and then it's probably gonna
stay pretty stable or if anything maybe
even go down from that point on
intensity / force this is where I can do
some really direct guidance sprint
Wilkie intensity will keep intensity low
and increase intensity slowly to
preserve my old man hammies if you're
sprinting for the first time in a while
I would say really start in a half
sprint for the first multiple weeks and
work up to a full sprint because like
yes definitely and then also don't don't
don't stop abruptly one of the things I
usually would have my rugby guys do when
they were not used to sprinting is we
would do like technique work and kind of
build up and then once they started
hitting a couple full hard Sprint's
every now and again we have them stride
it out we call it stride it out where
you don't you don't hit the brakes
because that's another really easy way
to accidentally injure yourself on
sprint training it was where you try to
you see you hit like you do a 10 meter
sprint and your instinct is to stop very
fast after you cross your 10 meter mark
just ride it out very easily and kind of
walk it out um and also don't progress
much on the Sprint's the sprint is just
kind of another I don't have a hard time
describing with the steel of Sprint says
it's just another way of improving your
ability to interact with the world and
in this case for basketball for trying
to dunk it's a good way to Train like
driving the lane and making that jump
eventually but the emphasis shouldn't be
on the Sprint training in terms of like
how much sprint training you're doing
compared to how much like job training
you're doing so the Sprint's is
something you might hit like 2 or 3
Sprint's per week once you've built up
to like being able to sprint hard and
that's it like let me just call it a day
on that you know and they just do a
little bit harder each time speed squat
and Hexbug jump facism in-between phase
between maximal strength high for small
velocity and power low for high velocity
on a weekly basis should I increase or
decrease the weight ie is week one 50%
week 225 week three is thirty or
vice-versa a week three thirty percent
week two twenty-five beam should i cap
max intensity at 30 percent or since is
the transition phase strength power is
it okay to do lifts at forty to sixty i
would actually pick just eat a strength
power phase is one that usually trains
both and doesn't mix them a ton in the
same exercise but i maybe a crack james
no you're right so that you can
power phase is kind of like you have an
extended portion of your annual plan
where you are starting to transition
into some power stuff but you're not
committing fully to power just yet
you're still carrying over some of that
stuff so you're still gonna train them
independently so you this is why I made
that that maximum strength
recommendation so what I would do is
swap out the speed squats just do squats
for like you know three by three kind of
thing increase the weight on that and
then start very very low on things like
the hex bar jump and what I would
actually do is like a double knee bend
counter movement X bar jump and just use
very very light loads like you might
start basically unloaded and then add
like maybe two five pounds per week on
that so you would start start basically
standing up holding the the hex bar and
then you would do like a counter
movement jump from that point on so you
have to start with very very light loads
you're not going to be doing like sixty
percent or 40 percent of what you could
hex bar debt but that would be a big
mistake don't do that something like
that yes did I answer the question or -
we have yeah yeah yeah so um I think in
the when you have that extended time in
between it's good to keep that maximal
strength stuff in there because acutely
that acutely and in like a very moderate
term length so we're talking about like
weeks to maybe like six months that
maximum strength work is going to have
really really big payouts on power
output so it's definitely a good thing
to keep in there and so I would just
maybe take those speed squats out
because you already have three other
power activities going on that week in
which you can train pretty hard so yeah
hopefully your dunk training comes along
very nicely my friend yeah all right
time for the YouTube you to be it's a
tube and it's made of you let me share
and we're sharing not to make sure make
sure we're on the same page here let's
take a look at what I'm being algorithms
Dave Rubin next no let's see no white
stuff John Jones
well polyethylene on the Soviet
weightlifting system Chad Wesley Smith
an excellent uh comment on that which is
public so Saleem has never been
associated with her workforce over
agreement person is just talking about
mass the FTS ooh men's health Kevin Hart
when I eat to get shredded grocery haul
I Jeff never halt here I thought it was
a shopping list
it's a halt when you go to like Costco
for sure five s shoulder exercises
you're not doing athlean-x knows what
you're not doing
you have so much athlean-x on your thing
who is this guy yeah it's like Jeff
Cavalli and uh he knows things patient
when a virus speaks out I like that one
great speaks out about what love God I
have the flu all right Milo wolf will
start a software so the ad says after
making some jokes about being or bitch
which he most certainly is my the wolf
isn't worth a follow guys by the way on
Instagram wolf coach on Instagram in
Milan wolf on YouTube I don't know what
fuckin awesome YouTube goes but anyway
check that out he's super knowledgeable
guy who's from England I think he goes
on a more serious note what's up with
the overhead triceps barble extension
you recommend I can't quite figure out
whether they would be a good exercise in
essence they're behind the neck press
with partial shoulder flexion ROM
they'll increase the moment arm for your
elbows eager see the likelihood of them
would be limited by your triceps rather
than shoulders that's actually great the
target is the tricep so it's a good
thing thus it essentially becomes a
tricep insulation move that's actually
its intent as the front delts aren't
near failure correct but one that also
fatiguing the front delts for seemingly
no good reason without stimulating them
with very much as opposed to a simple
tricep overhead extension in which the
shoulder does not move
oh yeah so the issue here is it's
actually super simple both myself and if
you see Jared feather do these we are
too jacked to do them properly so the
demonstration I don't ever do that oh
that's why he's okay
yeah that makes more sense cuz I was
like why are you talking about behind
the next price yeah the ones I've done
I've just like my arms are so big I
can't fucking do them Jared's gay now so
that makes it worse okay you're supposed
to like reach back and get super deep
but we can't reach back anymore so
shoulders too big that's at the end of
the best this question is long you had
blah blah blah all completely correct so
you're supposed to do them properly by
keeping your elbows in as much as you
can and reaching really far back in
touching the back of your neck you know
what Mike so I've actually been
experimenting with another movement that
I actually like a lot now um so a lot of
clients have a hard time with the
overhead barbell even if it's an EZ bar
barbell it's just awkward for them the
technique is very hard so it's hard for
them to kind of get into it and I've
also noticed that a lot of clients tend
to have elbow problems if you have them
do something like a JM press and so one
thing that I've been doing lately is
I'll have people do a low incline JM
press so they just put it on a low
incline and then just do the JM on that
and it takes all the pain out of the
elbow and it takes the awkwardness out
of the overhead tricep and it's been
really really easy to trade idea yeah
various extensions are great targeting
the long head seems to be an obsession
of folks for no fucking good reason
because yeah you trained it all the time
and any pulling movements for some
reason the other two tricep pose just
getting to love I don't think people
even know what they're called
what a methyl long hair long it dr. Mike
long head long it's great sweet you can
do behind the neck extensions that
otherwise just do all kinds of different
extensions they're fundamentally two
things one seem to stimulate your
triceps a lot and to don't fuck with
your elbows and shoulders and if you
could do those they're great that's
really that's really you know if I see
someone doing cable push downs properly
versus jam press call pressures vs. dibs
forces overhead extensions I'm not like
that idea why isn't using this other
movement I could go for in some nice
long head you feel me you know I'm
saying don't stop now
Bob that's easily the push I just I keep
going keep going yes let's see Evan
Halle Co says is there any
negatives yes are there any negatives
are there any negatives to splitting up
your sense throughout the day for
someone with a home gym so we actually
just um I've addressed this topic it
will be covered in our P Plus lecture
eventually because we've got a bunch
recorded than everyone out yet but James
and I actually have addressed this
recently in a webinar I think it was in
the last webinar maybe one before you
can split your shit up into two sessions
per day sometimes three but anything
three or more gets to be that you're
chronically in a stimulated state and
you never really get a good chance to
warm up and it ends up being the quality
suffers and you're just always sort of
catabolic and that's sympathetic for
lack of a better term you have the
constant anxiety of knowing that you
have to train multiple more times like
so do your work relax have distinct
periods for that and have distinct
periods for training but two days are
totally fine I would say two days
probably twelve sessions per week of
hypertrophy training and you know I
don't want to come at this like like
being overly hostile but I would also
say like if you're a shot-up
Evan no but like it's like if you're
entertaining the idea of doing three
sessions a day because like in your mind
for some reason that you can't commit to
doing like a hard training session like
I don't know it just seems like you have
your priorities are screwed up like
you're not you're not making up for
anything by like going back and forth
kind of piddling around all day I think
the best results are gonna be like when
you come in and do a really focused hard
training session even if it takes a
little while maybe two and on the top
end and like after that it's like if
you're trying to just do like a bunch of
little piddly sessions throughout the
day I think you're you're more
distracted than you are like really
getting after the training do you know
what it means that makes sense I feel
like it's it's there's something you're
not focused you're you have other things
you have other priorities and that might
be fine like if you have jobs school
whatever that's fine
but then I would say if you're
entertaining that thought just maybe
readjust your priorities and say like oh
you know what I just I can't do a
certain thing I'm gonna do my best four
days of the week to get into the gym and
do a really good job then and then the
rest of the time I'm going to allocate
towards my other responsibilities
[Music]
I'm gonna turn my inner jeans up and
attack this next question ask no fun and
in Super Samuel Turner Sam I know
exactly where you're coming from
something to see something snarky I
don't need it but there's something to
take away from it so the question is
Bret Contreras recommends normal folks
to stay around ten percent of their
weight they want to stay at and recom
instead of bulk /kup since we can't be
in a surplus which is the most important
I think this sort of the unemployed
there's important thing to muscle growth
nutritionally what else can we do to
optimize results extra Street Theatre in
timing more carbs less protein or
protein feedings lessen training volume
morale / less trading volume more
frequent training program for slower
progression in the gym progress of load
instead of increasing sets etc etc
Gaelic was all that mrs. Harris is this
a hack of questions don't we so right so
here's the thing man Sam and this is the
snarky part I don't I don't mean any
snarkiness by that I just mean it in the
literal sense this is a much better
questions with that Contreras
because Brackett rare is the one that
recommends this so then he is the person
to ask as to how to make this a viable
thing James and I would get off this
train before we got on it we would say
why the fuck would you do that bulking
is a great idea bulking cutting slowly
is great not bulking cutting at all
means you're taking away here two best
weapons of muscle gain and fat loss at
the same time so we would say that
that's not a great idea and the next
question sort of on a philosophical
level is like well what can we do to
obviate that well anything you can do to
update that is something that someone
was bucking and cutting can do also and
still get ahead of you like the human of
the universe that does bulking and
cutting is just gonna be better than the
you in the universe that doesn't if he
applies all the same strategies so yes
do your best
get lots of sleep get great nutrient
time and get lots of carbs and protein
make sure you get enough protein
feedings use the appropriate training
volume use the appropriate frequency is
survivable make sure you period eyes
that program for a good progression in
the gym that's slow enough to
accommodate you and of course balancing
load and that progression is always key
like those are all just it's kind of
saying like okay like I'm getting fuel
in my racecar with shitty quality fuel
what should I do to optimize my racecar
performance you just ride the funk out
of the car as well as you can and your
butt doesn't go as fast anymore like do
your best it goes slower you know like
you
there's yeah there's no way to make up
for that fundamental lack of anabolic
stimulus yes so like the people get
really caught up on this recom pig shit
and it's it's really frustrating and
it's not frustrated at people who have
questions I at people who are like
putting out the idea there that you can
just like recom Paul the time and you're
gonna get very good like gains it's it's
frustrating because the what you're
essentially asking is like what are the
ways that I can like hack recompensed
ate more protein and that makes
recombinase the case that everyone would
just do that then there'd be no reason
to get uncomfortably lean or
uncomfortably big like having sucks
right it sucks so it's just one of these
things and I'm frustrated because now
I'm gonna say like I'm frustrated at
Brett but like when people make
recommendations like that it kind of
puts this like false narrative into a
lot of people's minds if they can just
recon and it's like yeah when you're a
newbie you can do that there's no
hacking and doing that the only way that
you can really get a lot of like hack
quote on quote from recapping is when
you really start using things like
anabolic agents and even then it's not
really hacking because you pay prices in
other parts of your life so it's just
one of those things like there's no
situation in which you can just recom
peur way into having a great physique he
just doesn't happen I'm just I'm I'm
sorry
yeah ultimately you're gonna spend a lot
of time cutting and massing to a point
and which you're happy and then you can
stop yeah Christopher X just a sweet
name this was like like like a Black
Muslim leader except he looks a lot like
a bulldog I'm gonna say I think it's
more Bulldog bulldogs are on YouTube now
so he says I have a question regarding
injury prevention wiper to free training
from recent video I ran your whole male
physique template 2.0 20 weeks and it
was awesome and I grow a lot my muscles
seem to handle that many sets even by
week five to six however my joints gave
me the sensation of oh now I know what
it's like to be 97 years old doing I
hope it's not genetics it could be a
necessity part genetics we'll get to
that could it perhaps be something as
simple as not getting enough protein
almost certainly not I was thinking
about buying collagen no routine amounts
per se but since the diet tripeptides
which could potentially have my joints
there's no way they'd do that even if
it's just placebo for me don't do things
for the love of God don't do things that
are just recibo and you know what your
fuck don't acknowledge that it's a
placebo and then do it anyway right
right like you're better than that
I warm up by cycling eight minutes to
the gym and swinging my arms and legs
and knees into the sets with lower
weight and reps do you have any tips to
increase short health yes make sure
technique is good but during the set
that your joints don't feel compromised
at all if one technique feels better for
your joints do that potentially make
sure you're taking longer maintenance
phases between these aggressive meza
cycles may be only due to mesocycles set
of 3 before taking a maintenance phase
and easing off your joints and consider
training with an average slightly
lighter loads potentially work and also
my last one is if you know that your
muscle versus joint MRV is just that far
off and sometimes it is for people don't
push your muscles as hard as they could
go in anyone mesocycle especially in the
later ones and that will save your
joints in the long term yeah that was
really good I was gonna say use the
lighter rep ranges like the 10 to 20 or
you know like 20 point 30 or 5 to 30
however you want to say that but then
also you might consider splitting up
more of your your per session muscle
your muscle per add volume per session
across a little bit more of a variety of
movements including more single joint
like isolation type movements not to say
that that's gonna really make it better
but it's you just won't take the same
pounding as if you were just doing
nothing but bench presses and squats and
rows so it might be good to include some
like knee extensions to make up some of
that quad volume might be good to
include some like reverse you know PEC
deck flies for your back stuff like that
it's not the best in terms of raw
stimulus but it might be good for your
joints in the long term to have a little
bit more isolation work in there instead
of all compounds yeah yeah that's uh
it's just one of those things like
sometimes you can do within mesocycle
things and you'll know right then and
there sometimes it takes a few mezzos
blocks or macros for you to be like you
know my muscles can survive this my
joints can't so I got a back off totally
all right I think we're gonna wrap this
one up further that's it okay I'm gonna
be in Philadelphia this weekend sell my
house yeah exactly
great can't wait I'll be shooting you
James out of love let's see is weird I
think we're not next week or we're gonna
well we're not yeah
next week's good man next was good so
yeah we'll be back next time you guys
enjoyed our ridiculous banter and any of
the stuff you see on our P make sure you
subscribe to the RP YouTube James real
quick well actually I'll I'll ask you
after we get off ok it's probably that
operon we only ever talk after we get
off so that's alright well we're gonna
sign up for this one folks thanks for
your great questions and we'll talk to
you next time
peace