okay next question apart from protein oh
it is a good question okay
apart from protein how do the rest of
the macros play a role in bodybuilding
say if we fill in the rest of the
calorie requirement with empty calories
like sugar and alcohol how does it
affect muscle growth hormonal changes if
micros are taking care of by
multivitamins so I think what this
question is basically asking is can we
just hit our protein intake hitter
Oracle Orion calorie intake and then
fill in the rest with whatever kind of
junk we want and I think that with these
types of questions in particular that's
really important to consider context so
who is it that's asking this question
because that's going to kind of change
my answer I'm so if you have someone
who's just wanting to build a bit of
muscle maybe lose a bit of fat improve
their health I would tell them to focus
on what I would consider to be the three
pillars of those things so that would be
sufficient protein intake are you having
probably at least 0.8 grams of protein
per pound of body weight now but one
gram per pound is a good
easy-to-remember target you want to be
in a caloric deficit if your goal is fat
loss and you want to be training with
weights what you don't want to do is
when you have someone who's relatively
new to this stuff is you don't want to
overwhelm them with a bunch of what I
would consider to be my new show or
little little details that's gonna get
them distracted from what's really
driving positive body composition change
and it's going to get them toward their
goal I'm so you hear often times people
will be worrying about their sodium
their calcium magnesium Organic versus
conventional and all kinds of stuff that
in the big picture isn't what's really
driving their progress forward I'm so
for someone like that I would advise
them to focus on those big three things
get some weight loss and build some
muscle and then that in and of itself is
gonna obviously improve their physique
but also improve many measures of health
as well and once you get to a certain
point okay now we can start looking at
your diet a little bit more closely so
I'm a general scale that would kind of
be my answer there but I think that what
you guys really know is on the advanced
level assuming you know you're hitting
your macros you're hitting your protein
how much does it matter like if I eat
you know just cereal and pop-tarts and
so on can I still get shredded doing
that or is that even healthy or
what-have-you so here are my thoughts on
this in 2015 I think I interviewed who I
would consider to be the best natural
bodybuilding coach in the world
cliff Wilson I feel like at this point
he just has the best track record in the
sport and I asked him this exact
question I said do you really think that
when it comes to getting truly shredded
and I mean like below 6% body fat does
it really just come down to hitting the
macros and continuing to lose fat
overtime or does it do the food choices
matter to some degree and his answer
surprised me a little bit because he
said that honestly Jeff it really just
comes down to the macros if they can hit
their macros I've had guys get to four
or five percent body fat eating cereal
the whole way down and so I kind of do
trust his judgment on that what I would
say to kind of build on that would be
that it really does depend on the
individual in some sense because we know
from all sorts of metabolic award
studies that some people seem to do much
better in terms of fat loss when they're
eating lower carb higher fat so say more
of like a keto style diet and then some
people seem to do way better if they
have higher carbs and lower fats and
then some people doesn't really seem to
matter as long as they hit their protein
in their calories they're gonna lose fat
either way so that's something that you
kind of need to play with yourself when
it comes to your macro ratios and see
what your body responds to better now
when it comes to the micros I would say
that they're less important for fat loss
much less important but I would also say
that the body is very complex you have
all sorts of different things affecting
all sorts of other different things and
then that can have effects on the
physiological scale in terms of how you
look so what really comes to mind is
micronutrient deficiencies so if you're
eating all of this micronutrient avoid
junk food just hit your macros it's
really very possible especially if
you're training really heard that you
could be deficient in micronutrients
calcium magnesium zinc immediately come
to mind and possibly fiber which can all
have impacts on
digestion in the case of fiber and
energy levels in the case of calcium
vitamin D I would also include in there
if you live in a less a and more
northern climate especially and then for
zinc and magnesium can downright
regulate testosterone further which
might be bad for performance and muscle
gain and also probably fat loss so if
you're eating such a bad diet that you
start running into these deficiencies
which is probably more common than you
realize
then I would say that yes your food
choices do matter but when it comes down
to it you know we have at this point
thousands of examples of guys who've
gotten to five six percent body fat with
great musculature doing you know if it
fits your macros style approach so it
certainly has been shown to work in the
field now when it comes to matters of
health I think that's a different
question and I'm not gonna try to answer
that here in the Q&A but I think that if
you're trying to get to five to six
percent body fat
shredded then health probably isn't your
biggest concern anyway but just as a
general piece of advice you want to you
know eat your fruits and vegetables
basically and that's probably a pretty
good start
[Music]