hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
purisation today's quick tip is about
how to use your mind muscle connection
to get the best muscle growth results
the way that at rp and in our scientific
principles of my perturbating book we
define the mind muscle connections a
little bit different than somehow other
people define it
it is
for lower reps the amount of tension you
feel in the target muscle
and for higher reps the amount of burn
you feel in the target muscle
it is not a perceptual i feel like i'm
contracting this muscle
because
that is like it can be termed like
kinesthetic awareness and it happens in
like yoga like when you're doing yoga
you're like i really feel my glutes in
this pose like yeah but yoga doesn't
make you jacked
what makes you jacked is either
metabolite sequestration and muscle
which is scientifically proven to make
you more uh muscular and or the biggest
one is just fucking mechanical tension
so if you're feeling your glutes and
they feel like they're being ripped
apart by high tension that's probably
causing you to get jacked glutes jacked
glutes is a funny term and then if you
are doing high rep stuff for your glutes
that nasty deep burn is really the mind
muscle connection if you feel like
you're contracting your glutes but
you're not getting a lot of tension and
burn you could just be doing a lot of
moving around you know by using that
muscle but stimulating is not the same
thing as moving around stimulating is
pushing that muscle towards growth
so
sets of five to ten
how do you cultivate a mind muscle
connection there
if you feel a ton of tension in the
muscle the more the better so if you're
doing sets of eight on an incline press
and your pecs at the bottom and all the
way through the motion or feeling like
the huge contraction of being torn apart
on the way down
awesome if you don't feel much in your
pecs on an exercise that's targeting
them in the 5-10 rep range you should
alter your technique or go closer to
failure or whatever else you have to do
in order to get that tension perception
to be as high as possible i'll cover
this in the last part of this
presentation but it's not the hugest
priority but it's definitely better to
feel it than not to feel
in sets of 20 to 30 so covered lower ups
what about higher reps you want to feel
the burn and the more burn the better so
if let's say you're doing leg extensions
for sets of you know 25 reps and you're
not feeling the burn and the quads
you're just feeling some stuff in your
knees or something then you have to
alter your technique alter your reps in
reserve probably train a little closer
failure in order to ideally really feel
the burn of that muscles for example if
you're doing skull crushers for high
reps and you're feeling a lot in your
pecs and front belts okay
ideally you want a nasty burn in your
triceps to where you're like oh my fuck
so someone can ask you like hey
do you feel your triceps on that
exercise you're like god yes i felt i
wish i felt them less right so ideally
you want these things to be there which
is really the mind muscle connection
itself tension and or burn and in sets
of 10 to 20 reps you kind of want to
feel a combination of both now if in
sets of 10 to 20 reps you only feel the
tension or you only feel the burn no big
deal at least one is great ideally a
combo of both but if you feel none of
them well then you have to do something
to probably change your technique maybe
go a little bit harder maybe even pick a
different exercise if every technique
alteration or you still can't feel where
the fuck are supposed to feel and the
thing is some machines are like built
fucked up so you're doing some kind of
rose to try to feel something in your
mid traps but the row machine fucking
blows dick and it just all you feel is
your rear delts
sometimes every technique alteration is
only one fucking pair of handles you're
like
i don't know i just can't get it right
you try higher ups you try lower ups
nothing works maybe that machine sucks
maybe it's not built for your body
switch because ideally you want some
kind of tension or some kind of burn
perception that really tells you you are
taxing and stimulating that muscle
really really hard
once you have that in place and the mind
muscle connection is awesome
your load and rep progressions still
continue
as planned in order to fuel and sort of
detect your gains so the mind muscle
connection isn't something that like
competes with a progression your
progression is the most important thing
you want to do is make sure your
technique is good fundamentally from an
external perspective like if your squats
look like they're all the way up and
down you're standing on your heels great
the second thing you want is to make
sure that you're training hard and
progressing over time adding five pounds
to the bar adding rep here and there
that's the fucking main ingredients of
that cake the icing on top doesn't
compete with the layers of the cake
is the actual mind muscle connection
that you feel from those exercises and
then in all that context you get
probably the best hypertrophy results
now what if you just don't feel a strong
mind muscle connection or any mind
muscle connection you don't even know
what the fuck we're talking about here's
the thing if you're in that camp
some trade-offs if you are a beginner i
just wouldn't worry about the mind
muscle connection at all what i would
really focus on is good technique
if you use good technique as a beginner
progression is already set for you're
going to progress like crazy anyway just
really focus on making your technique as
good as possible and better over time in
the first three years of training if you
only focus on doing really really good
technique for your exercises and if the
exercise feels too easy you increase the
load a little bit or add a few reps
you're going to get all the fucking
growth that you want
as an intermediate years let's say three
through seven of training
you can still grow plenty of muscle
with no mind muscle connection ideally
you could have some or you know a good
mind muscle connection is better but
you're still gonna gain tons of muscle
as an intermediate you should want to
cultivate the mind muscle connection
during this time at least towards the
end so as a beginner you want to focus
on technique as an intermediate you want
to focus on with good technique
making sure you're getting pretty close
to failure and making those progressions
with an extra five pounds here and there
an extra rep here and there
as an advanced lifter
you already should have good technique
you already should be training hard and
then the mind muscle connection is this
extra little step that makes sure all of
your technique and all of our training
is actually impacting the muscles that
you want to grow
if you are advanced you've been training
for seven years or longer and you're
doing bicep curls you actually can't
feel tension and or burning your biceps
you know you probably still get some
bicep growth just from physically moving
weight point a to point b but it comes
with some downsides
and because you can't feel the muscle
tension and or burn you're going to have
to impose a lot more external load and
work doing more reps more stats going
closer to failure
causing more fatigue and potentially
some exposing yourself to higher injury
risk in order to get the same amount of
growth that somebody or you in the
future with a high muscle mind muscle
connection would just have to do less
those of you that have cultivated a good
mind muscle connection on some muscle
groups know that once you have a good
mind muscle connection uh assuming your
technique is excellent and you're
training hard you know like
if you have like for example
on a deficit push-up if you have a
really good mind-muscle connection to
your pecs three sets of deficit-weighted
push-ups so you're like dude my pecs are
fucking blown out but if you don't have
a good mind muscle connection you may
need four or five sets to do the same
job to actually get the muscle as much
stimulus because if you can't feel the
muscle getting a burn if you can't feel
it generating tension probably your
triceps and front delts are doing a lot
of the work that your pack's not nearly
as much and then you can get the same
amount of total stimulus to the pecs but
it comes at an expense of more front
delt work not a big expense more tricep
work okay great you get bigger triceps
more sets more systemic fatigue more use
of the glenohumeral shoulder joint and
potentially an exposure to higher
lifetime injury risk and more fatigue
and especially as you get really big and
strong you want to maximize your mind
muscle connection so that you don't have
to use as much weight or do as many sets
with heavy weight to get the same result
one of the things that's really kind of
sad to see is seeing like pro
bodybuilders were fucking enormous and
ultra strong doing like 10 different
exercises per session like three
different you know three sets per
exercise and they're like yeah man i got
to do all this to get my quads to grow
and i was like fuck man if you had
better technique if you would actually
be able to train closer to failure with
a full range of motion and if you had a
really good mind muscle connection you
may need like five total sets of quad
work and you'd be on the floor vomiting
blood and your quads have been growing
for fucking half week so mind muscle
connection not very important at all
when you're a beginner
as an intermediate you maybe start to
become aware of it but really you want
to preserve a really good technique make
it even better and expand how hard you
can train but as a more advanced lifter
so if you're listening to this and
you've been training longer than seven
years and you're like man you know what
on my tricep exercises i can't honestly
say have a good mind muscle connection
if i go heavy i don't really feel
touched on my triceps i feel it
somewhere else sometimes just in the
joints and if i'm going higher up i
don't get the burn in my triceps i get
it somewhere else i would say it's time
to re-evaluate your exercises that
you're using it's time to evaluate your
techniques it's time to evaluate some of
the positioning and how much
intentionality you put into the muscle
being trained you want to maximize the
mind muscle connection as an advanced
person because you essentially get
better stimulus with less fatigue your
stimus fatigue ratio goes up and the
amount of results you get get better and
more sustainable over time folks thanks
for tuning in you have any questions
about this put them in comments we'll
try to get to a few of them peace see
you next time