hello everyone and welcome back to
another episode of the ice cream for PRS
podcast my name is Jeff Nippert and
joining you this week I've got Doug
Miller on the line if any of you guys
aren't familiar with the name Doug
Miller I'll give him a quick
introduction here so Doug is a IFP a
drug-free pro bodybuilder he's a former
IFP a Orton World Cup champion he's
widely considered to be the best natural
bodybuilder competing today he's the
owner of supplement company core
Nutritionals and coaching company team
Miller and Doug is also an academic
pastor Doug has a bachelor's degree in
biochemistry and molecular biology so
it's a real pleasure to have you joining
us this week Doug so thanks for being on
the show yeah thanks for having me I
always love doing these things for sure
um so first I'd like to talk about your
your your most recent competition season
so 2014 I definitely think this was the
the best package you've ever brought to
the stage would you agree yeah
absolutely I mean it was kind of one of
those contest preps where everything
came together you know I was injury free
which is huge
um I just felt good I got into shape
early you know I was at a point in my
life where I've been on the corporate I
don't even want to say nine-to-five up
with on the corporate 7:00 to 7:00 um
and at this point in time I was able to
kind of go on my own and do my own
businesses so I had the flexibility to
train what I wanted eat what I wanted um
the stars were really aligned at the
time my son was only you know six months
old so he wasn't really super active
there wasn't a ton I could do yet with
him he wasn't super active or super high
maintenance
so it was just a perfect time really to
compete and that's that's why I did it
it was just the right time and things
came together really well for me yeah um
so do you think you could just do a
quick recap of the shows you you hit
that seed yeah sure so I did the Cape
Cod biggest sparring pro um so I want a
heavyweight class in the overall and
that that's always a great show that's
one of the
shows that's one of my favorite shows to
do have one that three times uh and then
I want to say it was two weeks later I
did the York up in DC um you know again
that that was probably the most
competitive you know difficult show that
I've ever done I was pretty nervous
about that show but it worked out pretty
well for me um I want the middleweight
class and that so I was the heaviest
little weight at that show um and then I
did a week later so I did three shows in
three weeks so the we a week later I did
the NPC the Jay Cutler Classic in
Baltimore and so that was one of the
things that before I you know stepped on
stage I mean I asked basically people on
social media what do you think should I
do the show you know I have mixed
feelings at the time I mean going from
doing an IFP a show to an MPC show um it
was a big deal to me because you know
basically you know that show is not drug
tested you know all the shows I've ever
done of a drug tested um you know that
was a non drug tested show and you know
I really wanted to do it to kind of
represent you know the natty aspect of
this and it can be done naturally and so
I think overwhelmingly it was you know
99 to one that I should do the show so I
won the light heavyweight class in that
show and the overall alright um just out
of curiosity like you've obviously been
successful on untested stages how well
do you think you could do in that stream
like I've heard guys say that you could
probably do well in like the 212 class
and in the IFBB have you ever considered
that or yeah but to be honest with you
that's not I don't want to be a
professional bodybuilder right I mean
that's not what I want to do I mean I
love I mean I guess so you could call me
a professional body okay let me put it
differently I don't want to be a
professional competitive bodybuilder
right like I don't have to put on my
speedo and step on stage to be a
bodybuilder right like I can you know
live the lifestyle and you know train
and die because I want to do it uh but
once I even once you get to the IFBB and
you start you know competing
so often something I just I don't know
it it loses his luster to me you know um
could I do well I don't know I mean I
have a lot of people in 2014 after I won
the Jay Cutler classic I had a lot of
NPC coaches say you need to hold out and
do national as a week later two weeks
later you have a good shot of willing to
light heavyweight class I don't buy that
you know I I don't think I don't think
so I think those guys are you know I'm
five nine you know and I I squeaked in
at the top of the light heavyweight
class but there's guys that are 5'4 you
know in a light heavyweight class and
you know it's not really necessarily one
of my aspirations to say it's not a goal
would be kind of a lie because you know
at some point in time maybe I want to do
the team universe and try to shoot to
get a IFBB Pro card actually but that
never happens if I never step on stage
or I never win that that that's totally
probably that's really not quite madness
uh I don't know it's hard to compete
with guys that are on a ton of stuff so
I think I can be somewhat competitive in
a light heavyweight class with most NPC
shows um but competing with the big boys
in the 212 that would be I don't know
we'd have to see yeah so would you ever
consider switching to the dark side then
I mean like I I'm assuming the answer
would be no if it isn't a real true goal
of yours but if you did I mean like it
would just it would probably be
ridiculous I mean a lot of people think
that you have the the genetics and the
potential to go as far as you want with
it yeah I mean so I'm 36 years old now
Yeah right
so I mean most people actually think I'm
a little bit younger than that but I'm
36 years old so it's like if I was going
to do it it was good if I was gonna go
on the juice you know I would have done
it by now you know and you know in my
early 20s have do I think about it sure
I think I think any natural bodybuilder
would really loud to say that they
haven't thought about it at some point
in time but it was just a fleeting
moment you know like wow I wonder how
big I could get and then you think about
all the reasons why you're not doing it
and that has really been you know kind
of the path that I've stayed at mean and
I've built multiple brands on being
natural so at this point in time you
know I'm going to be way more successful
in those brands staying natural than I
ever would be on an ipv6 stage so the
opportunity is there just it doesn't
make sense not to mention it it
definitely shortens your life so you
know it's not something that you know
that I would really enter ever entertain
at this point right um so like you said
that like you don't really want to be
like a pro bodybuilder like for that did
you like just kind of be your thing but
like obviously you are and like it takes
a lot to compete as a pro like as an
auto pro or whatever so like what is it
then that motivates you to be the best
or to be your best involved just I'm
just super competitive I don't know what
it is from the time that I was a little
kid you know I remember running races at
school and like it would piss me off if
somebody would beat me and so you know
it just goes back to that like I always
wanted to be top of the class top of the
you know the first in the race the best
physical fitness assessment test in in
gym class I don't know what it was it's
just a part of it and that's probably my
biggest genetic I guess it's a good
thing you know if there's definitely a
downside to that you don't make sure
that harder myself it is it's hard on
people around me because I am so hard on
myself um it's just kind of that innate
that innate drive to be the best of what
I do I mean it's not just it's not
really just the bodybuilding stage but
it definitely carried over into that but
like academically and everything else
you know when I start something like I
want to finish it I want to do it right
and I want to be you know to be the best
that I personally can be so really it's
just kind of this innate drive that uh
yeah um so what would you say to people
who who don't believe in your natural
status like a lot of people especially
online just aren't aren't buying it like
you must hear that quite a lot like does
that offend you or does it push you or
is it just like I don't care no I mean
some of the things that offend me are
some of the things that just are just so
absurd and just are just flat-out like
lies that you actually know who I am
it's just it's just like some of the
things are so stupid I mean they're
personal like I don't know I take some
that stuff personally I mean I'm human I
do but for the most part I would say 99%
of that the the trolls out there it's
kind of funny at this point in time
pretty much everything just rolls off me
like I've heard everything I mean I
don't know if you've seen some of the
YouTube videos out there people like I
mean oh this is what blaha yeah I mean
look I watched that like I watched it
with my some of my employees and stuff
and we are like dying laughing yeah like
it is [ __ ] to them it's pretty funny
like he's drawing like you know
connecting points from like my shoulder
to my nipple and then it's I feel the
finale
yeah I mean it's it's pretty clever
actually I mean but honestly it's just
it just goes to show that people really
don't know what it takes to be you know
to reach you know to go push their
natural potential pretty far I mean you
know I I think it's my intensity you
know my ability to push past that point
of pain a good pain and the training the
nonstop the consistency the grind you
know that type of thing most people
don't want to do that and they don't
realize what it takes to get there so
it's kind of sad when they look at
certain physiques and they say it's not
attainable naturally because because it
is I mean like there's there's nothing I
can say or do like I've posted urine
test two weeks apart at the urine and
the Cape Cod and I knew that was going
to cause a stir right like I knew that
was not going to be good enough for
anybody who doubted me in the first
place but you know there's nothing I can
do like I could get drug tested I can
get blood tested every week leading up
to a competition hair follicle test
everything and there'd be you know
something that I could potentially do
that would be good enough to you know
ease those haters so yeah and yeah it
really doesn't bother me at this point
and some of it is a bit of a compliment
it is kind of a shame that they can't
realize that this can be done naturally
because honestly I look at my physique
there's so much I can approve you know
there's like I see so many weaknesses
and um yeah I don't like what like I
just out of curiosity like what would
you say needs to improve for next time I
think just overall I think I think you
know
calves can come up I mean I have good
calves they're always like very lean and
cut but they're like I think the calves
can be bigger think my forearms can be
bigger I think my trash can be bigger my
chest can be bigger I think my strong
parts I think my lats can be wider I
think my strong parts are you know my
lats are pretty strong part my
hamstrings are strong part um you know I
don't think anybody can never have too
much quad you know so I mean I pretty
much have named every body part you know
happy with my shoulders last last show
um you know my arms upper arms have
always been a strong part point for me
um but yeah I mean just in the basics
you know like I don't structurally have
the best genetics in the world not
saying I've added it at it but like I'm
not like one of those guys with the 27
inch waist you know that could never
look the way their life and be jacked
because that's not me um you know so
there's always improvements that I can
think and at this point in time like if
I ever sat on stage again you know I
might not be any heavier any bigger that
I was before it's just the for a
five-minute physique at this point right
yeah I think you're an example of a guy
who really has progressed or what's it
seemed to be like a steady progression
throughout your career so like when you
first started you like you clearly had a
lot of size but it's just gotten better
and better and better with each season
like what do you attribute that to
because like I feel like a lot of the
top natural guys especially end up
hitting a point and then they just kind
of stagnant like that stagnate like
they've reached their natty limit or
whatever do you believe that that exists
or do you think you can always improve
as a natural I'd like to believe it
doesn't exist because if I believe it
exists then that kind of that
demotivates right like I honestly
believe that at 36 I can still in the
next you know five seven years I can be
better than I was when I competed last
time at 35 you know I really do believe
that um you know there's a point in time
or a life and age take over and you know
that's not the case um and that would be
fine I'll be fine with that um but you
know I really think that it's the
consistency like literally like I live
this I mean this is what I do
like I love to Train you know I'm
training
hours every day like if I don't train I
just feel like I was like what am i
doing right no I just love the Train and
I think I don't know I think it's just
the consistency I mean I've been doing
this now for 18 years and it's been I
have log books that could if I stack
them will be like probably six feet tall
of those little fat books like every one
every workout that I've done for
eighteen years you know and it's it's
that consistency you know and I think
some people get complacent I've been
blessed knock on wood that I haven't had
any major you know injuries that have
put me out for like six months like I'm
I'm fighting a pretty bad knee issue
right now that it sucks I haven't really
been able to hit quads like I wanted to
for the past you know five weeks and
that that sucks but it's part of the
game you know it's like that happens but
you just got to learn to kind of train
around it it doesn't mean it not going
there trying to train legs at some point
doing something that doesn't hurt um so
I've been pretty good about that you
know staying relatively healthy and
learning to train around and you know
major injuries so I'd like to actually
talk about your training a little bit so
I don't know how much train training
actually changes for you but how about
we just talk about what you're what
you're doing now or maybe what you were
doing for your last last competition
season so from what I've seen it seems
like a lot of your training volume comes
in like higher rep ranges so like 15 to
20 reps would you say that that's where
the majority of your work is done and do
you ever do lower rep work like say 10
to 15 or 5 to 10 yes yes and yes okay so
I mean last night we trade legs and so
it was a little bit of a different
training because I have some knee issues
but um I think we counted up the reps
and it was 930 reps
yesterday four legs and that's not like
light weight I mean that's all compound
moments we had two exercises in there
that were 10 sets of 30
there was a 10 set of thirty ten sets of
10 sets of 20 there was another and then
there was two other exercises which were
like five sets of 20 and you know this
just kind of the way I train I'm always
my back in my legs which you're two of
my stronger body parts it's kind of
funny I don't train in your traditional
hypertrophy range of like six to twelve
literally pretty much everything is like
20 reps you know obviously for four you
know back and like you if I'm heavy
squatting and stuff stuff like that you
know that rep range goes down but really
I'm a big believer of going heavy weight
and like higher rep so I know that
sounds kind of contradictory but um you
know really pushing to failure at that
higher rep range like most people will
do 20 reps but they probably could have
done 40 reps but that way you know I'm
doing 20 pumps where you know maybe I
really could only got 18 but I'll push
out 20 and they're those types of sets I
think are the sets that really are
they're the money makers right they're
the ones that make a man out of you that
you they probably elicit more you know
hormonal response in your body than
other sets you know um and so I just
found that that that has worked well for
me and I enjoyed training that way and
you know not to sound silly here but
like you know if I'm trading back I
pretty much can do the stack on every
machine for 20 reps right so it's pretty
hard to Train low rep now I can slow
down my kids really slow but it's boring
after a while
right Lexington but I do that sometimes
you know sometimes I'll you know lighten
the weight a little bit or just do you
know our full rep will take me five or
six seconds you know that's had no
training
um but yeah I'm up for the most part I'm
you know I'm definitely over 10 reps
legs and back I'm using 20 rep range now
what I'm doing deadlifts you know I'll
go down to you know 4 rep sets stuff
like that you know what I'm doing heavy
rows I'll do probably my lowest rep
range over rows it's like fatty um
but yeah you know I'm a big believer in
IRS yeah that's interesting because like
a lot of the most recent research kind
of negates that old theory that like you
had to be in like six to twelve reps in
order to build muscle it's kind of like
provided that it's taken to failure
you're going to activate all the motor
units anyway and so like they see
similar results between like seven sets
of three and three sets of ten and even
like 20 to 30 rep sets they still see
like some
amounts to grow similar amounts of
growth so it's kind of like it's kind of
like you can't you can't rein in those
upper rep ranges and and still build
muscle as long as you're pushing it like
you said I think the problem is is that
like most people are like yeah I'm
getting a good pump and they still leave
like 10 or 20 reps in the time yeah and
so yeah that's that's when you I think
you run into problems with the higher
reference or not I love training
I like the higher volume I mean it's
just it's fun to Train like yeah yo I
just I've trained or workout with people
that are doing like more of a
powerlifting approach and I mean if
they're doing competing in a
powerlifting meet that great you know
whatever that's that's what this is the
way they should train yeah but like to
do a set of like two reps that wasn't
leave it to failure and then kind of
walk around for five minutes yeah and
then do another set you know it's like I
get it
but it's just like this boring crap it's
just like I don't have time for that
like I don't have time to spend that
would take me out take me six hours to
get through work yeah yeah yeah you know
so I'm a big believer in just following
just you know moving heavy weight for a
lot of reps I mean I try not to over
things um you know and for the most part
that's how I train my clients you know
you know the first time I'll put a
client on a higher body program they're
pretty toast like they're like they
can't walk for days
but they adapt and you know I find that
they they get more they make quicker
gains that way than any other type of
training that I've tried with them and I
find that they get like a leaner denser
look to them with the higher volume you
know type of approach um yeah yeah I
can't really explain it but you know I
definitely find it that they your
muscles to seem to mature faster you
know how like you like mature muscle
definitely looks a little different oh
yeah um you know I find that the really
high volume training you know helps you
know expedite that yeah um what one of
the questions I don't have is like how
how do you like you've progressed so
steadily and consistently across your
career at least it seemed that way like
how do you with with that style of
training how do you ensure that you're
progressing like do you I mean I know
you track everything so yes you just do
I guess I track everything you know
and I really do and I don't for myself
you know I know it's different for my
clients because I'm actually giving them
a program for myself you know I I don't
I don't even know what I'm gonna do when
I go into the gym that day really you
know up for the month that's maybe not
true but like I know I'm what body part
I'm trained and then I get there to kind
of see how I feel right like I'm feeling
dead lifts my back's not feeling right I
won't do um and so you know I kinda I
really mix things up I mean my no.2
workouts are ever the same and so
there's a ton of variety in there and so
when I'm walking stuff I make sure not
to make sure to kind of be what I've
done or attempted to be what I've done
previously but I understand like if I'm
doing from looking at hack squats and I
did in first versus third obviously I
know that you're going to be a
difference so I I track everything so
that I travel an apples-to-apples so
then I would compare my half squats
doing the third on another day and that
type of thing in and I realize you know
at this point in time you're not going
setting up you are every day you know
really uh you know now that like I said
recently I've had a lot of aches and
pains so getting through a workout
without having you know aches and pains
and getting a really good pop that's a
win for me right now yeah so you know
I've just I don't know you know being
consistent really mixing it up never
doing the same program never getting
stuck in a rut I do tend to fall back to
some certain splits that I really enjoy
training but my workouts are so very
that there's just a ton of different
stimulus they're so cut up can you give
me an example of like what your favorite
split would be I mean my favorite split
is old-school bro split one body part of
day I love it you know it's just the way
I loved her I love going in there and
not worrying about having to hit like
three body parts and just destroying
whatever body part of or hand and
usually I'm sore for a while so it takes
you know a while recovering I mean and
you hit so many you know right now I
mean I am doing that split I'm doing uh
you know quasi calves Monday that uh
today I'll do chest
tomorrow's back Thursday's arms always
hamstrings
and Saturday we shoulders that take
sunday off uh you know there's a lot of
research that'll say about hitting
boxing multi body parts you know hitting
a body part multiple times a week
um you know as ideal for hypertrophy but
to be honest with you I've done that and
I do I do do that
um it's just a blunt training this way
and so you know I'll mix it up
completely but this is a fun really fun
way for me to try again
and so especially it's actually really
easy when I'm traveling I'm traveling to
the past year and it's just it's just
easy to travel a little it it's easy to
sync up with people like I'm traveling
with so that we can train together and
stuff like that so yeah yeah yeah no I
actually have been doing the same thing
myself for the last little while and
you're absolutely right it's just a
really enjoyable way to train and I find
like when you enjoy your training
sessions you just tend to push yourself
that much harder okay and be that much
more consistent with it and so that yeah
I absolutely would agree there and like
a lot of the a lot of the argument for
the higher frequency training is that it
allows you to squeeze in more volume in
the training week but if you're doing
like double the volume that most people
are doing in a given session anyway then
there might not be a benefit to
splitting it up more especially if you
don't enjoy it as much so yeah that's
interesting yeah
so Doug do you do you paradise' your
training at all like you have periods of
lighter weeks or deload weeks or say
blocks where you're like focused
specifically on strength or a specific
body part or something like that
so yes what it's not um it's more like
instinctual periodization right so you
just can't slam a hundred percent a
hundred percent of the time right you
just can't do it so for me it's if I'm
feeling good I'm not going to take or
like if it was if it's a week like if I
would have that and it's a week where if
I had planned into my program a week
okay I'm gonna deal owed the shriek but
I week but I felt amazing and I wanted
to train like I'm gonna train not gonna
be able to deal owed I mean it's just
not going to happen so I don't do that I
don't plan D loads I think there's
definitely some benefits of
but you know I'll use things like at
home you know traveling a day I need an
extra day of rest or you know it we go
on vacation a couple days here and there
that type of thing I'll use that as rest
but for the most part my periodization
is terms of e it really comes down to I
think the best way I could describe the
way I do it is exercise selection and
kind of rep speed and things like that
so for example if I'm if I'm always
hitting deadlifts and barbell rows and
you know all the heavy compound
exercises squats and stuff like that if
I'm feeling a little bit off and I feel
like I need to back off a little bit
I'll still keep the intensity relative
high relatively high but I'll definitely
focus on more machines and I'll slow
down the tempo to get that really focus
on that blood flow that squeeze and that
way I feel like it's giving my joints a
little bit of a rest and it's just a
different way of training and so that's
really kind of how I appear guys you
know my training but to actually have a
deal owed week a set D load week I don't
do it um and then like training to
failure so like do you take every set to
failure or like the last set to failure
or how do you made it after that oh I
try not to yeah but you know there's
just I always feel like I can get one
one one more rep so it's hard for me to
stop I actually you know when I first
started training you know I did I did
everything wrong that you know that
everyone else does you know before they
know better so like you know you're
training with your bros and like you're
doing a bench press and like come on man
you got you got it you got it here like
they're basically upright row and you
know the last three reps right it does
nothing yeah and so I don't do that I
don't do four straps I really don't do
any four straps of any kind I would you
know maybe need a spot if you know I
happen to fail only at last rep but I
don't ever do four straps that's a big
thing once I stopped doing four straps
I grew way quicker um so that was a big
thing so I don't really do four straps I
leave try to leave a little bit of an
attack but I'm doing that with multiple
sets and you know pretty heavy it you
know
a lot of volume so I feel like generally
I'm pretty much training to failure like
at the end of the day when I walk out of
the gym I'm pretty much spent but I try
not to bring any one set to complete
all-out failure although I'll be honest
with you most a lot of times I'll do
that because it's just it's the way I am
right like if it's hard for me to stop
one rep short but I really feel like
there isn't benefit of leaving just a
little bit in the tank it also it helps
I think it helps prevent injury I think
when you're really pushing that last
that last one rap is where everyone gets
hurt right yeah so to do that you know
to kind of leave a little bit in there I
think there are some benefits to that um
but to be honest you know that's hard
for me sometimes so what do you think of
the the argument that like if you leave
a rep in the tank you'll be able to do
more overall volume because like the
subsequent sets won't suffer as much
because you won't be so fatigued like
you find that to be the case like so you
take your first set or your second set
to failure then on your third and say
it's a it's like 20 reps to failure your
third set you might only get like 16
reps and then your fourth set you might
only get like 12 yeah yeah
yeah I mean I definitely yeah that's
definitely the case so III really feel
that you know just thinking about how I
train you know I don't know if I even
really do this consciously I would
probably say I'm taking two sets of each
exercise close to failure you know so
like if I'm going to do um like I'm
going to Train chess today and if I'm
going to go do dumbbells right like I'll
do the 50s for a set of 20 I'll do the
70s for a set of 10 I'll do the 90s for
a set of 10 I'll do the 110 for a set of
10 I'll do the 130s for a set of 10 now
it's getting kind of heavy right you
know maybe I'll do the 140s 4 and that's
this is like a set that I would take
close to failure I'll do 1 for 8 and
then I'll do the 150s and I'll try to
get I don't know
fie you know I don't know whatever I get
but so really it's really those last two
sets would be the ones and then maybe I
throw drop set
tn it's those last two sets are the ones
that are taking failure so yeah
absolutely
um you know but I think there is some
benefit to doing that I find later in my
workout usually in the beginning of my
workout I really want to on those major
compound lifts I wanted to take as much
time in between sets and not totally you
know spend myself on quota but warm-up
sets to really kind of push you know the
most the heaviest weight for those many
reps as possible so I do a nice
progressive warm-up and then maybe I'll
crush two sets right and then as I moved
through my workout I'm a little less
concerned about that right because I'm
not really it's a little harder to kind
of check your logbook and stuff like
that so I am pushing a lot kind of more
sets to failure I'm already warm and I'm
not really worried about kind of you
know spending myself for it you know on
top and I said okay okay I think that
pretty much covers everything I wanted
to talk to you about with training maybe
we can move on to nutrition and touch on
that for a little bit here sure so what
what do you what do your offseason
macros look like or or do you even track
in the offseason they won't even track
no okay all right I mean I know what
they are I mean I'm probably eating I
mean I can guest mean I'm probably
eating 32 to 3,500 calories a day okay
nothing crazy I you know when I was
younger um you know my my offseason
calories were probably more along lines
of 3800 um I would say 33 34 something
like that maybe even a little bit less I
don't really worry about it my protein
it's probably right around 300 maybe a
little bit less um you know fat is
probably around 80 and then fill in the
rest with carbs um you know I'm not I
mean when I'm dieting for a show I make
super strict you know I mean I'm hitting
my macros on point um I think the lowest
my macros got down to last prep we're
probably like 20 200 Cal my cows were
like 2,200 calories um
you know and then I was able to reverse
diet into the show so by the time I was
competing they were at like 2600
something like that um but yeah right
now I don't really I'd go by feel I know
what I need to eat ever do it this long
enough yeah I don't get caught up in
macros right so is your goal to gain
weight now or are you kind of just
trying to like maintain a certain body
composition that's a good question you
know I've kind of been ever since the
last show I haven't really been too
concerned about it literally like I'll
step on the scale once every four months
I guys don't care you know I just love
training
I love eating healthy you know right now
I'm probably gonna push the macros a
little bit and try to put on a little
bit more size I'm probably to 12 to 215
and the more product maybe maybe let's
say 2:15 in the morning um you know I'd
like to probably maybe put on five
pounds um but we'll see I like to do it
slow and lean and I go by the mirror and
how I feel a lot more than I do the
scale so I feel like I'm a little
getting a mo softer I'll tighten it up a
little bit if I feel really lean then
I'll have more calories in it you don't
kind of just go back for you right at
this point I'm not really concerned with
my body weight as much as I am really as
my performance in the gym um so like in
terms of your daily eating like do you
kind of eat like a normal person with
like discrete meals or do you do the
like six meals a day um think yeah I
definitely do six or seven meals a day
so you know this morning I had protein
and waffles um this uh you know it's a
big cake day today is it yeah well I had
waffles
I got a Belgian waffle maker for
Christmas oh yeah I don't kill and
waffles like every day um they're
awesome and so um you know I did that
and then I'll probably as soon as we get
off here I'll probably have you know six
ounces of meat a cup of rice and you
know a cup of vegetables something like
that then I'll probably do a pre-workout
meal that has my pre-workout meal is a
big meal for me I usually do like 100
grams of carbs in my pre-workout meal ie
I'm a big fan I cook a cup
do three scoops MRP in their
choreography with some wisdom
blueberries and some factory cool whip
it's like a bowl it's like it's a man
bowl it's pretty awesome
it's probably like 50 protein 100 carbs
and then uh I use I like to wait a long
time I see after eating a meal that big
you're going to wait a long time anyways
I like have letting the food idea so
I'll train two hours after that I'll do
a post-workout shake immediately after
training which is about forty forty
forty-five protein 65 carb and then I'll
do another meal um you have kind of like
you know meat rice and vegetables um and
then you know depending on how what my
days like out may squeeze in one more
meal before I have my bedtime meal which
is usually a couple scoops of protein
some peanut butter some blueberries
stuff like that um so it's I'm pretty
consistent I mean that's pretty much my
my routine my schedule um so like what
do you make of people who are like who
would accuse you of being like oh that's
really bro or like that's not
science-based or anything like that did
you just like that doesn't bother me at
all how do you look on stage buddy yeah
yeah really could care less what you eat
I don't have any problem
yes it's bro bug like honestly so like
within the past four days I've been to a
steak house and Sunday night I ate sushi
and you know look I just I'll go out to
eat when I want to go out to eat like it
does I don't even worry about it
yeah I'll just maybe combine a couple
meals I'll miss a meal that day you need
a bigger meal out right so I'm I'm not
bro I just love bro foods really you
know on the end of the day whether your
bro you're not bro you know it all comes
down to calories in versus calories out
of macronutrients so you know I just
choose to hit my macros using bro foods
and I'm not one of those people that is
going to sit there and you know when I'm
on contest prep with my fitness pal
trying to squeeze in you know how many
how many scoops of fat-free frozen
yogurt can I have
tonight you know like that's not I don't
do that I just it's just not what I do
I'd rather eat more volume of kind of
healthy foods and I feel like I just
feel and perform better that way uh you
know I'm a pro at heart though for sure
yeah yeah I think I think a lot of it
too is like if that's the style of
eating that you enjoy or like the style
of training that you enjoyed and that's
what's going to make you to be most
consistent over time and like if it like
you said if it improves your training
performance in the gym then like why
wouldn't why wouldn't you do it
especially that's how you like to eat
anyway so absolutely yeah it's all about
consistency like you said yeah so uh
yeah I think we we touched on kind of
like intuitive eating so I'm assuming
you you kind of do practice that but
more so seems to be like you just have
like habits like every day you're just
kind of 10d I'm gonna have a pretty much
meal you know I guess is kind of like a
meal plan that I follow but I don't you
know I would say maybe three four days a
week I'm hitting that spot on the other
days you know traveling or you know
going out to eat with my wife and kid or
you know something like that so it gets
off so I just don't worry about it right
right um so Doug I'd like to talk about
your your supplements for a little bit
so I've seen in a video like you seem to
take a lot of supplements or at least
more than I do or a lot of natural guys
do what are you trying to say man what
are you trying to say
so like you often hear things like
people will say you know supplements
make up like nothing or like less than
5% of your success do you think that I
guess what I'm asking is like you think
that the stuff that you're taking makes
enough of a difference for it to be
worth it I wouldn't do it if I did yeah
yeah I mean I truly believe that it and
at the end of the day people need to
realize there are supplements you know
and we own a number of retail stores and
one of the things that you know I teach
my managers to always teach customers is
that you can take whatever you want in
here what it's not going to get results
if your diet and your training are on
point like it that's just that's the
truth and so I feel that my diet and
training you're pretty on point and I
feel that the supplements do make a
difference like they really do
um you know I don't know you know some
people might just dabble in supplements
and some people might be consistent with
it but you know I know everybody that
I've kind of shown them the way show
them a number of things to take how to
do meal timing how to do supplement
timing they notice a huge difference I
mean like just a huge difference in
energy recovery um you know it's hard to
claim muscle growth because you don't
really know how much what percentage
that is but I really do feel there's a
difference especially on contest prep
you know like I felt phenomenal you know
five weeks out now my energy levels at
some points were pretty low but for
being as lean as I was I mean my
strength was phenomenal you know I'm
still dead lifting six plates at like
two weeks out you know something like
that which yeah I mean I felt phenomenal
and I think a lot of it had to do with
the right supplements the right timing
so I really do believe it makes a
difference you know there's gonna be a
lot of people that don't believe that
called [ __ ] and just you know
thinking I just want to sell product but
you know I really love what I do and I
love you know designing products and I
love the science behind it and I
wouldn't do it if I did you know really
think there was some benefit to it like
there's no there'd be no intrinsic no
like I won't get joy out of that right
and I don't want to be doing something
that I don't really enjoy so like I
truly believe that you know the
supplements that we're putting out
really do make a difference
hmm so like can you give me an example
because like I'm I'm a very minimalistic
supplement kind of guy like I take
creatine caffeine a multivitamin and
some fish oil basically sure so like it
what do you think would be missing from
that stack that I might benefit from say
in a pre caucus phase so curry team is
really important I mean obviously that
that's a big difference it and I take
creatine you know all the way through a
show most people say oh you got a drop
its water retention you're taking a good
creatine monohydrate it's going to help
you retain water within a muscle cell
not under your skin um I think branched
chain amino acid products absolutely
makes a difference I'm a huge fan
that's what I'm drinking this fault
interview I'm a huge fan of BCAAs
and the science behind them I'm a huge
fan of beta-alanine I think beta-alanine
the study is showing its ability to
buffer lactic acid make a huge different
difference in endurance so I think those
two things really there's a lot of I
mean it depends on where you are kind of
like in your in your in your phase of
training but you know I am a big
believer in and I love playing around
with different herbs and natural test
boosters and you know it's not gonna be
like taking steroid but it's going to
help your body optimize its own
endogenous levels and we've done one
work on people taking test boosters and
you know our least our test boosters and
we've shown through differences you know
we've shown increases in it so let me
just take her out for example right so
for alpha we've done blood work with
people we've done an eight-week cycle on
people and when they are in their lower
end of the test range to begin so let's
say they're they're pretty low they're
like 280 300 350 something like that um
we've shown um multiple times that
they've increased tests over a hundred
percent so they're back up into the well
into the normal range you know the five
six hundred level right we find also
that is effective and people that have a
normal test range you know they're in
the five six hundred range we are we've
also shown that it increases test you
know more along the lines of twenty five
to thirty percent at that point um so
there's even some benefit there now how
you how that's going to translate into
true muscle growth I don't think anyone
could say but I know people say you know
anecdotally that they feel way better we
feel better just things are going to
click better your trainings going to be
better your testing is going to be
better your sleeps going to be better
and all of that goes to kind of the big
picture of making gains
um and so I'm a big believer in and we
have another new test because you're
coming out as called for tests and
powered version that I'm super excited
about and so you know I'm a big fan in
natural anabolics you just got to know
what you gotta be careful what you're
taking because you know there's a lot of
snake oil salesmen out there that will
make ridiculous plays um you got to make
sure things you're properly dosed
there's some really good
herbs and things like that out there and
do work it properly goes but a lot of
companies because they're expensive they
cost so much per kilo you know they'll
just break them into a product right so
you know they'll say is in the product
and then you're taking something that
does absolutely not so I understand why
there is skepticism in the industry but
that's what we're trying to do with corn
attrition let's take that away right
we're trying to be fully transparent you
know show them show you guys exactly
what you're becoming and the doses are
properly dose to get the results from
the study shown on those ingredients so
there's a lot of things you can take I
mean I think in your stack the casino on
carnitine is beneficial and cutting I
think a good fish oil in there is really
important I think probiotics digestive
enzymes help a lot especially with
people that you know are kind of gassy
from all the protein and different
things you know they might not handle
act as well so all those little things
help to basically be able to eat more
food eat different things and then that
could lead to gains if everything else
is having you know going on properly
like the diet at the training um I know
that was a long-winded answer but man we
could get you on so many different
things in a changing world and take you
to a holding up um so the test booster
what what is the main active ingredient
in that like it's a deist Bartek acid
because I've taken that before uh yeah
in alpha it's n-methyl-d-aspartate acid
so the hidden deathly aspartic acids
shown to bind the the ethyl d-aspartic
acid receptors at a hundred times the
strength so you don't have to take as
much to get elicit the same response um
it's also got three two Sox e7 keto DHEA
which is is banned by wada so if
anyone's taking is tested by wada they
can't take it it's basically a
it's a metabolite of seven keto DHEA um
it's not anabolic it doesn't affect test
levels directly but it doesn't it's not
gonna change I should let me let me
affect change that it doesn't affect tte
ratios so test two epi test for age
ratios um it doesn't turn into is
another steroid in your body that's kind
of called across drug test so it has no
effect on urine test or anything like
that um it's just a it's an herb that
basically acts as in any estrogen right
so it's going to lower your estrogen
which is an intern going to help
increase testosterone there's a coleus
for school in which is good at boosting
luteinizing hormone which then you know
can stimulate testes for more
testosterone production there's what
else is in there there's l-dopa which
comes from you Kuna and that basically
helps increase dopamine in the brain has
been shown to increase natural growth
hormone levels um what else is in there
vitamin D because higher vitamin D
levels are correlated with higher test
levels there's also some zinc in there
for testosterone support so you know
it's a full it's really a photo there's
also brassy OPS's which is another
herbal and estrogen um so there's you
know basically it's a test booster that
is targeting multiple pathways to
increase test so you can you know
increase your luteinizing hormone you
can directly do it through enough
diaspora gas and you can lower your
estrogen levels to help your body you
know increase its production disaster so
there's a lot of different you know
pathways that through which it works hmm
interesting
um I guess like like there's obviously
been research to show that some of the
supplements you've named aren't
necessary or haven't led to significant
increases in muscle mass while stick I
don't think anything is necessary Yeah
right
yeah but I mean like give it to someone
for 12 weeks and there's no no
difference in muscle mass or at least
inconsistent results across different
studies so like you'd be an example of
one one of the things that uh
so like BCAA so you know as long as
protein is adequate people say VCAs
doesn't increase muscle and Apple ISM or
increase muscle I don't know I mean so
there's a lot of studies on BCA yeah
there's a lot of studies I mean even
doing it there's a lot of meta studies
on BCA's right so overwhelmingly I would
say the large majority show that there
is some benefit to taking VCS right so
you're always going to have study on
anything right I mean it's the same with
like artificial sweeteners right you
know you're always going to have studies
for every study showing that you know
aspartame causes cancer in rats right
there's another study showing these
completely stay some oh I mean a lot of
this comes down for me personally as a
consumer of Salman's first and foremost
a lot of it comes down to how do I feel
when I take right and so for a BCAA
product is not something you feel right
away but I know personally one you know
there was a period of time I never took
easy is you know my birth further PC I
ever took was like extend you know pack
in the day and after I started
supplementing with it you know I noticed
a difference in the you know how can i
you know addition not much I can argue
with in terms of how I feel and it's the
same thing that I said look like the
test boosters right hey so your test
increases 20% like there's probably
going to be gotta be a study somewhere
showing that that is not going to
translate to much muscle growth what is
the overall kind of it's the full
package right it's the power you feel
you know that 20% test you know if
you're an adult if you double your test
pose you're going to feel way better
your trainings going to be where your
sleeves going to be later they're your
specialist excellent it's going to be
way better you know all of those things
can contribute to better performance in
the gym which is going to lead to more
growth so am i but it comes down to I'm
a big believer in science but I'm also a
big believer and how do you feel when
you're taking something right like it
just because science says something
works if you're using it and it doesn't
work for you or you don't notice a
difference when I take it yeah yeah
that's the same thing s ascendent with
my training this is same thing with my
diet right you know so yeah I mean I'm
of the studies but I think a lot of
people these days get too tied down to
oh you know I read that you really BCA's
don't do anything really what you want
to do is spike your leucine every couple
hours because you know you get a better
response from that that type of thing um
you know yeah there's studies that show
that there's also studies that show
other things and so it's at the end of
the day what is it going to work for you
and what do I find that works well for
other people that's what I'm thinking
about one of designing separates you
know obviously there's a ton of science
behind it like if you look at the
write-ups um you know on our core
nutritionals website every ingredient
gets its own write-up in every product
with you know all the references so
there's a lot of science there but as
you point it out yeah there's definitely
you know conflicting information out
there on certain ingredients so you know
I basically recommend to people what I
have found works football for myself and
what I've seen work well on other people
yeah I mean I guess like one issue with
nutrition and training research is that
like there is a lot of inter individual
variability so one person might respond
really really well to something someone
else might not not respond so well when
you flatten that out across I don't know
20 or 50 subjects or something then the
results might not be significant
statistically but there might be some
people who respond better than others I
suppose
and with BCAAs I guess like I think that
having adequate protein is a is a big
x-factor there so like I think a lot of
the studies that show it to be effective
have have subjects that are on on lower
protein intakes but of course it's
impossible to argue with like yes so let
me put it this way I mean in you know I
guess a lot of it comes down to budget
as well as like what is your budget for
supplements right like you know if you
have the budget for it and it's got to
make maybe it's going to make a
percentage or two difference for me it's
worth it right like some people might
find that this is what I always explain
to people like a lot of like 25 year
olds that you know will come into our
retail stores me and supplements are
expensive yet like they were just at the
club last night they dropped 200
box on $16 martinis and you know two
stupid stuff right it's like duh I mean
dude you can have eight weeks of games
right there man you know it's just like
it's like you got to figure out where
you know what your budget is and what is
important to you yeah um and you know
then figure out you know what you wanted
you know take from there so um you know
I don't know if something's going to
give me a even a two percent advantage
over somebody else or by not taking it
I'm gonna take it no yeah um yeah okay
so uh how about we we quickly move on to
a couple business stuff and then we'll
wrap it up okay
so Doug as I understand it you own four
separate businesses is that right or
something like that ah really seven so
we have so it mean it's hard to say I
mean really it comes down to three right
so there's there's poor nutritional
there's the nutrition corners and then
there's team Miller so the nutrition
corners they're all set up just
technically set up as separate
businesses so we just opened our fourth
location and we have our fifth location
opening in Williamsburg Virginia in what
about two and a half months coming up so
we'll have five nutrition corners um as
of April something in addition to poor
nutritional 10t miller right um so like
how how do you manage all that with the
train you do and then you also have a
family like do you find their sleep
suffers as a result of that or do you
mean recently we've experienced a lot of
growth within the past two years I would
say yes uh my sleep in the past year has
been less especially we travel then
would be optimal for me um but yeah I
mean it's hard you know like you know
balance is a really tough thing um you
know people say you know you gotta have
a good balance but if you want to be
really successful at something it's hard
to have a real balance right like you
look at anybody who is super successful
at anything and there really isn't too
much balance
there you know and I try to I try to I
try to do the best I can you know and it
is hard it's not easy you know the nice
thing is I have the flexibility um in my
whole office right now right and so um I
have the flexibility to hang out with my
kid every day and you know it's in
between meetings I got I would work
pretty much the entire day from set up
son now but I have breaks in there I can
go to the gym and train you know I can
go to eat dinner with Jackson and staff
I can hang out I was or Jackson I can
put them down to sleep you know this is
during the week you know on the weekends
I really try to carve off full time old
days um but yeah it's hard I mean it
really is it's just like um there's just
so much to do all the time and you know
I tried to put a really good team
together around me so that I'm becoming
much better at delegating you know
there's things that I just can't do
anymore
you know I'm a complete tie today I like
to micromanage I've given that a lot I
don't want to manage it all the items I
guess you could say I have power which
is what I mean it which is I mean like
you take care of this right um you know
and that's I have to do that at this
point you know that the draft it yeah um
so my last question for you Doug is like
someone who say has business aspirations
or academic aspirations or whatever some
other area of their life and they also
still want to be the best body builder
that they can be what would you say to
someone like that and how would you
advise them on keeping body building a
priority yeah I mean that's tough I mean
it's you know I just spoke about balance
but you got to realize that you know at
the end of the day bodybuilding is not
going to pay your bills it's just a
hobby right it really is so you got to
keep that in mind you don't want to
sacrifice a job you don't want to
sacrifice a relationship you know you
don't want to sacrifice the things that
at the end of the day are going to be
really important for bottling but that
said it also drives me crazy when people
say they don't have time right you can
make time people waste so much time
doing stupid stuff if you're really in
the body building
just means you're not watching any TV
you know give them give up the two hours
of TV at night that know your average
person is going to be watching and find
a way to make it happen so what I've
done really a big part of what I do is
like I really schedule in my workout
right like that's a part I consider that
part of my job right I mean for me
really it is kind of part of my job now
but I mean if it's important to the
people to people and they have a
flexibility that they can do it on they
need to make that you know schedule that
in if they don't have the flexibility
they got to look deeply and figure out
kind of what is super important to them
and what do they want to give up if
those things are giving up you know a
relationship or a job and they really
got to reconsider it um I don't know I
mean I even when I worked in the
corporate world for 12 years I did
economic litigation consulting it was a
real priority because the bodybuilding
really kind of kept the rest of my my
life together
right like that was my release I was
working 10 12 hour days in the corporate
world like I needed that release and so
that helped I feel like that helped me
be better at my relationships because I
had that release and right um the thing
that I think a lot of people get caught
up in is especially younger body
builders they feel like and this was
certainly me when I first started you
know let's say early twenties you know
every meal had to be hit spot-on if I
missed a meal what 15 minutes you know
every two-and-a-half hours if I wasn't
eating I was going to lose 5 pounds of
muscle yeah right and you know if I
didn't have my post-workout shake within
15 seconds of my last step I would die
right and you know this the rigidity
right I feel that that causes more
stress and is more detrimental to making
progress and making gains than having a
little bit more of a flexible approach
and understanding you know not sweating
this whole all the small stuff all the
time and I
work with tons of people where you know
they were kind of strangled being
strangled by bodybuilding and once they
loosened up and for me my loosening up
was when I met Steph actually um you
know when you meet that girl you know
she'll make you loosen up a little bit
right so that she definitely did that
for me and I made more gains within the
next year because I just was less rigid
I was less stressed about it there was
more important things in my life at that
point which was step right and so um you
know kind of giving up on that rigidity
you know really to benefit people you
know I think people get too caught up in
macro I missed a macro bite
oh my macros are off to 2 grams I'm 2
grams overall fat today I'm you know I'm
gonna get fat tomorrow so you know just
kind of loosen up a little bit for the
most part you know you know 90 10 80 20
something like that you don't keep it
where it needs to be but don't stress if
something comes up and it takes you out
of your bodybuilding role right that
stress is going to be way worse off than
the actual action of getting out of your
routine yeah I mean I think that's
really important and I see it more with
younger people for the most part it was
for me you know I know in my early 20s I
was definitely that way yeah you know I
was I was exactly the same way early in
my career it was all it was all or
nothing
yeah there was nothing in between but
yeah no that's that's great advice Doug
and I just want to say thank you for
coming on the show I think you've
dropped a lot of knowledge bombs and I
not find it personally motivating I
really do enjoy your style of training
as well and in your approach nutrition
and everything so I appreciate you
sharing that all with us and hopefully
we can meet again sometime yeah for sure
all right man thank you once again and
all right we'll see all you guys in the
next episode