[Applause]
[Music]
my name is Derrick wilcoxon 32 years old
grew up in Taylorsville North Carolina I
have a PhD sport performance physiology
and coach 4rp
[Music]
Taylorsville North Carolina very small
town about a thousand people in it my
high school that out it literally
doubled the size of the population in
town a lot of conservative thinking and
it's a great place to grow up but
usually people try to to get out of
there as soon as they graduate I got
into sport mostly from my dad's
influence he was a big sports fan he
coached football and basketball and all
those things before I ever came around
he really showed a lot of respect for
athletes as I was growing up so I wanted
to gravitate towards kind of earning
that kind of respect for him and other
people as well I started lifting the
summer before I started high school
primarily for football over time I
started to realize my talent wasn't
necessarily with football and I really
fell in love with the lifting as far as
competitive aspect eventually found
powerlifting and through my research I
found the all-time world records list
and I knew eventually that I really
wanted to be on that list one way or
another
I actually carried that list on my
notebook and basically daydream looking
at it wondering where my name would be
on that list
eventually turned professional after
four years of powerlifting primarily
training and I competed in the pro ranks
for about a decade
my biggest moments in powerlifting were
first I was able to make it onto that
list that I carried around since I was
in high school and broke the all-time
world record squat from 181 pounds
lifting on 135 pounds that was a really
big day for me it was kind of a
validation for though the kid inside me
that always wanted to have that claim
that I was the best in the world at
something and then three years after
that at 194 pounds I was the widest
person to ever squats 1,000 pounds
however thing has always been my primary
sport but things like the Highland Games
and weightlifting or Olympic lifting
like most people call it in strongman
I've used in my house students from
powerlifting just to increase variety
you know have more fun in the training
and kind of break up the monotony of
just squat bench and deadlift
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
I just retired from powerlifting this
past September it was a very hard
decision for me because ever since I was
young in high school I had that single
focus of trying to be the best in the
world at that sport and I'd put so much
pressure on myself to be at that level I
really had to take a step back I tried
to convince myself that I could be kind
of a real person who was a powerlifting
so I wouldn't play golf and I did other
sports and things like that and I tried
to clear my mind and basically teach
myself how not to be a hardcore power
lifter anymore because it wasn't
mentally healthy
[Music]
I used music to give myself that mental
release music gave me an emotional and
just a satisfaction that I couldn't get
with anything else and it got my mind
off of lifting it was kind of cathartic
in a way that I could just grab an
instrument clear my head and create
something
[Music]
I start working for Renaissance in 2014
really the reason that I coach at its
absolute core is I want to improve
people's quality of life the the changes
that I see even just through emails and
social media posts and talking with them
is they gain confidence and when you
gain confidence the rest of your world
gets better because things that seemed
insurmountable before they're there are
things that you can tackle you go attack
them now and you can overcome
insecurities or them the social issues
that pop up and things like that one of
the most rewarding things working
through RP and doing the coaching is
being able to give back to the people in
my personal life my dad really
sacrificed a whole lot of things to me
when I was growing up one of the
passions that we shared and I was really
young was cars and drag racing and his
1978 Trans Am it was a four-speed and
when I was riding in the passenger seat
he'd tell me when to shift the car for
him so he'd pushed in the clutch and I
would take the shifter and put it down
in a second up in the third and I have
to use both hands because I was still
really young then and after the lumber
business went down he had to sell it
and
I've only seen like that get real
emotional two times in my life one was
when his father died and two was when he
had sell those cars
I found a 1978 Trans Am and I was able
to finally give that to him and the
payoff for you know nine months of work
getting that car ready was absolutely
worth it one of the best moments in my
life
what
you're kidding me
[Music]
Wow
[Music]
I'm Derek Wilcox I'm the Renaissance
[Music]