you are not making gains because you're
impatient and not consistent enough Dr
pack here back with another Reality
Check Yes it's one of those videos yes
it's not what the algorithm wants I am
not checking the lowest rated hotel in
my city which is my house or the highest
hotel in my city which is also my house
we are playing mind games with Airbnb
and a little people that we host you may
come and it's a five star resort you may
come and it's a crack house you never
know it may be either or depending on
how I feel or you know how tidy I am on
any given dat however I'm here with a
relatively quick into the point video on
consistency and patience now a lot of
people feel like they're not making
gains they feel like they're not getting
jacked I see people complaining that oh
if if uh 10 sets per week week was was
enough then why aren't people making
Gates if um all you needed to do was uh
just lift three times per week then why
aren't people making gains and my answer
to those people is how many people do
you know that have consistently lifted
and not just lifted lifted and also
gained body weight while eating plenty
of protein in the span of 5 to 10 years
and haven't gotten substantially more
jacked than before obviously keep in
mind that your own genetics are going to
determine how jacked you can get the
idea that you're missing out on that one
training variable or because you didn't
do those extra sets or because you did a
bit more than some other person
recommends or because your exercise
selection was above bable is the reason
why you're not seeing any gains is
simply BS the majority of people fall in
this [ __ ] trap of wanting things
quickly and expecting huge increases in
muscle size in very short periods of
time because people often hear 12we
study where participants you know
significantly increase their muscle size
keep in mind that that increase in
muscle size is probably at least in most
cases uh especially when resistance
strained individuals are involved an
increase that you won't really be able
to see the idea is that if you keep
doing that over time that significant
increase will result probably uh to
something that is visually noticeable
but the thinking that you are uh going
toing get absolutely jacked in two
months or 3 months um is just not true I
am obviously not saying do whatever just
do it for 10 years or 5 years and you're
going to make gains there are some basic
boxes that you need to take you need to
do in now training volume that's not
even too much volume as long as you're
doing six to 10 sets for muscle group
for week which is really not that much
you're covered okay you may not be
maximizing gains but you're definitely
making amazing gains in the majority of
your Gams for some people it maybe all
of your games as long as you're training
close to failure again you don't need to
take everything to failure new data
suggests um that even leaving two reps
in reserve is probably fine although we
already knew that more or less we knew
that as long as you're close to failure
you're good not rocket signs right you
can also utilize any reference you like
as long as you're training close to
failure it is important to understand
that you must pay your dues outside the
gym assuming you're sleeping 6 to 8
hours per night and your stress is not
through the roof but even if it is there
there's probably a reason that it is I'm
not going to tell you hey don't stress
that much if you're nauy and you don't
have a leite genetics you have to commit
to the dam B you don't need to balloon
up and gain a bunch of weight but you'll
have to commit to the ball you'll have
to be in a 5 to 15 uh% Surplus gain some
body fat along with muscle and be in
that state for months or in some cases
even years as long as you feel
comfortable and your health is on point
committing to gaining quality weight
which you will be doing alongside
progressive resistance
training it's it's nonnegotiable
sure gaining muscle on maintenance
calories will be possible for some
people in some cases and it may even be
possible for advanced um trainees
however for the majority of you if you
want to get substantially jacked you
cannot shy away from a long period
periods of again weight gain with all
the disclaimers nice and slow eating
plenty of Whole Foods not letting your
waist size go absolutely nuts and ruin
your health but like you will have to go
through long periods of time while
progressively training in order to make
substantial muscle
gain I know that I may be preaching to
the choir for many of you here but I I
have this and this may be my personal
bias but I see that a lot I see a lot of
people feeling like they're not making
gains when in reality their expectations
are completely unrealistic and they are
also now doing some of the basic things
that you need in order to ensure that
you're actually maximizing muscle gate
take as an example this picture of mine
here where I showcased some of my at
least perceived arm gains this is 2
years of gaining weight training arms
with substantially more training volume
multiple PRS on all sorts of EX
exercises from bicep curls to preacher
curls from machine curls overhead tricep
extensions overhead press chest press
row anything that involves the biceps
and the triceps and yet I understand how
some people look at the picture both
pictures are with a pun some people will
look at this picture and be like it
looks pretty much the same and I get
that and I respect that view because I I
can recognize that although to me I see
this and I'm like okay I've made some
Gams using obviously my view of myself
which is much more calibrated than the
eye of somebody who's taught an advanced
training but I also understand that
we're not talking about tons of gains
here and this is after 2 years of never
missing a day of protein gaining a bunch
of strength doing a bunch of reps doing
a bunch of volume taking every single
box and still it gains for some some
people will say yeah looks a bit bigger
some other will say I don't really see
much difference there and that's not to
tell you oh you're doomed but to just
use an example of somebody who in my
opinion at least I don't have Elite
genetics I think I have solid genetics
for muscle growth and strength
definitely slightly above average and
even in that case and even with many
parameters and plenty of weight gain I I
gained over um 20 pounds over a couple
of years while obviously losing some
afterwards um and still it's not like my
arms ballooned up sure I was a very
experienced trainee by the time I went
through this face but still for you even
as an intermediate lifter it will take
time just stay the course don't nobo
yourself that you're not making Gates
you're making Gates it just takes fing
time it will just take a bunch more time
and you're not your arm is not going to
go up 7 in in 3 months because you're
doing this optimal program do whatever
will allow you to stay in the gym gym
for long and manage your expectations
because it is very easy to feel burned
out if you are going above and beyond
every week and you're hitting your meals
and you're doing your training and
you're doing the extra volume and you're
doing this and you're doing that and
you're actually sacrificing things for
your daily life and you're like okay
three more months and I'll look in the
mirror and I'll be absolutely completely
different unless you're a beginner or an
elite genetic freak or your own steroids
that's probably not going to happen
adjust your expectations know it will
take time be in it for the love of
lifting make sure that you do the damn
Surplus if you're trying to maximize
muscle growth and enjoy your gains in a
few
years that's it if you want somebody to
take your training though and do it for
you and make sure that you're staying
the course as far as training goes my
adapt our new app yes I am starting to
plug this in more and more just generics
of peace thank you to the Bold guy AJ my
dad make sure check out the upand
cominging training app the most
versatile training app to ever exist and
that's no hyper ability designed by Dr
mil wolf and myself my adapt.com to
express interest when it's out you'll
know very competitive price that next
best thing after one to1 premium
coaching just express your interest and
you'll be the first to know and make
even more games than other people that's
the only way you can make quick games is
using our app a for the app and you can
make those extreme games in 12 months no
just kidding even with the app you'll
need to use the app 4 years which will
make us even more
money absolute 4 d CHS here I am on fire
today thank you so much for watching
don't forget to like subscribe rate hit
the notification icon if you were around
when YouTube had Stars I was around and
I was uploading on YouTube MOS you don't
even know that half of it we OG's Round
Here Free the guys free toor email to
4@gmail.com
for a chance to win ,000 just make sure
you send as many emails as you can to
that address and free all the guys by
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]