today I'm reacting to Sea Nan's takes on
lifting from an exercise scientist
perspective welcome back Dr M
Warfare still a nonfunctional sign but
we'll get it fixed soon today we're
reacting to Charan nanage I think that's
how you pronounce it I'm doing my best
apologies if I wish your name but I have
seen some of his stuff loading around I
know he's a true Fitness OG I remember
seeing him at the same time as I was
following Mike Chan you hear me so he's
been around for a while but I never
actually interacted with his content
very much and so today I want to Blind
react to some of his shorts let's get
into
it all right that was short one on this
Smith machine for hypertrophy my honest
reaction is pretty good honestly like
the Smith machine is a good tool for
hypertrophy and the two most recent meta
analyses we have comparing free weight
movements what most people think is King
for muscle building and machine-based
movements finding they're both equally
effective for muscle building and so
whether you use more machines including
the Smith machine or more free weights
all us being equal it's not going to
make or break your results and this
Smith machine can be cool for certain
things right like if you want to
lengthen partials on on the bench or
lengthen partials on the squat and you
want to be able to safely fail without a
spotter or what have you any number of
things it can be really cool for those
applications and so I think the Smith
machine is awesome for muscle building
but there are certain movements that
he's recommending here that I don't
necessarily [ __ ] with on the Smith
machine specifically in my experience
things like Romanian deadlifts and
upright rows can be a little bit awkward
on the Smith machine because it can be a
relatively heavy load and either you use
scraps to make your group more
comfortable but then unracking the
weight becomes challenging and then
sometimes it racks midet and it's
awkward I don't particularly like it for
certain movements if you find that the
Smith machine tends to rerack or unrack
itself awkwardly and so for certain
movements I don't really like it but on
principle I agree Smith machine gets a
thumbs up how much protein should you
eat per day to maximize muscle growth
well the latest research analyzing 49
studies found that you really only need
0.7 g of protein per pound of body
weight so if you weigh 175 lb or 80
kilos 130 g of protein per day will max
out your gains and going beyond that has
quote no further benefit on gains if you
want to build muscle at your full
potential 1 and 1/2 to 2 g of protein
per pound of body weight is actually
ideal at least that's what I remember
reading as a teenager in Flex magazine
back when most people thought that more
protein equaled more gains in reality
the daily cap or growth will be maxed
out is quite a bit smaller which is a
good thing because getting into that
range should be pretty easy for you and
this is a key concept to understand
about bodybuilding in general which is
that Beyond a certain point there's
nothing you can do to force additional
gains every variable in your program has
a ceing in place over any given time
frame whether it's total calories
protein training volume frequency
supplementation or whatever else and
we're trying to push things further can
actually be counterproductive so the
best thing you can do is hit your daily
SL weekly targets for each one stay
patient and let those small efforts
slowly add up over time that was yet
another good take I respect that take as
well I think that once you've ticked off
the big rocks namely like volume calorie
intake sleep stress there's a lot of
things where overdoing it won't
necessarily benefit you further with
volume specifically we don't quite know
where that's feeling is yet out of eight
studies comparing over 20 sets and under
20 sets per week per muscle four have
found more hypertrophy from over 20 sets
but seemingly even those highest volume
investigations of like 37 average weekly
sets or 42 sets per muscle per week
those have also found more hypertrophy
sometimes so we don't quite know where
that ceiling is yet but for most
variables like protein especially there
is definitely a top end of how much is
protein going to benefit you past which
point does additional protein no longer
increase muscle growth and that is
correct around 1.6 g of protein per
kilogram per day is correct quick caveat
that he couldn't possibly provide in the
60c short but I'll provide anyways if
you're older say above 65 years old if
you're plant-based if you're currently
cutting you may benefit from a bit more
protein up to around 2 g of protein per
kilogram of body weight per day
conversely if you're higher in body fat
say above 25% as a man or 35% as a woman
you may need a bit less protein than the
1.6 scram rule would predict for you
that's because the rule is based on body
weight not on fat free Mass so if you're
higher in body fat it will overestimate
how much protein you need if you're a
naturally thin guy that wants to put on
size and you're even asking this
question you're seriously in the wrong
frame of mind and it legitimately is
going to kill your gains is a calorie
Surplus necessary to build
muscle dude if you weigh 150 lb right
now and you want to get to 180 lb how is
that going to happen without a calorie
Surplus how are you going to add 30 lb
of Mass to your body
or even 10 or even 5 lbs without
consuming more energy than you expect if
you're truly serious about building
muscle and you're even asking this
question whether it's because you're
afraid to lose your abs or maybe you
don't have a big appetite or whatever
then you probably need to pick up one of
these or you're just going to end up
spinning your wheels in the long run and
make sure to check the pin comment for a
few more important points on this
subscribe for more no BS fitness tips
yet another W I think this is pretty
good advice ultimately it's important to
consider context and you can absolutely
make gains in muscle size at mainten or
even a deficit but if you're currently
like as a man 8 to 12% body fat and
you've been Lifting for like a year and
you really want to gain muscle you're
going to need to book like your body at
some point probably won't be able to
recom meaningfully anymore and rout 8
12% is the lowest out would ever go if
you wanted to recm at that point if you
wanted to gain muscle like actually put
on preow muscle you would need to gain
weight so that is a w but that's not to
say you can't recomp if you're a little
bit heavier or a bit higher in body fat
you can absolutely recom you can gain
muscle you can put 5 10 lbs of muscle
[Music]
easily so yeah if you want to build
bigger shoulders then doing lateral
raises like this definitely will work
you might have seen this variation show
up in your feet at some point but there
is one important tweak I'd recommend if
you really want to maximize the tension
on the side dealt with this movement and
not be limited by the need to stabilize
the bar and prevent it from tilting back
and forth and that's to um just use a
dumbbell
I agree with everyone here I agree that
you could do lader raises with a barbell
and you would still grow your side dots
ultimately it's not all that different
but it is just slightly worse for no
good reason that is unless your gym is
so busy that there's no dumbbells left
but you somehow have access to a barbell
and then this makes sense but yeah
almost always a dumbbell is going to be
just slightly better so just use
dumbells here's the best body Pat
percentage every man should have that
body Pat percentage is 12% 12% is a
perfect body P percentage because you're
lean enough to look good but not too
lean to where you look like a skeleton
or it's just unsustainable your libido
and appetite are stable and you just
feel amazing without effort you could be
at 12% year round in fact if I could
stay one body fat percentage the rest of
my life it would be 12% so there's no
one best body fat percentage for every
person because it depends on your goals
and preferences and what feels best for
you you know there's technically nothing
wrong with being in the mid to slightly
higher teens as long as you're still
staying within the healthy range but for
guys who are training with Aesthetics as
a primary goal who want to look both mus
muscular and impressively lean and who
aren't genetic outliers who can sit it
sub 10% body fat without side effects
then yeah I would say around 12% give or
take is going to be the Sweet Spot in
most cases it's low enough to look great
with your shirt off but also high enough
to still look good in clothes your
appetite energy and libido will all be
kept in check and it's a level you can
realistically maintain year round while
still having a good amount of dietary
freedom and not having to obsess over
every calorie or revolve your whole life
around your fitness plan yeah another
decent take I think both people were
correct I definitely think there's more
indiv ual variation around the optimal
body fat percentage then both of them
give credit for it like some people just
will not be able to maintain 12% body
fat without having an insane amount of
dietary restriction social restriction
and just hunger and metabolic
adaptations quote unquote but I think
for a lot of men depending on their
circumstances around 12 to 15% body fat
can be sustainable equally I also
appreciate he didn't fear Monger around
15 to 20% body fat as a male as being
unhealthy
Because the actual evidence we have
around body fat percentage and how it
relates to your health suggests that 15
to 20% body fat as a man is perfectly
healthy in fact it's some of the
healthiest body fat percentages you
could be at if you want to look lean
it's not the best body fat percentage
but that is not the question and I also
appreciate that he mentioned that at 12%
you'll look very good with your shirt
off pretty lean vascularity ABS Etc but
you'll also look okay in clothing CU if
you've ever competed in bodybuilding you
will have noticed that in clothing you
look malnourished and it's not
necessarily a good look how do I get
that capped shoulder look as a natural
um I mean I don't want to be a downer
here but the reality is that you pretty
much can't okay what you have to keep in
mind is that the delts are a muscle with
really high levels of Androgen receptors
and that's why some guys are able to
achieve that round look to their
shoulders because they're taking a bunch
of gear I mean this is actually the
biggest Telltale sign for steroid use
there is just take one look at the delt
and it's pretty much a dead giveaway so
if you're going to stay Natty I would
honestly just forget about it okay no
amount of compound presses and pulls and
isolation work over a prong period is
going to make much of a difference
either hop on cycle or just accept the
fact that your shoulders will probably
always be mediocre at
best and if you actually believed any of
that make sure to give the pin comment
here a quick read through Sean I'm not
going to read your PIN comments anymore
I've had enough I I don't like to read
but yeah the video spot on Capp
Shoulders mean something people view
capped like what does capped even mean
at what point do they become capped you
know just train your delts and do your
best to grow muscle and you'll find out
whether or not you can achieve it
naturally I couldn't tell you no one
else could tell you but I think most
people's definition of capped shoulders
is achievable naturally a big thing with
delto looking bigs though is just
getting lean enough like if I get lean
enough my rear DS will pop out from the
side triceps and look nice if I'm fat
they don't look great so basically just
lift gain muscle eat enough protein
sleep get lean enough and that is your
best chance at Ever Getting CA outs
short of taking steroids if your main
motivation for lifting is Aesthetics if
it's for vanity purposes because you
just want your physique to look a
certain
way yeah that's fine you can train for
whatever reason you want and if someone
tries to tell you otherwise just hit a
juicy front lat spread while staring
directly into their eyes until they get
uncomfortable and walk away I mean it's
definitely possible to go down an
unhealthy path with that if you start
pushing for extreme degrees of
muscularity and lean but most people out
there would be lying if they said that
having bigger biceps and visible ABS
wasn't their initial motivation to go to
the gym now maybe in the long term it is
healthier to have other reasons for
training Beyond just your appearance
alone but even if that is your primary
focus right now at the end of the day
you're still working on a consistent
basis you're going to be physically
stronger than the vast majority of the
population you're likely within a
healthy body fat range hopefully you've
got some cardio in there and you're
probably following a decently healthy
diet as well and so if wanting to look
good at the beach leads you to all those
other things anyway then it's just a win
all around as far as I'm concerned yeah
another good take what is going on I was
expecting to see worse takes and yet on
getting here good takes yeah I agree
whatever you want to train for you can
train for oh you don't care about size
you just want to get strong train for
that you just care about size you don't
care about getting strong train for size
I do think it's some point reflecting as
a LIF room and being like all right why
am I still doing this is good because
eventually it's like okay you've grown
some muscle you've gotten stronger
you've staved off the risk for
sarcopenia and low bone density and
osteoporosis and what have you are you
really getting much healthier by lifting
six times a week versus twice a week
probably not and it's worth reflecting
and noticing that oh okay I'm not
getting healthier here that's worth
keeping in mind but I can just keep
lifting because I enjoy I enjoy lifting
or maybe because you enjoy getting
bigger and that's like a pursuit in its
own right it feeds your soul not
everyone exercises for the same reasons
and that's fine
[Music]
and yet again I refuse to read the
comment I think his take is good here uh
I guess it depends on what you mean by
enough you know cuz like enough to see
some growth agreed even with just five
to 10 sets a week per muscle for most
lifters you will likely see some muscle
growth however if by enough you mean
maximizing your growth that is very
unlikely most people will see their
maximum growth at closer to 10 to 20 or
likely even more than 20 sets per week
per muscle and before you come for me in
the comments I have done that volume
training almost always to failure people
always say oh it's impossible to recover
from that many sets sounds like a you
problem the dreamer bulk with the idea
that you're going to just get huge and
stay Lean Like Short of like an
unbelievable drug cocktail which
probably kill you anyway and or unreal
genetics it's really just nothing that
pans out once you are fat you got to
diet all that fat off and look if you
gain like 40 lbs in a few months and
seven and a half of that let's really
good of was muscle you have to di it off
33 and 12 lbs of fat sorry 32 and A2
good God math but it's just like holy
[ __ ] like that's 30 lb of fat you have
to di it off I'm sorry but this is just
[ __ ] I mean I respect Dr Mike but so
many people keep repeating this idea
that aggressive bulks are a waste of
time when it's just not true surpluses
of a thousand or more calories can be a
really good way to fully maximize muscle
growth and strength gains and as long as
your training is on point you can still
maintain a lean and aesthetic look in
the process you just have to make sure
that you
um uh
holy F I was
fat okay maybe
not that is the peak male form in case
you didn't know in clothing absolute
tank fridge you know that's what I'm
ating for thank you for being a friend
and thank you for noticing that I in
fact lost like 30 lb of fat I appreciate
it on a serious note it seems like Shawn
does a lot of Comedy which is cool I
guess but his points are on point for
lack of a better vocabulary yeah a
calorie surplus of much more than about
300 is probably not doing you any good
if your aim is to make somewhat lean
gains at around like a 300 Cal Surplus I
couldn't tell you for sure that bulking
faster than that is going to increase
your hypertrophy very much if at all and
it's definitely increasing your fat
gains so take that as you will I
generally recommend gaining about half a
percent to a percent of body weight per
month which for most people is around 1
to 300 calories as a surplus
so this exercise has been blowing up all
over Tik Tok lately this video here has
over 5 million views and a bunch of
people tagged me in it assuming I'd say
it's a waste of time
however okay yeah it's pretty much a
waste of time I mean it's better than a
plate press because at least you can
load it properly and it's better than a
hexpress because it's more stable but
these super narrow grip variations are
just going to put more emphasis on the
triceps and provide a weaker stimulus to
the chest compared to standard pressing
motions the only reason you can feel
your chest so strongly here is because
you're actively squeezing inward the
whole time but you can recreate that
same sensation without using any weight
at all it's not because the PCS are
being loaded more effectively so unless
you're training specifically for
performance in order to compete in the
Smith machine vbar press Olympics I'd
probably recommend skipping this one
short muscle lengths can get the knife
that's all I got to say that was me
reacting to Sea Nan's takes apologies
for butchering it again honestly man
very good takes I was expecting worse
and I kind of loved it [ __ ] it eight or
N9 out of 10 very solid I really enjoyed
these takes obviously they weren't about
the deepest most meticulous scientific
findings ever a lot of them were just
average lifter wants to know this
information can you provide this
information and he provided that
information which I respect cuz he's
providing good information to a ton of
lifters out there resident pencil next
reaction is over if you enjoyed the
video leave a comment letting me know
who else you want to see me react to
leave a like subscribe as well I know
like 50% of you aren't right now I'm on
your ass is what I'm saying if you want
me to coach you check out the link above
and I could become your coach and if
you're like no I don't want you to coach
me I want robot you to coach me you but
better check out my app.com it's a
training app we've been working on for
about 2 and 1 half 3 years now and it's
been long overdue but we've put a ton of
work into it a ton of science to
essentially have a coach in your pocket
delivering you individualized training
programming aimed at maximizing your
hypertrophy based on your lifestyle your
preferences What routine you'd like to
follow when you want to start and I'm
confident saying there's nothing else
like it out there currently and if you
go to myad app.com you'll be able to
sign up to be notified when it does get
released and when it does you'll be able
to lock in at a lower price than at any
other time point so go and sign up in
the meantime have a fantastic day wolf
coaching HQ still no functional sign see
you next time peace