just drop some water in there nice and
prolific candy building this workout so
what I thought would be cool is I'm
gonna take her strong through a leg
workout today so we're gonna be kind of
limited in terms of what we can do in
the hotel gym but there is some
half-decent equipment some dumbbells and
stuff so I'm gonna take a guy who has
never trained legs through this first
it's my fault
that's just uploaded a video you guys
aren't subscribed or her I know there's
like there's like 300,000 of you there
and subscriber should subscribe to me
I'll teach you some I'll teach you
everything that channel it's like mine
except more informative more more
interactive more interesting we're gonna
kill this leg workout it's 2:30 now the
show starts at 5:00 so we're gonna have
to keep it pretty efficient so I'm gonna
start with this apparatus right here so
I'm guessing this is some kind of moist
leg press and I've actually never tried
this before and that is
it moves with you like all the hoist
machines but if you hear when you're
laying on it there do you like 20 reps
he doesn't so let's just like toss
possibly and I want to do like eight to
ten reps on this so I have no idea what
the weight standard is for this machine
but I'm gonna try to play it if it's too
light then I'll just get you to flick on
another one until I can get a feel for
what I should be using
yes that's definitely too light I'd say
it's run another two plates
all right let's go to shop
man that's not bad for your first time
do a disclaimer this is not my first
time really think that Jeff just likes
to troll him that's our fault though we
working too hard
[Laughter]
that's good
your form is really good like I feel
like your depth is is good you're going
like right to that point of parallel
your knees are staying out like they're
not caving in I would never say this is
your first time I don't always love
these voice machines but this one just
really interesting moving back
they'll like my rings almost was
actually pretty small that go down
my first time you see you usually don't
see this so I like it yeah I do the only
thing is I don't know if um yeah there
should be enough section for two people
in the gym and Sean just so happened to
be a subscriber so at the time we're
filming it just so happens to be
cleaning in here right now so if you
hear the vacuum hopefully it won't be
come on get it it's
but sick
a
come on bb10 let's go come on hit 11 hi
nice man nice we're Sean alright so we
just finished up with a place leg press
next we're gonna do the Romanian
dumbbell deadlift I'm gonna basically
just like take rashon through some of
the coaching cues that I use but
basically a straight leg dead lifts
so pull the dumbbells up front sort of
set your hips back this is how you have
a slight
give a spike in attorneys
the dumbbells just below your knees and
extend up
you want to keep like flat-pack the only
thing that you're doing
you could have like a flexibility thing
I think your hamstrings might not be
quite flexible enough for you to not
that you're neat so basically you just
want to work out to that full range of
motion so for you you might want to
start just by going on to talk to your
kneecap right and that might be a good
enough little stretch Li and then once
you get one thing like that
another really common
state is that people will bring the
dumbbells out in front of them because
they feel like their knees are gonna get
in the way right so if you just drop the
dumbbell straight down it's gonna hit
your knee so you have to go out in front
of it but that means you're not setting
your hips back there this is why you
want to initiate with the hips going
back and you actually want those
dumbbells go up and down and completely
straight line so they're not coming
forward because if they come forward
look what happens to your teeth you go
up on your toes right there already you
lose your balance so you want to state
plaintiff into your heels your weight is
always on your heels and the dumbbells
are just going straight up and down to
the straight line that's it's all it's
all happening
that's really good
yes the difference because this is
actually on your chin enough not up here
there's nothing that's nevertheless very
different that the breach emotion was
really short for you yeah I'm doing 20
or 20
one thing that I one thing I'll say like
recommend this one's a little bit weird
but is to play with different foot
positions yeah so like well most people
find is they're stronger if they point
their toes back towards them if they
dorsiflex but you might be able to feel
your hamstrings working more you can
point them down so one thing that I'll
do sometimes is be like you know it's
recommend point your toe down I mean
take a sense of failure or close
together then point them back now you're
something stronger enduring and you can
extend the set that way right it Altima
Lee comes down to like I think where you
feel the best of you when I was watching
you do them then it seemed like you just
had your foot move that you weren't
actively flexing it up or down is that
right yeah yeah see I typically will
point it back towards me and I find a
lot stronger that way you should try it
like that and exotic see see just see
how it feels
right
I say we use this clean right here
walked on it yeah
step out a little further hey John okay
good
a couple things they usually have people
focus on and this is even you could do
this a little bit more step a little bit
further forward so you're you're still
quite quite narrow and you're now that
this is necessarily a bad thing you're
gonna get a lot more cloth that of doing
it this way whereas if you take that
wider step forward you're gonna step
four you're gonna get a lot more glute
and hamstring involvement which is kind
of the point of this one so that's the
way I like to do you want to use this
back leg almost just as a stabilizer so
you want to be driving your heel the
front leg through the floor and forward
so this is what's pushing you forward
right so then that's how it becomes a
glue movement if you're if you're
pushing off with this back leg you're
getting a water momentum and it's almost
like kind of achieved so you want to you
want to almost treat it as if this leg
isn't even there you'll get a lot more
out of and also don't go don't go too
much in front of yourself so like go
slightly more to the side will create a
wider base to support the other thing is
just time like the more you do them the
more you'll get used to stabilizing
John Rochon great and one thing like I
just want to say is that much rashon is
an experienced trainee like how long
have you been training year and a half
to two years so he would probably fall
into that like I would put you more so
in like that early intermediate stage
but as a personal trainer you don't want
to come in and do basically what I've
just did to you or a beginner like that
was me totally joking like rashon has
been been through training for a year
and a half two years so to push someone
like that is different than which is
someone who's totally new in which case
you want to introduce them to the form
the movement slowly so they're not like
rec for a week like you're gonna be yeah
it doesn't matter if you are this guy
says he's had the same sized calves says
he was six years old one day or I'll say
two little things that I find to be
helpful with the calf raising one you've
probably heard it before but you want to
let that elastic energy potential energy
dissipate by taking a slight pause at
the bottom of each rep the kiwis tendon
is extremely elastic so you can get a
lot of momentum with a little bit of
Bounce and take away from your calves
are actually doing the work and the
other thing I find to be helpful is to
take off your sneakers I find I can get
away better range of motion just feels
so much more solid than when I have the
shoes on I feel like my feet will like
sleep around
the shoe too much this was too little
quick tips if you want more on calves
just check out my calf calf training
science explained video which I did
forever ago and I feel like we need to
redo it like do it properly by the way I
commend review a bunch of my science
explained videos some of the earlier
ones so I'm redoing my back one are you
doing a leg one I'm gonna do a clod one
probably redo hamstrings and I want to
redo calves so that's at least four more
body part videos where the research
would be a little more comprehensive and
it just edited in the more of a
professional ways alright guys that's
going to wrap up the workout as usual
I'll have the whole workout linked in
the description if you'd like to try it
out for yourself and as of now I think
we're just gonna head over to the
competition yeah yeah we'll try to get
there a little bit earlier it might be a
bit of an expo but yeah check with you
guys in a minute so we're headed to the
night show at 4:30 starts at 5 so really
excited for a bikini I've done a lot of
coaching in bikini but only on the
national level in Canada
I don't think of coach anyone to
Nationals in the US so I'm really
excited to see kind of how compared to
caliber competition is gonna be cool
excited yeah they're really high yeah
hell they're so high you have to have a
lot of muscle in
at the national level okay
can smell so much tan like as soon as
you walk in all you all you can sell is
the Proust and I like this smell it
reminds me of competing but it's very
very just we're just picking up our
tickets now then we're gonna go inside
and I think the plan is for Shawn to get
a bunch of clips but the show and maybe
do a little edit so we're gonna get into
that
right
[Music]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
at this building outro I know
hey what's going on guys and we just
finished up with the show I was really
impressed with the level of competition
overall I was also surprised at the
sheer number of competitors so USA
Nationals is way way bigger than
Canadian Nationals in terms of number of
competitors and I guess one in my
opinion slightly negative side effect of
that is that the show went on for like 5
hours so it was an insanely long finals
which honestly does get a bit repetitive
so that would be my one critique maybe
and I actually heard from one of the
competitors that they're increasing the
qualification standards you have the
place to talk to now in order to qualify
but anyway 3 before so if you don't eat
it and you were in the top 3 of a
national qualifier then you were invited
to compete
event so that's a lot for every national
yeah I personally found myself most
drawn to the classic physique division
and the shorter class in that division I
found like the shorter guys just had the
rounder muscle bellies slightly more
aesthetic well probably slightly biased
towards that glass being shorter guy
myself
but I just thought that they look better
honestly that class also just
particularly
younger guys yeah and they just looked
really good they look more aesthetic in
my opinion but yeah the classic physique
division is definitely appealing to me
that's going to wrap it up plastic
so yeah it's gonna wrap it up thank you
guys so much for watching if you like
the video please give me a thumbs up
subscribe to the channel if you're new
subscribe to subscribe to me if you
haven't already subscribe to him if
you're not alright I've been already
alright thanks for watching guys see you
next one please