here's what I think is the most
effective shoulder workout I've ever
designed using the most upto-date
scientific
principles welcome back Dr my Warfare
today PhD in sports science breaking
down some shoulder science before we go
into this shoulder workout I want you to
understand what likely makes it so
effective first any good shoulder
workout or workout for any muscle group
is going to need to fit within your
program the best workout isn't worth a
thing if it doesn't fit within your
program for instance I could give you a
deltoid destruction day that has you do
30 sets for your shoulders in a single
[Music]
session get you a nasty pump in your
shoulders makes you feel amazing but if
you had to do that every day of the week
or maybe even a couple times a day that
would be too much to handle so your
session needs to fit within your program
and makes sense this session is designed
to be something that you can repeat 3 to
four times a week to maximize shoulder
growth obviously do not use the exact
same exercises rep ranges and set
schemes but the amount of sets being
performed is something you might be able
to do two to four times a week since the
front outs get hit pretty well during
most pressing exercises you may only
need to Target them directly through
overhead pressing or front Rises twice a
week likewise since the rear DTS get hit
reasonably well during most rowing and
pull down exercises you also likely only
need to train them directly via
isolation movements a couple of times a
week since the side outs don't get hit
quite as well during most exercises you
may need to train them three or four
times a week to maximize hypertrophy the
second Hallmark of an effective session
is to limit redundancy we want to make
sure we target all of the musculature
involved the front delt the side delt
and the rear delt and they all have
slightly different functions and
importantly you get diminishing returns
on how much training you do for a single
muscle group in a given session that
means that your first set delivers the
largest Returns on muscle growth and
each subsequent set diminishes in terms
of how much additional muscle growth it
gives you as an example of this an older
met analysis by Creer found this
relationship so we don't want to do a
ton of volume for one muscle group or in
the same exact movement pattern
repeatedly within the same session at
the expense of other muscle groups that
were also trying to Target as an example
doing the standing barbell overhead
press followed by a seated dumbbell
overhead press followed by some dumbbell
front Rises is going to give you a
sickening front delt pump but it's not
going to give as much love to your side
adts much less to your rear adts next
the best tool to work out is going to
need maximally effective rep ranges and
those are going to be between 5 and 50
reps per set we'll mostly be training
through the 5 to 15 rep range because
there's some evidence performed by our
own research group that suggests that
people are generally most accurate at
gauging how close to failure they are
when they're trading below 12 reps so
because trading relatively close to
failure is important for hypertrophy
we'll be biasing our rep ranges towards
this area however there is also some
evidence suggesting that when it comes
to your overall program in a given
training week we want to train most
muscle groups with a variety of rep
ranges to maximize muscle growth in
other words by doing a variety of rep
ranges you may get a slight Edge in
terms of how much muscle growth you see
compared to just sticking to one rep
range religiously next a really
effective shoulder walkout is going to
have maximally effective set volumes
most of the research we have focuses on
weekly set volumes and how those
contribute to hypertrophy so assuming we
perform this session two to four times a
week we'll want somewhere between 5 and
10 sets for each head of the shoulders
in this session indeed some more recent
studies on training volume comparing
training volumes of over 20 sets a week
per muscle to under 20 sets a week per
muscle generally either find a slight
benefit in favor of these super high
volumes or find no difference so if
we're looking to maximize hypertrophy we
may need to do an excess of 20 sets per
week per muscle if you want a whole
podcast episode breaking down this exact
topic check out the link above aka the
Strong by science podcast episode on
really high trading volumes we go
through all the research on this topic
next for a really effective shoulder
walkout will also want to take each set
as close to failure as it's productive
and based on the Met aggression by
Robinson and colleagues the closer you
take a set to failure the more
productive that set becomes for
hypertrophy however this also causes
more fatigue and so if we go too close
to failure too early in the session that
may have a knock on effect later in that
session on performance and overall a
negative effect on hypertrophy and so
we'll be reserving failure or being very
close to failure for later resets within
an exercise and generally for for later
in the session this will both let us go
close to failure on certain sets and
also maintain a good level of
performance across the session next up
any good workout needs to have really
solid or maximumly effective exercises
to toret each muscle group I have a
whole series on that here and I have the
video for shoulder exercises up here
somewhere but essentially here's what we
look for in a good shoulder exercise
first the exercise we pick needs to
Target one of the primary functions of
the muscle the front delts side delts
and rear delts all have slightly
different functions and so the best
exercise for each is going to be
different likewise whatever exercise we
do pick should have the target muscle as
a limiting factor and that's where
isolation exercises are generally
preferable over compound exercises third
whatever exercise we do pick should be
stretch friendly that is to say there's
three things we should pay attention to
one it should put the target muscle into
its stretched position two it should
have a fair amount of tension in that
position and three ideally the exercise
we pick should be length and partial
friendly we have a growing body of
evidence looking at the effects of
length and partials or doing partial
repetitions in the stretch position to
doing a 4 of motion and its effects on
the hypertrophy generally finding
similar or better hypertrophy when doing
lengthen partials as compared to a 4in
motion so while it's not super clearcut
yet there is the potential for greater
hypertrophy with length and partials so
that's something we want to consider as
well in our exercise selection next the
exercises we pick should be less
actually loaded versus more so when we
can avoid it sitting down for example
when doing a seated overhead press
versus a standing overhead press may be
preferable it just reduces how much
fatigue is generated for stabilizing
muscle groups and increases the
likelihood of the Tor muscle being the
limiting factor and finally the
exercises we do pick especially if
you're time constrained but it's also
just a bonus in general should be time
efficient exercises with less setup like
for example dumbbell exercises or stack
load machine exercises are generally
Superior in this regard to maral
exercises next we'll make sure to pick
maximally effective rest times and
there's a few things we need to look for
here generally rest times of over 60
seconds appear to be more productive for
hypertrophy on a pro set basis compared
to rest times of under 60 seconds
however even though the potency of each
set reduces as you take shoulder rest
times you can simply make up for this by
doing more sets in a likelihood so there
is some degree of personal preference
here but just keep in mind that the rest
time you take between sets influences
how effective each set is so you'll need
to vary your amount of sets that you do
based on this as a good rule of thumb I
would rest for about 2 minutes to maybe
3 minutes between most shoulder training
sets potentially a bit more for compound
exercises and a bit less for isolation
exercises as a good rule of thumb I like
to look at performance as a metric of
did I rest for long enough if my
performance from set to set is similar
it's a good sign I've rested for long
enough next we'll want to order
exercises broadly speaking in an order
that maximizes performance across
movements if for example you find that
training lateral raises before overhead
pressing really messes with your
overhead press performance but doing
overhead press first followed by lateral
raises doesn't do the same to raise
performance then maybe starting with
overhead press first makes sense as a
final generalistic starting the session
with compound movements is likely a good
idea compound movements hit the most
musculature so when we're looking for
overall effect on making a physique
better and bigger that is a good heris
with that being said when it comes to
shoulder training for a lot of people
especially if you're train them two to
four times a week that will be done
after your chest and back work
ultimately compound chest and back whack
Target your shoulders to an extent as
well but the other way around doesn't
apply as much so chest and back compound
whack is more compound in nature than
most shoulder training the final
component that makes a good shoulder
workout is using good technique on all
exercises let me break down what that
means according to our most recent
review paper first you want to make sure
you're emphasizing long muscle lengths
there's a growing body of evidence
suggesting that the lengthen position is
important for hypertrophy so at the very
least use a full range of motion making
sure not to avoid that loaded stretch
and if you want to emphasize the loaded
stretch even more you could perform
lengthen partials next as far as Tempo
goes your repetitions can last anywhere
between 2 and 8 seconds generally I
think your Ecentric should take at least
1 or two seconds to maximize hypertrophy
and your concentric should be performed
explosively we may want to pause in a el
position to simply spend more time in
that loaded stretch but broadly speaking
there is a range of tempos that maximize
hypertrophy with reps taking between 2
and 8 seconds the next component of
really effective technique is that it
minimizes involvement of non-target
muscle groups for example when you're
doing lateral raises try not to use your
hips as this would reduce the likelihood
of your side delts being a limiting
factor and generally just causes a bit
more fatigue for your overall body than
is required or beneficial for the Target
muscle with that being said we don't
have any direct research on this yet
although we are planning a study
actually looking at the concept of one
group cheating on their whole program
and one group being super strict and
seeing which group makes better gains
when they're given the same program with
the only difference being how much
they're cheating or being strict but on
principle cheating likely does not
increased stimulus finally when it comes
to direct studies looking at shoulder
growth from different exercises and what
have you the unfortunate news is that we
don't have any direct studies measuring
shoulder growth is relatively tricky so
no studies to my knowledge have really
looked at this however the good news is
that all these principles I just
mentioned seem to apply across the board
to a variety of muscle groups so it
would make sense that those principles
are generalizable to the shoulders as
well and without further Ado let me give
you the ultimate shoulder workout
according to the scientific principles
that I'm aware of we'll start the
workout with a front delt exercise I
recommend the seated dumbbell overhead
press or the machine overhead press
we'll be performing this for 3 to five
sets of 5 to 10 repetitions taking the
first set to about two reps in reserve
and the last set all the way to failure
between sets for this exercise rest for
about 2 to 3 minutes or however long it
takes for you to maintain a similar
level of performance from set to set
these exercises Target mostly front
delts through shoulder flexion and some
side delts through shoulder flexion and
and abduction why did I pick the seated
dumbbell overhead press and the Machine
overhead press as the best exercises for
the front delts well for one they are
highly time efficient dumbbells and
stack loaded machines are essentially
Plug and Play meaning that you can
simply take the weight and get started
with your set there is minimum setup
required and there is no loading of a
barbell required next as I mentioned
earlier one thing that makes an exercise
slightly better is removing the actual
loading component by sitting down we are
removing how much stabilizing is going
on from the spinal extensors and the
lower body in general and finally all of
these get you a decent stretch provided
you have a decent machine but you can
get a decent stretch in your front DS
and side belts and your triceps and
they're also length and partial friendly
you can simply perform length and
partials I like to go up to about 90° on
my elbow angle once we've performed this
overhead pressing variation we'll move
on to our side belt exercise we'll be
performing the cable lateral rise
machine lateral Rays or the flat Ling
dumbbell rays do three to five sets with
10 to 20 repetitions taking your first
set to about two repetitions in reserve
and your last set all the way to failure
between sets rest for about 1 to 2
minutes or however long it takes for you
to recover your performance if you're
doing the cable lat or the dumbbell
later where you have to do your arms
separately you likely don't need to rest
for very long between doing arms I
personally just go from one to the other
without resting all three of these
exercises are usually solid options if
you have a good machine it's a good
option but in general I think the cable
later and the flat Ling side rays are
even better options importantly all
three of these variations get your
through a good stretch and place more
tension in that loaded stretch position
compared to a traditional lateral raise
performing with dumbbells Additionally
the cable lateral raise and the flat
Ling side Rays provide a greater stretch
in terms of position by allowing your
arm to come across your body a little
bit with a cable variation try setting
up the cable at hand height to maximize
the load in the stretch position with
the flat Ling side Rays I like to go
from my arm being just past the bench to
my arm being just about parallel with
the ground this is a very stretch heavy
movement the resistance will be greatest
when your arm is parallel to the ground
which is usually the easiest position
during a traditional dumbbell later it's
a very partial very stretch heavy lift
and importantly all three of these
variations are very length and partial
friendly which exercise you pick should
be down to how good the machine you have
is whether you prioritize time
efficiency with the machine being the
most time efficient on account of being
bilateral or whether you like doing the
cables more etc etc but all three are
great options and finally to round out
the shoulder workout we'll be doing a
rear delt heavy exercise we've trained
the front delts we trained the side
delts All That Remains is rear delts I
think the single best exercise to do in
this case is the cable rear Del
crossover perform 3 to five sets of 20
to 30 repetitions taking the first set
to about two repetitions in reserve and
the last set all the way to failure
between sets take about 1 to 2 minutes
of rest or however long you feel it
takes you to recover your performance
set to set you can do these either
single arm or bilaterally I personally
like doing them bilaterally Al to save
time but it is up to you I don't think
the slight degree of deviation from
being horizontal makes a huge difference
in how your rear dos will grow so I
don't think you'll end up with one super
jacked rear Del and the other being tiny
why do I like this exercise well I think
it'll deliver you a better rear Del
stretch than any other exercise you've
ever felt pretty much anyone I've ever
taken through these feels their rear dos
like never before it makes a lot of
sense as far as the positions involved
you can set up the exercise to have
plenty of tension in that loaded stretch
you can progress week to we by adding
reps and overall I just think it's the
single best rear out exercise it also
doesn't suffer the limitation of bent
over rear out dumo flies where you're
involving your hip extensors and lower
back for no apparently good reason this
exercise is also very length and partial
friendly where I just go until my arms
are directly in front of me now if you
were doubling up let's say for example
you only do one or two shoulder workouts
a week or if you're specializing on your
shoulders overall or in one specific
head you could add more exercis within
this workout but if you're not
specializing and you're training your
shoulders two or three times a week I
think you can leave it here so we've
effectively hit the front outt the side
outt and the rear dot repeat this
session with some minor variations in
exercise selection and rep ranges Etc
across the week and you'll have a solid
routine before we end the video Let's
quickly go through a checklist and make
sure that we've hit every component of
an optimal session effectively first
we've limited redundancy by including a
variety of rep ranges across the
exercises and having one exercise for
each muscle involved second we've made
sure to incorporate rep ranges between 5
and 50 with a bias towards the rep
ranges of of 5 to 15 or so if you repeat
this session two to four times a week
you will be in a really effective volume
range for your shoulders so we've had a
pretty effective per session volume as
well next by taking the first set of an
exercise a little bit further from
failure and then gradually inching
closer to failure and generally
following the structure throughout the
session will likely retain a good level
of performance while also getting the
benefits of going a bit closer to
failure on some sets we've made sure
that the exercises we picked are really
effective for hypertrophy picking some
of my all-time favorites for shoulder
growth the rest times between sets are
generally in excess of 60 seconds which
is supported by the research and we're
generally resting for as long as it
takes between sets to retain a good
level of performance while exercise
order isn't super important we've
generally structured it in a way that
prioritizes compound movements first and
heavier work first and finally we're
using good technique on all exercises
using an effective tempo of between 2
and 8 seconds per rep emphasizing the
stretch position in terms of the range
of motion used and pausing in that
loaded stretch minimizing the
involvement of non-target muscle groups
and overall fatigue generated and so
we've really hit all of the Hallmarks of
what makes a session really effective
for hypertrophy and that's why I think
this might be a single best TR the
workout I've ever designed with
scientific principles in mind give this
session a shot and let me know what you
think if you made it this far please
consider commenting liking subscribing
let me know how much you like the
sweater people always lose their mind
over the sweater when it's on video so
let me know down below if you like it by
the way not a complete Pencil Neck this
is just a double XL sweater I swear bro
please please don't think I'm not jacked
it's very important my physique has a
direct relevance to how important my
advice is and how credible I should be
so please don't think I'm not jacked
here's your citation let me know down
below if there's any other muscle groups
you'd like to see me design an optimal
workout for I know like half of you
aren't subscribed so if you aren't
subscribed already please hit the
Subscribe button hit the Bell as well it
helps out the channel it helps me put
out information just like in this video
and hopefully that helps you out in
return if you'd like me to coach you and
deliver you optimal sessions for a
variety of muscle groups and make you
grow hopefully like never before check
out the link above and I can become your
coach in the meantime have a fantastic
day hopefully you get up to something
good and I'll see you guys next time
peace um
[Music]