just because you're short on time
doesn't mean you can't make progress
here's how to make
gains welcome back now real Dr Milo wolf
here with wolf coaching not one of those
medical doctors that you hear so much
about nowadays a real doctor who can
help you get jacked anyways today we're
talking about time efficiency hacks
within the gym if you're busy and don't
have much time to train here are some
hacks to make your training in the gym
more time efficient in this video I'll
be heavily drawing on a recently
published review paper that looked at
strategies to make your training more
time efficient for those who don't have
much time to train check it out in the
description first up don't fall into the
Trap of thinking that you need to do a
lot of sets in order to make any
appreciable muscle growth gains right as
little as five sets a week per muscle
group can still yield appreciable
amounts of muscle growth so if you don't
have time to do the recommended 10 to 20
or 15 to 25 sets per week for muscle
group don't worry even doing as little
as five sets a week can still yield good
hypertrophy on the flip side while you
don't have to do many sets to see
hypertrophy gains one thing you will
want to push in your training if you're
busy and don't have much time is how
close to failure you train by taking
each set to failure you're making each
set more stimulative when you compare a
set taken to five repetitions in reserve
for example where you could have done
five more reps before hitting failure
and a set taken to failure the set taken
to failure can cause up to two times as
much growth so if you don't have much
time make sure you take each set at
least Le to failure and potentially even
Beyond failure this hasn't received much
attention within evidence but there is
the potential that going past failure
can further increase the stimulus that
you see from training just make sure you
take each set close to failure to
failure or Beyond failure this is
especially important if you're busy and
just don't have much time to train and
get those sets in next up regarding
exercise selection use compound
exercises compound exercises are
exercises that involve multiple joints
and a lot of mus groups at once think of
the squat think of the bench press think
of the Romanian deadlift think of the
pull-up these exercises do a great job
of targeting a variety of muscle groups
across your body all at once If instead
you were doing isolation work you might
have to spend a lot more time in the gym
on average to get the same stimulus and
the same muscle growth wherever possible
prioritize compound multi-joint
movements while we're on the topic of
exercise selection here's what I want
you to keep in mind stack loaded
machines where you can simply select the
weight and do your set and D bells are
your best friends compare this with a
barbell exercise when you're doing a
barbell the lift you'll have to spend a
while to get the barbell in place to set
up the platform potentially to get the
plates on each side to add a collar Etc
compare this with a dumbbell exercise
where you can simply grab the dumbbells
and get going or a stack loaded machine
where you can simply select the weight
and start with your exercise so
generally dumbbell exercises stack
loaded machine exercises cable exercises
are all great options as compared to
something like a barbell exercise the
good news is is it does not seem to
matter whether you use machines or free
weights for hypertrophy as long as you
get to work in and while we're on the
topic of exercise selection generally
try to pick bilateral exercises those
are exercises that are going to have you
train both limbs both arms or both legs
at the same time for example let's
compare a dumbbell bent over row wherein
you use both arms at the same time you
train both sides at the same time to a
single arm dumbbell row on a bench with
a single arm dumbbell row you'll have to
do twice as many sets and while you may
say I could just my sets during the rest
time what ends up happening typically is
that it does take longer to do single
arm or single leg exercises as opposed
to just doing them bilaterally next
let's talk about warming up the truth is
if you're busy and you don't have much
time to train spending too much time on
your warm up can really hinder how much
progress you make if you're spending 30
minutes of your 60-minute session just
warming up to actually train those 30
minutes were largely wasted as far as
hypertrophy goes ultimately what grows
muscle is hard sets taken close to
failure so you want to maximize how much
of your time is spent doing those hard
sets here's how I recommend warming up
if you're busy and don't have much time
at most do one to three warm-up sets
before starting an exercise and the work
sets at most do one to three warm-up
sets before you start the work sets for
given exercise as you're warming up
specifically only do the target exercise
if you're going relatively heavy or it's
your first exercise for a given area of
the body for example it's your first
upper body exercise for that session
stick to the higher end of that set
range recommendation likewise though if
it's your third exercise for your upper
body and you're feeling pretty warm
already you can do zero or even just one
warmup set and that'll be sufficient for
set one pick between 30 and 50% of your
walking weight for that exercise and do
it for about 8 to 12 Reps for set two
pick about 70% of your walking weight
and do that for three to five reps
finally for set three pick around your
walking weight if not a little bit above
it and do that for one or two reps this
set this third set will provide you with
something called a post activation
performance enhancement effect
essentially by doing a few reps or just
a single rep with a relatively heavy
load your subsequent performance is
improved so I would generally recommend
doing this third warmup set even if
you're already relatively warm
psychologically it can also be helpful
in terms of making sure that you're
ready for that heavy weight you're about
to lift on the final note with regards
to warmups generally avoid stretching
you will get more flexible simply by
lifting and a recent review paper found
similar range of motion improvements or
flexibility improvements whether you're
lifting weights or stretching so avoid
stretching unless you're specifically
going for an increase in flexibility for
example you're trying to get a split but
stretching itself is not a good idea if
you're pressed for time and just need to
get a hypertrophy stimulus from that
session now let's talk about special
techniques you can use within the gym in
order to make your training more time
efficient the first one and the biggest
one is going to be antagonistic paired
suets in antagonist paired suets you'll
essentially superet two exercises that
involve opposing motions and opposing
muscle groups for example you could
superset some biceps and tricep work
since they work to flex the elbow and
extend the elbow respectively likewise
you could superet a chest and back
exercise or you could superet a
quadriceps and hamstring exercise or you
can take it even further and simply
superset any two exercises that don't
have any overlap and that are not too
systemically fatiguing for example I
wouldn't recommend supersetting a squat
with a lateral Rays while these two
exercises have no overlap in terms of
the muscle groups being involved
necessarily there is going to be a
substantial amount of systemic fatigue
being out of breath from that squat
going into that lateral raise however
super setting something like a dumbbell
lateral raise and a calf raise there is
no overlap in terms of muscle groups
involved and there's also not a
substantial amount of fatigue being
generated by super setting two different
muscle groups and two different
exercises that don't overlap you can
often save as much as 50 to 60% of time
within your session if you're interested
in antagonist paired super sets check
out this whole video I made about them
here the second kind of technique I
would recommend if you're trying to save
time and you need to get a hypertrophy
stimulus is drop sets and myor Reps
specifically we have metanalysis looking
at the effects of drop sets on muscle
growth as compared to traditional
training what it showed across Six
studies was essentially the same
hypertrophy whether you're doing Drop
sets or traditional sets just straight
sets now the caveat is with drop sets
people generally spend about 50 to 70%
less time in the gym and so if you're
someone who's busy drop sets are a great
option to get similar hypertrophy with
much less time I have a whole video on
drop sets here so check it out if you're
interested the long story short is
simply do a hard set pretty close to
failure and then drop the weight by 20%
for each subsequent drop set do not rest
between the first set and the drop set
and subsequent drop set and so on now
let's talk about how you structure your
session in terms of exercise order and
so on first I want you to think about
how systemically fatiguing a given
exercise is an exercise like the squat
for example is highly systemically
fatiguing you'll be out of breath you'll
be taxed overall after heart set what I
want you to do is to intersperse
systemically fatiguing exercises with
exercises that aren't systemically
fatigue the reason for this is generally
your rest time will increase if you're
dealing with a high level of systemic
fatigue when you're doing a squat and
then an RDL and then a split squat for
example your rest times between sets can
get incrementally longer as that
systemic fatigue builds up whereas if
instead you for example did a squat then
a light curl then a leg press that would
then alleviate syic fatigue a little bit
I have a whole video on exercise order
here so check that out if you're
interested now I'm seemingly about to
contradict myself but hear me out if
you're in a busy gym and you don't have
much time to train be flexible with your
exercise order keep in mind what I just
said about interspersing you know
systemically fatiguing with non-s
systemically fatiguing exercises but if
you're in a busy gym and you can't
actually follow your prescribed exercise
order just do whatever you can you only
have so much time in the gym so if it
means doing your rear dots before your
chest for example that's fine ultimately
exercise order doesn't seem to play a
huge role with regards to hypertrophy
all else being equal we have a
metanalysis on the topic here and
broadly speaking it just doesn't seem
like there's a huge effect of exercise
old on hypertrophy so if you need to
you're in a busy gym stuff is being
taken up don't don't strictly stick to
your prescribed exercise order be
flexible my final piece of advice on
session management and exercise order is
to do a hard set right before you leave
the gym what does this mean well when
you're about to do your last set make
sure you have all your stuff ready and
you're ready to go obviously if you're
going to take a shower that's a
different thing but still if you're
about to leave the gym make sure you
have your bag with you already so you
can simply do the set and leave you
don't have to go upstairs you can use
that rest time that you spent resting
you know a few sets ago to go get your
stuff and then you save an extra couple
minutes typically this is really helpful
when you have say a couple extra sets at
the end of your session and you're not
quite sure if you can fit them in by
going getting your stuff and being ready
to go right after your last set you can
do your last hard heavy set and then
leave the gym before I give you some
takeaways let me tell you one common
mistake I do see with regards to busy
people within the gym and that's
excessively cutting down rest times now
don't get me wrong I've made a whole
video on rest times here and you can see
it you can absolutely make gains with
short rest times between sets however in
order to do so and to get the same
muscle growth that you would get from
longer rest times between sets you would
need to do more sets to make up for it
so don't just rush through your session
and try and get it done as quickly as
possible use all the time you have at
your disposal for that given session
rest for as long as you need to between
sets ideally to roughly replicate last
sets performance here are some quick
takeaways use intensity techniques like
Drop sets and antagonistic period suets
in order to save up to 50 or more per of
time within the gym certain exercises
will work better when you're trying to
be time efficient generally these will
be bilateral using both limbs at the
same time these will be stack loaded
machines cables or dumbbell exercises
and these will be compound exercises
where you're training a lot of muscle
groups at once when you're pressed for
time don't be afraid to take each set
very close to to failure or Beyond
failure to get as much stimulus out of
each set as you possibly can likewise
even if you can only do say five sets a
week Don't Be Afraid as few as five sets
a week can still be enough to yield a
meaningful increase in muscle size over
time finally as far as overall session
management goes do not overdo the warm
up the warm up is time spent not growing
essentially you could be spending that
time doing more hard sets and grow more
muscle so generally be a minimalist
about your wup likewise try and Order
exercises so that you're not too
fatigued systemically going from one
exercise into the next however do not be
strict about your exercise order if for
example your gym is busy and you can't
get a specific piece of Kit don't be
afraid to switch up your exercise order
if you need to that's the video if you
enjoy the video please comment like
subscribe we're trying to get to 10,000
I know a lot of you aren't subscribed
yet so if you subscribe it' be hugely
helpful and I will see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
[Music]
peace