[Music]
welcome everyone to the RP strength
podcast we are back again I am Nick Shaw
and with me is Lori Shaw hi guys
all right yet back again today we're
gonna be talking about dieting myths and
to be honest we have a guest with us but
he keeps insisting that he needs to be
on the podcast
he basically reaches out to us and
demands that he needs to come on the
podcast and again this person I'm just
joking here I can do that because it's
him dr. Mike is or tell what's up dr.
Mike Nick listen thanks for returning my
calls I've been calling her secretary a
lot and I know I go to voicemail all the
time but it's just great to be back on
yeah
totally it's actually it's been a little
bit we actually had on a lot of
different guests which has been cool to
hear about all that but the last podcast
we did about miss was really popular
people really seemed to like it so we
want to get on tackle some more myths
we've got some stuff written down but
before we get into that what's what's
new in your world dr. Mike it's the
summertime and this feels so nice and
also today is the day before my birthday
the early birthday I did a yeah I turned
36 tomorrow and I feel no special way
about it time it's not something you can
change and Lyons GMD birthday plans yeah
we're a big party cuz it's still
lockdown season yeah although that's
actually lifting quite soon we're just
having a few people over and I think I'm
probably gonna make people eat your
pizza and wings and stuff for my
favorite crappy pizza place around here
that everyone hates um because I love it
and I think it's hilarious that everyone
else hates it so it's your birthday
I can cry if they want to exactly it's
literally your party and you can cry if
you want to other people should cry at
my party
no let's let's talk about your party
here for a second so you're gonna be
having a party right in your house where
you live which in the middle of your
living room is a giant lat pulldown
machine
without barbell mini squat setup and
then a incline bench
convertible bench a bunch of weights and
a pair of dumbbells and a whole mess of
bumper plates yeah Wow
nice Oh how's it goin training at home
yeah just like literally in your living
room yeah so like it works it works yeah
I really missed the gym because you know
just training at the gym is better if
the machines are better that dumbbells
like so we have the dumbbells that like
you our boat our names
yeah that's worst of the problem okay
you have to unscrew and screw them and
then sometimes the unscrew while you're
using them depending what kind of
movements you're doing so it's really
just uh and they're just kind of
unwieldy and it's uh it's a variation
like we've had to get creative with
variation yeah I'm tired of being
creative variation I want to go to the
gym when one of things lifting up in
Philly so the June first we go into like
yellow face or something we're not much
changes but the probably two weeks after
that unless something really bad happens
it's gotta be green face two or three so
I think right when I'm moving to Las
Vegas away from Philly as when gyms open
so hopefully I'll get like one or two
workouts before me got it where you
gonna be training in Vegas I know that's
got a lot of good gyms yeah I think
Jared and I are looking at a few Gio's
but probably I think it's City Athletic
Club or Las Vegas I thought a couple one
other - I think it's Las Vegas of
Thunder Club they have a couple of
locations and one of them particularly
has like more machines that are seen and
it's just I've used their machines I've
been to that gym it's actually very few
hardcore people in all of us interesting
enough but it's just an amazing gym and
Vegas it's like unbelievable gym scene
for bodybuilders so we're excited to
Train probably a few gems that's gonna
be super awesome I'm pretty sure Vegas
is opening back up soon - I'm pretty
sure I saw something that all the
casinos are opening gym June no way
that's so cool
the Wow that is so fascinating I didn't
know that the casinos were opening I
will say that the gyms are already open
as far as I know
so that's my kind of gambling with my
life underneath a barbell yeah several
hundred pounds sometimes quarter of a
ton maybe you know crystal I are
watching along or Special Victims Unit
and there's an actor on there of course
there's a character on there that has
like a gambling problem and she like
went and lamech city she's gambling and
I was just like it was one of those
things I couldn't relate to at all I was
like you're giving away your money with
a very good chance of losing it better
chance of losing than winning
and I was like reddit nothing about cuz
you know things that are fun but risky
makes sense like skydiving it's really
fun but you could die with gambling it's
like it's giving away money but you
might lose your money I'm like winning
it's the rush of winning there we go we
got a gambling addict on our hands thank
you for that I've been gambling one time
in my entire life when I was 18 or 19
this was in Mount Pleasant Michigan I
went with one of my buddies from high
school we were in there about 30 minutes
and I had lost probably you know thirty
to fifty dollars like wow this is the
worst idea I'm not skilled so okay if
you're skilled at cards okay maybe I
understand that but I'm just like
playing slot machines and I was like oh
I could have just walked up to the
owners just like hey just take $50
donation to you actually don't believe I
reversed the Apple to single time in my
life but I was with a friend in Las
Vegas and he laid down a hundred dollars
on Mike red or black for the roulette
wheel and it went the other way and it
they just so he there's a hundred ollars
he took out of his pocket Chris bill he
put it on this green table and then they
sent some things and they roll the dice
and I said some more things and then
they simply just unceremoniously took
his hundred dollars away and he turned
to meetings like oh well and I was like
huh like that hit my Judaism in a way I
can't really describe and I just no I
was like why why why this is crazy it
was like watching a kidnapping happen
where I was like that's what belongs to
me that's something I own why are you
taking it and I've never recovered I'm
never gonna gamble ever is that the same
individual that was betting heavily on
sports as well at that time one function
yep okay I know you're talking about
all right so we've got that out of the
way got that covered thank you things at
least with spy real quick sorry at least
with sports you might have an insider
understanding like you know there's a
science to that there's no science to
let folks fifty-fifty all right it's
time to get after it time to talk about
some dieting myths so we have a handful
of talk about I'm excited for this myth
number one let's get some input on this
it's best to lose weight all in one
stretch and so the example here is if
you are someone that's particularly
overweight obese you want to lose let's
say 30 50 100 pounds it's best to do it
in one stretch yay or nay yay you just
get it done
just take it to the teeth boom one
battle does the whole war is over you
know so here's the thing it seems like
it would be a because it's so tempting
yeah like if you are pulling a band-aid
off do you do it all in one stretch or
do you do it slowly and then pull half
of it off that walk around the rest of
the day pull the other half of course
you do it all at the same time so people
have this idea that like go ahead and so
quick a note on that I'm actually
reading book right now that talks about
the the predictably irrational but I
think Dan airily is a guy's name and he
actually talks about that exact analogy
of ripping the band-aid off and they
actually I think they did some studies
or something like that that actually
shows if you go slow it's actually a
little bit better Oh interesting he had
like he had some really serious burns
early on in his life and he used to
literally just dread because he would
have to get his bandages changed all the
time it's like all over his entire body
so you can just imagine the pure amount
of dread that he had just you know
looking forward to that he would see the
nurse walking in and you know just
basically start to panic and you know he
I think they did something he did some
research hit like himself and he came
back later and presented it to the
nurses and was like hey actually you
know you might be better off ripping it
off as fast as possible and the nurses
were like okay well maybe but the agony
that the nurses had to go through in the
time spent doing it they were like we're
not going to do that because it's so
painful for us having to watch and hear
and
listen to it all so they wanted to get
rid of it as quick as possible yeah
that's very interesting so yeah the
thing note you know a lot of folks think
later okay I have some weight to lose
and I'm just gonna just do it all and
that would work except for two things a
problematic one if you try to lose a lot
of weight at the same time your chances
of success even getting to the end is a
bad idea better analogy than the
band-aid one in this case is like your
you've got your camping equipment with
you and it's a total hike of 30 miles to
get to this waterfall where you're gonna
camp do you did it in one day or do to
like you could try in one day but 30
miles hell of a way to go in one day you
might just find yourself in a place
that's not great for camping like five
miles away from your location and it's
pitch black and midnight and you gotta
set up a tent on the side of a rock with
a rock poking your butt when you're
trying to sleep
like it just was never of an amount that
you could have likely done okay if you
really rushed it right then it would get
in okay let's say you're really rush it
let's say you have 50 pounds total to
lose and you're really rushing I got it
all done the biggest problem with weight
loss is keeping the weight off not
getting to lose the weight if you rush
and go super fast your body likes to
rebound back and it'll rebound are
really hard if you push it super hard so
then you get to this point where the
analogy for the camping is you want to
get to this beautiful waterfall and
spend two days frolicking and camping
and swimming in the waterfall and having
these great views but you walked into 30
miles so fast that you have blisters all
over your feet and all of a sudden you
can't even enjoy the waterfall because
you can't get in the water
right so then why did you go that fast
just to go back and like end the trip
and be like how is your waterfall
tripper it's not that everybody enjoy it
so the idea is when you get to loosen
pounds off one's a lot of time you'll
gain back all that weighted more or if
it's not all that weight more you gain
back a big fraction of it to where like
let's say you go down 50 pounds on up 20
pounds and then you're down at 30
somebody clever it could be like why
don't you just go down 30 you'd be like
if I knew that well then you should have
so there's why it's not what are the
exact processes going on in the body
that causes that I'm not sure I don't
know much about the body so you know you
have a bunch of hormones that tell you
how to you know how sort of how much to
eat they regulate your hunger your
satiety and all this other behavior
leptin and ghrelin and other hormones
like that and they just tend to keep
going in the wrong direction the longer
and harder you push them there's a bunch
of communication of a cellular level
with fat stores if your fat cells get
small enough they start to complain more
and more and more there's tons and tons
of stuff going on hormonal e that
basically the stuff is really really
thrown off and more than more normally
sometimes you can even lose muscle
because you're dieting for certain
amount of time increases muscle loss for
us towards the end and then that's a
problem because even if you do get to
your weight loss goal you've sacrificed
some muscle mass that's not really good
cosmetically it's now aesthetically
rather it's not very good for health and
your mobility company and all those
other stuff so it just turns into a real
disaster and when those hormones are
released thrown off you during the diet
the hunger the lack of energy becomes so
intense that you tend to have a less of
a chance of success and you have to push
incrementally harder like doing your
first five miles of that walk really
fast if you want to walk for three miles
it's fine so you can walk five miles
fast the last five miles a week blisters
forming already could be it could take
you forever in a total disaster so it's
not just that like okay I'll grind it
and then I have this craft to deal with
at the end it's like the grind starts to
escalate on you exponentially but it
gets harder to do and that gets harder
doing that is harder because you kick
all your fatigue with you take a
negative feedback loop basically yeah
well actually in this case I guess it
could be a positive feedback loop where
what's making it worse is making it
worse and that's making it worse and
that's making worse so sex money is
exponentially yeah I'm a negative
feedback loop in this sense is basically
trying to bring you back to homeostasis
yes correct and if you keep pushing it's
a positive feedback loop which is real
bad right so keep pushing it's positive
and then the negative one gets stronger
and bounces you back
ideally what you want is for it to be
the other way around that the longer you
die at the more accelerated
you have that's just not true right it
is true for a very short diet but not
for a very long run so you end up in the
situation where your probability of
getting to the end of the backs really
bad and your probability of rebounding
is really not so great rather it's very
high which is bad maybe you just don't
want to do that and just kind of I think
folks might anticipate a question here
is you know how much weight is too much
our general advice at Rp having read a
lot of what our shared coach and whole
bunch of people is a reasonable goal top
end is 10% of your body weight in any
one diet followed by at least two-thirds
as long spent in a maintenance phase or
a muscle gain phase and possibly up to
one or one and a half times as long for
folks that have a lot of diabetes and a
lot of perturbations of hormones
experiencing lots of hunger declines and
activity levels and so on and so forth
least two-thirds of the time possibly
longer that's really important because
if you're 150 pound female starting off
that's 15 pounds and 15 pounds it
doesn't sound like a lot because you're
comparing yourself to someone that's 250
pounds they can lose 25 again it's not
out you know it's not apples to apples
again it's all percentage body weight so
if you go by that and ten percent a lot
of weight that's a lot of was a lot of
weight you think I'm really glad you
brought that up because I think a lot of
the people that see transformation
photos and the transformation stories
and watch shows like Biggest Loser and
stuff like that those are people that
tend to be like you know potentially
overweight but not incredibly large
let's say a female that weighs 175
pounds and wants to weigh under 150 and
she thinks oh that's just 25 pounds like
I saw a guy in the Biggest Loser watched
like 50 pounds or the last 50 pounds in
a month it's easy for me to lose 25
pounds in 3 months or or that's way too
much not a good idea and the thing is
like if you start off with a moderate
amount of loss when you succeed then
very very good things happen you've lost
a little 8 you by yourself on the back
you're not the loonie back up and you
can always do more if you start burnout
fail and retrogress all you have to pin
on your belt is a failure like it's like
going to the all-you-can-eat buffet if
you take a bit on your plate you can
always go for seconds or thirds of
course but if you take too much
just wasting food so it's better to
shoot for a slightly less ambitious goal
rather than shooting for an older school
for sure what's the most amount of
weight that you've lost in anyone
dieting phase you know I can't actually
remember going let's see one dieting
phase I must have lost that went from
275 in your 5 G's by the way 5 6 275 to
235 so that must have been 140 pounds
and I lost 40 pounds in a matter of
probably about six or seven months
pretty continuous dieting in my sort of
like that's not as impressive as it
sounds is I was to me to get to 275 took
heaven and earth and dropping down from
275 it's just a matter of eating more
like not stuffing yourself every meal
and I'm just losing like 2 pounds a week
just eating regular so yeah but I have
it's been probably 10 years since I've
lost any more than about 8 percent on a
diet you were so far removed from your
you know homeostasis as to what you're
going to be at five six that it had to
have been pretty easy Laurie what am I
not so service what's the most weight
you've done yeah I was just gonna say
you probably know my numbers better than
me I don't really remember well so the
first time you died it down to compete
get down to like 113 so you probably
started from what 130 135 maybe yeah
probably something like 135 which is 20
pounds I mean yeah in at that body
weight that's almost that's over ten
percent so again like that's that's what
I got oh yeah there's a competent diet
so not and those are those diets like
you know you only get to be successful
as a hardcore bodybuilder on a diet if
you jump through the hoops of already
doing tons of normal diets and already
being super passionate as a competitive
scenario we have a coach yeah you might
be successful but you know it's like
saying you know what's a reasonable
distance to run and someone's like
marathon you're like I'll just start my
first training run a marathon you know
late that's not people say oh Lori lost
20 pounds that that should be fine I
weigh 115 I'll be 195 or
or just be 95 pounds and it's like well
gee whiz you know she did that after
years of dedication you know she's the
passion passionate for the sport that's
not something you just do on your first
try and that's the thing is that's very
related same myth is like that that's
the thing is losing all the weight at
once almost always means losing all your
weight on a first try because you know
people have this idea that I drink I
weigh 250 pounds this chart from the
insurance agency says I should weigh 160
for best health and boy would I look
great in my high-school dresses again
and they go let me just just get it rid
of all of it 90 pounds all right yeah
something that I'm sure other people
have said but my one of my coaches
Broderick says is it didn't it didn't
take you you know a few months to gain
this weight it's not going to take you a
few months to lose this weight you know
took you ten years then it sure is sure
shouldn't take you ten years to lose it
but it's not gonna take you you know
three months that's nonsense the same
advice I always hear for after having a
baby to lose the weight like you know he
gained it over nine months you should
give yourself a little bit more time to
lose then people always want to lose it
immediately they just like literally the
next week they want to be back well I'm
not probably anymore we're done right
it's like yeah and that's I mean you got
a factor in potential nursing effects
too which is gonna slow down the effects
of losing weight even more I'm pretty
sure you know over the course of about
five or six months actually a little
over five months I went from about 250
to 210 again that was for a competition
though and then that was you and I
suffered really greatly with the diet f4
effects from that yeah that was that was
what I would call miserable dieting
insufferable
so one other thing so and again this
ties into what the second part of the
myth that you had talked about and that
you have to do it all on the first try
well so it's almost the very first diet
you run so I'm talking about someone
that's never really kind of dieted like
Rp style so like scientific very
organized sometimes it's a little easier
to lose weight because you've never done
it quote-unquote the right way and so
sometimes you see the some of those
beginner effects and what I see a lot in
the Facebook group is people will
compare their second or third cuts our
beast house I've been doing it for a
year year and a half
and they're like whoa I can't lose as
much weight as I did the first time well
I always like to tell people well of
course you're gonna lose more the very
first time it's there's lower hanging
fruit they're like you can knock that
off
Oh easily that's all relative of course
but again as you start to lose more and
more it's like you're talking about
those feedback loops kick in and it's
harder to keep losing at that same rate
so again like people use the templates
before now they're using the app and
they're like oh well I can't lose as
much weight with the app the templates
must be better that's nuts not the case
you're not comparing apples to apples
now you're comparing apples to you know
oranges mm-hmm wow that was the fruit
you came up with Nick that was so
creative I was gonna say like TVs or
something cuz there's a TV over there
I'm looking at here hey that would have
been habits yeah totally you know so I
actually just did a podcast earlier
today with a gentleman from Germany and
we talked about this and he asked do
diets get easier or harder and I said
that dieting - the same body fat
percentage gets easier the more times
you do it to the point where you need to
die to me they're just there anywhere
but the big mistake people make when
they think it died he gets harder is
they keep trying to get leaner so even
your great bodybuilder body glee coach
John Meadows told me that towards the
end of his body though in career it got
so easy for him to get in contest shape
he only needed like eight weeks of
contest dieting and that was it he was
in shape because he had done so much and
in that exact same super ultra low body
fat so many times even that was easy for
him but if you've dyed it down to say if
you're if you're a woman and you've dyed
it you know if your first I started at
33 percent body fat you got 225 you're
like this is what they deal and it was
maybe that was tough but not so tough
you're next I had 25 to 20 percent is
actually less total percent but to get
to 20 that's an all-time low we
different than 25 and all this in your
bag man that diet was no easier and I
didn't lose as much weight and then the
next night it's the one you go on the RP
clients group and say oh Jesus let's
disaster because I dyed it from 22% down
to 18% which is 1% less than I lost my
last diet but it took like six weeks
longer and it was miserable the whole
time if they yell it's true but now here
eighteen percent fat
that's the very low end of the range for
females and you are like oh you're a
cyber or you're kicking butt and people
are asking you if you're a professional
Fitness modeling like why well did you
think it was gonna be easier to tie it
to that like well no I guess it wasn't
you should keep extending your goals so
that's something to keep in mind too but
as your goals get tougher the by it's
gonna get tougher but as long as your
goals stay the same diets get easier
over and over and that's how maintenance
works I can second John Meadows there
cuz I remember it took a lot of just
suffering the first time that I really
got into like contests shaving 2012-2013
so the good news for me was then I was
starting from a lower body fat
percentage and so for example I had to
crush cardio to get down to you know
let's call it six or seven percent body
fat well then the second time that I did
it instead of starting from you know 20%
body fat I was starting from you know
14% and get back down to seven six seven
eight or whatever yeah I don't even
think I did the cardio is say it wasn't
that big of a deal Lori do you remember
that from when you did it to you
everybody hates you when you say not to
do cardio by the way okay no I don't I
an are you talking about so I just mean
in general like when you competed you
know various competition once when you
did did you find that it got easier or
harder for you I mean I I was never very
good at maintenance or massing so I
think if I if I had done like you said
and you know kept everything to a lower
percentage and stuff like that but I
don't think I was very successful at
that so I feel like I was always
starting from you know a bigger a bigger
deficit or excess than I should have
been I guess yeah you got leaner as each
one went to so I mean it would make
sense to be a little bit harder because
I think you kept getting you know in
better condition leaner and leaner yeah
so anything that kind of makes sense is
the more and more you do it again but if
you keep pushing that envelope it is
gonna be a little bit harder if you keep
coming back to the same spot it's not
that bad so I think that kind of wraps
up the first myth that you got to do it
all in one stretch Sophie yeah I just
wanna say one thing on that because I
see it a lot I see people saying
especially if
have done a lot of fad diets and not had
success before and then they find our PE
and the scale is going in the direction
that they want I see a lot of times
people like don't want to stop you know
like we were saying like they don't want
to stop for maintenance they don't want
to you know pause they want to like ride
that momentum like it's working why
would I stop so I mean I see that a lot
with people I think there's nothing
wrong with that as long as it's riding
momentum I'm not pushing the momentum
okay like if they're Easy Street losing
tons of weight great but there's a point
at which they switch to like I'm really
suffering but I still want to get to
this new goal I said she's 20 pounds
lower that is not a good idea so look if
you get down to 140 from 155 you're just
reason through keep going but as soon as
the diet starts to push back on you if
you objectively accomplished your goal
already and you're just going to
fracture credit now's the time to stop
yeah that makes sense so what would you
say is a max time to diet cuz I want to
say in the app that's set up to be like
14 16 weeks that's time to die nick is
actually one of our other rest I think
so yeah
that's had in a number three the longer
I go the better off I'll be these are
all kind of related so we can just get
to that one if you want that's it
so and we can come back to the faster I
diet so the longest diet that's pre
programmable into the our key diet app
is I believe twelve weeks but if you
during the app-v the a I can ask if
you'd like to delay the diet or changing
by a week and altering your goals and I
can extend your diet up to as long as 16
weeks if you so choose
but the longest you can plan to dine as
12 and a potential you can extend up to
16 if need be to meet your original goal
so the 16 weeks doesn't mean you get a
more aggressive goal it actually makes
the diet longer but makes easier at the
same time per any week the deficit is
lower so those are the constraints
dinner four months a really long time to
be dieting to you have to consider the
psychological impact of it because
de-annex not that much fun and so again
month one not so bad month - okay
bearable month three pretty dang hard
month four
no that's getting legit that's gonna be
real tough yeah so can I talk about some
of the research now
no Mike this is an evidence-based
podcast so we don't want to talk about
the research I don't mean SRS other
wrong and not the research our research
oh yeah yeah for sure yeah yeah okay
great so and this is an article that's
gonna be published very soon possibly
already published by the time you guys
get to hear this podcast but we've been
doing data collection through RP Data
because we have tens of thousands of
users or any one time and we've
collected some very good data on a
variety of metrics and one of them is
what is the diet length that corresponds
to the best success rate and a little
science and math at you guys there's no
we actually calculated success rate in a
very very cool way wasn't total amount
of weight loss because sort of
no-brainer that's like the longer the
diet the more weight you lose generally
and it wasn't like how close you got to
your goal or what the chances were that
you got to your goal like because if you
set really short diets were there easy
goals it's obviously just biasing with
the other direction so we actually
multiplied those two we took the total
percent of weight someone lost multiply
two by the chance they actually would
lose it because with a very long diet
you stand to potentially lose a lot of
weight but most of the people that try
to eat get to that goal with you are
gonna fall off right it's like you know
some kind of military operation has a
really huge payoff but most of the
drones get shot down on the way in thus
you actually have to calculate hey what
are the chances are of any drones left
to strike this target right and it could
be that even though this operation is a
big payoff
the chances of reaching it are so low
it's just not the best idea and other
less ambitious things or a bigger payoff
so we calculator that out and it turned
out that from over 10,000 user data
points which is really really kind of a
lot of data we saw a very clear trend
we're the most success is experienced by
folks dieting roughly around six weeks
in Lake weight and weight is that crazy
Laurie so so I so I I know a little bit
of this already because we've talked but
just wait for the end when there's like
this other separate group that's alright
gonna be the shirt of Lori Shaw yes
that's right
so so and then you see less success
going from six to eight to ten and our
final analysis was on 12-week divers and
12-week dieters if you look at the data
in a simple way they actually beat six
week dieters eleven weeks not right
okay so too long of a diet to have great
success another way that she see that is
if you look at the numbers independently
if how many people fall off most people
who ever start an 11 week diet just quit
at some point and there's never reach
their goal so the twelve weekers
actually are more successful than almost
everyone else anything how but it turns
out there's a small amount of folks that
died for 12 weeks the most possible
aggressive rates that you can on the
diet which is one percent per week and
they're just machines we actually looked
at them as an independent statistical
sample and trying to figure out how
they're different from everybody else
and we thought some cool stuff will
we'll share with people but we call them
the super dieters and or that's fact
they're the super super dieters because
there's another group of super dieters
they're behave a little differently but
these folks tend to just blow it out the
thing is if you exclude them from the
sample because there's very few of them
but they're so successfully ski the
whole sample most people are not good
not better off betting that they're one
of those people they're better off
betting that they're probably not one of
those they're the outliers yeah and you
have to ask the question you know people
are inherently a shoe what's what's the
name for that bias maybe it's a
self-serving bias I don't know if that's
right but you basically you think that
you are a lot better than you probably
are sure totally everyone everyone's
above average and intelligence right so
so that ends up being the the whole
situation there where basically like if
you now we can't draw a strict causation
because it's not an experiment it's just
relations but correlations can be
powerful statements about reality that
if you choose to ignore or choose to go
against you're making an interesting
choice but tension they're correct one
but certainly an interesting one and the
way they can phrase it correlational II
which is to say accurate least to say
out of ten thousand people the people to
get the most success on diets diet for
shorter lengths of time the other way to
interpret that is a piece of advice if
you're going to believe that the
correlation is causative is to say look
if you want the best chances of success
maybe you don't diet for too long and
it's not just like we compared to six
weeks and twelve weeks only it's an
every single step every added week just
has people falling off the wagon more
and more more and and that's really just
the thing and I know like when you get
the RP Data app restart any other kind
of diet without losing all the weight at
once thing is what ends up fueling most
of that selection of the twelve weeks
because it gives you the option to go
anywhere from it's a little bit menus
actually will advance you to sort of
tell the app how much weight you want to
lose and it gives you a duration or you
tell iteration first and it gives your
weight but fundamentally people look at
this span I mean I could lose for three
weeks I could lose for twelve and I
think a lot of people get confused their
ambitions versus realities or wishes
versus facts and they go yeah twelve
let's just do it for twelve visits it's
not that you're just selecting results
and you're selecting a journey which can
be perilous and it's probably not the
best to select the journey that's the
most perilous you know it's almost like
you know look through this Indiana Jones
map when there's like well here's the
killer monkeys here's a feeling craw
here's the magic blonde it'll kill you
but at the end there's like the most
treasure let's just go get the most
treasure that's like are you sure you're
ready to flower well you know you might
want to consider like are we really
ready for the killer monkeys are you
really ready for dieting twelve weeks
and the answer for most folks is maybe
and why don't you just do six weeks
first to see how you feel and if you
really knock that out of the park try an
eight week diet and if you really just
knock that completely out of the park
try ten weeks diet man by then you'll
have lost all the way you want anyway
right so unless you've done this before
you're super hardcore so on and so forth
go for twelve weeks but this comes with
a huge grain of salt look if I was a
gambling guy went back to the casino
right um I would
I really wouldn't and I wouldn't bet on
myself so dieting for shorter durations
from in the 6 to 12 week range is
usually best and that actually I think
dovetails pretty well it's really how
quickly should I lose weight per week
discussion if you guys want because
that's another mm-hmm yeah so real quick
on that people set goals not in the
mindset of realizing how hard things are
right so a quick example so I just did
Murph not too long ago and in my head I
was a cop I'd do that in like 45 minutes
and then I started training for it and
sort of timing myself and some splits
and I quickly I was like oh my god
that's gonna be really hard and I
started to kind of back off my goals a
little bit yeah because I was setting
goals in the state where I thought oh
that's not gonna be that bad and that's
what people do and then they don't
realize how hard how just miserable
Murph is and you're just you're on round
like 11 and you've got 20 rounds to go
and your psyche why did I do this why
did I do this but I'm getting a little
bit off track but I'm sure yeah but I'm
some weight to that right now yeah it's
just better to go a little bit easier
have some success and then you can
always make it harder later and so super
related myth number three I guess is the
idea of how much weight should I lose
per week in other words how fast should
I diet how rapidly should I should I
lose the weight week and there's an idea
that like oh look the more you choose
the better
we had a real with the archetype app we
had a real problem with the when we
first released the app where it just
sort of gave you options and it took
your word for now the Apple warns you if
you go over a certain rate weight your
weights overeat lost which are perfectly
healthy perfectly fine it's just not for
everyone the app now warned you and says
hey this is a very aggressive procedure
your risk and here's some more
information about how maybe you could do
this or not but I used to not say that
right you remember naked we're just like
just choose your own adventure and a lot
of people chose the fastest rate we
offer which is 1% by the way per week
again it's perfectly safe perfectly
healthy oil boy is a tough especially
for a very long time and a lot of folk
burnout and before they burn out there I
feel like I can't believe the app is
taking away so much food well if you
want to lose 1% of weight per week she's
just not gonna be eating a whole lot
that's just what it ends up being so and
it's all it's obvious like it's kind of
like no duh you want to lose as much
weight as possible
per week because that gives you most
weight slash gifts that I have over with
faster it's all the best possible things
but it's not a question of should you
click on there's the question of you
know have you diner before do you know
you're getting yourself into and can you
do the work it's not you know how many
people apply for an advanced computer
programming job that is you know AZ
$250,000 a year and an apply for this
job thinking okay let's do it
I want 250 and then someone's like do
you well computer languages do you know
you like English like that's not a
feeling I learned some Spanish in high
school so the you turns out you don't
know anything about could be remembering
but the only way you make the 250k is to
know and work and it's even hard for
computer program mister do this stuff
like you have to have a high degree
skill set and you have to work work work
work work so it's not just a matter of
selecting $250,000 a year it's you do
you have the requisite backbone and you
have the requisite like know-how and the
requisite like experience to actually do
what you're supposed to do so you're not
selecting a destination you're selecting
a journey and the journey is on you and
it's tough and again 10,000 sample
research we did with the RPG map very
very interesting it shows that for folks
dieting roughly a six ish week six to
eight nice in length pretty close to
that top end figure of roughly 0.8% by
week per week is a good rate of loss
like pretty close to the aggressive end
and then as you died for longer folks to
die for longer the best successes of the
longer diets like all of the most
successful eleven week dieters the best
success was in like the 0.5 range of %
my way per week so someone waged 200
pounds at the start of their diets they
would only be losing roughly a pound a
week on that kind of plan versus the
only tide after six weeks
we'll be losing up to two pounds per
week so it turns out but no missus kind
of a no-brainer the longer you diet on
an average the less aggressively dieting
is a very very good that seems to be
something that would make a lot of sense
so if you it's almost like the mini cut
ebook right the you and jarred row so if
you're gonna go a little bit shorter
it's okay to punch a gas pedal a little
harder but if you're going on a long
road trip
you're not slamming on the gas the whole
time you're gonna sort of cruise so
that's probably a good analogy to think
about your dieting length in the
percentage that you want to lose per
week yeah we're actually saying
something even a little bit more
interesting maths it is that if you are
dieting for a short time you're actually
better off going a little bit more
aggressively because then you get these
really quick results and it really
motivates the crap out of you and you're
likely to stick through it the thing is
people who die at very short amount of
time let's say four to six weeks but
lose very little weight per week at the
end of it
Wow they have like one meal of Chinese
food they eat a bunch of salt they bloat
back up to their old weight even though
they haven't regained all the tissue
it's only like three pounds that they
lost like I'm heavier than before I
started this is so stupid
and they tend to get demotivated with
folks that are diving for a short time
like six weeks it's better than they go
a little faster because it's really not
that big of a deal the body can handle
it just fine but the problem is
combining those two negative strategies
so there's a couple negative
combinations one is don't diet at a very
slow pace for a very short time because
you just accomplished almost nothing and
you'll get demotivated as well and also
exactly
don't diet for a very aggressive pace
for a long time unless you're super
dieter and this means you've done it
before a whole bunch and Rory just got
that magic touch and some people do but
I wouldn't bet on it and my first diet
is all I'm saying yeah the more
experience you are probably gonna be
more likely that you are one of these
quote-unquote super dieters now we got
to be careful that we just coined that
term the super dieter which is pretty
cool and like maybe I was a super dieter
back in the day now
not so confident that I would be but
you're like like a retired Superman your
joints hurt a little bit you know who
knows what's going on well you know
unless I plan on stepping on stage again
I don't think I need to be in that super
dieting mode so I'm a counter person but
yeah now that's great man and that's
really cool I can't wait for that
article to come out because I you know
it's gonna be yeah it's gonna I think
it's gonna open up a lot of people's
eyes it's just like what's the most
successful route to go when it comes to
dieting and I got to be honest when you
shared some of the results with me I was
go solo that's a little surprising that
it was oh yeah more of like the hey you
want to start on the shorter end and I
was like wow I would almost certainly
have not thought that and then it made a
lot more sense when we heard about the
super dieters like okay well now we got
the people that are going 12 because a
lot of people sort of mistakenly think
that we recommend you got to do 12 weeks
that's not the case it's just it's just
the biggest option you know if you sell
people food at restaurants a lot of
times they pick the biggest option even
though that's not really what they can
finish realistically just the same way
here a lot of folks click on the the
most because they want the most cuz
here's the thing and this is uh I'm
gonna get a little bit less a negative
maybe cold or realistic it's a channel
to channel the wisdom of Thomas ol
applied from economics to to dieting
folks that think I'm gonna be the one
that loses 50 pounds on my first go and
get no rebound and no problem I'll just
fix my life altogether with one shorts
for months Dyer it's a paraphrase time
so under different context do you think
you're among the first million people to
thought that if you thought it was a
unique thought like you're not everyone
wants to do this you know it's um
similar to females that are like listen
I want to share training with sweets but
I don't want to get too big like wow you
know a lot of females accidentally turn
pro and bodybuilding they're like really
like no you're gonna have to fight and
scratch for every single bit of muscle
mass that you're ever gonna gain and
it's like okay so I think a lot of times
people will you know they'll sort of
have this grab and go mentality for
things which is honestly so I think it's
bad people probably always been like
this so the
more easy to be like this nowadays I
think because of the great culture
that's developed around apps in advanced
digital and real world marketplaces in
all the rest of our lives incrementally
more and more we could just click on
things and they happen I mean like look
if you want an Amazon anything you just
click and it shows up you want Spotify
music you click on any song there sure
it's not like if Spotify doesn't have a
song people get violent like what this
is nonsense isms what a disaster of an
app you know they don't know anything
about the backend of getting legal
permission to get all these songs and so
on and so forth how tough it is to
upload a bunch of this music so we have
this situation where we're really used
to just getting everything we want and
because the Rp diet app is an app you're
like oh it's an app I can lose as much
weight as I want click 12 weeks and 1%
and it should happen and then I was
suddenly I was like yeah so you're
actually gonna have to do all this work
mmm interesting well if it offered this
option it's got to be a really good
option that I should be able to do it
and then all of a sudden not so much so
it's one of those things where you got
to have some reverence for the process
dieting is on you and there's no need to
rush him take it easy first see how it
goes and then see if you can go from
there it's never a bad idea to start
with maintenance and again just to get
used to the app - if you're using it for
the first time I've been choose
maintenance for a month
get used to it play around with a little
bit you know test out some different
stuff and then again you get a good
baseline established maybe if you are
one of these people that's been you know
chronically dieting or dining for a long
time you're gonna actually get yourself
better long-term results by taking it
easy for a little bit laying off the gas
and then getting into it yeah so that
kind of covers up the first three they
sort of all tie together so now we have
another myth and again we work with a
lot of athletes so this one's a little
bit more geared towards the athletic
population but this one is weight loss
is the only thing that matters when it
comes to you know dieting and
performance in sports it's always better
to be lighter and to be leaner and
people think that this is the case about
health they think it's the case about
aesthetics as well I'll look better when
I'm less weight I'll be a better athlete
when I'm less weight and I'll be
healthier when
less wheat and those things are
conditional statements that may or may
not be true and they're often not true
so if you're coming from the perspective
of your morbidly obese
all three of those things are true every
single time that you diet for quite a
long time will you be healthier to lower
body yes will you be aesthetically more
pleasing to no one but yourself yes
probably and then will you be better at
sports with a few exceptions absolutely
but for many people they reach the point
where I think the first thing that
happens is sport is one of the first
ones to fall where you've got a
powerlifter ER that is supposed to be
massive and move and heavy weight and
they go you know what if I if I got
leaner and I lost even more weight then
I'd be better powerlifting and it turns
out that at some point that's just not
even true because you'll have to lose
muscle or leverage or energy that would
come and give your lifts and training
fuel you have to take a way to get
skinnier for some reason all of a sudden
that one statement is just not true
anymore for you like you know the diet
AI well actually yes it would make you
look potentially better if you like
looking a bit skinnier and or smaller
but it definitely won't make you better
at powerlifting this I've been a coach
for a while it used to be anyway
you know a lot of lifters will be like
so I should move down a class right like
no it's gonna make you worse and they're
like I thought everyone just permanently
moving down a class like no that's just
the people that post on Instagram and
the people you choose to follow and
choose to be interested in because you
have your own sort of sort inborn
obsession with getting smaller which is
probably something that needs to be
tackled by itself right because a lot of
people use justification like they just
want to get smaller legs for their own
reasons some of them not so great and
there'll be like oh it'll make me a
better power for to like no no I sure
won't so there reaches a time when at
least the sport performance one doesn't
work and then the other ones I can talk
about separately yeah well that same
thought process applies well to CrossFit
as well because you know if you look at
the top males top females they're all
quite lean but there's a point at which
it doesn't make sense to get any leaner
because then you're just resting those
performance goals so
we used to always tell people you know
when it comes to string sports that
number that body fat that I'm sorry that
body fat percentage number for meals
it's probably like nine ten percent body
fat on the very low end if you're above
now okay you can probably get a little
bit leaner because you're trying to
maximize how much muscle how much lean
tissue you can have in a given weight
class so that tends to be a pretty good
trade-off you start going lower than
that I'll shoot now you're starting to
get in like bodybuilding stage level and
yeah that's probably not gonna be a good
thing for your strength levels 100
percent 5 percent so there's a lot of
situations which in in sports it's just
no longer a good idea to keep going
lower and then what about health well
health you know they're one of the
interesting things is that there's an
incredible broad range of body weights
at any given height that are very very
healthy and they really can't tell apart
and people always think like the middle
value is what you want to shoot for like
with females that are roughly my would
say like you know five four you know
being like 120 pounds means you're in
very good health but you can also be in
very good health at UH 90 pounds at 5-4
especially depending on your frame and
if you got there in a safe way your
features genetically a skinny person you
can just you're 90 pounds and five four
is a female you could be an absolutely
great health and if you are 150 pounds
in five four one 16 either 170 depending
on how much muscle mass you're carrying
you can be an excellent health the best
health you could take a hundred and
seventy pound woman at 5-4 make it lose
15 pounds and she's in no way than to
get healthier so people think like okay
well the average here of healthy weight
is 120 pounds let's say that that's what
I need to be and that's just not true
the range is incredibly large at some
point if you say okay will I lose weight
I'll be healthier a doctor could look at
your chart could be like I wouldn't
really bet on it you know
imagine you know people think that
weight loss is the sort of the panacea
that cures all diseases well if you're
over fat absolutely but if you're no
longer over fat it just doesn't really
do much like if you know you know if
someone comes to me and you know they
let's say they're female they're 130
pounds and they're five foot four and
they're like hey Doc you know like I
want to prove myself what do I do
you know I wouldn't be like it I you
should lose weight
you know like how is your food are you
eating healthy foods or getting lots of
physical activity have you done your
blood work to make sure you're not sick
like those would be my three questions
absolutely because everything else is
like well you look you up and down right
you're clearly not over fat and there's
no reason to think that your body weight
does anything to do with you know at
this point we've forgotten that there
are such big ranges because so much of
America is way to the north of that
range that we all would just assume that
we'll always smaller is better and then
a lot of times that ties into aesthetic
goals which is a little bit more of a
nuanced discussion I think I suppose
we're going there anyway because it's a
myth but it's um what y'all just started
off you know I'm just gonna say - you're
already trending there man - sure so you
know people oftentimes don't sort of
introspect and says exactly what sort of
question are they asking themselves or
what answer they're looking for when
they suspect that they'll look better
when they're of lighter body weight and
then this is he gets into those
relatively polar politically incorrect
although not on any very core test the
offensive way a situation where you
start to examine okay so what do you
mean by look better right and all of a
sudden you think laviticus a very well
defined term but it's not does that mean
you're more sexually attractive to the
people that you want to sexually attract
and and a lot of times people are even
uncomfortable admitting that right so
they'd be like whoa no no it's for me I
don't care about them half the time
they're like it really is for them they
just don't want to admit it when they do
admit it you can ask him dislike so have
you polled the people that are sexually
attracted to you potentially and asks
them like I've talked to a few girls
that I had a ton of respect for in my
life and asked them like for me to be as
hot as possible what body weight would I
be and this was already when I was 220
plus they were like I don't know like
160 to 180 and I'm like I need that you
know cuz I clearly did not get this
jacked for any girls like it was just a
pure egotistical mind trip like I knew
from the get-go right but imagine if I
was losing weight under the suspicion
that tell people find me more attractive
and everyone who's looked at you in a
way that LaRouche he's kind of hot or
he's kind of hot or like
you gain 10 pounds you look perfect like
how do you know you've never perhaps
even passed and then when people say I'm
doing it for myself that's an even
deeper labyrinth to get into it is so
worth getting into before you make the
decision to try to get skinnier because
you can ask yourself like where did
yourself get these ideas there are some
genetic tendencies in humans to always
want to be smaller there are really
stupid genetic tendencies and people
have genetic tendencies to get into
high-risk situations you gotta be an
adult to not do that so if you have
genetic tendencies you just always want
to be skinnier this is a dangerous road
that's gonna cause your life a lot of
suffering even if you don't eventually
get too skinny to be a proper health
right and then some people it's
associate culture among you you know
you've read enough Cosmo magazines or
something to where you think the ideal
look is somebody who weighs like 90
pounds of six foot one there's something
like Photoshop only and that's not a
sustainable look to the actual Barbie
doll and Mike may didn't propose totally
should should be like a non functional
human with not enough space for organs
right and he'd be like you're missing
eight ribs I don't know how that works
but like so so that's the thing and then
some people come from family structures
or from friendship structures that maybe
they're all for the best meant but the
sort of toxic you know and this is such
a it's such a cross-cultural Universal
that it's not even the one culture how
many grandmas tell their granddaughters
various little snippets of lose weight
or be skinny but I'm aware of no culture
on this person which grandma's not like
Stacy you're looking a little thick
maybe like that's what grandma's and
Russia do I'll tell you that and they'll
tell it to all their granddaughters
they're not even related to them like
that's just a thing and it's the thing
that grandma's do to their daughters
that do to their daughters and grandma
does it's the grant it's this culture of
just sort of toxicity and there was a
quote we learned in college which is it
was supposed to be like a quote that was
wrong on both counts it's clearly on the
wrong on one it was this like countess
some countess or something said you
could never be too rich or too thin and
like the absolutely can never be too
rich that is absolutely the most
objective state meeting ever make
there's no such thing as too rich that's
actually true but no you can never be
too thin is the completely absurd
statement you can
from being too thin and before you die
your life is awful because all of your
life is involved in dieting and dieting
and dining restricting any pleasure and
having nutrient deficiencies and having
low energy and this entire time because
you can never be too thin you always
hate yourself
it just leads absolutely nowhere good so
that whole process can be subverted by a
lot of self work by a lot of emotional
work by speaking to people by really
letting your thoughts be heard and sort
of coming to an understanding of look
like at the end of the day who is
interested in being around me for my
appearance I'm gonna attract great
people at every level of appearance that
I am the modern world is an enormous
place and especially it's a social media
it doesn't matter what size you are
you're gonna have people that like you
one way or another like I don't know if
you need ten thousands boyfriends right
but you just need one probably in one
girlfriend or one whatever so it's okay
to be anyway - people will still like
you especially for the valuable things
about you which have nothing to do with
your weight right so you could be any
way you want on that hell on that front
and then what about health well clearly
don't be a weight that's unhealthy and
if you perform a sport being weight
that's pretty close to optimal for the
sport and at the end of the day the
aesthetic stuff is something you could
work on and you can be as aesthetically
pleasing as you like to yourself just be
rational about it calm and deliberate
instead of doing things on impulse
because people love to be like oh I
gotta get skinnier that's good if
everyone's gonna approve of that you
know turns out most people just don't
care and the people that do care don't
care about you or how thin you are they
care that you're happy and healthy and
they know that you like your sport and
they want you to succeed in your sport
so you know like there is no
Cosmopolitan magazine video camera
following you around everywhere
the girls are super obsessed a lot of
times with how much they weigh I've
never seen a guy ask a girl how much he
weighed with any interest whatsoever
outside of the athletic context guys
only care about how you look and for
this matter girls that are injured girls
only care about how you look and that's
to them and everyone has a different
template of what they're looking for so
if you like wanted to be 120 pounds
forever you felt like crap going down
120 your clothes are falling off you see
bones sticking out
when I get 120 pounds I'll have
happiness that is the biggest lie in the
world there's no guarantee that
whatsoever so just do you come to grips
without you want to look be healthy
about it there's a huge range for
healthy weight so you could be thick
Alysha sand you can be skinny licious
and everything in between and then the
sport that's the easiest part because
you just talk to your coach and if it's
a good coach you don't look you need to
gain 10 pounds to being really good
power Westerner like yes I'm gaining and
if you're ok with that
on a calathea that checks the health box
and it checks the euro Cayman looking
like that box it's all gravy so we
actually covered that with with Mattie
Rodgers and she backed that up because
when we started working with her she was
trying to get down to a 63 class and it
just it wasn't good and I I didn't I
didn't it wasn't my part to tell her
that but her coach and her very smartly
decided that it was much better to go up
to the 60 kilo class sure yeah you can
fight tooth and nail to get to weight
classes your bone structure she's not
designed to be you know optimally and
you can even be she was amazing at 63
like she was a you know national
arranged everything she yeah right
exactly she was better and have your
weight class link and people always
think like oh well if I'm great at 63 I
gotta be even better in the 50 somewhere
like that's just not true right there's
no there's no good reason to think that
but we all have her bias he's and the
funny thing is this like sounds like
I've just been ragging on females this
entire time and all that just wanna get
skinny you know which is statistically
true on average it's not true for
remotely close to all females but
there's a bias there with men the biases
the other way around you ask a guy how
big he wants to be using at least 400
you know they the bigger the better
right and they they do this thing where
it's like you know people want to people
think we could have done another myth
that people think smaller is always
better for a lot of guys if you think
bigger is always better you know the
number of people that have stopped
giving her crap bust how big I was it's
currently infinite as far as much side
I've gained you know and it's all just a
personal journey and there is no good
and bad in this thing at the end of the
day this watching you and social media
is this big illusion and you can turn it
off if you want and how you want to be
however you want to be as long as you're
healthy as long as you're okay with
whatever sport performance you get
yourself into that whole aesthetic thing
and how skinny you want to be in isn't
always better to be skinnier it's just
not always better to be skinnier I mean
just
last little plea here is you can think
of you know like that you know this is
maybe resonate with some folks it's that
woman that you know she's um she's your
your your your husband's friend at work
his life we go to dinner parties at the
house everyone again at barbecues and
she's like so lean and so thin and she's
so beautiful
anja like man marcy god she's just how
old is she 48 what like she's a mortal
how is she doing this like I wish I was
her pause you have no idea what her
internal mental life is like it could be
good we're not here to fit shame or
skinny shame she could literally just
leave Rockstar and she's just that thin
and that's who she is and she barely
works word or she works hard and it's
totally cool she could be on a hamster
wheel of insanity in there she could be
abusing various drugs to get to that
body weight folks I'm not hopefully
telling anyone things they don't already
know they could be a house of cards like
being she died or up and down psychosis
yelling if the husband throwing things
throwing things at yourself and you're
like I wish I was Marcie and she would
come up to me like you don't wish you or
me trust me you're like but I have 20
more pounds on you she's like that's all
I matter so you're good right and but
like people it's I think sometimes when
we think about body weight we all go
back to middle school with like oh my
god Stacy's so thin I wish I could be
here you're not a middle school anymore
stop trying to be other people do you as
best as you can and if that means your
little thicker then we'll Sarah that's
so totally cool you may be the person
that's 20 pounds heavier than Marcie at
that barbecue but you're eating the
chicken fingers that they made and the
hotdogs and you're playing with your
kids because they have all his energy
and you're loving life and you notice
like wow she's so beautiful
I noticed she's only drinking diet coke
and she hasn't done anything well that's
the thing
she hasn't eaten anything in a week
because that's how she stays that thin
she's miserable she hates it or she
loves it and it's super awesome or
anything in between so a lot of times
people see these folks and maybe not
even in real life but on Instagram
social media a lot of times these people
get super lean they'll take pictures
themselves with their food like cheese
burger cheese look at my
could you get your abs doing that like
no I get my abs abusing drugs and being
psychotic and now I took this one
picture to make you see that I'm happy
because my supplement sponsor wants me
to sell supplements like that's what it
comes down to don't fall for the myth do
you as best as you can and really quick
hack hack tip here if you want to learn
more about this kind of stuff and the
validity of the the idea that you can
have health and a bunch of different
sizes and potentially focusing on health
behaviors as a little bit better than
over separating how much do I weigh with
this number what's this number just be
healthy and literally well eat well and
train to coach RP coach dr. Gabriel from
norovirus PhD on instagram has tons of
writings about this makes tons of videos
and she's the go-to gal for looking at
the stuff from the other side of the
coin because there's a big other side of
crazy Instagram nonsense that you could
start to think everyone wants you to be
as skinny as possible and it's just not
true
yeah just don't get caught comparing
yourself though there's just really the
main takeaway there cuz you don't know
their stories man and that's the thing
on social media just getting the
highlights anyways and mm-hmm I mean I'm
not nearly as I don't have as many good
examples that you can of you know crazy
marcy over there husband might be I want
to be like Marcy and Marcy's husband's
gone you know please love God I'll trade
with anyone out of my life seriously
that Marcy example I think that that is
like a painful part of so many women's
lives so the v40 endless comparison you
know to somebody else
someone's better than you you know with
their weight or their whatever and like
it's just it's traumatic I swear for so
many women well yeah I isn't that a big
part of what so where he's been taking
an online class in that a big part of it
mm-hm
yeah yeah it's just it's all about you
know happiness and and where happiness
comes from and just comparing to other
people is terrible can you guess what
where happiness comes from please do
happiness comes from comparing yourself
to other people so much that the self
hatred drives you to be the skinniest
person in the world and then when you
would
that instantly ascent to godlike bliss
level of perfect happiness forever did I
get it right nailed it
thank you I knew it yeah yeah so you
just you have to spend every waking
moment on Instagram following like $10
roll faster you can scroll the better
make sure you feel really bad with
everything that you see and then just
keep doing it because you don't you're
not a good person yet you don't deserve
to feel good yet how are you supposed to
have this good life we know deep down
inside you never deserved it yes but
once you lose a bunch of weight you'll
yo feel great 135 you don't deserve any
happiness at 129 yeah you're just
walking on water that's right
can do no wrong problem solved yeah
that's how technically that's how you
know millionaire bachelors meet their
wives like excuse me ma'am how much do
you weigh she's like one 29.9 here sorry
that runs off to 130 next I would say
true happiness is having a weight room
in your living room
true happiness is a loaded barbell
brother yeah that's really interesting
man just kind of going down that rabbit
hole of comparing yourself and here's
the thing we're all guilty of it though
worse yeah and there's no need to feel
guilty it's the thing that happens you
know like we all want to eat junk food
we'll have to go around guilty about
that but you don't always stuff your
face with junk food and there's like
psychological junk food that you can eat
they sell it up the same store or
7-eleven sells actual junk food and
Cosmo magazines you know like you can
you can eat both and really overdo it
and start to buy it in mostly just you
know and the thing is like it's all a
spectrum if there's no wrong answers so
like like is there anything wrong with
being a model no is there anything wrong
with these skinny absolutely not but
like if it's causing an immense amount
of psychological pain to try to diet and
change yourself to be skinny just know
that there's actually no light at the
end of that rainbow can you imagine just
pick some other completely arbitrary
goal and insert it into yourself like
into your mind and see if that make any
sense you imagine like a society or
being the number one handball player was
everything everyone wanted to be the
best handball player ever and like you
make it Laurie got like to visiting this
country and they're like hey welcome to
our hotel
Hanne Boel score ranking if your life no
I don't know what it is they're like oh
my god how do how do you live your life
you're like I don't I don't know what
handball is and I honestly don't care
and they're like well you're awful at it
doesn't that bother you like what no
there are people and I mean this that
look at their body weight that are
perfectly health is a perfectly fit
their perfume great sports they look at
their body weight as a number in that
same way like they'll be like see you in
132 really yes what do you think about
that like what do I think about a series
of three numbers what am I supposed to
buy I don't know do you tell me that
actually is incredibly psychologically
healthy so you know sometimes we may get
caught up and trying to be skinny here
trying to be super jacked we're getting
caught up a number of body weeks you
imagine aliens coming down to earth and
being like hello you're like Hello alien
like how much do you weigh
you're like 200 is that good they're
like what do you mean good you're like I
don't know like aliens impressed they're
like the mass of human does not impress
us in any dimension and you're like
right that was I should have known that
I'm sorry and that baby we made a you
know a blob feel you knew that was
coming
they weren't gonna let us on fire oh man
dr. Mike always an adventure when we go
down this ends with aliens block into
the aliens blowing up stuff but now that
was that was good because I think we
tackled a lot of myths in that they I
mean they all kind of tie together with
the way we approach things a little bit
when it comes to dieting because it all
does interrelate and I can't wait for
that article to come out about the app
because I kind of come out I do you
think don't you worry don't you worry
about my car it's currently in editing
so you got to ask our various other RP
employees
Carolyn Sonja Mel maybe maybe Mel most
Davis said RP always has her hands in
everything she is the once we make the
our P mechanical octopus - swallows
though for the earth it's probably gonna
be like Melissa Davis's face on it
hey dark get used to say Roger she does
jiu-jitsu that's what jiu-jitsu animal
the octopus is a jujitsu mask
I haven't trained your Jitsu in so long
now man mmm that stinks
bring it out I don't bring it up it's a
sore subject see yeah I have had more
time to devote to other things though
that's right there we go sighs but that
was good man
so there's some myths there that we've
tackled I think people are really gonna
like that especially that stuff about
the super dieters to find that
particularly fascinating but there's
more to say on those who want another
episode on super diet early Oh a whole
other we have a whole lot of other
articles only looking at super dieters
well I can't wait to dig into that and
chat a little bit more about it and get
into the data and find out what
particular traits mates those people
their most successful yeah we found that
people named Nick Shaw way better than
everyone else
I mean Lori Shaw people like my
character they're like I'm not even on
there cuz I get excluded from the
analysis for not being good enough oh
boy but no that's good let's let's call
that one a wrap for today because we're
already at about an hour ten so we'll
get back and we'll tackle some other
myths in a future episode and let's make
sure that we get some questions and
maybe some other myths to tackle from
folks online we can get back at it I
will do more of these more to come
more Mythbusters thanks dr. Biden thanks
for having me on folks um again I will
continue to email you and call you to
beg to the eyes ahem when your
charitable slash don't have anyone else
in the slaughter think of me deal there
we go deal for everyone to turn in
listening thank you so much we
appreciate if you want to hop out and
give us a review or something on iTunes
or wherever you listen to the podcast we
really do appreciate it and you know
send dr. Mike myself or Lori Instagram
message although Mike doesn't check his
direct messages so I'm sure there's some
interesting stuff in there Pandora's box
but yeah we appreciate it we'll take
some questions there on future podcast
and get after it but again thanks for
tuning in until next time see you next
time guys
[Music]
[Applause]
you