what's going on everyone good morning
today Stephanie and I are here at dr.
bill Campbell's lab again so we had to
get up super early to come in to do the
metabolic rate testing body composition
analysis and water composition by
electrical impedance just because we had
to be fasted and if we drank any water
or ate anything we throw the results off
a little bit
there's going to be a lot of time I see
a Chinese guys when we get those it yeah
see you next week
hi I'm Jeff yeah any like we should I
said while I was being help me get a
quick question for ya are you re
commandos we can work around that
imagine being used early the tech is
about 15 minutes your job is to just
relax
try to breathe normal do so you know you
are getting a lot of fresh air
represented all right so what you're
going to do now is is this for the next
60 minutes and then the test is done
that's it you want to get a shot of this
this is the result yeah okay so this is
my resting metabolic rate if you were to
do knocking all day let's sit in a chair
for 24 hours it would take about 2031
calories just to keep your functions
going - what this doesn't include is you
going to the bathroom eating working out
so obviously the amount of calories you
need which you probably know how many
calories you yes yeah probably I would
guess probably somewhere around 3000 yes
yeah so that's what you need to maintain
your body so if you any ate this you
as she was right right right now this is
interesting this 115 Bremen and we were
to predict without measuring what your
resting metabolic rate would be it would
be less than this you actually have a an
elevated metabolism the right excess can
you carry a lot of muscles right you eat
a lot of food and you exercise how many
days per week six 70s so those are the
things that if somebody wants a fast
metabolism they need a lot of food and
they're active spritely right right it's
very interesting I'm a little bit
surprised by this result just because I
have a feeling that if you were to do
this test why let's say like in the
later stages of a contest private I'm
getting very lean I bet you it would be
less than a hundred percent it would
almost yes there's no doubt you would be
lower yeah yeah yeah and even relative
to like averages I think it would be low
because I had to die it on low calories
but when I'm in my options are meeting a
lot monitamon is really funny I can get
away with eating more and then the other
thing to consider we did one test but
this were a research study probably do
another test and take the lower value it
sounds about right though based on what
I eat and what I would get effect it to
be it sounds about dead-arm
you mind if I just ask a couple quick
questions so first what is the or the
name of this technology this is called a
cosmos that make Pro and it's made out
of Italy I've never actually heard of
that so it's interesting does it have
like is that's a commercial name or that
like what you call it that steps that is
read over so many okay so this device is
hooked up to me I breathe into it what
is it measuring so essentially what it's
doing is telling you how many calories
you burn over an entire day there's two
ways to do that one way is called direct
calorimetry so we're measuring your
calorie calorie is so it's essentially
you can measure your metabolism through
heat production we call that direct
calorimetry we did not do that we use
another method that's called indirect
calorimetry weather measures so what
this machine does it measures how much
oxygen you can send the nice thing about
this method is for every liter of oxygen
that you can
soon or that I consume it expends about
five calories of energy so that's the
process or the mechanism for how we're
estimating your metabolic rate the test
took 17 minutes why that duration and
not say a minute or two one this is a
research grade machine so it there are
devices out there that will claim to do
it in a minute or two but you always
want to have a period of time where
you're settled down where you're maybe a
little nervous if you walk to the
facility by you throw beers you want
time where your heart rate goes down
there's anything that teacher you
elevated it's going to give you a false
elevated metabolic rate right let's go
first answer the second answer is two
minutes of this are just calibration the
actual test is 15 minutes the first five
minutes of that it's data that's just
thrown out again we're just trying to
get a nice consistent oxygen consumption
for the last 10 minutes we take an
average okay everything will breath you
to attach action that's where you can
feel good about the day to day yeah yeah
because I was a little bit concerned at
the beginning I was like I help a little
bit claustrophobic with a mask on and I
was like probably was like taking in
bigger breasts but after a couple
minutes I like totally so damaged yeah
but that was all jump data anyways and
something else I would say for people
that want to get this done don't go to a
facility that will do it after lunch or
nice every time you eat food it raised
in trailers but this has to be done in
the morning you know the stupid turned
out the life is was black in here
anything we can do to keep you relaxed
that's why the lights are off okay that
was good I know you're laying down oh
that's for that fun yes thank you so
Stephanie just got her body fat
percentage tested and she shredded I got
triggered
I better just gas times between 18 and
20 percent last night yeah yeah but next
year striations and imma change my mind
so actually 13.6% RSS and according to
this you were like nine or something
right eight point nine and thirteen
according to the other one I'm going to
get mine but now yes
yeah what Stephanie's date of birth oh
you're killing me so this device is
called bodymetrix yes and it differs
from calipers and that you also have the
ultrasound is that right yes but
basically they will take skinfold
measurements as sort of like a
comparison to the ultrasound so just to
make sure that nothing is really out of
whack the software takes into account
the ultrasound measurements my weight
and gender and athletic type and then it
takes all the data from the ultrasound
and spits out a number from the
algorithm which in my case ended up
being 7.5%
it was always lower than what you guys
had general dissipated and sing with me
and when I got my DEXA done a couple
months ago even 8.4 I have to look back
on a single x point 63 and now is 169
here of doing yourself a whole yeah a
lot of it is probably really useful for
parents or so yeah you had to yeah yeah
if you have the same machine same
conditions pair yourself over time
you're going to be able to accurately
track changes but you might not
necessarily be able to pin down a
completely accurate first measurement
even taught us how you did a really good
job
granted you actually complete your shirt
out of my right oh yeah I mean it's just
eight electrodes right okay I know we
need you to lay down 47% of
start straight simple apology to every
living expanding your fluid shift coming
in your body based on gravity reasoning
have you lay down as someone on their
cellar water engine so this is called
dia or file a trophy okay although it's
mostly a matter of total body water in
and also categorizing the intranet
you're collecting art right machine is
going to read it the resistance of the
electricity travels through your body
you does estimate the total amount of
water in your body this particular
machine is very fancy it is able to read
extracellular water versus extracellular
water it will subtract the extra soda
from this whole body water and you do an
estimate of where that water is in your
body so this took the test of 17 times
or that 18 seconds I doubt this is the
result here if estimated your rugby over
to express or hopeful as a result yeah I
was 2,000 something in here heat around
a little bit lower but still in the same
ballpark that's specifically skeletal
muscle mass because always important to
remember that fat free mass is not just
waffle Abreu and its origins you know
I'm not 169 pounds of pure muscle no yes
that is a lot of fat free mass out of
that is is bad that's why we're
seeing obviously the best guesstimation
pretty low from what we estimated with
the ultrasound but it seems about
consistently lower though because it was
about the same perception so still
probably pretty good for tracking
changes yeah it'll be really inaccurate
right right so I have 33 litres of water
inside my fella 20 litres outside myself
my total body water is 53 liters so I'm
70% water right composition that's
pretty crazy but also good about a water
and it sounds like that's a lot
extracellular Lee but I guess a lot of
that is that doesn't just mean it's
under my skin like whether you are like
extracellular means you're holding water
under your skin it's also like between
your organs and just everywhere that
would really words or cells like blood
volume all right so this is very cool if
I miss this could like inform future
stuff about peaking in a in a way that I
don't think anyone is really doing it
hopefully that was informative we're
going to go for a
work out now at the lab gym where
they're doing a 1 rep max testing study
of some sort 9:30 so this is their new
piece of equipment the last day we're in
here this hadn't arrived yet but this is
a new piece of prime equipment this is
similar to the one that I used with Josh
Vogel at mi40 so you can load different
parts of the range of motion more or
less heavily by adjusting this cam I'm
assuming flavors of raspberry lemonade
and then you mix a few raspberry
lemonade hydrographer raspberry lemonade
hug line one screw to screw right you
guys this workout was more or less a fun
freestyled workout where stephanie and i
wanted to play around some of the labs
equipment and just get a good pump
without having to worry about following
a set structure for that day so just
keep that in mind but what I do want to
comment on is my body fat percentage
results and what they mean and how to
interpret them I think James Krieger
nailed this one when he compared getting
a body fat percentage analysis to
getting a weather report when a
weatherman report to whether he's
reporting a prediction not a measurement
and the only way to truly measure one's
body fat is to have them die and run an
autopsy but then someone wants their
body fat percentage that badly the best
that we can do is predict what it might
be all the technologies that we do have
have fairly large error rates and I'll
just cover the few that I've done
personally I'll start with the
bioelectrical impedance it's really good
for measuring water but not for body fat
because the electrical current will take
the path of least resistance which
generally is not through fat implying
that if you have a lot of fat under your
skin it might just completely miss it
which is why BIA tends to under predict
body fat just like it did in my case
with the 3% body fat measurements it's
also based off of a manufacturer's
estimate based on a group of people who
had their body sets measured using
another method so it's basically an
estimate of an estimate in a study on
body builders it's been shown to have an
error rate as high as 8% so basically
it's plausible that I could be as high
as 11% or hell maybe even higher who
knows the ultrasound method gave me a
body fat percentage of 7.5% which was
obviously closer to where I'd expect to
be than 3
but likely still an underestimate a few
studies have suggested that there is
generally strong agreement between this
bodymetrix ultrasound device that we
used in skin folds the 2014 paper in
obese and overweight subjects showed
that 21 percent of the time it under
predicted body fat by greater than four
percent so just using that four percent
figure as a rough ballpark again I could
be as high as 11.5 percent finally like
I mentioned in the blog I did have a
DEXA scan done four months ago I weighed
in just over a hundred and sixty three
pounds that day and my body fat was 8.4
percent which basically means I gained
about six pounds and lost a percent of
body fat in that time frame according to
these results so this seems really
unlikely and again you need to use the
same measurement tool to be able to
track changes accurately like that
James Krieger cites some research on his
blog which I've linked in the
description that estimates an average
error rate of one to two percent of the
DEXA but one study and body builders
showed individual error rates as high as
four percent so running with the least
charitable numbers for me of four
percent that could be as high as twelve
point four percent and I think it's
worth noting that DEXA tends to be less
reliable in leaner populations so like
bodybuilders for example so ultimately
pulling all of these results together it
looks like my body fat is somewhere in
the 3 to 12 percent range and I'll just
finish by saying that I think it's a bit
trivial to make assumptions of what
someone's body fat percentage is based
on how they look just because of how
crude our current technology is anyway I
personally find that it's better to
shoot for a goal physique based off of
visual factors just assessing how you
look or having a coach do it for you
tracking your body weight over time and
perhaps most importantly progressing in
the gym if you do have access to
technology to measure body fat
percentage use it to track changes and
don't get bogged down with standalone
measurements which is how it's generally
used in an exercise science lab setting
anyway ok so I hope the workout
voiceover was informative and I'll see
you guys in the next clip before I
personally find
I'm sorry to feel more natural for me
it's like that word heavy at the bottom
I'm going to get a little easier throat
feels so good
love it yeah such a competition movie
going on everyone first just want to
thank you so much for watching the video
I hope that you liked it a couple quick
things first if you like the video like
the video subscribe to my channel if you
haven't already stephanie has a female
version of all this so all the results
of her testing is on her channel so I'll
put a link to that in the description
also please show dr. bill candle some
love not all academic institutions are
as generous with their time and
resources that she was so I just want to
thank you so much would give me a lot of
pleasure if you guys went and checked
out his Instagram become such as Bill
Campbell PhD all one word I've also got
his Instagram link in the description so
go please check it out he's doing some
awesome work also Stephanie is going to
be part of a clean study that has to do
with the $10,000 a challenge in taking
measurements before and after ok that
means that I have to actually do a
10,000 how that is amazing also the glue
science explained video my most popular
video ever if you guys haven't seen it
yet check that one out thank you guys so
much once again for watching I'll see
you next video
[Music]