[Music]
hey guys it's Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and we are gonna do
another episode sponsored by Bob
treadmill today I'm gonna be working
with borrow if you haven't worked with
it before it is a really good earthy
brain that you'll definitely want to try
so today we're gonna do a shredded
chicken dish with porcini mushrooms
arugula and the far-out so the first
thing you want to do is get your pan
going over medium and what I did was
these are dried porcini mushrooms so
when you get them they're hard and dried
out
put them in a bowl cover them with hot
water all the way covered like you're
gonna use the water later so it doesn't
matter if you you don't have to skimp on
the water go ahead and cover them so
they're 100% submerged in the hot water
and then just let them sit for about 30
minutes once you once they've sat for 30
minutes go ahead and pour them through a
strainer for the mushrooms and the juice
through a strainer but save that soaking
liquid because that's gonna add a lot of
flavor to the dish so definitely save
that you do not want to lose it so
strain that out then rinse the mushrooms
a couple of times squeeze them out so
most of the moisture is gone and then
you're ready to move on from there so we
did that so I saved some of the soaking
liquid for later and this is what I had
left so I'm gonna start with that we're
gonna add it to our pan over medium and
this is just because we're not gonna use
oil in this recipe and so you just want
to always have liquid in the pan so
stuff doesn't burn and stick so we're
gonna add some shallots in charlotte's
if you've never cooked with those
definitely want to check those out they
are just a much more mild version of an
onion I cook with them all the time
because I don't like onions all that
much but these are just much more mild
so they're my family likes them better
so we're gonna saute that with some
fresh rosemary
tons of great smells already happening
in the pan and then are soaked mushrooms
and you want to get that all going I'm
cooking up and you're gonna let this
cook for about ten minutes because we
want those shallots to soften we want
everything to start to come together the
rosemary is really gonna start to come
alive in here in this heat
so just let that cook for about 10
minutes so farro is a very hard grain
and you want to soak it overnight again
when you soak it just covered in water
you're not going to save any of that
soaking water so it doesn't matter how
much you use so this is a cup of farro I
just covered it in water cover the top
with saran wrap and stuck it in my
fridge overnight and it'll just absorb
some of that liquid then you come in the
next day drain all of that excess liquid
off and now you're ready to cook the
farro so we've got our soaked farro in
there and this is chicken broth and
we're just gonna add the chicken broth
in and we're gonna let this come to a
simmer and simmer for about 10 minutes
but now I'm gonna add some tomato paste
to this both thicken it up make it even
more rich okay so after your 10 minutes
of simmering we're gonna take this off
the heat and strain out all the excess
water and then I'm going to throw in
some seasonings seasonings for the farro
so just like a pinch of a few different
things here I've got nutritional yeast
which is sort of like a person that
can't have dairies form of cheese so
like a Parmesan cheese it's kind of
cheesy tasting and then I've got some
turmeric I'm just gonna put a pinch of
that in some dehydrated onions stick
those in and the heat from the farro
will soften those up so we'll put those
in some dried parsley
whenever you use dried herbs I always
put them in my hand and go like this and
rub your hands together and that like
releases kind of all those trapped
flavors where the dried herbs have been
in a jar for a really long time if you
do that you can smell it instantly it
just really wakes up the flavor
I always do that with dried herbs and
then this is some porcini powder we've
got this going it's nice and thick we're
gonna add in some cooked chicken a
[Music]
couple of handfuls of arugula and you
know what happens to greens when you put
them and they wilt it looks like a ton
when it goes in the pan and then it
wilts and it's not that much at all
[Music]
smells so good you guys are gonna love
this give it a shot at home hope you
like it
[Music]