[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm gonna show
you a recipe from my second cookbook the
Renaissance feast
this is deli turkey tacos and this
recipe like most of mine has a story
behind it it was like a late-night meal
I was like man I was really hungry on a
cut and I really wanted tacos and I knew
I couldn't have any carbs so I just
started playing around with deli meat
and ended up sort of making a taco wrap
a tortilla type shape out of deli meat
and it was so good and it doesn't take
hardly any time it's like a few minutes
in under the broiler and it's done so I
wanted to to show it to you today and
how easy it is so we're gonna go ahead
and get our pan rocking and rolling here
we're gonna saute some veggies so I'm
gonna do some olive oil in the pan I
don't use salsa in this because it's
just really watery
and as you can imagine this is deli
sliced turkey meat and veggies so you
there's nothing really to soak up the
liquid there's no tortilla there's no
bread to soak anything up so I like the
Pico instead of salsa I'm gonna add in
our veggies salt and pepper in here I
just let that all soften and come
together all right I'm gonna go ahead
and add in the spinach leaves
just kind of get those down in the pan
so as you can see you get to sneak a lot
of veggies into this so this is a
perfect recipe when all you get is
protein and veggies now I did if there
is fat in this because we're gonna use
cheese and because I used olive oil but
if you cannot have fats and you just
need a protein and veggie meal on your
templates and that's what you're looking
for just use a really good nonstick pan
saut√© the veggies and a little bit of
chicken broth or beef stock or something
like that and then you could always use
like a nonfat feta you know a fat-free
feta cheese or just no cheese so I'm
gonna turn this off pull it off the heat
you can see our spinach isn't all the
way wilted so that'll happen just with
residual heat as it's sitting here so
now we get to the assembly portion so I
took a glass high plate and I sprayed it
with cooking spray so what nothing's
gonna stick to that and I'm gonna grab
my deli turkey slices so this is eight
slices of deli turkey it doesn't have to
be extra thick or thin there's nothing
special about it
you're just gonna overlap two of these
so if you can see this I've got the one
on my right is underneath the one on the
left so you put the one on the right
down you put the one on the left on top
of it so there's some overlap there so
that now you can fold it and it's not
going to come apart on you so just
overlap two pieces for each taco so
we're just going to take some of the
veggies
[Music]
down the center line
[Music]
try to leave most of the liquid behind
if you can it's okay if some gets in
here and while it's hot I'm gonna put my
cheese on so that starts to melt get
your pie plate close and just fold it in
half and now you have a side that you
can just use to pick up and just
transfer it to your plate fold it over
pick it up so it's kind of like a taco
and the name and these are gonna like
char a little bit under the broiler
they're gonna be black I can guarantee
you mine were when I photographed them
for the cookbook but they don't taste
burnt it's just a function of being
under the broiler and having that thin
deli meat under like a super hot heat
source but don't worry about it
it's not going to taste burned and
you'll know that after the first time
you make them and then you won't worry
about it ever again so that's it I'm
gonna stick them under the broiler for
like three minutes and just stay close
and keep an eye on it to make sure
nothing scary happens with the broiler
cuz it's you know some pretty brutal
heat but it's just going to really take
this over the edge so I'm gonna pop it
in under the broiler and then I'll show
you what it looks like when it's done
all right guys so here they are
our deli turkey tacos right out from
under the broiler I told you they'd
blacken right here on the corners if you
actually like that blackened which I
kind of do you can even leave it in a
little longer but these you know they
start to crisp up and curl up and they
get you know tougher a little bit more
solid so they hold up better they're so
good
smell amazing so I'm just gonna put some
more cheese on fresh cilantro on the top
but obviously if you put more cheese on
you gotta count them a cruise it's not
free but the best purpose okay
I'm gonna do a little salsa I've got to
give it a try let me know anything