hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization today's topic
is asking a question is trt right for
you
times like this I wish I was a trt
clinic salesman but I am not this is a
big important choice so let's give it
some due diligence
in this talk today we will talk about a
few things first we're going to talk
about what trt is
what trt seeks to accomplish as a
medical therapy
what happens when hypogonatal
individuals who do not produce enough
testosterone by themselves
what happens when hypogonadal folks are
administered trt typically what their
results are
what happens when you go natal folks
that have a normal amount of natural
testosterone production what happens
when they get trt
what the downsides are of trt and how to
make your choice based on your situation
and all of the stuff that we're going to
talk about today so here we go
trt is testosterone replacement therapy
and it is the introduction of usually
injectable testosterone in order to
account for a sub-optimal production of
endogenous testosterone that you make
yourself basically
your nuts don't make enough tests so we
need to shoot more into you so that the
total amount gets to be nice and high
High Enough
to make it normal
so that you get a normal human exposure
to testosterone which you're currently
not getting
that's all trt seeks to accomplish is to
get you back up to normal levels such
that you are functioning optimally from
a perspective of Health physically
psychologically sexually
Etc
it is not designed to get you ripped and
jacked out of your mind and in most
cases it simply won't do that because it
is replacement therapy not enhancement
therapy
very important point that I will no
doubt come back to at least one more
time
here's the thing if you are hypogonadal
and you receive testosterone replacement
therapy
you can expect on average some results
to occur
hypogonatal or folks or folks that under
produce testosterone for a variety of
reasons it could just be genetic
usually by large margin in the United
States at least we use the reference
range of 300 to 1000 nanograms per
deciliter of testosterone in the blood
and you're considered hypogonadal if you
are below 300 nanograms per deciliter
when hypogonal males receive
supplementary testosterone in the form
of replacement therapy they're almost
always brought into that 300 to a
thousand range somewhere in there
when that happens and originally they
were below 300 a lot of times people get
improved sexual function Often by a long
shot you get boners again you want to do
things with them that whole situation
your mood and sleep and sense of
well-being tend to become elevated maybe
like you remember them in high school or
something if the hypogonadal condition
occurred to you later in life
your energy and cognitive performance
improves substantially
your blood work improves from a health
perspective and so do other health
markers
and yes you are able to accrete and
meaningfully hold sorry accrete and hold
a meaningfully larger amount of muscle
and less body fat yes it will give you
results if you are hypogonatal to begin
with
now what happens when you go naddle
people eugenatal means true gonadal real
nuts that's really what it means
um when you produce a normal amount of
testosterone somewhere in that 300 to a
thousand range and you start taking trt
instead
predictably nothing noteworthy happens
because you didn't change your
testosterone exposure much or hardly at
all and that's kind of fucking obvious
because you're trying to replace
something that was there anyway you're
producing normal range naturally and
then you took an injection that
suppressed that normal production to
zero and now you're at the same amount
except through injection
natural or injection same testosterone
levels and same results roughly speaking
now
there's a Nuance to that
if you're at 350 nanograms per deciliter
just above the cutoff and your doctor
prescribes you an amount that's like
north of 700 then you will feel
potentially some of those positives but
also some negatives
to that end
some doctors those unscrupulous types
will prescribe you a very top end to
just above top end trt
so instead of taking you from 150
nanograms as hypogonadal or from 400
nanograms as a eugenatal male
to something like five or six hundred
they will take you to 800 to 1200
possibly even you know 1100 or something
over a thousand or close to it
in that case
if you were below that range to begin
with which you probably were you will
very likely see increases in sexual
function and desire some of which you
could consider inconvenient you will
probably have a higher degree of
alertness as well as athletic
performance and much notably better body
composition you will be able to put on
more muscle faster lose fat faster and
more completely stay leaner all that
good stuff
however your health markers are likely
to decline marginally because you are
now taking in lots and lots of
testosterone and your tendency towards
frustration aggression and anxiety can
by a small or even not small notable
margin go up bad side effects right
because drumroll you are in a super
physiological state
absolutely super physiological if we
talk about the reference range of above
a thousand and relatively super
physiological which is the only one that
counts if your body was humming along
just fine producing 400 and now you're
at 1200 you just multiplied your test
exposure by three
some of those effects are going to be
positive some are almost certainly going
to be negative that is not replacement
that is enhancement nominally you say
you're on trt but really you are on that
good shit that gear gear
that's not trt anymore because you're
not replacing 1200
you're replacing 400 with 1200. not trt
by name yes by effect absolutely not
all right but okay
that sounds pretty sweet kind of
if I get trt it could you know when I
have a good doctor and a sort of buddy
buddy with I could get to the top end of
the range let's say 900 or something
nanograms death leader and I'll have all
good things yes so everyone should be on
trt yes now hold on a second there are
some downsides first
you have to shoot yourself either daily
or weekly or bi-weekly with various size
needles some of which are quite large
and that's not fun
in addition to that you have to travel
with your gear because if you go on a
holiday in two weeks and Mallorca Spain
that's easy is it is that Spain I hope
I hope
rich people holidays two weeks at a time
you got to bring your shit with you
because if you don't you're hypogonadal
by the end of that two weeks and you
feel like total shit even though you're
in fucking Lush Wilderness or whatever
the fuck you go to Vacation traveling
with your blows especially
internationally because they're like
what the fuck is that and you're like
your scripts and they stand around for
five minutes out of here
or longer than five minutes and then you
get the whole probe
it's fun but not for everyone
another thing is
shooting exogenous substances into your
body is interesting in theory but in
practice a lot of times your immune
system will be like what the fuck is
that it'll give you big like red welts
and you'll get a fever and all sorts of
shit they'll swell up on you it's
terrible in real life shooting is a
gigantic pain in the ass the only people
that are excited about shooting drugs
are Tick-Tock teenagers have never shot
drugs before and everyone else is like
yeah it's the thing you do at best
number two your natural production
plummets to zero after
several weeks at most of exposure to trt
and unless you take HCG and maybe a few
other drugs along with that your natural
production will completely deteriorate
to nothing oftentimes your testicles
shrink too very close to nothing and
that's not itself I suppose a big
problem but if you ever want to come off
of trt then
your rebound is going to be at least a
little bit fun in the not fun way you
could be low in testosterone for months
and months and months until you come
back out
and some people actually never get their
natural production back it's very small
number of people but it does exist
so it's just a whole lot of risk and
pain in the ass
that you better know what you're signing
up for before you sign up for that shit
that's what I'm trying to say
number three downside is your mood can
swing up and down with injections
so injections have uh a temp a small
amount or a moderate amount of the drug
just circulates to the bloodstream
within the next several hours in a
larger amount of the drug stays within
the depot the bolus itself and leeches
out slower if you inject intramuscularly
for example so after every exposure you
do get a higher underlying slow long
concentration of drug but you also get a
bump and like after the injection unless
you inject once a day and then you still
has tiny fact but if you inject twice a
week or oftentimes trt is done once a
week
you know right after that injection
you're gonna be like more anger prone
more irritable more frustrated more
sexual more uh just like more man in
every way good and bad and then mid
three through the week you'll feel
amazing and always and then towards the
end of the week you'll be like uh you
know not so much the ultimate Mensch
anymore but kind of like wilted and and
maybe a little depressed and Mr Winky's
not working as well that fucking sucks
like your nuts kind of produce the same
amount of tests every hour of the day
more or less so you're kind of good to
go certainly through a 24-hour cycle
It's relatively normal
um this is no longer the case
you can arrange for it to be the case by
using insulin needles and injecting
yourself daily which fucking blows
because you're injecting yourself daily
so there's you know it's not quite The
Jeff Foxworthy joke where uh he says
getting married is getting married for
the sex is like buying a 747 for the
peanuts but gee whiz yeah this does more
you're getting more than just the effect
you're getting some other bullshit there
and
if you are
a person who technically is hypogonadal
but is a very high Androgen sensitive
especially in some tissues and you start
trt you are making let's say 150
nanograms per deciliter by yourself now
you're exposed to 900 you will get all
of the steroid side effects that you got
coming to you including giant purple
pimples
um hair growth on every part of your
body that's not the top of your head
wouldn't know anything about that uh
aggression
all this other shit you don't want
because testosterone is a steroid
the original steroid and now you're
taking four times more of it than your
body used to produce and your body could
be quite sensitive especially in some
tissues so your muscles could be normal
sensitive so you get a little bit more
jacked but the top of your head could be
very sensitive and you lose a bunch of
hair or your skin could be sensitive and
you get a shitload of pimples would you
say that's okay Dr Mike I'll use all
these other drugs and all these other
medications and cleanse my skin with the
Charlie John cleansing routine and I'll
look like a Korean boy it's age seven
all times yes you can do that and some
of it will work pretty well but it just
takes a lot right so it's not like oh
I'm gonna just get trt and it's going to
fix everything in my life not even
fucking close it has to be a lot wrong
for it to work that way because it's
designed
to give you enough
more testosterone than you normally
producing when not enough is being
produced if you even if you're in that
group it could affect some of the target
tissues differently and your rosy
expectation for how it goes could be a
little darker in reality some things
could be great some things could be not
so great that's how the shit really
works
so how do you make your choice based on
your condition
trt Administration is really annoying it
has a ton of downsides you probably have
to have a reason for wanting it
that's probably one of the biggest
things I want to convey to you guys with
this video is you have to have a
compelling reason
to need trt
which means the Instagram comment of
should I be on trt
is not a question anyone can answer
except for yourself
and that answer has to have a compelling
reason like if you're sitting at home
Saturday night you're with a girl
Netflix and chill
you don't particularly want Chinese food
it's snowing outside you'd have to drive
to get it you have plenty of junk at the
house
you turn to her and you're like do you
think we should get Chinese food if she
was smart she would ask you do you want
it what is a compelling reason that
we're getting it because we're going to
have to get through the snow and we have
food here
look if you really want Chinese food
hell yeah let's go but you gotta have a
compelling reason somewhere and trt's
compelling reason is more than just
wanting it you have to understand what
effects you're going to get likely
possibly and go from there
here's the thing number one scenario
here just a couple sample scenarios you
could find yourself in
if you are hypogonadal on paper that
means you test below 300 nanograms per
deciliter but you don't really have any
problems with sex drive performance
center right some people get their blood
work like oh my test is low and
someone's like oh man you got low sex
drive they're like well my girlfriend
says she says that human tissues only
recover so often and that's why we can't
have sex five times a day like if that's
you
you can try trt to get you up to normal
but if everything is good probably don't
fuck that up
then you'll just have the effect that
most people get from steroids which is a
lot of cool stuff and a lot of really
shitty stuff
and it'll call me crazy but maybe less
of both is better for most people that
is what it is
if you are hypoornadal on paper and you
have symptoms of being hypogonatal then
you want to give trt a little bit more
thought and talk to your doctor about it
some signs
don't just pick one of these God damn it
because if it's just one it's probably
not the low testosterone but if you've
tested and you do have low testosterone
and you also have usually a few of these
then yeah trt is something to consider
and the more of these you have the more
GRT is something to consider depressed
mood and more just like a lock lack of
impetus and drive you know wake up in
the morning you're like I'm gonna
breathe fire and every fucking goddamn
problem I see in my life if you're on
the opposite where you're like I'm gonna
breathe fire and you're like like that's
how you feel inside okay there's
something you can actually have
depression or or subclinical depression
where you're just like you're just not
so happy about things
you could have a very low sex drive
potentially impotence
a very low degree of muscle mass higher
degree of relative fat mass or like you
know small and kind of soft
poor sleep bad blood work low bone
density if you've got that stuff then
yeah trt is something to talk to your
doctor about but remember that trt is a
big commitment it can change a lot not
always for the better so make sure
you're ready for that change up it will
be a different thing in your life it'll
make your life very different hopefully
for the net positive almost certainly
not for the total positive and sometimes
for the Met negative and then you just
have to have another option after that
it's a big thing it's not something you
just do
number three
if you are Hugo natal on paper but you
have a lot of symptoms of low test
you could talk to your doctor about
potentially you have low Androgen
sensitivity maybe there's another drug
they can give you for that
trt is still an option here at higher
doses but that's definitely in the weeds
for you and your doctor to discuss
it's a tough problem because if you have
to introduce higher doses you get more
health risks you get more side effects
and it's a mixed bag for some people it
works out well for many it does not just
saying that
lastly
if you are Hugo natal on paper you
produce above 300 nanograms per
deciliter and below a thousand
nanographer testosterone by the way lots
of really good research says that your
Androgen sensitivity matters way more
than if you're producing just above 300
or just under a thousand nanograms of
tests per day so or sorry in the blood
and if you think that there's going to
be a life-changing thing going from 300
to 600 to 900 you may be wrong you may
feel nothing different you just don't
use your own nuts to make tests anymore
and you're on that needle as one of my
friends says stuck on the needle for the
rest of your life which is actually true
unless you want to pull out and see if
your nuts still work which could be an
arduous shitty process of essentially
having hypogonadism for like six months
until your shit kicks back in or it
never kicks back in so again this is a
big fucking deal it's not something you
just do it's like um if you have a net
worth of ten thousand dollars and you
decide to buy a used car that costs
eight thousand dollars that that
motherfucker better work out for you
because if it doesn't you are short a
shitload of money and you got a car that
doesn't work so it had it had better
with it the big deal is what I'm trying
to say now here's the thing
if you're a eugenataline paper you're
somewhere in that normal range and more
specifically you just don't have any
symptoms of low T because sometimes this
is the big problem I'll just kibosh this
one right now permanent answer if
someone says you'll just use this all
the time they don't have tons of
questions like this I got my test done
and it says I'm just above the cutoff
for the low range what should I do
should I take trt the only question to
ask is after how do you feel
because Low T is something that if you
read about it you're going to be like oh
my fucking God I have that
but if you read the symptoms list which
I just gave you on the last slide you're
going to be like I'm gonna really have
most of that then you're fucking golden
that means you are not actually
hypogonadal you're above the cut off and
you don't have any of the symptoms in
TBH if you're below the cutoff and you
still don't have any of the symptoms
like compared to your average guy
friends your normal sex drive normal
muscle mass normal motivation everything
you're fucking good you just have really
high Androgen sensitivity good God bless
your soul amazing if you don't have any
symptoms of low T just stay fucking
Natty do not start trt it's way better
why are you bringing sand to the beach
if I ever see you in real life and you
tell me a story about how you were
perfectly fine adding you started trt
imma clown you in front of everyone
I would be like yo my man
why get the shit for free from your nuts
when you can pay a doctor to inject it
for you and cost you money and swollen
infection ridden fucking injection sites
and all this other shit the fuck what
the fuck why why don't do it
if you want to push ahead and become an
ascended Saiyan with a five to ten year
shorter lifespan
just take real gear jump to the dark
side for the love of fucking God if you
wondering about that I have like five
other videos about why not to do that
either
but if you choose to do it and if you're
older and you're intelligent you have
medical supervisor and all this other
stuff
trt
this is the end of my spiel
it's testosterone replacement therapy it
is designed to get you from a
hypogonadal state where you're
experiencing a lot of really unfortunate
symptoms of low testosterone into a Hugo
natal state in the normal range where
you no longer experience most of those
symptoms
you are not that person down here with
low T and experiencing the symptoms the
probability that you should be doing trt
is fucking low the costs are really high
and the benefits are like on average
you're just the same but now you need
the needle to keep you the same it's
like if you ever meet like a heroin
addict that's been addicted for years
like you don't look like you're on
heroin you're talking to me you're
standing up right there like yeah I am I
just it's just heroin just makes me
normal now you're like oh my fucking god
that's why heroin is a bad idea you
don't want to get any more shit in your
life where you have to take pills or
injections to stay normal fuck that if
I'm injecting your boy's going to Mars
you feel me fuck the moon I ain't even
interested that's just too close
be smart
think
talk to your doctor get your blood work
do not rush into trt because trt is for
the vast minority of folks that need it
and can benefit from it and I'm not
trying to be like your eighth grade
anti-drug counselor drugs are fucking
sweet I use them all the fucking time
intelligently in a measured adult
approach
but if you don't need the shit
don't use the shit
that's why I should be on trt folks like
comment subscribe tag your favorite
influencers send other people this video
with an unkind message to start a fight
on the internet I'll see you next time