many times when you're fatigued you just
ask yourself one question you go can I
hit the metrics for this workout am I so
fatigued that I can't hit the weight for
the Reps for the sets that I need if the
answer is yes I can hit them for that
and yes I'll take some rest time after
but I can do this workout and I won't
fall short of my goals nine times out of
10 it doesn't matter how tired you are
just do it there is and I'm tired and
people will say that to you right like
someone in your office where you work
will have a workout later in the don't
worry they've told the whole office
building that they train and they're
like yeah man got to work out later
you're like okay cool yep I'm just
trying to get my work done so do you
need anything and they're like yeah man
just um feeling pretty tired though so
tired that you're too tired to
accomplish your workouts goals like I
think I still got it awesome Bill get
the fuck away from my desk so I can do a
good job for the company you asshole and
go do your workout