you wake up and you feel sore damn
yesterday's workout must have been a
good one or was it what does soreness
actually tell us about the effectiveness
of your
workouts welcome back Dr me wolf here
with wolf coaching PhD in sport Science
taking you through the science of
soreness it's commonly assumed that when
you walk out you cause damage to the
muscles and your body then perceives
that muscle damage as soreness but does
your body really perceive muscle damage
or soreness and cause you some pain in
the tissue that you worked before we can
go into that we need to Define what
muscle damage even is specifically
exercise induced muscle damage or E IMD
for short exercise induced muscle damage
is essentially an umbrella term
characterizing a variety of things
happening after you train specifically
it's usually characterized by two main
things between the session and up to 14
days after the session the two things
that happened are one a loss function or
essentially a reduction in your
performance and two muscle soreness
indeed muscle damage is known to cause
Downstream reductions in the force
production capabilities of your
contractile tissue AKA muscle and in
fact one of the most robust ways of
assessing muscle damage within the
research is to look at how much of a
performance drop there was between the
initial session that caused damage to
after woods now let me give you some
quick physiology about muscle damage and
how we actually measure it one of the
ways ways we measure muscle damage is by
looking at the disruption or the
streaming of the zisk you can visualize
the zisk as an anchor that your muscle
is pulling on when you move around in
order to actually move your body around
and so when you're moving around and
your muscle is pulling on that zisk that
causes damage and so when you're using
your muscle eventually that zisk starts
to become disrupted or it streams and
indeed the way that muscle damage is
caused in the research primarily is
through Ecentric contractions or
essentially contractions of the muscle
where the muscle is being forcibly
stretched or lengthened by an external
Force to a lesser extent concentric
contractions where you're shortening the
muscle like when you're lifting a weight
up do also cause some muscle damage but
the severity of muscle damage is much
greater with Ecentric contractions now
you know what causes muscle damage and
how we actually detect it in the
research a little bit but does muscle
damage actually cause muscle growth in
the first place while there is still
some controversy about whether or not
muscle damage causes hypertrophy by and
large researchers think it doesn't and
to explain this I'll be using a study by
Damas and colleagues in this study they
essentially assessed your muscle
response to a training session at a
variety of time points throughout the
training program they measured both
muscle damage and also myofibrillar
protein synthesis or essentially the
muscle growth response here's the deal
no matter when they assessed muscle
damage after the session whether at the
beginning of the study or whether
towards the end of the study there was
never a correlation between how much
muscle damage was caused and how much
hypertrophy was seen over those 10 weeks
importantly though that myofibrillar
protein synthesis or essentially the
muscle growth and repair response was
greater at the start of the 10 weeks
when muscle damage was also higher
compared to the end and this led the
authors to speculate that your body
actually first focuses on repairing
muscle damage before then moving on to
actually growing your muscle and in fact
when the authors tried to look at
correlations between that myofibrillar
protein synthesis or essentially muscle
response to the workout at the start of
the study versus towards the end of the
study they saw a very different thing at
the start of the study when muscle
damage was pretty high and the muscle
was responding to it by repairing it
there was no correlation between the
muscle growth response and actual muscle
growth over the study however when
measured at the end of those 10 weeks
when the muscle damage was largely gone
participants weren't getting much muscle
damage anymore from the training the
correlation between myof Fiore protein
synthesis and actual muscle growth
became very very high essentially when
your first working out or getting a lot
of muscle damage it might be that your
body first focuses on repairing muscle
damage before then moving on to Growing
new muscle and if you want more evidence
that muscle damage doesn't directly seem
to cause muscle growth and in fact first
needs to be attenuated before your body
grows muscle from a session another
study by Damas and colleagues in 2018
had this to say we conclude that muscle
damage is not the process that mediates
or potentiates muscle hypertrophy from
lifting weights additionally the role of
muscle damage in myonuclei donation I
have a whole video on that up here
somewhere doesn't seem to be that clear
either to make a long story short the
role of muscle damage in my nuclei
donation doesn't seem to be super clear
just yet and it certainly doesn't seem
as though you would want extreme muscle
damage or like it's something that you'd
want to chase in your training to really
contribute to my nuclei donation now
that you understand muscle damage how
would muscle damage then cause soreness
as something that you perceive after a
workout well we're not actually even
sure that muscle damage itself
causes soreness in fact this is the
topic of ongoing research but by and
large here's the list of things that
soreness could be happening due to it
could be muscle damage it could also be
damage outside of the cell in The
extracellular Matrix it could also be
the repair or inflammatory process that
happens when your muscle is trying to
recover or it could be part of the nerve
signaling process that then acts upon
your body no receptors but the odds are
soreness is not actually muscle damage
because muscle damage occur CSE pretty
much instantly and yet the timeline for
soreness is usually delayed and So based
on the evidence there's a pretty good
chance that soreness isn't the actual
muscle damage but rather is how your
body perceives the Remodeling and Repair
process from that muscle damage
essentially when your body is remodeling
after muscle damage it perceives that
area as sore or painful all right well
does that mean we can use soreness as a
predictor of muscle damage at least
because if we're remodeling that means
that muscle damage occur occurred in the
first place and therefore we can use it
as a proxy right if an area is sore that
means we cause muscle damage
unfortunately we probably can't do this
and that's according to a study by
nosaka and Coles from 2002 here's what
they did first they induced muscle
damage through Ecentric contractions
once they induce this muscle damage they
then assess soreness in a variety of
ways for example when palpating the
target muscle in this case the elbow
flexors when flexing that joint or when
extending that joint so in a variety of
positions and circumstances essentially
in these circumstances participants were
asked hey how much soreness are you
feeling they also assessed muscle damage
in a variety of ways including creatin
Cenas Force production AKA performance
and some more stuff and here's the bad
news even ratings of soreness themselves
AKA You rating soreness Now versus you
rating soreness in a couple minutes
didn't correlate very well with
correlations of only between 0.33 to
0.66 that means that ratings of soreness
aren't a particularly reliable
measurement where under the same
circumstances you get different values
it isn't consistent from one measurement
to the next next when being palpated and
asked how s their muscle was there was
essentially zero correlation between
their soreness ratings and a variety of
markers of muscle damage things got a
little bit better when they were asked
when their arm was flexed or extended
but the correlations were still between
0.08 and 0.31 for context these
correlations are considered essentially
weak or entirely negligible
interestingly the best correlation
between soreness and muscle damage was
found for performance or isometric Force
production as we discussed performance
is actually a pretty good proxy for
muscle damage and importantly that
correlation was positive suggesting that
when participants were most sore is
actually also when they produced the
most force and This lends some
additional credibility to the idea that
soreness isn't actually muscle damage
but rather your body's repair and
remodeling response to summarize
soreness isn't even a particularly
reliable rating if you're asked twice
under similar circumstances you might
give pretty different answers and also
soreness doesn't really correlate very
well with either muscle damage markers
like creating kyes or even performance
itself and therefore you shouldn't be
using soreness for example as a reason
to say I am fatigued and therefore I
shouldn't be training right now because
based on the performance data for
example it is actually the opposite okay
sure so soreness isn't a particularly
reliable rating and in fact it might be
more indicative of the remodeling
response rather than the damage actually
present but one of about in more applied
contexts well the first study on this
topic was actually by fling colleagues
and exposed two groups of participants
to the same training routine one of
these groups was completely new to this
training routine which involved 20
minutes of Ecentric cycling the other
group had actually done this before and
therefore they weren't naive to it they
had been pre-exposed and so we had two
groups the naive group who was new to
this and the pre-exposed group and as
you would expect based on your body's
repeated bot effect that is to say your
body's muscle damage Dage response
lessens as you get exposed to a given
stimulus the naive group experienced
substantially more muscle damage around
five times as much compared to the
pre-exposed group and yet when they
actually measured hypertrophy from this
protocol in the long term the mean
cross-sectional area increases were
similar between groups in the
pre-exposed group they essentially saw
no muscle damage which led the authors
to conclude that muscle hypertrophy one
doesn't really correlate with muscle
damage and two can occur independently
of muscle damage altogether and the
second more practical study is a study
by Gomez and colleag from 2019 where
they compared higher frequency training
to lower frequency training with a
volume being equated for between groups
so essentially if you just look at the
weekly training performed both groups
did the same thing but in one group they
spread that out across 5 days whereas in
the other group they essentially massed
it up a little bit and as you would
expect in the lower frequency group or
the group doing more volume for a single
muscle in a single session soreness
ratings were consistently High
throughout the intervention although
they decreased a little bit and
consistently substantially higher than
in the higher frequency group and yet
when it came to muscle growth they saw
essentially the same muscle growth
despite this difference in how much
soreness was present in the two groups
if soreness correlated with muscle
damage and muscle damage contributed to
muscle growth you would expect a lower
frequency group to see more hypertrophy
and yet that didn't happen conversely if
soreness correlates with muscle damage
and muscle damage is a really negative
thing for hypertrophy you would expect
the higher frequency group to see better
hypertrophy and yet they didn't and so
the truth about soreness and muscle
damage and your hypertrophy in progress
likely lies somewhere in between let's
summarize what soreness does tell us and
what it doesn't tell us soreness doesn't
actually tell us how recovered we are or
how ready we are to train again it also
doesn't really tell us how much muscle
damage we caused with that session that
were sore from and with muscle damage
not even being tightly linked to
hypertrophy itself on a mechanistic
level putting aside the weak correlation
between your soreness and your muscle
damage it likely doesn't tell us
anything about how effective that
session that you're sore from was for
hypertrophy with one minor caveat that
I'll get to in a moment soreness doesn't
actually even really tell us whether or
not we're sore because soreness ratings
aren't even reliable from one
measurement to the next and finally
soreness doesn't actually tell you
whether your last session was too much
remember it doesn't correlate well with
itself it doesn't correlate well with
damage and it doesn't even correlate
that well with performance itself and in
fact it's telling you more potentially
about recovery than it is about fatigue
so what does sorence actually tell us
then it probably tells us like I just
mentioned that you're still in the
remodeling or repair phase from some
muscle damage caused in that area it
also tells us you probably did something
Physically Active but again it has a
poor correlation with itself and with
muscle damage with that being said to
come back to my earlier caveat it may
have some use therefore and at least
telling us you train this area if for
example I did some pull Downs yesterday
and today my biceps are sore it at least
tells me provided been nothing else no
other physical activity that I probably
trained my biceps in some regard because
muscle damage occurs as a consequence of
contraction so it can be at least a
somewhat useful diagnosis tool for
telling us you train this area but just
because you got more sore from one
exercise versus another or one walkout
versus another doesn't tell you that
that workout is more effective than this
one this rationale fails on many levels
first as I mentioned in the study by
Gomez and colleagues being more sore
after a session in that lower frequency
group didn't actually lead to more
hypertrophy likewise as it currently
stands we don't have any studies to my
knowledge even drawing a correlation
between how sore you are after a session
and hypertrophy likewise to my knowledge
we currently don't have any studies that
find a meaningful correlation between
how sore you are after recession and how
much muscle growth you saw over the
course of that program basically
soreness tells you you train this area
you are potentially still in the repair
process but it doesn't tell you how well
you trained it how hard you trained it
whether you're ready to train again or
anything else instead performance still
seems to be the best practical proxy for
Recovery if you performed worse this
Thursday than last Thursday maybe this
week you overdid Tuesday's session and
perhaps you didn't recover as well from
Tuesday's session this week as last week
which could tell you perhaps you overdid
it but soreness as it currently stands
shouldn't be brought into that equation
to summarize soreness is not a
particularly reliable measurement it
doesn't really tell us about muscle
damage it doesn't tell us about whether
or not your last session was effective
or a specific exercise whether one
exercise is better than another on
account of being more sore it basically
tells you you trained an area and you're
probably still in the repair or
remodeling process and that's about all
sess can tell you about at this stage
now much of the information from this
video was actually taken from amazing
presentation by Eric Helms in the mass
research review if you want to consider
subscribing to it I'll have a link to it
in the description alternatively they do
also do weekly free Q&A sessions over on
their YouTube that'll link below as well
that was an absolute monster video where
I delved into physiology a lot of the
science on the topic if you enjoyed the
video please leave a like comment
subscribe if you want to see me break
down any other common myths or topics
within the lifting world as it relates
to science leave a comment down below
and I'll get to it if you would like me
to coach you consider checking out the
link above for coaching and in the
meantime have a great day I will see you
in that next one peace