okay you've got great technique but how
hard are you going unless you get
roughly around three reps in reserve
three reps shy of muscular failure you
can go harder and get better gains a
real good way to tell that you're at
least in the conversation for training
hard enough is that most of your sets in
most cases either distinctly slow down
so you're curling curling curling and
you stop and walk off people are going
to be like how many roughs did you have
but if you're curling curling curling
and then at some point one of the Reps
is like a little slow boom you're in the
money how far into that how many reps
Beyond when it starts to get slow you go
is actually a minor Point there's a very
nuanced discussion there about how close
to failure is good but somewhere near
failure is already so much better than
far away from failure that at least get
there from a troubleshooting perspective
even if it looks easy to the external
observer in the last couple of reps
internally you got to be like holy fuck
I got oh I got to really push like the
weight it feels like gravity just
multiplied for no reason if at the end
of your sets you regularly experienced
that you got 99 problems but how hard
you go in the sets probably not one