[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks dr. Mike here for RP strength
number 2 exercise to fix for hypertrophy
mistakes to fix is the lat pulldown not
a ton of mistakes on here
but enough to make a video first let's
remember the purpose of the lat pulldown
it is to target the muscles of the upper
back
specifically the lower traps the lats
and the teres major let's find out what
some of the mistakes are for pull downs
and how to fix them folks mistake number
one is not pulling low enough your lats
are designed to pull pretty low and
there's a bunch of other muscles in your
back to take over to pull all the way
down use the full range of motion and
don't just do the top half why do people
do the top half man and go ahead and
show us what that looks like and just
throw it arbitrarily stop there I set
our betrayal early stop there but it's
not arbitrary the reason people stop
that high is because they have to use
less weight to go all the way down and
they feel insulted by that so drop the
ego go nice and low Brandon show-off so
full range of motion looks like for most
people that means touching all the way
at the top of the chest now when is that
too low if you've run a room at the
bottom pulling back with your elbows you
can feel free to stop if you truly run a
room do we know that usually is your
wrists will curl forward at the bottom
right and go ahead and show some that
looks like so trying to get it but it's
not flexible enough you'll notice this
wrists are curling that's really not
hitting your back anymore you're just
arbitrarily trying to touch your chest
so here's the deal go as low as you can
while your elbows are still moving back
almost always you're gonna hit your
chest no worries if it's a little higher
than that you have better have a huge
back to justify that mistake number two
is the opposite of mistake number one
and mistake number two Brandon is gonna
go all the way down but he's not gonna
come all the way up sort of not really a
lock out at the top not a great idea why
because stretch under tension
independently grows muscle as a growth
mechanism and there's a bunch of muscles
there that benefit from that the lats
stretch a ton and grow if you go all the
way up for that dead hang position or at
least all the way up to full extension
and
when you come down the lats and even the
lower traps help pull the scapulae back
down it's part of the movement so do it
right around and go ahead and show us
full range of motion all the way down
and all the way up for a stretch every
single time mistake number three isn't
so much a mistake it's kind of a myth is
thinking there's like a magic grip for
the lat pulldown
people always ask should I be doing a
wide grip should I be doing a medium
grip narrow grip what about underhand
what if we got a whole different bar and
did neutral grip all that stuff the only
answer to that is do your lats feel a
lot of tension through them do they get
a metabolite burn do they get disrupted
from the workout so that they're weaker
and tired and maybe a little bit sore
the hours and the day after if all those
are yes then you're doing stuff right
there's no magic grip you can use
whatever grip is comfortable you can put
out a lot of force you can get a full
range of motion and you can feel your
lats working really really well and feel
the rest of your back working really
well if a grip is super narrow when you
read somewhere in the internet that
that's what targets the last but all you
feel is your forearms your shoulders
kind of hurt stop doing it and also you
can mix up the grips for one or two
mesocycles you can try wide for one or
two mesocycles you can try narrow then
underhand all of the different grips
work as long as they're comfortable you
can produce a lot of force and you can
get a good workout mistake number four
is momentum it's okay to have a little
bit of a swing especially if that's part
of you just getting in to your best
pulling angle where you can feel your
lats but at some point you're just
swinging to be able to use more weight
it looks something like Brannon hit it
yeah like that there's a whole lot going
on that doesn't have anything to do with
the back a lot of leaning on purpose to
get the momentum going to get the weight
going sometimes you'll have a funky
chicken dance they try to do the chin
over the bar at the end none of that
stuff gives you a bigger back you want
to do nice good controlled reps go ahead
Brandon give it a shot no leaning back
that's excessive not a ton of jerking
just high quality reps notice he leans
back a little and that's okay it's just
not on purpose to get the weight moving
it's to make sure the lats are the
target muscle the teres major the lower
traps and not the glutes and the
whatever makes you lean back mistake
number five in the lat pulldown is it's
trying to stay way too upright for no
good perfectionist reason what thus ends
up having to do with your shoulders is
you have to end up rotating your
shoulders at the bottom you have to
clear your face so the bar path turns
into an arc and no longer a straight
line it really doesn't hit your lats
much more it makes the exercise you feel
crappy you get to use less weight and
it's not so great for many people
shoulders when they experience this
brand and go ahead and show us these
super vertical and you'll notice how he
has to sort of throw the bar forward and
it ends up being a really really awkward
motion if that feels good to you that's
totally fine ideally though you want to
tilt your head back a little bit stick
your chest up a little bit lean back
just a tad pull back and down and get a
really really great contraction to your
lats instead of staying artificially
upright mistake number six is either
trying to dead hang all the time for no
good reason or trying to avoid the dead
hang for no good reason so we could end
each rep in a dead hang so Brandon's
just gonna let everything slack or go
ahead and do a full rep Brandon and end
with a dead hang again so this is what
the dead hang looks like all the tension
is released or he's gonna do a full rep
and he's gonna come back to almost a
dead hang where some of the tension is
still maintained look not quite there
right boom is gonna come up stop right
there and and then go to a dead hang so
people can see boom there's the
difference which one is best it doesn't
matter the dead hangs great a stretches
your lats but it's not mandatory as long
as you're getting mostly full range of
motion pick one of those whichever ones
comfiest for your connective tissue you
feel best with do it for a while have
some success with it and if you want to
try another variant go to it there's no
right answer mistake number seven is
going way too heavy there's really no
too light for the pulldown as long as
you have good supporting for grips which
is our next mistake we'll talk about so
as long as you're feeling the lats and
as long as your technique allows you to
get a good lat punch of my muscle
connection then you're totally good to
go what you don't want to do
is use a weight that's so heavy you have
trouble with the technique or you're
just moving the weight around and
someone asks you hey did you feel that
you're in your upper back and you're
like I don't know I just kind of did the
reps more or less lat pull-downs for
most people are not the best exercise
for the 5 to 10 rep range that's best
left for pull-ups or if you're not
strong enough for pull-ups for assisted
pull-ups lack pull downs are best in the
10 to 20 range and in the 20 to 30 range
so there's no such a thing as too light
so much but there's definitely a too
heavy when you can't feel your upper
back working anymore you're just
struggling for survival that's too heavy
do pull-ups instead alright folks last
mistake mistake number 8 a lat pulldown
is letting your grip become a limiting
factor here's the deal if your grip is a
limiting factor your lats your teres
major your upper traps can be like 10
reps in reserve not a very effective set
and you could go to failure on your grip
you're not here to train your grip
you're here to train your back there's
two potential solutions here one is to
use chalk totally fine and for many
people that works if you use chalk make
sure that you're not just getting more
reps but your lats are really the
limiting factor like your grip is still
good but you can't touch all the way
down anymore that's how you know failure
is occurring for the right reasons
here's the thing second option versa
grips I've got my versa grip on here
versatile grips are incredible you slide
them over the bar you put your hand over
it and voila all grip problem solve
folks I am not paid by this company know
what company makes versa grips I'm not
paid by them I got them randomly cuz my
training partner Charlie told me to get
them they're unbelievable the regular
straps are totally fine but get yourself
a pair of versatile grips they're
expensive you'll only need one pair
they're unbelievable that way whatever
way you use to solve this grip problem
make sure your upper back limits your
performance it's what stops all the sets
close to failure not your grip folks
that's all the mistakes we have for
today at the end of the day you have to
personalize this to yourself you have to
individualize your own technique yes for
sure use everything we've said as a
guide but at the end of the day you need
to be able to check mark two things one
are you stimulating your target muscles
super well
and to are you fatiguing the rest of the
system too much if you can checkmark a
high degree of stimulus and a low degree
of fatigue you're winning and those are
really really good techniques to use for
the exercise more specifically if you
have a really good mind muscle
connection with the muscles of your
upper back you feel tension going
through them when you do the pulling and
at higher reps you have a lot of burning
from metabolites in those muscles that's
a really good thing if you're getting
big pumps in your upper back from them
that's a really good thing and if you're
seeing a lot of perceived perturbation
disruption of the muscles like for
example you go home afterwards you just
did a lot bunch of lat pull-downs you
try to reach for your tooth brushing or
lap cramps we don't want your last to
cramp but fundamentally that means
something there is being really really
stimulated if you did a bunch of lat
pull-downs knew to reach for the
toothbrush you last feel completely fine
but your biceps cramp maybe that biceps
are taking more of the stimulus and the
lats not as much and lastly make sure
your fatigue is low the most relevant
thing here pick grips and techniques
that don't irritate your connective
tissues and joints too much but give you
a great stimulus so if your muscles are
getting an awesome stimulus your joints
are feeling pretty good The Exorcism
needlessly difficult then you're well on
your way to getting your best possible
results and here's the deal
at the end of the day keep it simple
progress through the exercises and
weight and reps and sets throughout your
muscle cycles in your career don't worry
too much about this technique stuff
there's not a perfect way if there's
just a good way and less good ways folks
thank you so much for watching we'll see
you next time with another exercise
technique demo and breakdown comment
below what exercises you want to see
broken down in the future and comment
with your questions folks in the YouTube
community that know what you're talking
about feel free to answer some questions
help the other folks out see you next
time