here are the three best exercises for
shoulder growth for your front bels try
a seated overhead press variation it'll
load the front bels in a stretch
position it'll minimize fatigue on
account of being seated and it will just
be a great exercise for front D growth
overall for the side DS try a cable lad
raise a cable lad raise allows you to
get a deeper stretch in your side belts
you can set up the cable at hand height
at the bottom so the lift becomes most
challenging in that stretch position
it's a great exercise for side Del
growth for the rear dels try a rear Del
cable crossover by using cables instead
of dumbbells or machine you're able to
get your arms across your body and get a
deeper stretch in your rear DS than you
usually would bonus tip take a couple
steps forward in order to make the lift
most challenging at the bottom of that
exercise at the bottom of the rep in
that most lengthened position according
to the science