[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization have a little treat video
for you today maybe it's not a treat who
knows I don't even know I said that
the glutes are an important muscle in
Target because everyone wants the big
glutes
and deadlifting for the glutes is a
great option but
what kind of deadlift to do for glutes
is kind of a little bit of a question
I've put my mind to this all my wrinkles
in the top of my head and my balding ass
head and I Oh I thought about it and I
realized that there is a type of
deadlift that really stimulates the
glutes that most people seem to not know
about
and I want to make a video now other
people out there have said similar
things before I'm not trying to name the
shit although if you are it's not uh Dr
Mike deadlift
give this some thought we're gonna hit
you with a few different angles few
exclamations to give you a little bit of
a thought about what would constitute a
very good candidate deadlift to hit the
glutes specifically
let's get into it
foreign
is going to do a couple of different
variations of deadlifts to show you guys
the king ship glute deadlift that I
invented it's not my invention but it's
a great way to take the deadlift and
make it a glute Target exercise checking
multiple boxes the first thing Jenna is
going to do is she's going to
demonstrate the Sumo deficit devil
excellent for the glutes
but it it is absolutely a great option
but It suffers from the fact that when
you push your legs out like that you're
sort of pre-contracting the glutes and
that means at the bottom the glute
stretch isn't going to be as big as if
your feet were together now if we put
the feet together we're down to two
conventional options that most people
think of and neither one of them is
ideal for the glutes so next we're going
to take a look at the regular deficit
deadlift and talk about the advantages
and disadvantages of that from a glute
targeting perspective in the
conventional deficit deadlift the glutes
are hit really well but in order to get
that deep and get a good glute stretch
you're going to have to bend your knees
a lot typically bending the knees is
great but it takes some of the load away
from the glutes and forces it into the
adductors and into the quads not a bad
thing this is an excellent exercise but
how do we get the glutes to do more work
and specifically how do we get the
glutes to stretch big and deep at the
bottom which is is a huge growth
stimulus that takes our logic to the
next exercise which is the stiff-legged
deficit deadlift which is closer to what
we want but has a big flaw let's see
what that looks like and we'll talk
about its big downside
so the stiff-legged deadlift is
excellent excellent excellent at getting
you to bend really deep and stretching
the glutes at the bottom and targeting
them it has one fatal flaw as a glue
targeting exercise
because you are keeping your knees back
and keeping the tension massively on the
hamstrings because of leverages and
differential muscle strength and
cross-sectional areas the hamstrings
typically are the limiting factor which
you've probably noticed when doing stuff
like a devops properly your hamstrings
get fucking crazy sore but your glutes
typically don't the glutes get a pump
they get some growth but because your
hamstrings are a limiting factor it's
not quite what we want which brings us
to the theoretical hypothetical
supposition of what a really good glute
focused deadlift would look like it
would look like a stiff-legged deadlift
but the big cue is as you bend beginning
with relatively straight knees
you want as you feel the hamstrings
normally in the stiff legandella for
hams as you start to feel the hamstring
stretch you lean into the stretch and
push your knees back into it in this
deadlift everything stays nice and tight
your glutes are getting a stretch but as
you go down you let your knees come
forward just enough not a big bend just
enough so that your hands lose tension
then what happens you get maximum glute
stretch under load and your hands don't
take over this is the
Dr Mike glute deadlifted and then I came
up with it and you can't have it to take
that Chasm Brett and whoever else has
glutes we got bigger glutes show them
your glutes Jen yes I I made this did
she's used these for years or whatever I
came up with it today anyway let's see
what those look like all right so it's a
stiff like a deadlift but as you feel
tension in your hands let your knees
come forward a little bit
yes yes
but deeper I want you to touch the
ground
chest up
yes there it is deeper
feel about deep stretching your glutes
knees forward a little forward
yes
good all the way down to touch the
ground and pause for a split second I
want maximum glute stretch
yes excellent so far away the ground is
very far away good let those knees bend
a little bit
good
and one more
good and then slow and then we're gonna
put it down as if you're gonna do
another let those knees bend a little
bit yes and that's it
very good they're huge do you feel that
in there they're huge
just bragging at this point
so to review
Sumo deficit excellent choice for the
glutes also hits the adductor's a ton
but it lacks that maximum stretch
component
conventional deadlifts from a deficit
are great and they do hit the glutes
really well but typically people bring
their knees really far forward and stay
more upright to be able to lift more
weight not a damn thing wrong with that
for power lifting assistance for overall
lower body hypertrophy it's a great
choice but it's not exactly targeting
the glutes very specifically because
your quads play a pretty big role
especially with a big deficit and if
there's not a big deficit well your
glutes don't get a big stretch so it's
kind of baby with the bath water the
next choice is a stiff legged deadlift
which is great but it targets the hams
preferentially because they are the
limiting factor from those almost locked
out knees so this exercise the big cue
is it's a stiff legged deadlift at the
start but as you feel tension in the
hands you let your knees come forward
forward forward and the mind muscle
connection should be big stretched out
glutes at the bottom go as deep as you
can keep your tummy out chest up knees
just bent enough for the hams to be out
of the equation and it's basically this
hinge at the glutes is the movement
and your boots will do the work if you
want to Crunch them at the top for a sec
get a good mind muscle that's another
cool choice but remember the real money
is in that deep stretch which brings us
to some working sets folks Jenna's gonna
do these enjoy the glutertainment and
give some thought to including these
deadlifts in your program if you'd like
to know more sign up in my new website
www.glute deadlift for hypertrophy Dr
Mike slash
backslash.com.ccp JK I think
slow
that was the best rap of the whole
fucking set
two more two more good ones slow
[Music]
good
slow
up as if another
[Music]
brilliant brilliant
get used to that shit
all right hopefully that made some sense
give this a shot anywhere between 5 to
15 reps typically is good for deadlift
make sure you control that eccentric
gentle pause or touch at the bottom
always really good technique make sure
to warm up through the other stuff add
this Into Your Arsenal for glute
training let me know how it works and
we'll see you guys next time