it's been so long since I've logged
don't you remember how to start these
things you know it is what is the date
say Stefan I are just grabbing a
pre-workout meal over here right now
Steph is cooking food what I want to do
today is I want to take you guys through
one of my upper body workouts just the
workout that I'm going through today I'm
gonna put the technique Tuesday series
on pause for like three or four weeks
just because I want to take you guys
through some of these workouts because
my training is going super well at the
moment I'm absolutely loving this new
training program so what I'm doing right
now well Steph gets my pre-workout me
already over here which I'll show you
guys in a minute
is I'm basically going through a program
I'm gonna write everything out in my
notebook so that's what I've been doing
so far for the new upper lower split
writing all the workouts out I know that
that seems old-school and most people or
a lot of people like to use an app and
that's totally fine for this I
personally like so bring up the program
on my phone and then I'll write out the
workout and then write in the weights
that I use in our PE s
as I go through and for me I like that
because it ahead of time kind of walks
into my mind what I have planned for
that day and prepares me for the
workload so I can kind of like visualize
myself going through the workout before
I actually do it you could do that
without writing it down but there's like
something special about writing it down
in my head anyway so that's what I'm
gonna do here now so day six of beef to
that I'm on and you guys bought the
program the first day was out so if you
started it the next day you should be
here on the same day as me at this point
I'm not gonna skip any days in this
program that's one of the benefits of
having a set training program that you
can follow is you're so much less likely
to actually skip on a training day now
saying this to Steph yesterday like
under almost any other circumstance I
probably would have taken a rest day
yesterday because it was my third leg
day
that week and I was feeling really sore
I had so much stuff to do to still been
in there got the workout done and it
ended up being totally fine sorry I'm
gonna write this all out show you guys
how it is that I take my notes and we're
gonna get after it so this is basically
how I write it out I just write all the
exercises down the side here are the
reps and then when I get in the gym I'll
fill in the the weight that I use and
the last set RPE if there's a percentage
based weight prescription I'll fill that
in before I go so actually for the
barbell incline press it's 65% one rep
max so I'll actually calculate that and
write the weight in there before I go in
so I know exactly what I have to do and
I'll adjust the weight based on how the
RP of the first set feels but yeah I've
got that all right now ready to kill it
does it meal coming Wow check that out
because the marinades off is not much so
I feel like he needs something else like
hot sauce or syrup charge me I'll check
it out so these are my new obsession
over here so these are just muscles and
stuff and I went on a trip to Costa Rica
with my family and they had so much
seafood there and I ate so many muscles
and realized how much I love them but
they're also extremely nutritious so
they're super high
I wouldn't say they're super either
pretty high in zinc especially per
calorie which is good because I don't
eat a lot of red meat and zinc is
crucial for testosterone production so
that's been a great side effect of these
also they're really high in vitamin C
and magnesium so in - oh and omega-3
fats so just a really healthy food so if
you like muscle dude that's something
you can consider adding into your diet
thank you
remember when you used to always appear
on my channel before the science explain
videos
they need your channel for that you need
your cheap days for that yeah what the
muscles mmm no those are delicious Wow
the seasoning mmm is amazing I'll show
you guys in case you're wondering we
just got these at Publix they're like
precooked I think right you just have to
it's frozen live so when you cook them
they open it was Mary hmm I'll put the
box up here on the screen so you guys
can check them out if you guys can see
that but yeah tropical twist and it has
kind of like a lemonade flavor to it
I've been using the Kiwi lime flavor for
the last I don't know six months or
however long it's been since it launched
but this is actually a really nice
change up
it has a very citrusy flavor so perfect
for summer and loving this and also one
thing I forgot to mention when I've
shown you guys my training manual was my
little notation system for the rpe so
what I'll do over here on the side is
just use these little arrows I've been
using these forever to indicate to
myself how the weight felt the week
before for example if I finish that last
set of squats on leg day and I have an
up arrow here it basically means that
the next week I should increase the
weight because it actually felt a little
bit too easy
so that RPE was a little bit too low
that's actually a super useful tool if
you guys aren't giving yourself that
feedback you will forget what it felt
like the week before and you'll probably
just use the same weight again or just
add a little bit so letting yourself
know that it's actually super helpful
okay so guys I'm gonna finish my pre
workout I'm gonna check in with you guys
over at the gym and I'm gonna run a
voiceover over the work out of my top
four strategies for improving beat
points whatever that is for you and how
I'm doing that on this program so I'll
check in with you guys over there
[Music]
all right what's going on everyone so
like I said Steph and I are gonna be
hitting a full upper-body workout today
from my new upper lower size and
strength program which Steph has been
running with me for the last couple
weeks and I'll put the link to that full
program and this upper-body workout that
we're running in the description box as
well so what I want to talk about in
this voiceover are my top four
strategies for bringing up weak points
that can apply to any body part and for
both men and women and the first
strategy is to increase the training
frequency for that weak body part now
higher-frequency is gonna allow you to
squeeze in more weekly volume for that
body part without having to worry about
so-called wasted sets so basically at a
certain point there's gonna be a limit
to how much benefit you're gonna get
adding more sets in one single workout
and this is true for just programming in
general not just weak points so let's
say you want to grow your glutes rather
than putting all 20 sets on one day that
make a lot more sense to split that
volume up across at least two three or
four workouts so you still hit the same
weekly volume but with less volume in
one single session because remember that
the whole point of training is to
increase muscle protein synthesis and
amino acid sensitivity and just blasting
a muscle with more and more volume in a
single session isn't going to do
anything extra toward those ends past a
certain point of training volume now
with that said there's also a limit to
how often you want to hit one specific
body part in a week hitting a muscle too
frequently can then interfere with the
recovery of other body parts or create
too much systemic fatigue so as a
general rule the smaller the muscle the
more frequency you can get away with so
if your weak point is a smaller muscle
like the side delts biceps triceps abs
or calves I think you can hit them up to
five or six times a week since they're
gonna recover a lot faster as long as
you're not obliterating them in those
sessions and for bigger muscle groups
like the quads glutes chest lats and
traps that usually cap the weekly
frequency at 3 or 4 sessions per week
just because since there is more total
muscle mass and often multiple joints
involved training those muscles more
frequent
tends to come at a greater recovery
burden but that isn't to say you can't
hit say the glutes or the chest five
times per week it's just that at a
certain point you're only going to see
diminishing returns plus an increased
risk of injury or potential overtraining
risk and of course as you increase the
frequency it's really important to
monitor your total weekly training
volume for that body part so it doesn't
get carried away and for weak points I
generally recommend something in the
ballpark of 20 to 25 total weekly sets
including any compound exercises and
you'll want to space that out across
three to six sessions again depending on
the body part in your level of
advancement so some folks can go higher
and another quick note on increasing
frequency let's just use the shoulders
as an example you're gonna want to be
careful with how much you use compound
exercises I'd recommend doing a compound
lift like an overhead press or a
dumbbell press no more than two maybe
three times per week and then just fill
in the rest of your frequency with
isolation exercises like lateral raises
so when bumping up the frequency for a
weak point you need to use common sense
with your exercise selection and focus
on using isolation exercises and focus
on using exercises which you can cram in
more frequently with less of a recovery
burden than say big heavy compound
exercises now obviously you're still
gonna want to include the compound
exercises you just need to be more
careful with high frequencies on those
since they by definition target multiple
muscles making them less useful for weak
point prioritization okay my second
strategy is to pay careful attention to
the exercise order in freeing your weak
body part in a way that makes sense to
give it priority now while research and
experience tells us that if you train
any body part early in a workout it'll
be stronger than if you train it later
in the workout still isolating a weak
point first doesn't always make the most
sense because if it's a smaller muscle
it can interfere with other body parts
and impede your workout as a whole so
for example let's say you have lagging
biceps training them first would make
sense on one hand because you'll be
stronger and have more energy to
dedicate to them but that also means
that they're going to be fatigued for
any back work that you have planned that
day it might limit to the amount of
total weight that you can use for your
back training
isn't ideal now research on
pre-exhaustion tells us that this is one
area where the bros got it totally wrong
so let's just say that your quads are a
leak point fatiguing your quads before a
set of leg press by doing leg extensions
will actually cause your quads to be
less active on the leg press just cause
other muscles to take over so it's
totally counterproductive to pre-exhaust
the weak body part now it's important to
note that this is different and then
so-called pre activation or you're not
fatiguing the muscle you're just warming
it up and establishing a strong mind
muscle connection with it and this
actually is helpful so if you want to
target your glutes more in squats doing
a few bandit lateral walks or light
glute bridges will help get your glutes
more involved but burning the glutes out
with some high rep kickbacks before
squats is only gonna make the quads and
hamstrings take over more so here's my
general rule you should always
prioritize the compound exercise first
but consider doing a few light pre
activation isolation sets for the weak
point before hitting the main compound
lift also since you will be stronger and
have more energy at the beginning of a
workout as a general rule try to place
the exercises that are going to target
your weak point earlier on in the
session so for example if your back is
your weak point do your pulling work
before you're pushing work on upper-body
days or vice versa and then you can use
isolation work at the end to give extra
emphasis to the specific weak point that
you're trying to target and then also
consider adding an extra isolation work
on other days as we discussed in the
first strategy on frequency ok strategy
number three is to improve the mind
muscle connection now discuss the mind
muscle connection at length in another
video so I'll link that down below but
basically I just want to say here that
when you're doing isolation exercises to
specifically target the weak body part
you should do everything in your power
to focus on really feeling that muscle
squeeze and stretch as you complete the
reps and you can consider doing the
exercise with your eyes closed to really
focus internally on the muscle or you
can mark each rep verbally out loud or
in your head by saying squeeze and
stretch as you complete the positive
negative of each rep whatever it is it's
going to get you to intentionally focus
on using the target muscle is going to
help increase its activation and my
fourth and final strategy for improve
weak points is to make use of
specialized intensity techniques now I'm
planning to go through all the relevant
techniques here in a separate advanced
technique Tuesday series or I'm going to
cover static holds drop sets for straps
and everything in between and I think
that they can all have a place in a
training program some people in the
sciencebase crowd might argue that these
techniques can reduce overall volume by
causing unnecessary fatigue however I
would argue that as long as they're
being used on isolation exercises
sparingly and at or near the end of a
training session that shouldn't be too
much of a concern and I think that if
you have a lagging body part and it
hasn't been growing using just
traditional training methods and it
makes perfect sense to start hitting it
with some of these specialized
techniques such as drop sets or
accentuated eccentric s-- just to make
sure that the muscle is being stimulated
as much as possible obviously many gym
bros might overdo this by just blasting
every muscle with subsets and supersets
on every set and then of course this can
impede your ability to hit the body part
at a higher frequency which i think is
more important but still I think not
using these methods at all is a surefire
way to leave some gains on the table and
here you can see I'm using Steph to
provide added manual resistance on the
eccentric only for each rep of the bicep
curl and we're doing these at the end of
an upper-body workout which i think is
going to tax my biceps in a way that I'm
just doing a simple say three sets of 15
standard reps where you just go through
the motions wouldn't so anyways guys
those are my four tips other than that
you just really need to be patient and
not give up and growing weak points does
take time but if you're persistent and
keep the training both fun and
progressive over time your weak points
will grow if you just keep at it so
that's it for this voiceover make sure
you guys hit the like button if you
found that to be helpful check out my
full upper/lower training program in the
description below and I hope you guys
enjoy the rest of the vlog oh yeah back
in Florida
I see it
[Music]
boom post-workout BAM
shoutout to Christian man it's so crazy
seeing this scene this stuff in the
store Oh bro it's so cool
gonna get a crate are you this is so
reminiscent of remember that wall goes
in yeah it's so funny it's the same car
and you didn't even love
no I didn't I gave it like a 5 out of 10
and I was trying to be nice because we
had just met then - alright now I
freaking love oh now there are nine
sweet five at a ten that's the biggest
blow up of a sub ever it's because I
told you what bread to get yeah I think
you did modify my orders yeah over time
don't open that oh I'm good at revealing
food that's what I do
check it check it check it Publix son
stoppable so we got you want to explain
to him stuff I don't know yeah she
orders it for me yeah
turkey white American a spinach pickles
lettuce
he likes lettuce and spinach that's
health right there and some pepper and a
little bit of meetings Oh taste test
two years later we would have thought
this is like my favorite foods gonna be
like wasn't it in probably yeah yeah I
just was 2016 yeah
we've been through like like lifetimes
together though feels like it's been an
eternity I've been around the world
together I'll be the worst foodie so you
have to hide the background so it
focuses what's in the forefront it's
just science man that's a high quality
sandwich right there anyway if they take
the thing that grows on you so initially
it's not you know mind-bogglingly good
but over time it's that bread it's just
mmm anyone from Florida knows yeah if
you come to Florida you got to get it
and the crispy chicken finger sub is a
classic as well but it's really
high-calorie all right all right check
and see if the Raptors are playing
tonight damn it actually don't play fail
tomorrow night how how explain that to
me I'm so Steph and I have been watching
this Katt Williams Stanek special and
it's so hilarious because he spends the
first 15 or 20 minutes just making fun
of Jacksonville which is basically where
we are now and it's it's so good if you
if you're from Florida even you should
definitely check it out it's from I
think 2018 but we just started watching
it so funny definitely recommend that
he's such a legend in standup but this
special is so good the whole like start
to finish I really enjoyed this anyways
guys that's gonna be a wrap for this
vlog thank you guys so much for watching
if you enjoyed the video please leave me
a thumbs up stay tuned for this Saturday
I may have another vlog on the way I'm
not a hard person sure yeah subscribe to
channel you happen to be new and
subscribed to Steph's channel over here
she's got a got a good channel too and
I'll see you guys in the next video