you could be training your quads with 10
sets a week because there's so much
other going on that's the most you
can recover from systemically but let's
say you take your entire upper body and
you go down a maintenance volume can you
get better results will you get better
results training your quads with just 10
sets a week week after week yes
absolutely cuz now they get more food
your quads are more recovered
systemically session to session to
session so you'll be able to go harder
get stronger over time and get bigger
quads hands down you don't need to
increase the volume but if you're real
smart so instead of doing 10 sets of
quads per week because that's used to be
the only thing you could survive now
that you took your upper body down to
maintenance maybe you do 12 sets maybe
you do 14 sets maybe do 16 sets for
quads per week maybe you can titrate it
up slowly then not only do you have the
extra recovery capacity but you're doing
the extra volume that you're allowed to
do