hey folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
periodization and I'm going to try to
describe muscle growth in one sentence
think you can do it try right now write
down a sentence just one sentence
maximum three commas in which you
describe the process of muscle growth
training how to train if someone asked
you hey how do I train for muscle growth
in the gym you could just give them one
sent response what would it be well I
have a candidate sentence and it's not
every thing it misses some things but G
was I think it gets a lot so let's
examine the simplest possible way to
tell someone how to grow muscle and
still be somewhat complete with your
thought right so is this a magic spell
for muscle gains no unfortunately not uh
but it is a little bit of a quick
explaining sentence in order to tell
people look this is the basics of how
you train to grow muscle and we'll see
how useful the sentence can be in just a
little bit so here's the
sense somebody says Hey how do I train
to grow muscle in gym you say well
listen here uh Frank Frank's a good name
do five to 30 good technique reps that
each take two to n seconds in multiple
sets taking those sets close to failure
with Target muscle is the limiting
factor and repeat this approach as often
as you are recovered enough to do so
that's the sentence it's not that long
it's a long sentence but it's not like a
paragraph or anything now what does this
sentence actually cover as far as
scientific Concepts and by cover I mean
explained pretty well good enough to at
least get you started to making a
program so first it explains rep and
loading ranges okay you know it's sets
of five to 30 reps any lower is probably
not good any higher is probably not
great Cadence how long the repetition
should take each rep right rep
volumes set numbers okay it does
absolutely say to do multiple sets and
it absolutely answers how many sets by
saying if you are recovered enough to do
so you train again and that
automatically answers in some way how
many sets you should be doing and also
how often you should be doing workouts
and those two are inversely related if
you do big workouts with lots of sets
should spread them out more frequently
so that you can recover as a sentence
mentions and if you have smaller
workouts with fewer sets each time then
you can do them more frequently still if
you are recovered enough to do so you go
back and hit it again it
also covers fatigue and Recovery right
and thus uh it all not only covers
frequency but Massa cycle length if you
fail to recover after a while you got to
be like okay I have to do something else
I just keep not recovering something is
wrong I'm not needing the sentence right
I'm not um my training is no longer
described by the sentence and if the
sentence no longer describ your training
you have a problem and it also talks
about muscle targets right we're not
just moving weight to move weight we're
making sure that we're doing the
exercise in such a way that the muscle
is the limiting factor and it talks
about R to some extent because it says
training at or close to failure right
taking those sets close to failure right
that's what it says so that's five
pretty decent Concepts not too shabby at
all now what does this sentence imply
potentially but doesn't quite explicitly
spell out and kind of leave us hanging
with well would we need another sentence
for first of all what good technique is
right I mean you know you can say do
this good technique but that doesn't
really answer any questions that just
gives you another question of well what
is good technique better than not
knowing that but certainly not a ton of
information there we know that a part of
good technique is making sure to keep
the muscle that you're targeting as the
limiting factor for movement but you giz
that's certainly not all of it number
two uh when two seconds or 9 seconds for
a total rep repetition that's Ecentric
plus pause plus concentric plus pause
plus and then repeating when is 2
seconds for that whole cycle good when
is N9 seconds for that whole cycle good
and when are various things in between a
good idea doesn't really describe the
nuances of cadence it just mentions the
whole range what recovery means right it
doesn't really say uh what actually
recovery is because you could read that
whole sentence and be like okay as often
as you're recovered enough to do so I
how do I know if I'm recovered like if
you don't know anything about muscle
growth training or very limited amount
that might not be enough for you right
there and of course there's a couple
other things we could pick apart you
know says set of 5 to 30 doesn't really
explain it but we did say the sentence
would tell you what to do not
potentially explain it so not bad not
bad we're doing pretty well there's
other stuff it could uh definitely um uh
say now here's something this sentence
misses pretty close to entirely first of
all progression model now I will say
some of the stuff is is uh more minor
and isn't really a big concern with top
level stuff so how you progress isn't
important compared to that you progress
and if you get close to failure you're
recovering between sessions and you get
close to failure all the time your
progression is kind of handled
automatically for you so let's Envision
a scenario you're getting 29 reps per
set 30 reps per
set each set is close to failure and
then you're recovering between sessions
like the sentence says at some point
you're going to get 31 reps and you're
going to be like well shit I said that
31 is not good it's supposed to be 5 to
30 so at the very least what you do is
in just intuitively add load to get the
Reps to reduce you can still go close to
failure get the Reps to be lower so over
time it would still be an absolutely
valid thing so progression models it
doesn't tell you do I put one uh rep
each week to add to an exercise or five
pounds it leaves that empty the second
thing it doesn't get into is the
exercise order within a session at all
like should I do bench first should I do
flies first no clue exercise number and
the total volume per session though it
does constrain both of those things to
some extent by telling you that if you
can be recovered between sessions are
good to go and that's true really
doesn't really give you the details of
how to construct a plan that at least
not a first guess would do the um the
task of building out a such a way that
can be good for Recovery because you can
build a plan initially and be like oh
guess this didn't work for Recovery back
to the drawing board and guess
completely on the other side of the
spectrum so it's a lot of guess and
check there it doesn't really mention a
stimulus to fatigue ratio a whole lot it
sort of implies it a little bit but uh
nothing that we would uh really set in
stone stimulus to fatigue ratio is a bit
more of an advanced concept but
nonetheless a concept that deeply
permeates our uh proper programming so
it definitely doesn't get that and
there's probably a lot more the sentence
misses as well
now here's the deal how do you use this
sentence to help yourself or somebody
else how can you use this sentence
because that's a funny Quirk it's a good
thumbnail I'm sure Scott the video guy
who thumbnailed this like one sentence
unlocks the key to muscle growth man
here's the thing if someone asks how do
I train to get bigger or Jud you have
any tips for
size people ask insanely open-ended
questions like that all the time it's
kind of funny because I think some of
those people would be remiss to ask such
an open-ended question uh in any other
context but maybe they think the answer
is going to be really simple you know
you wouldn't really come up to a
software engineer and be like so how
does coding work I mean you could but GE
whiz you know they'd have to really just
bring you back to Concepts instead write
various instructions the computer reads
them and it performs various predictable
tasks if the instruction sufficiently
integrated and complicated the computer
does really cool stuff that that's
that's all of coding really described in
one sentence but it doesn't really give
you a lot of like take-home points to go
and do any coding yourself so people
often ask Hey how how do I train in the
gym they don't really know the magnitude
of the complexity of the problem they're
asking about which is why apps exist to
help them which is why personal trainers
exist to help them and One does not
simply mean definitely comes up here
however if they do ask and they often do
you can just hit them with that sentence
and if they don't understand parts of it
they can always ask for specific
follow-ups they could be like okay so
like how many sets do I do in a session
a great question within the context of
that sentence that question adds a ton
of value and allows you to significantly
constrain programming options until you
get down to like what is a good program
and you can actually write it out and if
they ask you for the filling in the
blanks and they do it with your help
then they can probably get a halfway
decent program together but I would say
one of the best ways to use this one
sentence instruction for um benefit is
we have this one sentence instruction on
how to get muscle growth in the gym the
best thing to do with it isn't so much
as using an instruction sheet it's to
use it as a cheat sheet in the way that
you look at your own training and you
try to guess okay am I getting anything
wrong that this sentence says is part or
or or all of my training just straight
up not following any of these
recommendations so I'll read it again
one by one part one by one do five to 30
good technique reps okay first are you
doing mostly sets of five to 30 anywhere
in between is a good answer or are you
doing lots of triples are you doing lots
of it's a 40 if you're outside of that 5
to 30 you're not seemingly doing the
right thing for muscle growth the best
thing rather and you should give it some
thought good technique reps are you
training with good technique pause if
you don't know what good technique is
that begs the question and you go have
to find out good news is we have
answered that in our RP YouTube videos a
bunch of times you can Google uh Google
gal Google good technique uh and my last
name or RP p and we have like a video
like the seven or eight I forgot how
many it is I think the eight the eight
pillars or whatever of good technique
for muscle growth training and then boom
it's just a question answer right and if
you if you don't know that technical
stuff on that but you know like yeah I
know what good technique is hey at least
you know but if you're looking at that
you're like good technique uh what is
that in muscle growth training I don't
know like I've done powerlifting before
is it the same thing then it's an
opportunity for you to learn or if
you're like man fuck technique then you
definitely have a ser
problem that each the Reps that each
take 2 to 9 seconds to complete uh okay
so if you're doing one second reps pulse
reps you might be able to slow down if
you're doing some kind of super extra
slow extra long reps that are taking 15
seconds each you might have to
reconsider in multiple sets basically
tells you that like trying to train with
one set to failure per muscle group is
almost always unwise from an
Effectiveness P perspective it's just
needlessly constraining so multiple sets
just gives you the Hat tip that like
okay you're going to need to do a few
sets it doesn't tell you how many but if
your program is multiple sets you're
winning in that regard taking those sets
close to failure that's a big deal
that's not that hard to figure out you
know two three four maybe reps away from
failure but if you you're doing a set
and you can just put the weight down
like it never hurt or anything and never
got close to fail you're doing something
wrong where the target muscle is the
limiting factor oh gez that's a really
good one because you could think man you
know on lat pull Downs my forearms
always give out wow I'm not doing what
the sentence says I'm not going to see
as much growth in my lats because the
pull Downs which try to Target the lats
and a few other muscles in the back are
being held back they're not the limiting
factors the forearm muscle musculature
is so maybe you could put on some Versa
grips or use some chalk or some straps
and fix that problem so that you can in
fact comport with this sentence and get
the best
growth training for muscle growth is
never going to be the
same and then it says repeat this as
often as you are recovered enough to do
so so how often is often enough what's
whenever you're recovered that means
that if you wait a little bit too long
eh you know you're kind of missing time
to grow if you wait too little of time
and you go back again and hit it harder
than gym too soon you will not be
recovered lastly I'll just give you the
answer to what recovered means but maybe
you should have put it in the sentence
but it's when your performance for the
concomitant session you're doing again
this week from the one last week is as
high or higher ideally than it was
before if it's as high you're still good
to go if it's lower performance like
back last week you benched 225 for 10
this week you benched 230 for like seven
which doesn't convert if you you know do
all the math it's like oh you're
definitely underperformed if you do that
a few times you're not meeting the
checklist that's a sentence sets up and
you're doing something wrong so recovery
means you are at least stable and
probably improving in performance over
time if that's not the case you're doing
something wrong so this little sentence
here is a good thing to remember so that
you can figure out like oh wow okay like
this has really kind of a cheat sheet to
check any kind of program I see against
and another good way thing to use the
sentence is if you go and you find a
program on the internet and it's like
hey look is this a good program well
does it check the boxes that are set up
within this one sentence muscle growth
explanation if it does hey it might be
pretty good if it doesn't then we
definitely know how to improve it all
right folks thank you so much for tuning
in like share subscribe do the YouTube
stuff we have a member section we have
the team full ROM Community you can
subscribe to so give that some thought
and I'll see you next
time