welcome to the house of hypertrophy in
this video we're discussing some
misconceptions in the muscle and
strength building realm that aren't
frequently discussed precisely we're
touching on strength versus size
Progressive overload and how stiff
lifting weights may make you
some suggest getting stronger directly
causes you to get bigger a couple of
studies on High level power lifters find
very strong correlations between lean
mass and strength on the bench press
Squat and deadlift therefore some may
use this data to suggest getting strong
clearly causes muscle hypertrophy
however I believe this is the wrong way
around instead getting bigger causes you
to get stronger you see muscle
hypertrophy is largely achieved by
increasing the number of force
generating units muscle fibers have and
this can directly increase in muscle
strength so it's more accurate to say
getting bigger causes you to get
stronger not the other way around if it
was the other way around you'd expect to
lifting the heaviest loads you can for a
single rep multiple times per week to be
effective at building muscle this is
called to training with your one rep max
however we have three studies that find
although one rep max training was highly
effective for producing strength gains
It produced virtually no hypertrophy
whatsoever I plan to have more videos on
strength versus size and there are many
complexities and controversies for now
know my thoughts are that on an
individual level the strongest version
of yourself will likely require you to
be near the most muscularly developed
version of yourself again I'll have more
in-depth videos in the future dissecting
why I believe the literature indicates
this despite various areas of
complexities and controversies
[Music]
typically people Progressive overload
their training sessions by lifting
heavier or performing more repetitions
some suggest Progressive overload causes
muscle and strength gains strictly
speaking this isn't wrong but it is
somewhat deceptive if you purely believe
Progressive overload cause muscle and
strength gains this may lead to two
mistakes the first is you always try to
force Progressive overload
unintentionally you may compromise your
form to lift heavier or perform more
repetitions the second is you may always
try to select exercises that are easier
to Progressive overload long term this
isn't inherently bad but assuming
exercises that are easier to Progressive
overload are superior for muscle
hypertrophy isn't always correct I'll
have an example in a second what most
people tend to miss is that your ability
to Progressive overload is caused by
your muscle and strength gains
but by you applying Progressive overload
thanks to your muscle and strength gains
you have maintained a high quality
training stimulus that will continue to
stimulate muscle and strength gains so
in this sense the idea Progressive
overload causes muscle and strength
gains is correct as shown on screen
thinking of progressive overload as a
cycle is probably a great way to think
of it so yes Progressive overload can
cause gains but your Progressive
overloading is also because of your
gains now I mentioned that full
hypertrophes specifically selecting
exercises that are easier to Progressive
overload with the belief they build more
muscle isn't correct for example this
2022 Japanese study compared overhead
extensions to pushdowns and subjects
progressively overloaded the push Downs
to a larger extent yet triceps
hypertrophy was Superior with the
overhead extensions
why is this due to various biomechanical
factors certain exercises allow you to
lift heavier loads and so have a greater
capacity to be progressively overloaded
long term yet these biomechanical
factors that enable you to lift heavier
loads on an exercise do not always mean
that the muscles involved in the
exercise are receiving a greater muscle
building stimulus and working on a
series of free Ultimate Guide videos to
developing each muscle group and these
will provide insights into what
exercises may be the most favorable for
each muscle the biceps are the first
muscle we'll examine and that will be
released the week after the next
oh
it can be common to assume lifting
weights leads to your muscles being
stiffer and less flexible but the
evidence fails to support this a 2021
meta-analysis out of Portugal combined
the results of 11 studies and found no
significant difference in joint range of
motion gains between lifting weights and
stretching most of the 11 studies had
the subject's lift full range of motion
while two of them actually used a
partial range of motion at long muscle
lengths while the stretching training
was largely static it's also worth
noting that 11 studies in the
meta-analysis were quite different from
each other so I don't believe this
meta-analysis is definitive evidence
lifting weights is always as good as
dedicated stretching training for
increasing joint range of motion but at
the very least it certainly qualifies as
evidence lifting weights does not make
you stiff in fact when lifting through a
full range of motion or even a partial
range of motion at long muscle lengths
numerous studies find it can increase
the length of your muscle fibers
presumably conferring flexibility fits
consistent training is crucial for
long-term gains and Alpha progression is
a really well designed app that can help
the app enables you to visually track
your lifting long-term progression which
is great for motivation you can input
your own program or even Explore the
incredibly flexible custom workout
generator specify your training
experience what equipment you have
your trading goals whether you want to
focus or neglect certain muscles
and how often you want to train and for
how long
their app also contains a database of
over 550 exercises with great text and
video tutorials on each by using the
link in the comments and description
you'll have two weeks free of all its
features plus 20 off a subscription if
you do purchase the app the house of
hypertrophy will get 50 so This truly
helps support these three videos thank
you so much finally I have a free
Ultimate Guide to bench pressing ebook
that covers these areas feel free to get
it in the link in the comments and
description
thank you
[Music]