foreign
[Music]
curling exercises can be great for
building the biceps for the simple fact
they can all involve elbow flexion and
supination but let's say you wanted to
push me could a certain type of coal be
slightly more effective than the wrist
maybe I'm wondering if a curling
exercise while the shoulders are
extended such as drawing an incline curl
or face away cable curl might be the
single most favorable biceps exercise
why am I wondering this due to the
origins of the biceps placing the
shoulder into extension stretches the
biceps particularly the long head since
this passes directly over the shoulder
joints in recent years the power of
achieving a stretch of a muscle during
an exercise is becoming apparent though
it's worth knowing that the scientific
origins of stretch playing a role in
hypertrophy stretches back to the 1970s
a range of studies conducted on animals
found that when having them stretch
various muscles with extreme intensity
for a long duration muscle hypertrophy
occurred even Elite bodybuilders
seemingly recognize is the importance of
stretch Arnold mentions in his book that
incline dumbbell curse are a great
exercise alluding to the stretch of
being an important factor today we have
three areas of the scientific literature
in humans showing the power of achieving
a stretch during an exercise
[Music]
the isometric training research is the
first for those unaware isometric
training is where you hold a muscle in a
static position and we have three
studies that demonstrate isometric
training as a stretch to muscle position
produces more hypertrophy than isometric
training at a shortened muscle position
an important consideration with this
data is all three of the studies looked
at the quadriceps muscle so we can't be
certain the same applies to the biceps
however the second area of the
scientific research comparing different
range of motions potentially indicates
that biceps do respond to stretch
[Music]
foreign
studies won by Sato and the other by
Pedrosa have compared performing a
preacher Co with a partial range of
motion at the initial position to a
partial range of motion at the final
position you can lift heavier loads with
a partial range of motion in the final
position and this was adjusted for in
both studies now preacher curls don't
optimally stretch the biceps since this
exercise is performed in shoulder
flexion even so the subjects in both
studies that trained with a partial
range of motion at the initial position
would have been stretching the biceps
more than the subjects training with a
partial range of motion at the final
position if the biceps do not benefit
from being exposed to a stretch we'd
expect similar hypertrophy between both
groups but the Sato study found elbow
flexor growth across three regions
tended to be superior for the partial
range of motion at the initial position
when we average growth across the three
regions it's evident elbow flexor growth
was Superior with a partial at the
initial position
as for the Pedrosa study elbow flexor
growth was measured at the 50 and 70
upper arm regions and at the 50 region
thickness gains were actually similar
between both groups but at the 70 region
gains were Superior for the partial at
the initial position if we add both
regions we can see growth favored the
partial at the initial position
an interesting consideration is that
both studies found considerably more
gains at the 70 region for the partial
at the initial position this phenomenon
of stretched exercises growing this
region of a muscle substantially have
also been found with a quadriceps muscle
group
we do actually have another study
comparing different range of motions
with a biceps exercise that further
suggests that biceps May grow more when
exposed to stretch this is a 2011 study
by Pinto which also had subjects trained
to preacher coal one group of subjects
trained with a full range of motion
while another group of subjects trained
with a partial range of motion in the
middle position increases in elbow
flexor growth at around the 60 upper arm
length favored the full range of motion
group considering the findings of the
Sato and Pedrosa studies I think these
results are probably in large part since
the full range of motion group achieved
greatest stretch of the biceps
an important consideration with all this
range of motion data is although it
indicates the stretched part of a
preacher curl is great for building
muscle it of course cannot prove an even
greater stretch achieved for the curls
and shoulder extension would be even
better for biceps hypertrophy
nonetheless the third area of scientific
literature comes from data on the
triceps
[Music]
the triceps generally consist of the
long medial and lateral heads all three
heads pass over their elbow joints but
the long head specifically passes over
the shoulder joint as well and when you
place the shoulder into flexion the long
head of the triceps is going to be
stretched this is quite similar to the
biceps Long Head we know this passes
over the shoulder joint too and will be
stretched during shoulder extension
an overhead extension is a triceps
exercise that will train the long head
of the triceps in a stretched position
since this exercise is performed with
the shoulders flexed and here's the key
point a great Study last year by Mao
compared overhead extensions to push
downs and found that overhead extensions
produced greater long triceps head
volume increases fascinatingly the
overhead extensions also produced
greater combined medial and lateral head
volume increases as well a finding that
was unexpected but nicely demonstrates a
point many people tend to forget that
there are likely still things we do not
fully know about muscle hypertrophy of
course we'll dissect this study by Mal
plus other relevant research in our
Ultimate Guide to developing the triceps
that should be released in the upcoming
weeks foreign
these three areas of the scientific
literature collectively aren't Crystal
Clear proofs curls would show the
extension are the single most
hypertrophic exercise but I think
they're sufficient for us to hypothesize
it could be
despite these three areas of the
scientific literature there's a chance
you may have come across people
suggesting the biceps should not grow
more when exposed to stretch their
belief seems to stem from research
looking at the length tension
relationship of the biceps sarcomas I
don't believe this research is strong
enough to Warrant a full explanation of
it in this video so for those interested
in the full dissection of it my views
can be found at the link on screen
essentially I simply do not believe we
can look at one area of the scientific
literature that has an array of
potential limitations and make
definitive conclusions about whether the
biceps grow more in response to stretch
or not especially considering when other
areas of the scientific literature as we
analyzed provide solid grounds to
speculate the biceps May indeed grow
more in response to stretch I will point
out for the same reasons people
speculated the triceps should not grow
more in response to stretch that is they
believe to length tension relationship
studies on the triceps sarcomas meant
the triceps shouldn't grow more when
exposed to stretch but as we saw with a
mouse study released last year the
triceps Longhead grew more in response
to stretch nevertheless you can be sure
that if any future research emerges
about how the biceps May respond to
stretching based exercises we'll have a
video on the house of hypertrophy to
update you all
for those interested in guidance or
ideas about programming for hypertrophy
you may be interested in our partner
Alpha progression a tremendous app that
includes a custom workout generator the
training variables deployed are grounded
in various meta-analyzes and systematic
reviews from the scientific literature
plus there's great flexibility you can
fact in what equipment you have so if
you only have dumbbells no problem how
long you want your workouts to be how
often you want to train furthermore the
workouts are still editable to your
liking allowing you to individualize
things as you see fit the app also has
other great features it provides neat
graphs that can display your long-term
progression and there's a database with
over 550 exercises with excellent video
and text tutorials behind each the link
in the comments and description gives
you everything on the app for two weeks
completely free and if you like it and
go beyond the link gives you 20 off a
subscription we don't just partner up
with anybody at the house of hypertrophy
so you can rest assured the app is
seriously quality
[Music]
as an additional part to this section we
know incline curls and cable face away
curves are two ways you could train the
biceps in a great stretched position but
are there any differences between either
of them that makes one better than the
other some suggest cable face weight
cars are better as they provide more
consistent biceps Force production
throughout the range of motion versus
incline curves however I'm skeptical
this matters that much for hypertrophy
if training a muscle with consistent
Force production throughout a range of
motion was crucial for muscle
hypertrophy variable resistance should
build more muscle for those unaware
variable resistance is typically
achieved with machines that vary the
resistance throughout the range of
motion resulting in the muscle being
challenged in there equally throughout
it four Studies have examined the
effectiveness of training with variable
resistance compared to using normal
resistance and all of them find similar
muscle hypertrophy between the two two
of these involve the biceps training one
of them was this 2018 paper which
compared variable to normal resist since
machine preacher curls and found similar
arm circumference gains between the two
the second one was this 1995 study which
again compared variable to normal
resistance Preacher machine curls and
observed similar biceps cross-sectional
area gains between the two
since these two studies only use the
preacher curl it's not a guarantee that
these findings apply to curling with a
shoulder extended but I do think it
could be the case that regardless of the
resistance profile of an exercise taking
your repetitions to or at least near
failure sufficiently stimulates the
biceps therefore I'm currently not sold
on the idea that cable face away curves
would truly be superior to inclined
dumbbell curls so for now I'd say an
individual should select whichever they
prefer what you just watched was a clip
from our free Ultimate Guide to biceps
hypertrophy feel free to check out the
full video here or you may wish to check
out another one of the House of
hypertrophy's videos