isometrics what what what needs to be
said there isometrics just don't seem to
be as hypertrophic isometrics in a
stretch position are plenty hypertrophic
in a contracted one they're not so for
example if you're doing cable flies if
you stop and squeeze people will give
that que it's totally cool for variation
it's fun it's awesome it grows muscle
but I wouldn't say it's essential and it
might be a downside so all that energy
you're spending stopping at the squeeze
you could put into the Centric which
probably grows more muscle so if you
were going to do a pause you're going to
be pausing at the stretched position not
at the contracted position more often
yeah pause at the stretch is cool for a
couple reasons one it absolutely reduces
the injury probability that reversal at
the stretch is the single generally most
dangerous time for muscular injury right
because you've got weight going down and
you're about to contract while it's yeah
that's how I ruptured my achilles yeah
oh I heard that story it was terrible y
it's the ultimate scary story of warm up
for forever if you've coming back to
sports correct yeah