FR of that miror you twerk it on the
dance of that Mir you twerk it on Twerk
it on of that Mir you twerking it on the
dance blow that twerk it Twerk it on
theow Twerk It On the Dance blow
twerking it on the danow twerk it
on so today I'm going to talk about a
news article that I read on science
daily.com uh which is a website I use
quite often just for
keeping up on science news but anyway I
read an article last week that said junk
food makes rats lose appetite for a
balanced
diet and guys just as an aside whenever
I'm reading something online that
reports new findings in science the
first thing I always do is scroll down
to the bottom of the
article and look at their references
list and if there is no reference list
then I just stop stop reading unless
unless it's something by uh an author
that I really trust or if it's clearly
just a Blog opinion piece or something
like that but in this case uh they did
site the study that they were
referencing and so throughout the rest
of this video I will be speaking about
that study itself uh the original paper
by Reel atal and I'll put a link to both
the news article and the
actual paper in the description box
below so the most interesting
finding of the present study was the
impairment in the expression of sensory
specific satiety in rats fed a cafeteria
diet so throughout this video I will
explain what all of that stuff means but
first let me explain what it was that
the research actually did in their
experiment and then I'll get to their
conclusions what it all means and what
the implications to us are so I will
have to oversimplify the experiment in
this video just for the sake of time but
I do encourage you to go out and read
the full text for yourself uh if you
have access to it they took one group of
rats and fed them a healthy
diet of what's called rat chow and then
they took another group of rats and they
gave them the same healthy diet of rat
Chow but they added in cookies cake and
pie and some other stuff and then they
called the latter group the cafeteria
diet group and now within this study
there's a lot of psychological jargon
and their procedure is littered with
talk of pavlovian conditioning outcome
devaluation and all sorts of other stuff
that I'm not going to get into this
video again for the sake of time but
essentially what happened was the Rats
on the healthy diet stopped responding
to cues that were linked to a food they
had already eaten to
satiety so in other words once they had
already eaten enough cherry flavored
Kool-Aid which was actually what they
gave the rats so that they felt full
they no longer wanted any more cherry
flavored Kool-Aid and then this is
referred to as sensory specific satiety
and now conversely they found that after
eating the cafeteria diet for two weeks
those rats kept on responding to cues
linked to a food that they had already
eaten to satiety or in other words even
after they ate enough Cherry Kool-Aid
until they felt full they still wanted
to go back for more
later and again this is an
oversimplification but I do think it
adequately captures the major finding of
their experiment so how can we interpret
these results
well first of all why do we have sensory
specific satiety to begin with why is it
that after we eat a meal of chicken rice
and
vegetables we would rather have a piece
of pie than eat that same meal all over
again well evolutionarily it makes a lot
of sense by having this sensory specific
satiety where we get bored to certain
foods we encouraged to eat a wide
variety of foods in the diet and then in
this way it puts us at it puts us at a
decreased risk of developing nutrient
deficiencies so this is good but then on
the flip side of this is that if animals
are given a wide variety of foods in
their diet then they're more likely to
overeat and gain weight so the question
is is this true of us humans so there
doesn't seem to be a clear picture of
this whole situation some people will
argue that unlike rats who are simply
forming stimulus response associations
leading to Habit
formation us humans we have desires and
beliefs and values and these things seem
to be the primary driver behind our
behaviors and rats just simply don't
have these things but rather than cite
all of the research at large I will
suffice it to cite a statement in a very
well researched lit review by a grad
student at King College where he said in
the 1980s a clear clear behavioral
evidence emerged that rats actions can
be controlled by States analogous to
human behaviors or sorry human desires
beliefs as well as by
habits okay so if we grant that this rat
study can be applied to complex human
feeding behaviors where do we go from
there while we are certainly nowhere
near having a full clear picture of all
the mechanisms involved in the
psychology of human
eating based on the results of this
study if sensory specific satiety is
impaired by a diet high in junk food it
might be a good idea to keep junk Foods
in the cupboard to a minimum we all know
that Pop-Tarts come in packets of two
and I doubt that I'm the only one who
has fit the first poptart into my macros
and then gone back for the second one
even though I wasn't even that hungry
anymore and this is a perfect example of
the inhibition of sensory specific
satiety that you see in a diet high in
junk food now the author of the study
drew a similar comparison herself she
said it's like you've just had ice cream
for lunch and yet you still go and eat
more when you hear the ice cream van
come by now before we jump the gun and
decide that all junk food is bad and it
should be eradicated from every diet for
every person I would just like to remind
everyone that there is not a single
shred of scientific evidence to suggest
that there are foods that can cause fat
gain above and beyond the simple excess
of calories that they provide and that
fat loss or fat gain really truly is a
matter of calories in versus calories
out and the fact that junk food May
inhibit sensory specific satiety leading
to overfeeding is simply just changing
one side of this equilibrium it's
causing more calories to go in
and I'll finish this video by reminding
people of a 2002 study which showed that
people who were very rigid with their
dietary approach not only tended to have
really crappy mood disturbances as
anyone who's ever been on a chicken and
broccoli Diet can certainly attest to
but they were also more likely to be
heavier to have higher body weights and
to show increased symptoms of eating
disorders and I'll also direct you guys
to another study that was published in
201
that concluded rigid dietary control
strategies were inversely related to
dieting success while flexible control
strategies were positively associated
with dieting success so in other words
if you're too strict and rigid with your
food choices you won't be as successful
or you'll be less likely to be
successful than if you allow for some
flexibility in your diet and based on my
personal experience in the field and
what seems to be mounting animal models
about reward seeking Behavior I think
that an emphasis on a wide variety of
foods with a 10 to 20% limit on
so-called junk Foods is the best advice
for anyone whose goal is fat loss and my
practical recommendations based on my
own experience is to keep junk food in
the house to a minimum rather than
eliminating it completely and when you
do buy it try to stick to foods that
offer single serving sizes so you aren't
tempted to go back for more later for
example bu by the Mr Krispy the Mr
chrisy 100 calorie single packet
servings of chocolate pretzels rather
than load up on a big bag of chocolate
pretzels from bul burn all right guys if
you learned anything in this video
please don't forget to like the video
and if you have anything that you'd like
to add to the conversation please feel
free to comment or post links below and
don't forget to subscribe if you haven't
already all right thank you for
watching
a