your nervous system essentially has to
work a lot harder to do this than it
does to do this slowly the really cool
thing about the Ecentric phase it's been
shown time and time again it grows
muscle at least as well as the
concentric phase probably a little bit
more maybe 55 to 45 kind of ratio the
entric has another really cool Advantage
your nervous system is not as active
during The Eccentric phase as is the
concentric phase that is you're getting
a similar level of muscle growth
probably a little better in the Ecentric
phase with some smaller fraction of
nervous system activity which means
smaller fraction of nervous system
fatigue which means accentuating the
Ecentric phase can actually by a small
margin potentially and maybe even by a
decent one multiply your stimulus to
fatigue ratio and that way you can
actually maximize your growth by
minimizing your fatigue also controlling
the Centric more profoundly and reducing
The Descent velocity reduces the
probability of injury for any one
specific rep that you're doing and
obviously for the entire program as a
whole