they're saying leanness can't be healthy
as a
justification soft-handed justification
of their own not being
lean hey folks Dr Mike here for anos
sounds periodization and is it true that
low body fat levels are very
unhealthy H it might not be what a weird
idea what's the setup for this well
every time somebody ultr lean comes
around you see pictures on the internet
someone's got to say oh man that can't
be
healthy
and a lot of even very lean folks close
to bodybuilding Contest time they'll say
the same thing they'll say yeah not
healthy but pushing that body
fat is that true is there such a thing
as being too lean to be in your Optimal
Health and even more specifically is
there something like being so lean that
your health is actively taking a a
hit Maybe
let's look at how it's true and look at
how it's maybe not so true certain
biomarkers like testosterone estrogen
generally the sex hormones certain
markers of your propensity to undergo
bone building and tendon recovery they
definitely take a hit when you're very
very
lean and that's definitely
true slight downside
okay if you're
female you get something when you get
lean enough called Amara which lack of
menes no more period and because that
disrupts standard estrogen production it
actually leads to long-term bone loss
which is very not good and normal
estrogen is cardioprotective for females
and males so if that goes out the window
being lean for females very lean is
definitely not a good
thing and then
lastly while it might not be as true as
we think think to say that being lean is
bad for your health it's very true to
say some parts of the dieting process to
get you
lean can be not so great for
health
so if you take a
perilous Yak ride to the top of a
mountain in the Himalayas once you're
standing on top of that mountain you may
be just safe as ever as long as no
meteors hit you or something but the
crazy Ox cart Yak ride up has killed
hundreds of people before and it's
incredibly risky and the yak doesn't so
much want to live he's kind of French
he's like what is the point of all this
anyway no and he steps off just killing
himself and you in the process so it's
the journey that's the tough thing not
the destination and in getting really
lean there may be a lot of Truth to
that the fatigue of the hypocaloric
condition of the diet that fatigue
itself of the the diet to get you lean
not the leanness is causing low sleep
and low quality sleep high
stress muscle loss you name
it and that's not really the lenus
itself that's causing most of that it's
just the training in the diet to get you
there it's the restriction and of course
when you see professional bodybuilders
on stage they're also taking lots of
drugs and of course the drugs are not
very good for your health so definitely
they're not very well but if you look at
natural competitors they get just as
lean as the pros and or just as lean as
the non-tested guys and all of a sudden
it's like okay well are those guys as
unhealthy and the reality is in large
part yes they're not in great health
right there but it's because of the diet
fatigue not the lenus
itself and so there are ways at least
three in which I think the idea that
being lean is unhealthy may not hold
up the first is when you look at body
fat levels and you run correlations and
even in case control studies where you
actually decrease someone's body fat and
you monitor their health having less
body fat makes you healthier in like a
100 different ways it improves insulin
Dynamics it improves inflammation it
lowers your heart rate it improve
improves your blood pressure and so on
and so on and so
on directly from the literature lean
makes you healthier and they haven't
seemed to find a bottom end to that at
least that's a Dependable number when
people say well anything below 6% or 5%
that's bad for your health there are no
convincing studies that illustrate that
that doesn't mean it's false but the
confidence with which we claim that it's
true has to be
curtailed and I personally get a ton of
blood work as I get leaner and other
biomarkers point number two are also
really good not all the biomarkers are
good testosterone uh estrogen bone
building things those go south but what
about cholesterol that improves
radically the leaner you get I haven't
seen a top end in my own situation I've
been as lean as 5.9%
before blood pressure obviously way
improved fasting glucose is phenomenal
and fasting glucose is a very good
predictor of Health and Longevity your
glycosilated hemoglobin insulin
A1C is going to be very low from
prolonged bouts of being lean that's
excellent it's anti-diabetic it's life
extending pretty much every metric of
brain health improves and as a matter of
fact improves from a deficit a caloric
deficit is better for your long-term
brain health in Dependable doses not all
the time because eventually you just get
too skinny and die but being lean seems
to correspond to better brain health and
yes some biomarkers go south but more of
them go north even when you are Ultra
lean so on the net balance in many cases
it may actually be more true to say that
when you're leaner you're healthier than
when you're not as
lean and there is there are going to be
no doubt many people in the comments
disagreeing and the vast majority of the
agreement or rather the assertion I've
seen about low body fats not being
healthy it it just is resting on an I'm
sorry forgive me it's resting on an
empty
assumption people see strided glutes and
they go that can't be healthy and I
would love to be in real life with that
person instead of over social media and
say okay now I hear you why not and
usually their next move is to cynicism
to eye rolls like really dude you're
telling me that's healthy like no I'm
not telling you that but you're saying
it's not healthy I'm neutral I could be
persuaded that it's not healthy but can
you explain to me why it's not healthy
and usually they
can't
and in my view some of this kind of
cynicism is just um pointing out that
something is weird and can't possibly be
good it's a reinforcement of normative
values that is baseless like most such
reinforcements like in the 1970s they
thought long hair made you
satanic but it just they just have long
hair and sometimes you're also a
Satanist and as a proud member of
Satan's church I think myself I I think
Satanism is great but long hair not
required and so a lot of times when
people say like oh well like getting
that lean can't be healthy there's two
things going on one is an in-group
outgroup social Dynamic where you other
you you make someone the other the
outside the weird the strange that can't
be
good and they used to do this to people
with muscle all the time if you were
remotely more muscular than average
which is to say healthier and better at
everything back in the 50s they thought
you were strange like that can't be
healthy you know back in the 60s the
average offensive linemen weighed about
225 pounds in the NFL because they
thought muscle slowed you down when
you're different even if you're better A
lot of people will just say you're worse
sometimes they're right you're different
and you're worse but sometimes you're
better and they still have to talk that
 and a lot of people in more under
the current reasoning not that they're
conscious of it all the time they're
saying leanness can't be healthy as a
justification soft handed justification
of their own not being
lean so where do we get all this where
does this coales because there some
upsides some downsides I'll put it to
you guys this way if you're female and
of reproductive age
especially dip into low body fat do your
thing compete take your photos and then
dip right back out you want to be above
50 % fat in most cases if you're female
and or the body fat that lets your
period be normal or as normal as it ever
has been anything below that maybe not
worth a long-term
trade-off if you are male pay attention
to your blood work if you get to a
certain level of lean let's say 6% and
people are like dude that's too lean
check your blood work if you do your
blood work and your doctor's like dude
you're unbelievable this is the
healthiest you've ever
been please feel free to continue to be
lean 3 to six months later do your blood
work again still awesome better than
last time please feel free to continue
to be lean some things will be up some
things will be down but your doctor will
let you know if this is sustainable or
not and if they look at really good
blood work most doctors don't even have
you lift up your shirt they like oh
there too many stations in your abs no
no no no no that's not going to happen
they're like yeah it's great you look
fine and remember tons of gymnasts and
endurance Runners they live their lives
at five or six% body fat for years on
end and they're not remotely unhealthy
they're some of the healthiest people in
the world
if you need to be leaner for a long time
and your blood work looks great you're
good to
go but there's another thing to be said
here before I let you all free into the
wind to go be lean for as long as you
like most
healthy most lean and most anabolic
prone to Growing muscle are not the same
thing and it's pretty clear from the
evidence that anything for males between
about
8% and as high as 20% but for
competitive bodybuilders as high as
about 15% is a really great window in
which to grow muscle and anything below
8% your body is so concerned with just
replacing the fat that it's lost that
it's not ideally tailored to Growing
muscle in most cases so definitely
wouldn't recommend staying at 6% body
fat trying not to get any fatter and
Goring muscle at the same time that
would be a mistake allow your body fat
to exit that 8% range get into about 12%
you'll build tons of great muscle
through there and you can always diet
that off but if you're worried about
health and you think oh man I'm too lean
for health get your blood work done if
your blood work looks good you're going
to be just fine all right thanks for
sticking around see you guys next
time