are movement imbalances bad in fact what
are they i'm dr mike gizel of
renaissance periodization
and let's talk about movement imbalances
i think we're not the first little dog
and pony show on this one because a lot
of people have talked about this and a
lot of it's been good and some of it's
been not so great so first thing we do
is define movement and balance in this
context we mean
bilateral asymmetry of movement that's
when one side of your body
moves notably differently from another
side of your body for example
you lean more on one leg during
squatting
when you're doing lunges one toe points
out further than the other so you step
this way with one foot and this way with
one foot this one's just cocked out this
way
one elbow tucked a little bit more one
flaring a little bit more on the bench
press something you can notice
that's an example of essentially
bilateral asymmetry of movement and
that's what most people are talking
about when they say oh i think i've got
like a movement imbalance what do i do
about it
so
before we do anything about it or decide
what to do we have to suppres separate
or differentiate movement imbalances
into essentially two big categories
that's to figure out if it's a clinical
grade movement of balance or a
subclinical grade movement amounts so
clinical grade imbalance
is when the imbalance is such a high
degree that it causes gross dysfunction
or pain like you actually have trouble
walking trouble lifting weights trouble
getting in another car and or it hurts
to do all those things even if you can
do them kind of correctly right
a more gym related example is you squat
more on one leg than the other push more
from one leg and uh the dominant knee
that you're using more is just hurting
more and more and more and you're like
god damn it i know it's because i'm
squatting off this leg more every
squat's kind of like a single leg squat
at some point and that may be not
sustainable on the other end of the
spectrum
is the subclinical movement imbalance
which is such a low degree of imbalance
that it causes no pain or dysfunction so
the example is you squat one leg than
the other just like the last one but
there's no pain there's no discomfort
and your squat is improving just fine
and it's like oh like my knees always
off tilted to the right a little bit and
someone's like oh yeah does that cause
you a problem you're like i don't
think so
it doesn't feel weird it's just like
when i watch videos it's off a little
bit right so that's sub clinical
clinical is when it's actually causing
problems
so given that that's the case what are
your options what are you to do
if the imbalance is clinical grade which
means it's causing you pain or
dysfunction in everyday life or in
lifting
you should seek out a sports medicine
doctor that can direct you to the best
course of diagnosis and treatment okay
why a doctor
because some of the diagnoses and
treatments can be very complex and
unintuitive and you may not just be able
to do some rehab videos off of youtube
and get better for example it could be
that you have some kind of structure or
some scar tissue literally impinging on
a nerve which is making your left bicep
smaller than your right bicep no number
of fucking curls for the left one is
ever going to bring it up to size they
image it and you go holy shit he hasn't
got a thing there we can take out it'll
probably relieve pressure on the fucking
motor nerve and your muscles will grow
more and you're like oh and they do the
surgery and they do it and then two
weeks later you're like i can feel my
bicep more it feels so strong and then
two months later it's just as big as the
right one and problem solved thing is
you wouldn't know that that was the case
if you're just like yeah man my left
bicep's smaller i gotta bring it up like
well you don't even know why like what
the damage is right
let's take it if a fighter pilot is like
accelerating the engines of his aircraft
and one of the engines is feeling a bit
sluggish she's like i gotta go faster
and just jams the fucking thing like
more power like they could blow up the
engine like if it's feeling sluggish
then the first thing you gotta do is
like why and maybe like you do
diagnostics there's a loose component
there like holy shit turn off the engine
use the other one land as soon as
possible so the whole thing doesn't blow
up
just because something's underperforming
doesn't mean just training it more is
the answer right it doesn't even mean
training less is the answer if it's
serious and clinical it's causing real
big problems you have to go through the
medical network
a huge recommendation
now if the balance is subclinical you
have a few other options it's not
bothering it's not painful it's just
some shit you see on your instagram
videos once you post them you're like ah
that looks kind of weird right
first option is you can just leave it
alone and paint no mind i have like a
gazillion imbalances and
i've had them for 20 years i've never
had an injury related to any single one
of them everything's fine right
another cool thing is almost everyone
essentially everyone if you sort of zoom
down in enough has imbalances
and the literature on do imbalances
cause injury has been very well explored
and the best answer is if it's clinical
yes if it's subclinical literally no
just there's not a thing
so
if you're trying to fix it you have to
ask like what's the benefit of me fixing
it and if there's really no benefit why
are you going to change your training
effects
now if you do want to fix it
you the best method to do it is the
following you reduce the load and the
relative effort a bit so you don't go as
close to failure for a while on that
exercise and you reduce the load so that
it's more manageable and you can control
the technique better and then you focus
on every single rep being as perfectly
balanced as possible so if your elbow
tucks in more on this bench and flares
here use a lighter weight not as close
to failure and be like okay same tuck
same toxin talk same top press
same tuck i know it wants to go in but
i'm gonna push it out i'm gonna pull
this one in same tuck press okay and
you're actually just learning a new
technique
you're gonna learn this technique and
practice it for weeks as you slowly
increase load and relative effort first
make sure it's pretty automatic that it
happens all the time start increasing
loading relative effort for a while and
then after a month or two year asymmetry
may be highly uh
like
reduced which would be just like less
asymmetry or could be gone entirely and
then ta-da like you did a really good
thing
now
this renorming technique renorming
has a few caveats that come with it if
you're a competitive athlete
you really only want to do the renowning
of the technique in the offseason
because when it's close to competition
whatever technique produces the most
force is what you're gonna have to go
with so if you're a competitive athlete
or like a bodybuilder you need good hard
workouts coming close to the show you
can't just do like oh i'm relearning how
to squat no no that's for deep offseason
so
once deep off season is done if if you
did what you could to renorm now i just
got to go with the flow if it's
subclinical of course this is all
subclinical stuff
clinical you go to the doctor
now
last question for this discussion is
should you do isolation work for the
less contributing side
like if you're curling a barbell and you
notice that your right arm comes up a
little faster than your left and your
left one kind of feels like it
accumulates lactic acid faster and it's
clearly a limiting factor should you do
more work for your left to bring it up
well
maybe but we don't know for sure that
it's that muscle's weakness that's
causing the asymmetry necessarily
directly that it's the muscular tissue
that's insufficiently large and strong
by itself that's causing that problem it
could be a bunch of things you may have
not thought of and i sure as hell didn't
think of these shits
first it could be just neural
programming like not everyone's nervous
system is perfectly designed
and sometimes your body just gives more
oomph to one arm than the other you can
make the other arm stronger but you'll
still run into that same problem many
times
it could be compensating for slightly
different leverages
right the thing is your shoulders might
be tilted like this all the time just a
little bit
just enough so that in order to have
full function in both arms your right
arm has to become stronger because it
actually goes through a larger range of
motion because you're tilted into
instead of away from it
if you fix this bicep and make it
stronger actually generating an
asymmetry the a symmetry and strength
fixed the asymmetry you're just
measuring it wrong you're not measuring
arm to arm you're measuring two arms at
the same time so for the challenges the
right arm faces it's actually exactly as
strong as it needs to be and for the
challenges left arm faces it's actually
better leveraged for those if you
combine leverage into a barbell then all
of a sudden it tilts and all of a sudden
it looks like your left is behind your
right but that may not be the case it
may be the case but it may not be the
case so you're not exactly 100 sure
another really interesting one is it
could be compensating for an asymmetry
somewhere else in the chain let's
imagine for a second that your left
tricep is a lot stronger than your right
notably stronger not clinically but
notably it's bigger it's stronger like
fuck i need to bring up my right you
know bring my left down i'm gonna stop
training for a while but what you don't
notice is that your right front delt is
rather large and your left front delt is
a little smaller than it should be
because the degree of neural innervation
to it just by genetics you had an
accident when you were two and someone
hit you on the shoulder by accident the
nerves kind of didn't your front delt
isn't as strong as it's supposed to be
it's not as strong as this one
so because of you're lifting the same
load usually barbells dumbbell same
weight you've been lifting it your whole
life for your whole training life and
trying to keep the velocity the same and
everything your tricep something had to
give so maybe your pec is a little
stronger on this side and your triceps a
little stronger because they don't have
the benefit of relying on the front delt
as much here your triceps normal size
packs normal size because your front
delt is actually as jacked as it's
supposed to be so if you say fuck man
my fucking left triceps too strong i'm
gonna train a little easier you're
actually
creating an imbalance the the imbalance
locally this muscle actually sort of how
do i put this best it
reduces the systemic imbalance which is
the real gnarly part you want to care
about especially if you're interested in
injury risk and if you say i really got
to train my right tricep then your right
tricep is going to get so strong
that you know it's going to look cool
it's going to look bigger but this is
the problem you never addressed and
there may be no addressing it but if you
just let this tricep sort of deteriorate
on you you could start to have real
trouble pressing with this arm at all
you're like god damn it i'm like even
weaker but how do i have a bigger tricep
but i'm weaker impressive because you
didn't think about all the other muscles
in the chain for complex movements like
deadlifts or whatever there could be
like 10 different muscles on the chain
you just might not know which one of
them are how strong how weak so you got
to be really careful about like oh i'll
just make xyz muscles stronger that's
not exactly the case every single time
now if you really intend on figuring out
if this works what you have to do is you
drop the bilateral work to maintenance
volume so if my left pack is smaller
than my right pack what i'm going to do
is my i'm just going to do like three or
four sets of presses every week to keep
the right pack just as strong and big as
it ever was and then the rest of the
work that week for the left pack is
going to be unilateral work
this pack trained between minimum
effective volume and maximum recoverable
it grows over a few months this pack
stays the same size and eventually this
left pack is going to be as big as the
right pick if that works then great it
worked what i just want you to know is
that it's no guarantee so don't just go
in there and assume like someone's like
yeah man my left quad looks a lot
smaller than my right i'm moving kind of
weird the obvious answer isn't to make
your right quad weaker or your left quad
bigger
they may not be an obvious answer so you
have to give it some thought you have to
try technique renorming first
but if that doesn't work and you really
want to explore
then you can go from there and try this
isolation work everything down to
maintenance volume to actually make a
big impact and if it does great if it
doesn't you're probably fine and if it's
ever clinical go see a doctor folks give
that some thought let me know what you
think in the comments see you next time
for the next video
you