Oh scale Zespri is the better time hi
Kari get those they're good feel like
you need at least like two these are
real
you each get like a plate more or less
I'll just take from the plate are you
gonna eat the peel yeah so I need if you
see a sticker take it off us I'm gonna
eat some stickers hoodies coming off
this is serious we gotta rewind
everything stuff thinks that this is not
enough for Elias you think she came out
of one minute because if so then I'm
screwed
what is going on everyone welcome to the
official Geoff Nippert TV challenge I'm
so a couple days ago for my birthday all
of my friends decided they would get me
just a bunch of Kiwis because I had this
big black bowl full of Kiwis and I was
thinking how am I gonna get rid of all
these Kiwis before they go bad so I
thought what better way and to challenge
my girlfriend to a duel in the form of a
Kiwi food eating challenge so basically
we're gonna take two minutes and you
have to eat as many Kiwis as possible in
that time frame you can basically eat
them however you want
Stephanie likes to eat the peel the peel
is edible I prefer to scoop them out
using a spoon so that's how I'm going to
be doing it other than that we have five
Kiwis per plate and then there's a bonus
plate with three Kiwis so a total of 13
Kiwis or a Friday the 13th and that's it
ready to go
thanks up yeah all right so I'm gonna
start the timer and yeah two three go
[Music]
my lane so I thought I was weird yeah
TV Queen a legitimately thought it was
winning didn't I get to that play first
no no and then I also have like all of
this that I didn't when I was chewing
the peel it's like really hard I was
thinking that I wouldn't have wanted to
eat that peel but the rule is you just
have to eat the flesh of fruit so anyway
how many did you get five plus so this
is 10 minus you so eight you got me and
I got seven clothes
one day will react this is nice and
filling very nutritious so thank you
guys so much for watching I leave the
video a thumbs up if you liked it if
you're wondering I do have official Jeff
Nippert merch available my merch store
so you can check that out in the
description give Stephanie some love
with sure congratulations over on her
Instagram YouTube channel she is better
at food challenges you know I think I
like use more hmm
if you're interested in learning more
about Kiwis though oh yeah
yes a Kiwi started playing video so you
can learn everything you want to know
about you and you guys watching and I'll
see you next time bye