hey folks it's me dr mike
for renaissance periodization
today's bs series topic is diet culture
you may have heard of it it's all the
new rage
so
what is diet culture diet culture is the
notion
that there exists a subculture of sort
of pro-diet interests
folks and corporations and organizations
that try to get people
to follow diets
more or less all the time
to shrink them down and make them thin
so they can fit into the american apple
pie ideal and be happy
joker style right and they kind of want
everyone to diet kind of all the time
because they make money from it
and it encourages the thin ideal
which is
patriarchal and all these other bad
things
and
that means this very powerful subculture
this culture of diet culture has a
strict body shape enforcement if you
fall outside of the norms of what
culture considers appropriate you're
labeled fat and grotesque and terrible
if you're too thin they rail on you for
that too
and
they kind of sort of want everyone and
this is sort of the idea is that's
imbued in many people's hearts and so
some people even have this kind of false
consciousness of
uh thinking that these things are good
even though they've been tricked by
these cultural forces and mega
corporations
into you know strict dieting at all
times like if you you know you're
supposed to consider it bad when you
have chocolate cake because it's off the
plan and everyone's supposed to be
strict all the time
and also there's this dichotomy between
good eating and bad eating there's a lot
of shaming going on
and uh that is sort of
all under the sunbrella of diet culture
that's the notion
there are many many problems with this
elements of it are absolutely true
but elements of something being true
doesn't make the whole grand scheme true
right
if i claim that i can get in the ring
with mike tyson and beat him up just
because i can throw a few punches and
even get some glancing blows in doesn't
mean i'm going to win so the claim of i
can beat up mike tyson versus i can step
in the ring with mike tyson which is
technically correct as long as i can
physically step in the ring two very
different claims
i can even have a picture of me in
boxing gloves and be like see see dr
mike's doing it doing what exactly we
don't know yet
so let's break it down and find out how
much bs is behind this diet culture
claim
first
the strict body shape enforcement the
attempt to put people on diets the good
versus bad
that's not even perpetuated by one group
of people
there are at least two groups
of people
many more but at least two groups we can
think automatically are very very
different people
and that have nothing to do with each
other and they're not part of the same
culture so it automatically makes diet
culture as one uniform monolithic entity
totally wrong
at the very least there are two groups
group one
is like alt-right in cells and just
really impolite people that make fun of
fat people and fat shame them into doing
diets
or batching them into just shaming them
because shaming people is fun and makes
you feel powerful
so anytime you get like um
you know some kind of like cosmo puts
like
uh an overweight woman on you know
medically overweight women on their
cover you'll get comments on their insta
and they'll inevitably shut the comments
down but you'll get comments from in
cells and you know people with like pepe
the frog or or the anonymous simple or
just no profile picture at all with zero
followers and they follow 200 people
nobody follows them private accounts
classic
uh they'll say
that bitch this is gross what the fuck
all the shit like this you've got to get
in a diet put the fork down word up but
when you're
15 and have a little dirt stash in a
chronic masturbator and nobody talks to
you you're not exactly a monolithic
force for cultural change
insurance he'll have deadly dick to do
with group number two that gets
associated with diet culture you're just
part of the hate culture which is you
know
you need to entertain yourself somehow
when you have no friends
group two is the fitness industry itself
which is not really composed of any of
those people
the fitness industry on average
generally says nothing negative about
people that are over fat it's quite rare
to hear that because they're trying to
welcome as many over fat people into the
realm as possible so that they can
accomplish their goals so the fitness
industry can get you thinner or get you
on a diet or whatever it is that it
wants to do with you which is to say
really help you accomplish the goals
that you want
one side the incel nasty youtube and
instagram comments side that's the dark
side
the fitness industry has its darks and
its lights but it's a very different
approach one of them wants to help you
maybe even if you don't need the help
that's what the fitness industry might
do the other side is just full of
hateful teenagers or people who are
mentally teenaged but in a variety of
ages
and genders and so on and so forth this
is not one group of people so to lump
those two people because the way that
diet culture proponents will say this is
they'll
look at fitness industry ads with people
with ripped abs and be like this could
be you and they'll look at comments
under fat or people's
bios or their pictures that they post
that are super hateful and be like this
is diet culture
it's two different cultures man two
completely different cultures so already
this is a misdiagnosis of uh instantly
more complicated phenomenon than just
saying this is just this one thing wrong
point number three
there is this idea that some of the
deeper diet culture proponents have
that
diet culture which they usually in some
cases well dot dot dot say in
parentheses capitalism
tries
to get you to oscillate between
focusing on fitness
and trying to get lean and shredded and
then focusing on junk food and trying to
get you super fat
that way if they can get you fat they
set you up for going through the cycle
where you get thin again and spend money
in the fitness industry then you're thin
again you can spend money eating fatty
food that gets you fat
and then you're ready to go in the
fitness industry and it's like this uh
the opposite of an a virtuous cycle
where capitalism by insulting your
identity by giving you a false
consciousness about what you want to
believe
strips you of your
financial resources your mental
resources and the very character that
you were born with while cycling you
through this thing of getting you fat or
getting you thinner getting your fat or
getting you thinner all while the fat
cats collect the cash
here's the thing
there's no fucking conspiracy to
oscillate you from fat to thin
fat to thin
there is none the intersection between
fitness companies that try to get you
leaner in mcdonald's is like this paper
thin slice where mcdonald's gives you
salads and partners with some fitness
company to hey if you want to get fit
you could also do it through mcdonald's
is two largely unrelated industries okay
rp does not get funding from like the
company that makes ho hoes be like hey
here's money to help these people get
lean once they're lean tell them to come
back to us so they can have ho hos
we don't do that this is an unbelievably
rare phenomenon it's too
kind of competitive industries that if
the fitness industry was gone altogether
and everyone accepted that being fat was
amazing
mcdonald's inc would be like this is the
greatest fucking thing that's ever
happened
we can just focus on feeding people the
food they want without having to make
weird menu items like salads it's don't
really like people don't even really
like ordering them and when they do they
feel weird and we feel weird just one
fucking
vector is so much simpler of just give
people the tasty food they want and they
don't care about the rest it's so much
easier for a corporation to do than for
them to be like here's food that you
want but if you eat too much you come
back to us and you can have a salad
right in the fitness industry would love
it if there's no fucking mcdonald's this
is we can just finally get everyone
super fucking in shape and everything is
great donkey dory that's our fucking
goal
people going to mcdonald's our clients
going to mcdonald's hurts the results
that we're able to get from them they're
like yeah i was on the diet then i went
mcdonald's and i uh ate everything
including the change out of the fucking
cashier station oh my god how hungry
were you like
the change has a little bit of that oil
on it you know that french fry grease
i can't
eat nickels and quarters so
this
is not one culture they're literally
antagonistic to each other in almost
every case
ideally mcdonald's would love to have a
society-wide acceptance of health at
every size because they could just dump
all their stupid fucking healthy foods
that barely sell at all and focus on
their core products
and you know like generally mcdonald's
sells you the salad with about as much
reluctance as you have in buying and
eating it they're like salad that you
may be interested in then you're like
maybe okay fine here's money well it's
you in a couple days for the
cheeseburger
that you want to sell me that i want to
buy so there goes the whole monolithic
culture
furthermore we can find at least three
other places in which diet culture
supposedly lives all at the same
time first
is it lives very separately in the minds
of
assholes who say mean things to fat
people
that is not diet culture it's just
people being mean
if you actually talk to people who are
mean to fat people
and you're like hey
so you said to that one bitch you're a
fat cow fuck you on instagram
did you really mean to sort of
stick a little pin in there and get her
to do something about her weight so that
she could eventually be super healthy
and happy
if they were being truthful most those
people would be like what like
she's fat i'm just calling her fat
because she's fat she shouldn't be fat
like oh i see you're just a piece of
shit
yes that's it that's group number one
they don't have some kind of napoleonic
plan to get people into dieting they're
not trying to socially engineer people
they're just assholes they're just mean
people that's it that's group one okay
that's not exactly diet culture in their
heads that's something completely
different
another way
with this occurs
is it exists in the minds of fat people
or fat hurt people
often as an independent desire to be
less fat
it turns out
dieting companies companies that sell
exercise equipment companies that sell
healthy foods companies that sell
literal diets like rp
they're not incepting people with the
idea that they should want to be on a
diet or that they should want to be
leaner or thinner
i
am the second in commanded rp and i have
a grand view of our marketing strategy
we're a multi-million dollar corporation
we don't ever ever ever have to convince
people that they should be leaner we
already know they want to be leaner and
if people didn't want to be leaner we
would offer them products to make them
something else a bunch of our products
don't even have to do with people
getting leaner they have to with people
getting jacked and stronger and bigger
we sell mass gaining diets for the love
of god
we sell mass eating diets versus cutting
diets
private intel here about 9 5 to 95 ratio
most people come to us as most people
come to every part of the fitness
industry
because they want to lose weight and
they want to lose fat they want to be
leaner
nobody ever fucking told them that sure
as hell not from diet culture in the
fitness industry
you don't have to convince people to
want to be lean they want to be lean for
the most part just in here just to begin
with
this day is coming
it has to happen as long as your nuclear
winter doesn't destroy society or some
shit there will be a time when genomic
medicine gets so advanced that you'll
have a single pill or a viral vector
that will just instantly make you not
obese forever
what fraction of currently obese people
that aren't becoming leaner because
they're not engaging with the fitness
industry or whatever they tried it
didn't work what fraction of them you
think will take that bill
my my private uh
humble hypothesis is 99.9999
because most those people
they they want to be leaner
really deep down inside it wasn't diet
culture that told them they need to be
leaner they already wanted to be leaner
and
diet companies and training companies
had some
marginally effective solutions for them
and maybe they weren't that great and
they exited and maybe they were great
and they bought in and they did the
thing maybe they oscillated up and down
sometimes using the solutions sometimes
not but that desire to be leaner comes
really really fucking from within is the
vast majority of the time so the idea
that there's a culture imposing that is
just mostly not true right
and number three
that
fraction of we can conceptualize part of
diet culture which is starting to be
this really like multiply tiered entity
that has nothing to do with itself
another vector comes
from offerings from the fitness industry
which is by the way also not a
monolithic entity because like you could
call rp and uh you know v shreds part of
the same industry but we're fucking
rabid competitors against each other so
again it's not really much cooperation
but
nor do we agree on a bunch of stuff but
the offerings of the fitness industry
will gladly
offer you a diet for example
for any reason or no reason at all
the fitness industry is just trying to
make money
selling to you what it thinks you
already want because changing customer
opinion borders aren't impossible like
you you talk to any high-level marketing
execs or experts you'll be like hey we
have this target demographic can we
convince them to like our product
they're gonna be like what are your
fucking mind good luck
because the amount of money you'll spend
trying to do that is going to bury you
and the amount of money you spend trying
to just give them what they already like
is like teeny tiny and gives you huge
returns okay that's how all of industry
works
okay
intel could absolutely be like hey you
want a slower chip you want a chip that
doesn't process fast now let's relax a
little bit we're already super rich your
computer's fast enough why would they
say that because making faster chips is
fucking brutal it's so fucking hard and
it costs billions every year in r d
ideally they would be like look enough
enough here here's a chip that works
just fine that would be amazing if you
would just continue to pay them for that
that would be awesome
but they know that's not what you want
you want faster and faster you're the
reason intel is hard at work making
chips and all these other corporations
doing that same with the fitness
industry because you want to be leaner
because you want to diet to make you
look like xyz the fitness industry
provides and it doesn't fucking matter
what you want to look like if tomorrow
everyone woke up and they were like i
want to weigh 400 fucking pounds the day
after that the entirety of the fitness
industry 99 of it would shift to giving
you mass gaining diets because you
couldn't give a flying fuck what people
look like they just want to make money
that's why the fuck i'm in the shit you
hear me lamborghinis absolutely are not
free i need money god damn it
so
if you are a person coming to the
fitness industry looking for values if
you're looking for the fitness industry
to tell you what you should look like to
tell you what diet you should use to
tell you
should you be leaner or fatter or
anything in between that is the same
thing as coming to an appliance sales
person that's you know like whatever
like amazon warehouse or whatever
wherever you go to buy your appliances
like uh you know just like a regular
appliance store and asking them hey what
appliances should i buy what are you
fucking crazy they'll give you the
world's most modern up-to-date kitchen
that costs 70 000 fucking dollars you'll
have an air fryer you'll have this
you'll have that tons of shit you don't
barely fucking need because their job's
just to sell you as much shit as
possible now they want you to be happy
and a satisfied customer so not going to
go overboard with the ship they're going
to fill your shit up to a huge extent so
if you ask the fitness industry hey do
you guys think i should be doing a diet
most of them be like fuck yeah and as a
matter of fact we have to sell it to you
what you want to do with your own body
has to be a choice you make yourself
maybe with a medical professional maybe
with other people your friends and
family and maybe you're reading articles
on the evidence-based side of the
fitness industry they're trying to just
lay out the landscape for you you don't
just go to the fitness industry and be
like what should i do a lot of this diet
culture stuff is basically expecting the
fitness industry to be this wise arbiter
of what you should be doing that's not
the fucking job the job is to give you
what you want and if you want to be
thinner that's fucking what they're
going to give you and if you want to be
thicker that's what they're going to
give you but if you come up to them and
go what do i want they're going to be
like to buy our products
a lot
and you're gonna be like okay is that it
they're like oh yeah yeah that's it yeah
yeah here's a 900 bill for all the diets
in the world so these are three very
separate places again almost nothing to
do with each other it's important to
understand that so we can allow the myth
of a monolithic diet culture to break
down because in reality nothing like
that really exists now
with all the shit being as real as it is
what can you do on your end to be
effective in reaching the goals you want
and to some extent not experience all
the negatives associated with this
bullshit well i got at least three ideas
first
make it clear to the extent that you're
comfortable with or able to do when you
feel like it
two people around you that that being
mean isn't isn't cool
right the the fun thing to say here is
you know you shouldn't be saying things
to people even on the internet that you
would still say if jesus was on your
like imagine jesus was standing right
here and looking at me while i was on
the internet and uh telling fat people
they're gross and disgusting
he'd be like hey what do you type in
you're like oh um
i'm just i'm just dm'ing with friends
he's like oh yeah who's fat who's fat
girl 69 is that your friend you're like
oh yeah i know we're super close uh-huh
he's like oh cool you're calling her a
fucking cow it's like an inside joke
she's cool with that you're like
i don't know what i'm doing
jesus i've just been so mean my whole
life i just don't know how to change
right okay if you're not into jesus
grandma you guys know grandma from this
channel grandma standing here cyberpunk
upgraded robot grandma standing here and
she's got a laser blaster you better not
fuck with that bitch she's gonna zap
your dumb ass
don't do mean shit
this is not cool so before you go on the
internet and tell fat people you hate
them what the fuck is wrong with you
take some fucking time to meditate or
some shit like that find that goddamn
love from within because holy fucking
shit you got some issues
next
no matter what body shape or size or
place in the diet sphere you find
yourself in
work on your inner self to determine
your own happy path for you
and what you want to look like and eat
like and be like and feel like and the
people you want to surround yourself
with
this can mean that you do diets
sometimes other times you live your life
in balance
and there's no need for either or you
don't need to tell yourself look i got
to be in a diet 24 7 because i got to be
thin because that's what society and
diet culture want what
the opposite is just as stupid i'm never
gonna do a diet cause it's all
capitalist
downstream heteronormative patriarchal
bullshit they want me to be thin so i'm
one of the fucking round pegs
what i think if you think you're a
little overweight or underweight
get on a fucking rational reasonable
logical science-based diet get that shit
handled switch to a healthy eating plan
that is mostly not prescriptive and
there's tons of free wiggle room and do
whatever you want stay involved in
fitness and live your fucking happy life
and if you need to diet again after the
holiday is great if you don't no problem
there's no wrong answers here you just
don't want to do things as like a a
rebellion against this idea of this
culture imposing on you because it's all
fictitious it's just not there it's just
all on you to do what you like
with yourself right and lastly a bit of
self-serving here
always be honest about that
when you interact with fitness companies
it's probably good that you choose
companies that aren't trying actively to
trick you into buying products you don't
need
instead interact with fitness companies
that offer you options all in your best
interests right um
you know there's companies that do a
really great job of being like hey like
here's what we have to offer and uh
you know if you if you're in the market
for this great if not no big deal uh
does this not include only rp uh
precision nutrition what a great fucking
company uh stronger by science less on
the diet stuff and more on the training
stuff 3dmj uh i could go on and on for
for a very long time there's so many
companies that are just honestly trying
to help you with whatever it is you need
and they're not going to preach to you
and say you need to do this or you're
too fat or you're too thin they have no
agenda and if you're in the fitness
industry you can be one of the good guys
by just being a service provider right
and just if people come to you and they
say hey i'm thinking about doing a diet
you talk to them and you go oh yeah like
why and they're like well like
i'm five pounds overweight i need to
really smash these five pounds off then
the reality is like you'd be like how
are you eating and they're like well i
have this much junk in this blah blah
blah you say look you're just like uh
eat more fruits and veggies and you'll
be your five pounds will melt away
within a few weeks and that's probably
true and you don't even need to charge
the money for that shit but if they're
like look i have a potty building prep
or i need to lose 30 pounds i really
need an in-person coach to guide me i
haven't been able to do this by myself
then yeah you charge them fucking
hundreds of dollars a month for super
in-depth coaching that helps them like
crazy and gives them exactly what they
need right like not everyone that
interacts with intel needs a fucking
super computer and some people
interact with intel if you go on the
customer service sometimes they'll say
well you reboot your system and your
chip should work just fine that's free
right because intel i suspect is a
company that just kind of wants to help
you with whatever you need and if that's
a product they have and the service they
have great and if it's not they might be
like hey like you know we're we can't
help you here good luck and maybe some
try some other places where you can take
your business that's the kind of shit
you want to choose from fitness
companies people are just trying to help
you wherever you're at they know their
ability to help and if it's not within
that realm then they say hey like maybe
try some other stuff out people will
contact me for diet advice and if it's
outside of my scope because i'm not a
registered dietitian i'll just be like
i'm actually have no experience or
education or legal authority to work
with people who have liver disease of
your kind but we have some folks at rp
that are already that maybe i'll help
you and here's some other companies
outside that might be able to help you
and here's some reading to do right
because the end of the day
the ideal company just helps you where
you're at and if you choose companies
more like that and less like the scummy
shady companies of yesteryear they just
want to scam you out of products fly by
night the more that you choose the
companies that are doing a good job the
more money those other companies will
lose and eventually companies just get
better at stuff right and then we live
in a world in which
most corporations are just there to
provide you with good stuff how's that
for a fucking polemic
um
all of this because of point number six
one monolithic cultural entity called
diet culture is bullshit it just doesn't
exist
the fucked up minds of mean in-cell
teenagers and
amsterdam sorry to pick on amsterdam
it's just cooler when insults are
european because when they talk shit to
you they make slight mistakes in english
and it's just funny i don't know that's
an aside
uh people who are themselves overweight
who have their own issues to deal with
and then the fitness industry trying to
navigate that space there's at least
three different things going on and
possibly more there's not one big diet
culture that's trying to get you to look
like the ideal uh 1950s woman or some
shit turkey basting in the oven and the
husband comes home yeah see and she's
like meh although you know that world
does sound pretty fun
you live in an adult world you're an
adult you got to take care of number one
find out what you want find out the most
efficient way to get it
from folks that are truly really trying
to help you and they're all out there
and you don't have to worry about diet
culture at all but if you want to worry
about it let's worry about it together
see you guys next time i'm worried