as they say in the industry Olympia
predictions
dime a dozen
nobody cares they're like we're trying
to be not swear as much on YouTube so if
they're like
butts
yeah everyone's got one no one wants to
see yours unless I'm subscribed to you
on only fans and that I really want to
see it please
mommy do you really want to see if
you're subscribing to a single person
minute please Mommy more update picks
subscribing to a single person explodes
driving to a single person you can't
just go to Pornhub 199 a month or some
shit
to you come on guys well you might
really like that person she'll meet porn
stars and then just go
not everyone has that kind of cash
throughput Jerry smashing your income
around I wasn't flashing income I live
in Vegas
is a rich people place you need money to
be in Vegas
everywhere there's casinos dude people
just
waste their money here's the thing guys
Vegas also has the Olympia which is
coming to you in a couple weeks a couple
weeks and we're gonna put this video out
just a couple weeks before and we're
gonna have Olympia predictions so feel
free to use this as a proxy IQ test and
retroactively grade us on how well we
did yeah and I'm a classic physique Pro
Mike is an open body builder so we're
just going to stick to those two
divisions although
okay you have men's physique
212. Fitness everybody forgets about
Fitness don't forget about Fitness
Fitness are actual athletes the only
exact athletes at the Olympia there's
like actual like X gymnasts and stuff
like that yeah
um like when you look like that what can
you do she goes like some kind of crazy
split mid area like oh yeah just kidding
women's bodybuilding women's physique
women's figure bikini so that's all you
forgot Wildlife I'm honest of course
wolf I didn't forget that's just my it's
always your boy
yeah trying to forget Wellness of course
out of my predictions for witness for
all those but like sure we're going with
what now what what classic Z classic
let's do that one first
it's gonna be pretty cut and dry there I
think Chris obviously this ring champ
he's gonna keep winning until he retires
no way Terence has the most complete
physique Terence is beautiful anybody on
the Classic Stage and he could pose
second or so if if Chris comes off
Terrence well can win
but he has to come in really off it's
like The Knockout of the champ type of
shit what's like uh Chris is like eight
times sharing Society
and once urge does one more Improvement
Season he has the capacity to beat
Terence because urge is looking insane
that's the miracle bear yeah because I
think Earth means Bear yeah so then
Ramon is the guy from Brazil he'll get
fourth
and I think Brianne could get knocked
out this year to be honest by uh King
John King branch
oh that the Chinese man who follows RP
no way and US my man yeah yo he's a very
intelligent trainer actually yeah pods
like that yeah uh he's got a great look
yes I agree his quads are ridiculous
right no surprises nothing no upsets uh
I mean he would be one he could kind of
yeah go up yeah
all right because he knocks out Brianna
the top five that's pretty cool because
that'll be the first time Brian's been
out of the top five
uh I'm not hating number this is YouTube
this is public I'll say some shit you're
gonna Brown looks great he's been going
down to you he's been going down
yeah
he's been going down the rinks
yeah you know when you have guys that
are better the video is better it's not
a big deal I got my ass whooped this
year whatever that's what's up that's
respect okay Jerry's on that Rolo
all right classic physique good what's
next 212. uh just opened are you gonna
do two what's the 212. I don't know
because this is exciting lunsford's
going to the open oh he is yo ludsford
I'm looking at his videos I had two
thoughts one that's not a human being
anymore two how was you gonna make two
twelve motherfuckers and he's not and so
like yeah the only two I have battling I
would be like Clarita and Keon because
Keon looks ridiculous right now Kian is
the person who has the best genetics in
the world of all time probably it's
impressive and uh Sean Clarita has to
eat for three weeks after the show to
get back to zero percent body fat
because he's negative when he competes
didn't you say you saw him in real life
yeah and you were like Jared was like
Mike the pictures and the videos they
don't do any justice it's not a real
person in real life they're literally
like
when you see somebody like we were
tanning literally tanning next to each
other like his quads don't make sense
because every This is highly genetic
he's just very fortunate
every
part of his quad Restorations on it all
the way up all the way up
Sony even when he hits his front relax
how most people have separation they
don't have the striations because
they're hitting it like hips back yes
even with his hips back his shit is a
striped that's fucked up but Keon has
that shit too
and better shape
way better shape kian's shape is
Unstoppable yeah so he comes in excited
Dion's had some trouble coming in lately
correct but he's at whatever five four
weeks out whatever it is and he's
looking the part he looks like he's
ready yeah so it's gonna be cool and
he's bigger than Clarita much taller
much he's 212. yeah he might he might be
two two five on six or something I don't
know but how could we just had a guy you
see him in the pictures you're like that
guy's that's jacked completely body
fat-free looking guy but then you think
oh like people can knock him off like
he's not great the thing is like beating
him in real life is a lot easier said
than done yeah you got to be Derek right
right but Keon Jericho is best by the
way yeah
um so that's very interesting very
exciting I was going to say Lunsford
forever until they realized he was no
longer in the division is that true or
is he still going to cut down these guys
play games bro Derek's in the open it's
confirmed he's like he might be in my
top five yeah
it's oh man this was he yeah if I was
Derek Lunsford right now I would just
stop training take 10 pictures and
retire you're like I did it I'm the
perfect human being I agree all right
212s are exciting let's go to the open
class
Remy's gonna win
so I had this conversation with somebody
earlier I forgot who the fuck it was but
they were like the Grammy's in trouble
XYZ in it and I'm just like you do
understand that big Romy is just posted
with maybe with some of his most
pleasing lines ever
at a body weight of 339 and he already
has striations yeah because that is not
something you just go oh he'll just get
his ass kicked and also now that he's
working with was it Chad Nichols I guess
yeah he has completely feathered and dry
glutes
or the man who weighs 295 on stage just
completely feather grooves and unlike
Ronnie Coleman I know I'm talking that
shit Ronnie's the goat period always
will be Ronnie Coleman
has a streamlined midsection
great line cap delts and one guy was
like yeah man I wish big Romney had a
bigger back what so he could fly away
are you out of your fucking mouth who
said that some guys one of the best
facts of all time no so no his backlatch
big Ronnie needs a bigger bag no Romy
has one of the best backs ever it's
ridiculous it's like I don't understand
how yours is the biggest backlash
brother that's ever been on the Olympia
Stadium apparently it's not good that's
hilarious so in any case big Robbie has
to be something magical has to happen
for him to lose he has to come in off
and somebody has to come in really
fucking hot yeah who typically uh is
inside you know
how did Japan give him a second he did
we saw last year second or third leave a
second in uh Brandon got there
I don't know if you remembering that
correctly am I was wrong I don't know I
know they had like a issue with like
somebody thought they had site
enhancement and stuff and it's dealt so
sure he got knocked down or something
somebody so how did your Pawn looks
incredible
but he doesn't have that physical size
right he's just shredded to the Bone
shredded the bone he has great lives
like the Clarita shit right but not
amazing amazing Lauren his midsection
looks like he's 23 and never took drugs
yeah which is nuts
then there's uh Brandon Curry who I
actually think one's word is going to be
oh wow Granite Curry looks really good
though Curry will looks his all-time
best and I still think there's like
48ers and I still think dark one's for
could take him off Derek lensford's
crazy slipping into that top five I
really do I think you've slipped into a
few things through your life yeah
with the top five he's slipping in yeah
I think I think is a high high chance of
placing really really well yeah like
third fourth wow where do you see Nick
Walker in that equation I don't think
Nick's making top five I think bonak is
also looking showing up well actually
always looks best ever
and you got Curry so that's five I don't
think Nick Walker slips into five now
what about uh and I think that there are
many people I think there are many
people who could be Nick I don't think
Hunter beat Nick last year I think Nick
should have placed higher I think Hunter
looks great hunter looks bigger and
leaner and demeanor I might add yeah
with like I think a lot of these guys
try to add sides way too fast and they
lose a lot of Separation like they lose
a lot of like Hunter used to have really
deep quad like separation and then
actually got bigger you you don't really
see it like it's not relaxed it's like
that's a really nice shape but there's
not a lot of separation
so he does have a great waist and huge
arms whichever hurts but Nick Walker's
arms are bigger and his back's better
are they really oh yeah
Nick Walker's arms don't make his
business he's big I think six maybe but
there's also like Andrew Jacks going and
if it was up to me Samson data would be
in that mix Samsung data has gained like
80 pounds of muscle in the last three
ridiculous it's like getting to that
Ronnie stage where you're like that's
not really yeah all the shaved guys
would be in that mix like I really love
uh how do you say Raphael Rafael bradjo
I just that's jiu jitsues all the shaved
guys would be winning if I was you know
what do you know what I'm saying right
because you don't have what it takes to
get big enough right exactly
[Music]
no but Samson doubt I think is going to
really surprise people make the top ten
Ian could also beat LeBron
Ayan Valley area yeah he comes in he's
big
lebrada comes off sometimes I look at
Ian's training weights and I'm like I
think I have good genetics but that's
the next level of shit I'm like listen
why would you incline press like five
plates on every machine yes and just be
completely unaffected by it but he's
really intense he are his legs big
enough
no he's made some improvements
definitely and his back has improved his
shitload so I think he could definitely
take
LeBron out you don't got to win the
front poses
you just gotta win the rest
yeah and he wins the side chest
yes
he wins that one too LeBron triceps is
nice but I think Ian's just
at the end of the day all these
predictions are nonsense because it all
depends on who comes in in shape on the
day because like you could speculate
about muscularity and conditioning and
most guys deliver but it's sorry
muscular only leanness but is it are you
dry and full on that day especially dry
if you are super dried out of your mind
then you're going to do well if you're
not then you could do much worse than
people expect yeah I agree yeah which is
why so that top five I think it's pretty
set in stone but like I said like Nick
could easily squeeze in there any other
guys that looks you could squeeze in
there like it depends if everybody else
comes in shape or not folks with how
they're looking now that's how I see it
this is exciting times yeah it's the
probably the it is the second third
fifth golden age of bodybuilding and
this is the biggest Olympia of all time
no way of all time they're like
like 60 qualified classic guys over 30
bodybuilders because like the kova thing
made yeah like the qualification period
really weird 14 months or something sure
so like
even highly competitive yeah like
there was the last show to qualify for
classic was last week and that made it
60 guys I'm pretty sure is Hadi chupan
is there any status updates on his Visa
or is he in America now is he gonna be
able to make it to him yeah he's making
it all thank God
yeah International politics is so
anyway politics aside
thank you so much Jared for that Insight
I have no idea who these people are than
the fact that I sometimes pleasure
myself to thinking about them yeah
and uh folks if you think we're wrong
please be nice but get in the comments
be mean you know and tell us what your
top five is for any class you want to
talk about we'll get in there and tell
you why you're stupid yeah and you
couldn't possibly be right about
anything especially this
see you next time
[Music]