the floor press is aing dog
exercise they're also great for anyone
with shoulder issues yes if your
shoulders are up and you can't do a full
range of motion you should consider
these but what we should also consider
doing is reducing the load significantly
after you're done doing these heavy ones
that are okay on your shoulder getting a
slow deep stretch with something like
dumbbells and coming back up and slowly
working over time rehabilitating your
shoulders to be strong through a 4in
motion and then eventually dumping these
and going to a regular barbell camper
bar or regular dumbbells or machines so
yeah shoulder issues approximately you
want to stay the away from things that
hurt but ultimately you want to weave
back into what hurts a little bit by
little bit by little bit to get yourself
resilient again it's the the classic
case of Rehabilitation and nine times
out of 10 it works super great so if
you're hurt don't just avoid a bunch of
 that hurts your injury avoid it
largely but slowly start to weave it in