I believe in honing your training down
to the essential movements it's good to
have economy of effort so hopefully
he'll be doing compound movements that
don't tend to Target one muscle a lot
but actually Target M multiple at the
same time so for example if you're doing
a compound movement like the wide grip
bench it mostly hits your chest and just
a little bit your shoulders and triceps
but if you do more of a close grip bench
it hits your triceps a lot and your
shoulders and your pecs so you can have
a great deal of economy in your training
you don't have to do as many sets and
you still get really really good
benefits for tons of muscles at the same
time that saves you a lot of time so
hopefully he'll be doing that
maybe shoulder press okay so I can
automatically tell you this is dog
economy what you get out of the shoulder
press is a robust stimulus for the front
delts a little bit for your upper chest
not a ton and plenty for your triceps if
he did an incline dumbbell press he
could get almost the same stimulus for
his front delts same stimulus for his
triceps and an added full PEC stimulus
and so no starting out with shoulder
presses even if you can lift the
hundreds is just straight up not the
best way to go about it