an apple a day keeps the doctor away
because I'm allergic at Apples doctor
back here realist doctor in the house
welcome to the doctor's office the
wolf's Slayer for this wonderful free
minimum dose hypertrophy program with a
Twist of optimization now I am bringing
you a two-day hypertrophy program that
you can run with ease even when you're
pressed for time or when your recovery
resources are limited which which will
give you a solid amount of gains it
won't give you the maximum potential
muscle growth that you can get but it
still remains relatively optimized
within the context of the minimum dose
so we're taking you know we're going to
borrow a bit from the optimal bros we're
going to borrow a bit from the minimum
dose Bros and come up with a two-day
program that you can run see really
solid hypertrophy gains probably not
100% of your potential edle gains but
relatively close to that and at the same
time um you can easily turn it into a
more optimal program and take every
single box just by turning it into a
4-day program I'll get to the details in
just a second now who is this program
for this program is for literally anyone
from a beginner intermediate Advanced
traine X bodybuilder X powerlifter Cent
bodybuilder carent powerlifter who is
interested in making hypertrophy gain
but is either press for time limited
recovery resources and all that good
stuff you could run this for as long as
you like although the template that I
will provide you with free template is
um for 6 weeks that's just there for you
to have a space for 6 weeks to track
your stuff you don't necessarily need to
confine yourself in just 6 weeks you
could run this for 8 12 16 24 you could
run it for a couple of years if you like
to do so so let's get to the program now
this is a two-day program that is
essentially a lower and upper program
that you can repeat and have it be a
4-day program or a 3-day program
depending on your preference and whether
you have that extra day and you want
that extra upper body stimulus or lower
body stimulus or you could mix a mats if
you want but the base of the program is
2 days relatively straightforward but as
I said at the beginning we are borrowing
a few elements from the optimal Bros and
from optimization in general just so we
can make the best bank for your buck
2day minimum dose program that we can
have out there and yes I am making that
claim here is your citation and let's
get to it starting off with day one you
can find the program at minimum dose
training.com it's a free spreadsheet
make a copy of it don't request access
as an editor cuz I see that a lot I'm
going to give you access as a viewer if
you do so but um if you notice there are
other programs um Below on the spread
spreadsheet but we're going to focus on
the hypertrophy the best minimum
effective dose hypertrophy program so
make a copy of the spreadsheet so you
can track stuff or take a screenshot of
it if you don't care about tracking as I
said you know you could literally do
this without tracking anything and just
do the exercises and keep a mental note
of the weight that you're using but what
I've done is I've color coded some stuff
in red brown red and some stuff in blue
the blue sets are optional in the
context of minimum effective dose
training but doing those would still you
know not take you a ton of time cuz
we've included things like super sets
which I will get into in a second um but
doing those optional exercises and
optional sets will still allow you to
get a ton of work and be near optimal
gains not not right there but getting
close to more optimal gains without
having to spend any extra days in the
gym so the idea here is you have two
days a week one lower one upper the
lower day has some back work sprinkled
on top of that um with plenty of
flexibility as far as exercise selection
goes and optional exercises and sets if
you want to spend an extra 10 to 20
minutes in the gym because yes you may
not have time to fully optimize your
training but you still want to get as
much as you can out of those two days
that you're going to go in the gym for
so the idea here is two days a week do
them whenever you like with a day break
in between um back to back with 2 days
uh break in between however you like but
if you get those two days in um you are
pretty much covered even if you go for
the absolute minimum dose option of just
doing everything that is colorcoded in
Red so let's start with day one so day
one is essentially a lower
body/ mini back day but by lower body
we're not just hitting our quals and
hamstrings we're also hitting our
Erectors and we are also hitting our
glutes and obviously everything else
that gets involved in any sort of like
exercise so the first exercise we have
is a squat pattern exercise so that
could be a back squat with a barbell a
hack Squad a belt Squad whatever squat
pattern exercise you like doing now keep
in mind that if you were to not use a
barbell here and you would you know you
were to use a machine that would
obviously involve your Erectors less but
it's not really that big of a deal cuz
then we have a hip hin EX exercise now
for the hip hinge you could literally do
a deadlift a good morning a Romanian
deadlift whatever you like I've set both
of those exercises are three sets each
somewhere in the 6 to8 rep range at an
RP of 8 to 10 so keep in mind that
because we're trying to maximize
hypertrophy and we're only this is
literally going to be the only leg
training you're going to do for the
entirety of the week including the only
glue training including the only erector
training that you're going to be doing
keep in mind that those sets need to be
very very close to failure the rep range
is set at 6 to8 not because it is a
magical rep range but it's a relatively
practical rep range uh for those
exercises however if you feel like you
know 10 to 12 is your cup of tea or 12
to 15 or 5 to 7 literally any rep range
will work just as fine if um you're able
to take those sets to you know really
close to failer I do feel that 6 to
eight reps is going to allow you to go
heavy enough where and not be there for
a minute repping stuff out where you're
running out of breath and you're not
really sure if you're close to failure
or you're just getting tired so that's
why have chosen that rep range be
flexible with it but I do think it's a
really solid rep range for those types
of exercises and for people that you
know are interested in hypertrophy plus
you know you're going to be lifting
relatively heavy weights which will
carry over to strength which is you know
although it's not the main the main goal
of this you know a few people will also
enjoy seeing slightly better one M gains
off the back of that
now we're following with some optional
exercises so we have a supet and supet
is denoted by a red SS next to the name
of the exercise the idea is that any
exercise that has the the little red s's
next to it you are supposed to superet
it with one another so in this
particular case on day one we have leg
extensions or alternative so we fully
Target the quals and alternative could
be a Cissy squad or a reverse Nordic
curl so we can get that rectus femoris
hypertrophy which we won't be getting
from the squads necessarily at least to
the same extent and this is where Boring
from the optimal Bros comes in the
picture obviously for the average
individual who just wants big strong
legs hitting three very hard sets of
squats and three very hard sets of a hip
hinch per week is going to take a lot of
boxes and yeah you're not going to get
the maximum amount of leg growth a quad
and hamstring growth that you can get in
a week but you can get solid results
however if you are the hypertrophy
Enthusiast who just happens to have had
a kid or a new job or I don't know is
super super busy and will be super busy
for the foreseeable future and cares
about that extra bit of quad growth that
may make a difference in their physique
doing a simple suet uh of a leg
extension or or an alternative and a
leer or or an alternative will give him
that extra
uh for both the quads and the hamstrings
and may allow them to get a more
complete hypertrophy more complete
muscular development versus just doing
the squat and hip hits pattern exercises
as denoted there are supposed to be
super sets to save you time if you don't
want to do the super sets and you have
that extra 5 minutes just do them as
straight sets but super sets are
perfectly fine and will save you a lot
of time you're going going to get a nice
pump and then you get a bit of a break
from the leg work because you're
following with a back exercise so we
have two sets of each both at 8 to 12
reps RP 8 9 to 10 so the RP is slightly
high here the exact same um comments
apply to this as well if for any reason
you like to do six to eight reps on the
leg extension and leg curls be my guest
or if you want to do 10 to 12 on one and
12 to 15 on the other be my guest it's
not really a big deal as long as you get
really close or close to momentary
muscular failure so we're defining
failure as the point where you're trying
to get another rep you're there fighting
but that's not happening and although it
may not be 100% necessary for you to
make to get the most out of each set
because you're only doing those few sets
per week for your for your legs it makes
sense that you know you take that risk
even if that extra rep at the end didn't
really give you much more uh had you
stopped a rep before following we have a
vertical Pull exercise so that could be
chin-ups lat pull down um or Pull-Ups so
you can Target your um your lats your
upper back to a certain extent and
obviously there will be some involvement
of your biceps there and I've denoted it
as a mandatory exercise for three sets
of 6 to 12 reps at an RP of 10 these
sets are supposed to be all out you're
supposed to get a ton of stimulus for
your back musculature and some for your
biceps and forearms as well and I think
that if you're really pressed for time
and don't really care about whether your
rectus femoris is as developed as it
could be or about your hamstrings being
again as completely developed as
possible
you would you could literally just do
squat pattern hip hinge vertical pull
and then call it the day following the
back work I've also added two optional
sets of Cal phrases in the form of
straight leg Cal phrases as seated Cal
phrases or a cal phrase where you are
bending your leg that's not really going
to do a nearly as much for complete calf
uh development and Cal muscle growth as
a straight leg variation that could be
anything you standing and doing standing
C C phrases you sat and doing them with
a straight leg on the leg press
literally whatever you enjoy doing as
far as rep ranges the same comments
obviously apply to this exercise too
I've denoted 8 to 15 Reps for an RP of 9
to 10 but I leave the rep range up to
you if you do not like this very wide
rep range which which you should like if
you don't like it let me know why that's
day one on day one we've effectively hit
a minimum effective dose and even a bit
more cuz the minimum effective dose is
somewhere around the 1 to three set Mark
uh per muscle group per week but we've
hit quads glutes hamstrings calves U
upper back lats biceps bit of forearms
and Erectors as well and obviously
there's been some involvement off your
core so day one you've effectively hit
your quads glutes hamstrings Erectors
upper back to a certain extent lats B
biceps and calves obviously that depends
on whether you did the optional exercise
as well but even if you didn't do them
you'd still hit most major muscle groups
and give them plenty of stimulus in a
relatively time efficient manner keep in
mind that this will be your only leg day
of the week uh your only direct leg work
of the week so even if it does take more
than you know let's say 40 minutes and
it's a total of 1 hour in the gym go in
there make that 1H hour count and just
tell yourself hey that's it like if I
just do this my Lord body is covered
plus plenty of stimulus for my back for
my Erectors and I've ticked a lot of
boxes as far as making meaningful
hypertrophy uh gains goes but who cares
about leg days onto the actual training
which is our our upper session which is
session two now here we have the
following we have a horizontal press
that could be a barell bench press um uh
machine chest press deficit push-ups
whatever you like obviously with the
ladder you'd have to adjust the reping
range that I'm about to suggest I've
suggested 6 to 12 Reps for three sets at
an rpu of 8 to 10 meaning somewhere in
the two to zero repetitions in reserve
Mark and that first exercise is sort of
setting the scene as it is a mandatory
exercise so you can get plenty of chest
um from the and tricep stimulus with
obviously the emphasis being on chest
cuz who doesn't want a big chest
following the horizontal press we also
have a Vertical Press so that could be
anything in the form of an overhead
press or a machine shoulder press
literally any sort of Vertical Press
that you enjoy doing you could use
dumbbells you could use a machine you
could use a barble that set as an
optional Set uh and that will Target
your front side builds to a certain
extent as well um triceps and maybe a
tiny bit of upper chest depending on how
you perform these exercises and
obviously your clavical
structure there I've noted two optional
sets at 6 to 12 reps at the same RP as
your your horizontal press so 0er to two
reps in reserve pretty intense and a ton
of stimulus for your upper body muscul
musculature we then follow with a row
exercise so any row of your liking that
could be a deficit bend over row a chest
supported machine row or a cable row
that you can choose based on your
specific goals on whether you're trying
to Target your lats a bit more or your
midback but any row variation will do
here similarly to the previous exercise
zero to two reps in reserve pretty
intense sets for your back you're going
to hit your lats your midback your upper
back and um your biceps to a certain
extent by doing this exercise three sets
again so and this is another one of the
mandatory uh exercises mandatory in
quotation marks obviously followed by
another mandatory exercise which is a
side delt exercise now the reason again
that I mentioned that we're borrowing
from the optimal Bros is that this is a
minimum dose program men for those that
care um about developing some sort of a
physique and don't just want to you know
build muscle and be strong for those
people they could literally do a bench
uh a horizontal uh and a Vertical Press
variation uh a row and call it a day for
this particular day however I have
marked a side delt exercise as mandatory
as you're not going to be getting a ton
of side delt stimulus simply from doing
you know horizontal pressing or even if
you do the vertical pressing that is set
there as an optional exercise after
you've done that you've or let's assume
you've done everything you've done the
optional exercise you've hit your chest
you've hit your front delts pretty hard
your triceps your side belts your lats
your midback your upper back your biceps
and then we have a bit more direct arm
work for those who are arm Fanatics and
want to get those juicy arms now now
there are two super sets two sets each
of an overhead tricep extension
variation is again of your choice if you
want to do it with cables which is an
excellent option be my guest if you want
to do it with a dumbo same Sho Easy Bar
whatever just something overhead where
you are extending your arm over your
head and then any form of a bicep curl I
have suggested a be and curl an easy bar
preacher curl um but you could do a
machine preacher curl anything that
allows you to get a nice stretch on your
biceps and sort of biases the lengthened
position so that's day two so overall
you're hitting every major muscle group
in your body with the exception of
potentially your abs um not getting as
much love because they're not getting
any direct work but you're obviously
free to add exercises as you feel so if
you have time and energy and you want to
do some dedicated ab work because you
don't care about your C and you want to
replace that with another exercise
that's totally fine treat this obviously
it is a program with specific quote
unquote rules but you can also treat it
as somewhat of a framework you don't
need to necessarily lose your mind over
whether you're going to add an extra
exercise or not and that's something
that you can play around with depending
on your specific goal so if let's say
your chest is a lagging body part and at
the same time you do not care about
doing some extra shoulder uh work in the
form of a Vertical Press although
although it's optional you could swap
that and do more chess work in the form
of let's say push-ups or another
horizontal press or some form of a fly
and you have to be somewhat lenient with
exercise selection here depending on
your goals because at the end of the day
it's not really going to make a
difference whether you follow this to a
te or you make slide modifications to it
the idea here is that you have some
Direction for the two days that you're
going to be in the gym every week and
from then onwards you can obviously mix
and match as you see fit so for me
specifically I would um remove the Cal
work and add some direct ab work because
I don't care about growing my Cales so
for you that may look different it may
also be that you want to do some extra
side build work and you add another
couple of sets totally fine you may not
want to do um as much quad dedicated
quad work on day one and you end up
doing some extra chest work on day one
that's also totally fine treat this semi
like a framework obviously try to hit at
least the exercises that are marked as
mandatory uh because I know that a few
of you will have those weeks where even
the optional exercises may be too much
as long as you're hitting the mandatory
exercise you're taking a lot of boxes as
far as hypertrophy goes to sum up we
have two days a week one is an lower
body focus day but obviously ly your
posterior chain is getting plenty of
love as well so it's not just your quads
and hamstrings your Erectors and
obviously your back from the direct back
work um are getting quite a bit of
stimulus as well the other day is an
upper body focus day plenty of pushing
and pulling and direct arm workor for
those of you that want big guns again
you can be very flexible with your
excise selection and whether you want to
plug in and plug out certain things and
allow me to say that if you were to take
this and let's say you have a week where
you are like you know what I've got more
than two days available to train you can
literally take each whichever session
you you like and repeat it later in the
week and again you could modify it based
on your preference you could take a set
out here and set out there you could
literally take half of day one half of
day two mix and match and create a
hybrid day three again based on your
preference time availability and so on
and so forth you can be very flexible
with this as long as you're hitting one
to three ideally three hard sets per
muscle group per week and I would take
things like your back and split it
obviously in different different muscle
groups I would look at like lats and
upper back same obviously with your legs
you'd look at quads and hamstrings uh
and calves separately but as long as
you're hitting three very hard sets for
each muscle group you know that you're
taking a big bul as far as making muscle
gains go and especially if your
alternative was to not train or semi
Force um and optimize training program
that you'd end up quitting and then
you'd end up having a week off the gym
or whatever you can start with a two
days see how those feel try the optional
exercises as well for that more
optimized uh hypertrophy sprinkle on top
obviously the exercise selection as well
is somewhat optimized uh for example you
know doing overhead tricep extension so
that you get the long head of the tricep
involved and doing you know uh straight
leg Cal raises and including some form
of um dedicated quad work in the in the
form of a leg extension for your racus
femoris so if you were to follow the two
days to a te with the optional exercises
you're looking at really solid gains
that's it more free programs like this
one coming in the future check the
actual sheet uh down below or go to
minimum do training.com one word make
sure you make a copy of the sheet so you
can have it on your own Google Drive and
track your progress if you'd like again
you can run this for as long as you feel
um necessary that could be 3 weeks it
could be 12 weeks there's really no need
to really worry about changing exercises
in the future or whether you need to
periodize just make sure that you're in
the gym lifting and that's the whole
point of this program 2 days blast if
you want to optimize you you could
literally do 4 days and just do upper
lower upper lower and voila you have an
optimized or at least very close to
optimized hypertrophy training program
at least from a volume perspective but
as always don't lose your mind over the
stuff keep things intense maintain good
technique what does that mean check my
other video and remember it's really not
that deep that's it for the video don't
forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon and at the same time
make sure you get your official Dr pack
tattoo on your forehead for a chance to
win absolutely nothing uh and actually
look at yourself in the mirror and ask
why did I go and do it it was just a
skit at the end of the video I took this
way too seriously but hey ho keep in
mind stay active stay hydrated One
camera is off I need to end this video
thank you for
watching