[Music]
morning guys it is Monday Labor Day
September the 5th and I want to show you
guys what I have done my prelim pepper
we work out my breakfast lately I've
been adding semi-sweet chocolate chips
so I'll add like droppeth three of those
my oatmeal when they melt it gets really
and then I've got my cup of egg whites
whole egg a little bit of grated cheese
on top gonna have some of these
raspberries we've got coffee in here
actually so I'm here at the mall I don't
know if you can yeah you probably can't
see it but I've got to return a shirt I
bought this shirt from guests that I
really like it's like see if I can show
you that yeah it's from guests and what
I like about it is it has has like a
drawstring at the bottom so you can kind
of take the waist in for whatever reason
it just fits me really weird so I'm
gonna bring this back and probably get
another different
I got a pair of sorts from a store man
plus woman slightly distress at the
bottom ended up getting this get shirt
from guess that was a small ray marble
tea also from guess yeah so I have not
eaten since breakfast and it is almost
3:00 now so I'm going to get a little
meal and then actually I think I'm going
to take some pre-workout and go to the
gym for a back workout I'm cooking up
some chicken put them oven and bake them
[Music]
and then I'll have a signature salsa
sour cream and a little bit of top
[Music]
this is pre-workout meal I'm gonna eat
this and then I'll check in with you
guys in the gym
[Music]
okay what's up everyone so I'm back with
a voiceover for this back workout I've
got a lot of things I want to cover in
this video so just excuse me if I talk a
little bit more quickly than normal I've
got a lot of papers that I want to get
through us let's just jump right into it
I kicked off this workout with one arm
lat pull ins the basic idea with this
exercise is kind of the same as kicking
off my last workout in the last video
with hamstring curls
that's just meant to be sort of a pre
activation thing get the lats warmed up
establish a mind muscle connection with
the lats so that they'll be more active
for subsequent exercises also you guys
will notice that I'm laterally flexing
my spine here so kind of crunching to
the side and that's because the lats do
act synergistically to laterally flex
the spine I would recommend just kind of
experimenting with that and seeing what
it is allows you to feel your lats the
most so after the lat pull ends it was
on to lap pull downs and the main thing
that I want to talk about on this
movement is grip width and the style of
grip that you should use to optimize lat
recruitment so there are three papers
that I want to look at the first one is
by lusca Tao published in 2009 and they
had four groups wide pronated wide
supinated narrow pronated in the narrow
supinated and what they found was that
regardless of the grip width the
pronated or overhand grip led to more
lat activation so from this study we can
kind of conclude that over hand is
better than underhand when it comes to
recruiting the lats the second study I
want to look at is by Signori Italo 2002
and they looked at a bunch of different
variations on the lat pulldown so in
front of the neck behind the neck
neutral grip and so on and what they
found essentially was that the wide grip
to the front of the neck was the best in
terms of lat EMG activation so what this
study tells us is that pulling the bar
down in front of your neck is probably a
little bit better than behind the neck
and
the third paper by Anderson Attell 2014
will help us clarify what grip width is
the best for recruiting the lats so they
looked at three different grips with a
narrow grip a medium grip and a wide
grip all pronated and defined by by
acromial distance and by acromial
distance is just the distance between
the outer part of one shoulder and the
outer part of your other shoulder and
what the paper looked at was three
different grip widths so one 1.5 in two
times by acromial distance and what they
found was that 1.5 in two times by a
comeall distance were best at activating
the lats for the eccentric contractions
only so all three grip widths were very
similar for the concentric contraction
but why did medium were best for
eccentric and then also the biceps were
most activated at 1.5 times brought by a
comeall distance so if we're going to
draw anything from this study I think
it's that a middle grip is the best for
activating optimally both the lats and
the biceps these three studies combined
together I think indicate that maybe the
best way to train the lats is through a
pronated grip brought to the front of
the neck with a middle grip so 1.5 times
by a crow meal distance and you'll see
that that is basically what I was doing
in this exercise and then one more thing
I want to note there is about cheating
so an article from which I pulled a lot
of these studies reference a paper in
which an 11 degree lean back was better
for optimizing lat recruitment than
staying completely upright with no lean
back whatsoever so as long as you're not
using too much momentum a slight
cheating on the lat pulldown is actually
better for recruiting the less moved on
to a close neutral grip lat pulldown and
the basic idea here is just to train the
lats through shoulder extension first
exercise trained primarily shoulder
adduction here we're bringing the elbows
down more
the front of the body and of course
shoulder extension is the other primary
function of the lat so training a
slightly different movement pattern
couple advantages here you get a little
bit more range of motion probably get a
little bit more trap and rhomboid
involvement especially if you squeeze
the shoulder blades together after that
I moved on to chest supported t-bar row
and the reason I'm doing this is first
and foremost just because it does give
my back a little bit of extra support it
also prevents cheating and I actually
found this to be very interesting a 2004
paper by Leland ita√∫ found rows to be
just as effective at recruiting the lat
as lat pull-downs but they were actually
better for trap and rhomboid activation
so if you want to get the most bang for
your buck I think having a row in your
routine is an absolutely must so after
the t-bar rows it was on to a variation
on the Moto row here you setup the
cables quite low and I use my forearm as
a brace against my knee and it
definitely I feel a really good stretch
on the lats in this one and I find that
the range of motion is really really
good as well and unlike with the
dumbbell I find with the cable you do
have a little bit more of a constant
tension curve so I just find this to be
a really smooth movement and then what I
do is after I do 10 reps half kneeling
I'll actually perform the rest of it
lying which gives me a very strong
contraction in the lat
and I'll usually bang out another say
six to ten reps in this position so next
up was smith machine shrugs again it
takes a little bit of pressure off my
lower back now some people with this
movement will say that it's probably not
a very good upper trap exercise because
Johnson Attell 1994 found that the upper
trap fibers actually run transversely
so they don't run more vertically like
we used to think and they don't actually
attached at the scapula so they can't
function as scapular elevators therefore
they're probably not very they're
probably not contributing very much to
the shrug I guess is how the reasoning
goes I don't take this to be a very
strong argument I think that other
studies for example Anderson natal 2008
in which they cite three other studies
to show the same thing found that shrugs
actually had the greatest EMG activity
out of all the exercises that they
looked at for the upper traps and also I
think that it just makes sense to
include shrugs in a program even if
maybe they aren't hitting the upper
traps per se there at the very least
hitting some of the other scapular
elevators such as the levator scapulae
and you know since any program is likely
to include things like rows and lateral
raises anyway it just kind of makes
sense it's relatively low-risk to
include a shrug in a shrug is something
that I do feel in my upper traps if I
just simply shrug up I can feel my trap
contracting and so I know that it's
working something so this was the final
movement full range of motion lateral
raises I actually heard about this
movement from Ian McCarthy I think he
got it from men Oh hence women's I'm not
entirely sure but in any case it is a
little bit of an unorthodox movement you
want to be very careful with it and go
very light as impingement I think could
be a risk this might be one of the best
burns if I can use a broad term I felt
in my upper traps in a long time for
whatever reason I just feel like the
squeeze at the top of this exercise is
so good so yeah if you haven't tried
this one out as an upper trap exercise
I'd strongly recommend it and so the
last back movement of the day was chest
supported incline shrug so this is one
that as far as I know I invented I
haven't ever seen anyone do it anyway
and as you can see what I'm doing is
basically shrugging both up and back
while having my chest braced against the
chest support I find this did
really effective at hitting the mid
traps and the upper traps and again it's
from a slightly different angle than
what you'd get with the upright shrug in
it again also completely negates any
cheating which is really really common
in the shrug you'll see people go up
onto their toes or duck under the bar to
get it up and you're not really getting
a whole lot out of that and finally the
last movement of the day was a simple
alternating dumbbell bicep curl as you
would have seen I just did a lot of
rolling coal downs etc the biceps are
very active in these movements and as
I've said in previous videos I do find
that by the end of a long back workout
like this it is difficult to give it
your all four biceps in so in the past
for that reason I've either done them at
the beginning or given them their own
day in this case because of my injury
I'm trying to prioritize back as I feel
as though it has flattened out a little
bit as a result of taking a couple of
months off training it so yeah put the
back work first and then finished off
with four sets of ten to twelve each arm
bicep curls and that was a wrap so I
hope that you guys enjoyed this
informative commentary if you did please
let me know and I will keep it up for my
next training session which is going to
be a push day and yeah if it's popular
then I'll keep doing it thank you guys
very much for listening and I hope that
you enjoy these next few clips alright
so guys I just got back from the gym I
was really really good workout now I've
got a bunch of work to get caught up on
kind of thing so it's 5 o'clock p.m. I'm
going to go to Starbucks I find that can
be a little bit more productive at a
coffee shop that I can at home for
post-workout meal all I had was a
protein shake I'm thinking I might I
might I might I might go get some sushi
after I'm done at Starbucks
but I'm not completely sure about that
yet so I don't know time will tell
I'll check in with you guys in a bit
so this is the sushi that I got for UC
California roll
California roll sweet potato roll and
this is called a popcorn roll so it's
basically deep-fried asparagus inside
and then there's tempura bits on top and
popcorn shrimp with like kind of like a
barbecue sauce I think it is on top
anyway it's really really good super
excited to eat this thank you guys again
for watching this vlog if you're
enjoying the videos please do me a favor
and hit the thumbs up button it does
help me out a lot when I know that
people are enjoying the videos don't
forget to subscribe to the channel if
you haven't already thank you very much
for watching guys I'll see you in a
couple days