how little can you train and still get
stronger andrew like his core hackers
and colleagues formed a series of
studies to answer this question they
performed studies where powell visited a
variety of protocols to increase their
squat bench and deadlift on earth max
they also interviewed a variety of elite
powerful and powerful coaches to see
what they thought the minimum effective
dose for powerlifting was in the short
term you can see increases in your squad
bench and deadlift wonder maxes with as
few as one to three weekly sessions
three to six sets per week per exercise
of one to five repetitions with loads
above eighty percent of the order of max
and rpes around seven to nine the author
is recommended training the bench press
two to three times per week and the
squat and deadlift maybe once or twice a
week this same reasoning can apply to
most exercises you want to get stronger
at that said in the long term you will
likely need more volume to keep
progressing this strategy isn't the best
at inducing muscle growth and in the
long term you may require back offsets
and or her personal work to keep
progress