most people say they want to look better
he is ostensibly the winner based on
what the guy on the left eight times the
size the guy on the right is 50 times
leaner what's he winning
hey guys I'm Mike Israel I am a
professor of Advanced Training theory
for Lehman College in New York and I am
going to review some videos of very
popular and sometimes not so popular
Hollywood films where people work out
and I'm going to give my assessment to
one understand scale of how good of a
job scientifically are they doing in the
training process
I'm ready
this is Batman versus Superman one of my
favorites
I'm very upset at the tire that makes
sense
technically very good functional type of
training
um can you know transfer to a variety of
combat moves and uh real world stuff not
terrible a great way to build up General
work capacity in the upper body and the
abdominals so there's some good good
high marks I know profoundly little
about engineering Kryptonite based
Weaponry full range of motion on
pull-ups I love it and it's weighted
pull-ups like if you actually get this
strong so I can guarantee you that that
Affleck was not this strong
but uh if you could actually do that
with three 45 pounds hanging you are the
man and you are going to be really good
at uh doing very difficult things in
real life a lot of people would do slow
pushing sled work it doesn't train much
of anything except for your ability to
push things slowly I would like it if he
did something more dynamic
right there he's limited mostly by how
much his body is generating friction
with his feet so it's not very great uh
situation there but it's not bad it's
not bad very whole body very athletic
very general real world
okay because Cottage ranges motion on
the dumbbell process that I don't like
to see he could have gone way lower
that's bad marks but compound heavy
pressing not a bad choice
I guess it's something that you know in
the gym you might not want to do is poor
Jim etiquette he doesn't really have a
high regard for his own equipment which
you might expect from a spoiled brat
billionaire like him but uh his
equipment also looks like it sucks so
maybe he's just letting it rot until he
gets the ultimate commercial gym built
at home who knows yeah Batman vs
Superman that training scene honestly if
I'm not being nitpicky seven or eight
out of ten and that's that's real seven
or eight out of ten like when I first
saw that I was really a sports scientist
and I thought man this is really really
good they could have made it much worse
is what I'm trying to say foreign
kid classic
man who could fly with chopstick
accomplish anything the human nervous
system has a lot of processing layers uh
there's the perceptual layer there's a
bunch of interpretive layers there's
layers to determine what to do next
decisional processes tons of output
layers and eventually there's tons of
layers of neuronal activity that get you
from seeing the fly detecting where it
is predicting where it's going to be and
then doing this and thus the latency is
quite high for flies they have almost no
latency because they have almost no
central processing relative to humans so
they're a very rapid perceptual and
reactive system they can get out of the
way real fast usually faster than humans
so the probability that anyone could do
this is uh profoundly low you know
certainly he catches a fly in his first
uh time there The Karate Kid those must
just be very very sick very ill old
flies that they're doing that with
catch
that the whole like wax on wax off thing
first of all that's not how you block
punches in real life
um blocking one punch at a time is
actually preposterously difficult what
you want to do is cover up in general
you don't generally reach out to block
anything that's kind of a bad idea uh
first of all because it's insanely
difficult to predict velocities and
trajectories like that and also because
you open yourself up when you do that to
other attacks the chances that you are
are involved in household chores and
then uh somehow magically learned karate
through them is preposterously low make
a power whole body
fit inside wine
yeah the idea that you are starting at
the back end of the kinetic chain
pushing off of the ground and letting
the impulse travel through the additive
forces of your legs and your back and
your chest and your shoulder all the way
to the end is actually totally valid
that's exactly how I throw a very good
punch and this is good stuff the the
analogy of having your whole force in
just the end of the punch that's not
exactly what's going on but you
definitely summate uh a lot of uh forces
through the body and it starts all the
way at the bottom and really does use
the vast majority of her body so this
this gets a very high marks this is
actually surprisingly for this film one
of the only valid uh training talks ever
given by this instructor
foreign
this illustrates a concept that people
think applies a lot to sport but it
doesn't called unstable surface training
is the fact that you know throwing
punches on a boat is very difficult
because you have to simultaneously
stabilize yourself and also try to
provide some some external Force to the
punches and the thing is is that in
actual sport combat scenarios mostly
you're fighting on a very stable sturdy
surface and most of the attacks that you
mount are going to have to rely on a lot
of stability so you're better off
practicing on the kind of surface you're
going to end up fighting in and learning
how through movement and then stopping
for a short bit here and there to
generate lots of power off of those
stable movements much better for you to
do that than for you to try to generate
very sub-optimal forces and powers and
Vector directions for your punches and
kicks off of very unstable surfaces uh
terrible terrible training other than
the whole talk about how to punch give
this as disaster so the karate kid gets
a two out of ten two out of ten in
realistic training and it does pain me
to say that did you know The Karate Kid
3 or whatever the one with the girl is
demon horse it's so tired
dodgeball classic
very high on overload very low on sport
specificity
definitely creates a good dodging
incentive I guess on a technical level
this training is is quite good but the
cumulative fatigue of getting hit by
wrenches is unsustainable it would not
allow you to accrue the volume of
training the days and weeks of
practicing like this that would make you
much better
the only sport specific training they've
done so far other than the terribly
executed shuttle run this is the kind of
training you'd probably see done
relatively often in in higher level
dodgeball if there is such a thing being
able to catch a very high velocity ball
potentially a ball that's thrown at a
velocity just marginally higher than any
human or your average player can throw
it means you actually train real close
so you're very specific to the sport but
you're training at a little bit of an
overload which means that when you get
to the real game everything will seem a
little slower you'll be very competent
and you're going to be on your way so
it's actually a great training here at
globogen we understand that ugliness and
fatness are genetic disorders much like
baldness or necrophilia
and I'm not up to date on a literature
on necrophilia I'll say you know fatness
and ugliness are largely genetic they
are absolutely not disorders
mad man is just full of hate
Jim employs a highly trained
quasi-cultural staff a personal alter
Ultra gyms
Average Joe's and the globo gym
are both on the very wrong side of
extremes Average Joe's tells you it's
okay doesn't matter just do whatever you
like which isn't very good for getting
people in shape Global gym says you suck
and you should hate yourself which for
short term for some folks works but long
term makes almost everyone burnt out
probably the better of the two would be
to take the excellent equipment they
have at globo gym
and give it the attitude of if you want
to train let's train and get you better
you're already okay as you are and you
always will be but if you want to get a
little bit better come in and train and
we'll train hard everything will work
out and none of the gyms in this offered
that
oh yeah
nobody struggles at 90 to lock out in a
squat that's never happened to anyone a
lot of glute flexing I do like his
leotard he's wearing you know for that
specific scene never in a million years
has that ever happened you can't
isometrically hold any any challenging
way to that level for no good reason at
all so fake fake fake uh I didn't see
the only training I didn't see that I
would love to see is the training of
them actually scrimmaging each other and
playing small sided dodgeball games it's
how you actually get the best of
dodgeball is playing dodgeball against
each other uh there's none of that
apparently so uh but yeah that would try
to violate the movie Spirit of team
unity so I totally understand dodgeball
listen uh Solid 5 out of ten some really
good training happening a lot of great
training not happening but uh and a lot
of really you know really where they go
wrong is the specificity is pretty good
A little too hard on the overload
principle the wrenches the cars bit much
not going to have a whole lot of
athletes left over but you could say
they didn't have a lot of athletes in
the true sense of the word to begin with
so it's nobody lost nobody found
Pain and Gain
this is decent training uh yeah this is
great abdominal training
this person was clearly a psychopath as
he was in real life this is based on
true events
why is that guy boiled up already
terrible hack squat technique also if
you can high-five someone while they're
training it's both bad etiquette and
means you're not trying hard enough
oh
oh they got some pills a little Tackle
Box they have a little one one sad
little insulin pin for all that to the
whole stash you're not gonna inject that
all with one needle that's you know it's
something to tell the viewer hey this is
bad stuff most people say they want to
look better
certainly did not win that competition a
note all right pause he's ostensibly the
winner based on what the guy in the left
eight times the size the guy on the
rights both that and 50 times leaner
what's he winning terrible posing those
are not posing trunks that's underwear I
don't know what this is
it's not a bodybuilding show
this is the strange scene not a rooftop
not a bodybuilding competition this is
not how any of this works
much more time am I right that guy's the
man he's my favorite character in all
this
yeah when you're a personal trainer you
sometimes train a lot of Rich guys and
most of them are great and the few of
them are just total total dicks and you
just have to put up with it because
you're a nice guy this is bad spotting
he's not even looking at him give me a
cigarette boat but the thing drug
dealers this is pretty accurate a lot of
clients will try to talk to you this
much when they're training had a lot of
personal trainers are this bad at
training their clients
this is one of the most realistic scenes
I've ever seen in a fitness film and
that's that
I've done this with people you just
talked to them while they're doing
cardio
insufficiently motivated to motivate
themselves or is there like a beach back
there a swimming pool naked people
walking around I've never trained in a
gym like this might do something wrong
sure not trying hard enough if you can
talk to someone while you're training
you're not training hard enough in most
cases and you maybe we could go for a
drink or dinner or coffee
water yeah you don't want to go out with
a girl like that
you know
I've never actually got enough
confidence to ask a woman out so I
wouldn't know how to relate
calm the down I gotta get a pump
the pump doesn't feel good enough to
make psychopathy and summary murder okay
last thing you'd be thinking about if
you were normal maybe he's that insane
The Rock's great terrible awful
technique it's just kind of
moving the arms around a little bit
getting the whole body into it it's like
a power walk with dumbbells in place
I'm in the middle of a super set I don't
know what he's super setting it though I
don't think that's actually a superset I
think that's just inserted Hollywood
line a super setting incline bench with
incline bench
not a super set for those of you keeping
track at home the quality of the lifting
done in that movie three out of ten the
realism of do people in corporate gyms
really train like that 9.5 out of 10.
I've seen all that idiocy in real life
so I can believe it well if you guys
want the less edited cut of me ranting
about these insane scenes we've got a
whole lot more in the member section so
check that out
Rocky for Rocky travels back to what is
then the Soviet Union this was the
winter in which I was a baby in my mom's
uh belly Dr Mike was just getting a
start
oh this is so good note a couple of
things this is peak of the Cold War
1984-85. the American is using a
non-high-tech uh training approach and
the person in the Soviet Union is using
a high-tech training approach now this
is very very good self flagellating
propaganda by Hollywood the reality was
that Russia barely able to muster a
room-sized computer at this juncture
while the United States had a blooming
Information Age which continues on to
this day and allows us to do things like
this so it is totally backwards of how
the training would really work and I
would like you to note something that
all of these machines have English
readouts which are non-standard just
don't happen on on Russian readouts this
is not how the Russians ever trained and
that will continue to be the case as we
go through this I know it
never has any single person trained with
that many laboratory scientists around
I'm actually a sports scientist I've
worn a lab coat zero times in my entire
life what is their life specimens around
yeah I guess he's one
oh my God
so that
they're doing a live cardiogram okay
they're doing an EKG or actually no
that's an echo he's getting an
echocardiogram while he's training here
is the number of good reasons to do that
you suspect your athlete has a nasty
cardiac disorder and is going to die
really soon
and that's it there's nothing to see
with the heart when someone's actually
training at that level unbelievable I
love it
okay hit that back boom folks to the
extent that boxing is nothing like
running distance and very occasionally
hitting one thing at a time they nailed
that the terrible terrible this is
nothing like real training has ever been
although I do appreciate the Soviet flag
in the background for realism and again
it takes all those people to train him
it's terrible technique this absolutely
fake weight yeah that's nonsense yeah
they didn't even try
all right well we got look at this
little skiing apparatus we got going on
here it's good
I don't know when he's going to be in
that position in boxing I'll tell you
that
it will strengthen the legs
okay that's good that's actually very
impressive and good training I hope he
eats Connie's reps
found the little boxing training in
Rocky's preparation so from what I
remember with this movie Rocky did
almost exclusively would term General
physical preparedness training and at
almost no no combat training at all I
guess
I don't think there was anyone there to
fight him to box him
this is impressive this is called a
Candlestick there's more impressive ways
to do this but if he touched his feet to
the mat all the way and came back up
that would be great his wife is
certainly uh some combination of
impressed and aroused
[Music]
there's a Preposterous amount of drugs
some kind of weird bubbles in that oil
it doesn't look like a a very
professionally sealed vial this is
probably a pro this is probably really
what they did in the Soviet Union oh my
God okay no that's a big needle folks
this is insane this is wildly outdated
that he's going to be having a sore arm
for about three weeks after that one
crushing your opponent's picture is
critical to success everyone knows that
and then now he's training to be a
towing horse
heating all-time PR's in the gym if for
a boxer occurs months before the
training peaking hitting all-time PR's
while peaking for boxing is some
combination of irrelevant and a terrible
idea so you would never have 80 coaches
around you yelling and you have to make
this one lift and if you don't it means
your preparedness is low and you're
probably going to lose the the weight
training leading up to a boxing match is
actually much more calm than the actual
boxing training
I'd like to have a readout of random
flashing colors that tells me a lot as a
sports scientist about what's going on
to the untrained eye this may look like
random flashing lights but to the train
die it's random flashing lights
[Music]
Rocky IV absolutely a classic and some
of the worst most inaccurate sport
training you will ever see in a movie
General preparation for sport I would
say Sylvester Stallone did a better job
Rocky definitely did a better job on
that
I would say Ivan Drago did a better job
in the boxing front because he actually
boxed people and I would say the big
downside with him is there's way too
much technology doing nothing
and so on the net balance Ivan Drago
actually had a better preparation for
combat and so yeah overall that as far
as boxing training that movie gets a
three out of ten and uh but in spirit it
gets a 12 out of 10. one of the most
motivation movies and the music oh
you can't not want to train
all right that's it for this time you
guys let us know if you want another one
of these and maybe you can comment some
movies or scenes you want uh below
jeez Hollywood uh uh get a consultant
that knows things or not you know if
it's all it's all the same to the
viewers who cares
mostly awful training that's what we see
if you guys want good training good
science good recommendations stick
around here in the channel we got you
hooked up videos every week about how to
train right see you guys next time
[Music]