it was pretty much media changes within
like literally five days of implementing
those two pictures are pretty fucking
wild pretty wild what were these
immediate five-day changes I assume it
was trending
[Music]
I've been doing low carbs since I was
13. my mom got into it for weight loss
purposes and my brothers tagged along
they were playing rugby and wrestling as
well which are obviously two supports
that would also benefit from hydrates go
on throughout the years I just slowly
got more and more strict with it and
then eventually progressed to carnivore
just out of Simplicity stage it was
easiest to not have to cook my asparagus
zucchini vegetables the Devils the
devil's Foods
so you're 20 years old now I am and you
lifted you've lifted weights for I guess
seven years at this point yeah six to
seven years
you were eating roughly how much protein
and fat per day I was having probably
two 25 to 240 fat and protein one to one
wow
the first quarter of 2021 was when I
kind of hit a plateau I was also
extremely extremely lean at that point I
started to get some twinges I was
getting a little bit stringy and just
flat and depleted that was after almost
two years essentially of carnivore so it
wasn't lean I was like I just felt off I
didn't feel 100
did you feel that a part of you being
lean was distinctly for the gram so to
speak a lot of people have asked me that
I don't I don't think so to be honest
because a lot of people on social media
would tell me you don't need to be this
late and you'd look better with 10 to 12
body fat or whatever it is I was
training a lot twice a day six seven
times a week I wouldn't take a lot of
rest days and I'd be just trying to push
loads heavy heavy heavy all the time and
there was no sort of progression with
the rest of my training so I wasn't
setting up him as a cycle to actually
have an accumulation phase it was just
let me see if I can PR this week and
that's oh yeah by the end of that it
became a guessing game of whether or not
I was gonna get hurt did you deload ever
during this time yeah I think when I
first in like three years but like just
the past few weeks so so I was at a
Breaking Point in a sense where I was
just like willing to try whatever at
that at that point it's a lot of trust
to have someone coaching for sure
because I knew your guy's background was
pretty much ready to hand it over and I
was pretty confident like what Jared was
doing so and then because it was pretty
much media changes within like literally
five days of implementing those two
pictures are pretty fucking wild pretty
wild so uh I was pretty confident after
that point what were these immediate
five-day changes I assume it was Trend
below but I just learned from Tick Tock
comments oh yeah immediately I was just
more full so I wasn't as stringy and I
noticed my joints weren't as terrible
Jared wanted to slowly reintroduce carbs
so just rice and sweet potato okay and I
found my digestions like perfect with
those so I've just continued to increase
and Implement those on top of that we
added in free posts and intro covered in
the inter shake and basically the the
Gatorade was fine with you a lot of
times it's not with some people so he
just kept using later I think
you went from roughly less than 10 grams
of carbs a day whatever is in the
glycogen of the dead animal and then to
275. I dropped four pounds after a
calorie equated color equated changing
calories but you added carbs removed
fats and proteins yes and you lost
weight yeah he was like you're probably
gonna go up like 10 pounds you could see
a 10 pound jump with glycogen sores all
that different stuff and and I'm like
Jared I lost four pounds so uh it was it
was cool to see the changes and then I
just continued filling out more and more
and more so it was essentially just
getting leaner and more full and now
we're just continuing to increase those
but every two weeks we added in 10 grams
of carbs per meal about 50 per day 50
per day added okay
Tristan was so overreached maybe even
over trained with insufficient recovery
and too much training no periodization
and
carbohydrates specifically and enough
calories also have this huge
parasympathetic response to your nervous
system where they make you they put you
into recovery mode right
which is if you're overreached and you
don't have those carbs in you're kind of
in permanent mini fight or flight mode
ultra high stress mode and that ultra
high stress mode is something that tends
to in many people store a lot of body
water right but it's not the fun kind of
body water it's under the skin body
water it's not in your muscles which is
why you look stringy it's just something
Jared and I have been through a bunch
but when he got to you we didn't know
that that was your state because there's
a lot of people that do carnivore
they're at equilibrium they're quite
fine You intro carbs and a lot of times
carbs bring so much body water that they
blow up right but for you you were so
overreached and so fight or flight
basically you ended up carbs had this
super calming effect for sure and the
whoosh water effect and all of a sudden
because in the first five days you lost
like five pounds or something like that
so that's probably our best hypothesis
to what happened train uh training now
with carbs my training feels good go go
oh
up and back up and back go go go go
yes
I've noticed the biggest difference in
my Palms being way better my strength is
going up I'm able to control and Brace a
lot better and heavy movements and
compound movements have fun so it's just
been progressively getting better and
better I do notice I'm getting more sore
so that was like one of the first things
that or one of the main things that a
lot of carnivore influencers or
Advocates preaches I don't get sore I'm
always alert and it's like these two
things that are supposedly seem good
right and it's not necessarily a
negative thing I was like sore in the
belly of the muscle yes and in a way
that recovers for your next work for
sure yes very interesting we've tended
to notice that people who eat a hyper
caloric diet for the first time add in
calories their joints start to feel
great but their muscles get really sore
during training but then so it's kind of
like if you're carnivore you get a
little sore and then you get a little
not sore between workouts when you're
using carbs you get really sore and then
you really quickly heal and then it's
time to hit it again it seems to line up
with sports science of stimulus recovery
adaptation repeat
go slow
let me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you can modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
where is your journey taking you next
it's just going to be continuing to mass
I'm honestly just following the plan
keep increasing food and hopefully just
keep trying to get the weight up
actually moving
um he's clearly successfully lean still
and I'm trying to get it moving pretty
quick here I would like to see about 10
pounds on in the block which would be
multiple Master Cycles amassing let me
go for the next basically four months
right
totally cool to be carnivore but you
might want to try some carbohydrates
Jared tell us about that and maybe tell
us how the average person could
transition to a higher carb diet if you
were just like going to wake up your gin
pop you're like carnivores really
kicking my ass and you're gonna eat like
a muffin go to work sit around eat some
more carbs and like they're implementing
carbohydrates that way it might lead you
into some issues where you're getting
tight really tired around those meals I
think what Tristan did was actually very
intelligent because he went from already
having gone to eating some fruits and
veggies around his training which would
be the least likely time that you would
experience this lethargy so if you're
somebody who is training like three
times a week maybe you start on those
days where you're putting in some
carbohydrates like Tristan did you're
putting in like 100 grams of carbs
around the training session I ease them
into that kind of coming from carnivore
to carbohydrate-based diet when you
switch from using mostly ketones to
mostly glucose that parasympathetic
anti-fight or flight response because
remember you have a mild fight-or-flight
response all the time on low carb that's
what's keeping you sharp it's that
animal survival Instinct of technically
mini starvation but just hang in there
Tristan it's awesome to have you on the
team hashtag team RP yes sir you are
technically now my adopted grandson and
I couldn't be more proud see you guys
next time
[Applause]
thank you