I would give that a nine out of 10 at
least on squat technique John Cena knows
what the he's doing and surprise he's
[Music]
gigantic hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of exercise and sports science
I think I do Brazilian jiu-jitsu yeah
that's what it is I'm a Grappler you
could say not just in the bedroom though
nope never in the bedroom and uh I am
bodybuilder and I am going to be
analyzing Mr John Cena's training he is
legendary in the wrestling realm but not
that kind of wrestling professional
wrestling the pretend kind let's see if
his training is also pretend or if he's
fucking if he's the real deal roll
camera you never Juiced were you able to
get that way on your own yeah absolutely
I started working out when I was 12
years old okay dope so I'm going to cut
you guys the real deal on that whole
juicing thing when people ask you to
admit to a federal offense on live
television the moral thing to do becomes
to lie about it so this is something
that I would call an Unbecoming question
from someone who just doesn't know the
legal and ethical landscape involved I
mean or a totally innocent mistake but
uh you generally just don't ask people
that sort of thing because they'd be
admitting to a crime yes John Cena's is
on steroids everybody in the WWE is on
steroids but for maybe one person ever
or something when you get that big and
that strong and that jacked and that
lean at the same time almost certainly
anabolics are involved and John's going
to lie about it as well he should
started working out when I was 12 years
old because you got beat up a lot right
exactly is that true I was uh I was
really just um pencil NE yeah and it was
a true comic book story I was getting
beat up every day in junior high I
finally started working out man I got to
tell you bullying is a big reason why a
lot of people lift weights something I'd
know nothing about personally children
laughed at me and they laughed and they
laughed and they laughed and what did I
do only something a normal kid would do
I ran to the bathroom crying I sat on
the toilet crying I was there for 2
hours crying and there I plotted my
Ascent to be a jiujitsu killer super
bodybuilder psycho weirdo with a weird
shaped head that still knows where all
of his classmates that laughed at him
live and that they have such beautiful
families now don't they do I have pent
up issues yes why don't I see results I
mean everybody's body is different you
know and and some people weren't meant
to carry a lot of body weight and a lot
of muscle mass I got big hands big
wrists big feet John Cena just referred
to his wrists and his hands and there's
something to that your bone thickness
and width is actually veryy not totally
but very predictive of the eventual
muscle mass you able to carry if you
train hard the best place on the
internet to find out based on your
anthropometry how much muscle mass
you're likely to be able to acrw all
probabilities of course is the website
of a Mr meno henselman he has a
calculator on them mother you type in
your shit and it says Nah you're done or
man you'll be all right or like bro
you're going to be huge there's more
than three categories and they're not
phrased like I phrase them that's really
really good
[Music]
stuff scy
I'm not good with cars what kind of car
is that put this in Just For You Budd
many of you may not know this but when I
was a child my father who was an oil
tycoon gave me my first Lamborghini and
you know it lit a spark in me that told
me Mike the rest of your life is going
to be only one gold driven purpose is a
collect as many Lamborghinis as you are
capable of
collecting I now have two UND something
Lambos I honestly stop counting the
Butlers they count them all they have
all the tabulations and everything
Lambos are my passion and so seeing the
Mr John Cena here maybe has his own
Lamborghini um real recognize real uh
comma player I'm trying to be more urban
and ethnic is it working please let me
know in the comments
below oh shit so 61 lb to competition
depth actually seemingly a little bit
below you in a low bar position this is
officially impressive and very few
people can do this so of all the fake
bullshit workouts we've seen on this
show on this channel this ain't one of
them John Cena is the Real Deal One does
not simply do something like this uh
this is good stuff also uh he's got a
belt he's got knee sleeves and most
importantly he's got the RP hypertrophy
app training for muscle growth
is never going to be the
same weightlifting shoes tell me you
know what you're doing it's not a
guarantee but it's a very high
probability and if you're scotting
without weightlifting shoes or training
legs without weightlifting shoes it
tells me that there is a higher chance
though still quite low that you have
noing clue of what's going on holy
shit amazing deadlift great Technique No
criticism wow
now I think he's doing this mostly for
strength which is why he's lowering the
weight quite quickly if you're doing the
deadlift for muscle size you want to
lower the weight uh slowly because you
get a little bit more hypertrophic
stimulus that way another thing is he's
doing this raw no straps mixed grip
which is like manhood level shit and
there's a weightlifter in the background
as far as artwork I feel like he's
training with the right people maybe
that's just his gym at home and then he
is the right people
oh high bar bar full depth with what
seems to be let's see if my
weightlifting counting is on so this is
uh roughly um 396 lb and he is burying
that shit upright chest ass all the way
to ankles head position nice and
forward he took it there under control
and back up under control kind of a mid
bar not high bar position I would give
that a out of 10 at least on squat
technique John Cena knows what the he's
doing and surprise he's
gigantic oh my God oh my God the weight
keeps
increasing oh my God it keeps going this
is this is over 400 lb at this point
very good powerlifting style singles
these are touch and go so they're not
paused The Descent is controlled though
quick if you want this to work better
for muscle hypertrophy that same
technique that he's doing is damn near
on the money your shoulders are
retracted his chest is up
that is critical he's touching the bar
to roughly nipple height which is very
very good for strength development and
targeting the overall chest Mass if
you're going to use this for muscle
growth I think that going down a little
bit slower pausing at the chest
momentarily and coming back up is a
really good thing but otherwise this is
the template for awesome awesome Lifting
for strength and will also get you
jacked this is just wonderful
stuff oh my God Scott is this the first
bent over row we've seen on a channel
that someone wasn't swinging away like a
wild asshole
than this is really really good b r
technique his body isn't moving at all
it's just his arms which is how you do a
row if Mr John Cena could tilt a little
bit lower he would get a little bit more
out of the movement but that's my only
criticism this is awesome awesome work
rare rare
form good technique front squats why not
I think John Cena is the most hardcore
trainer we've ever evaluated on the
channel by that I mean like he just does
the hardest lift in the world compound
gnarly Basics with weightlifting plates
why not this is how you build not only a
crapload of muscle but also a ton of
strength a ton of power and it's going
to translate to whatever real world shit
you want to do with your body really
really well free weights like this
require a little bit of a stability
component that you bring to the table
and they're really gnarly and mean and
made of steel and just unwieldy and if
you can learn to move barbells really
really with a lot of load and precision
and technique and power and speed
the real world tasks become much easier
if I'm doing Brazilian jiu-jitsu and I'm
in uh a uh Kachi as the Brazilians say
in a match against someone who like got
strong with cables and machines and
they're pretty strong I'm like I'm
worried about it I'll see you how much
swag I got to match up with him but if
someone tells me like dude that guy
deadlift 700 and benches 405 and blah
blah I'm going to be like God damn it
he's moved Real Steel around in his life
what am I made of not steel Flesh and
Bones and beautiful sexual things that I
look at in the mirror every day and go
godamn Israel God reallying pulled a
stops out for you didn't he and then I
wake up and I still look like this but
in any case you want to get good at shit
you want to get real world nasty mean
strong barbells barbells barbells steady
diet of the shit I'm talking about
really eating the shit eat barbells
physically Chomp on the plates then
you'll be jacked folks don't sue me and
when it comes down to exercise and diet
the biggest excuse everyone has it's too
complicated he's so handsome and his
voice is so deep I don't even know what
he's saying oh he's saying things let's
listen in also there's raw meat on the
table Scott the video guy oh yeah
that'll come in the place soon really is
he going to eat it raw or throw it on
his body what the heck foods that help
you lose weight that's group one look at
all these foods and we're just
scratching the surface eat as much of
this stuff as you want because these
foods help you lose weight they got crab
there
Scott remember when the Butlers flew in
Crab fresh from
Maine and we had an evening together
crabs more than
once that was a tough admission to make
that oh
man a lot of the jokes to follow up on
that one are like nope that gets us
canceled nope that gets us canceled
that's some shit that really happened to
me and I think I still might have crabs
you guys we get at you down there and
you're like nah that antibiotic for sure
worked folks if you're liking this so
far we have a juicier version with
X-Rated stuff I think in the member
section of this channel so give it a
click and subscribe and see if you like
it and we've got tons of these and other
reviews and tons of other videos the
members get so uh give it some thought
group two foods that prevent you from
losing weight so if your goal is to lose
weight here's a hint stay away from this
stuff now I I do have to say if you
count your calories and run your Macros
like the RP diet coach app and many
other wonderful apps and plans have you
do in the evidence-based side of the
internet you can absolutely eat some
amount of these foods and as long as you
hit your macro calorie goals you're
going to lose weight and everything is
going to be just fine for example a lot
of the folks that do the RP situation
the RP hypertrophy app and the RP diet
coach app they will have that actually
exactly honeycomb cereal with milk with
so many protein after their training and
that feeds the muscles much more than it
feeds the fat and so they can go all the
way into single ninger body fats eating
cereal post-workout every day that they
train what the he got against yop play
yogurt Scott V guy have you ever seen a
yop playay commercial without a rank 10
female in the shit she's always a model
and just bomb like how many o plays do I
got to eat to take a shot at that title
the model doesn't come with the yogurt
something I was obscenely upset at when
I bought my first 100 case
yogurts do you think there's like if you
buy a thousand she shows up for like 5
minutes and at least at least nods in
your general direction what about if I
eat a
muffin group three these are kind of
like uh My Little Secret Weapon I like
to call these fat burners it's a group
of foods that actually boost your
metabolism and'll help you shed those
pounds of fat yeah that's total bullshit
unfortunately can't all be right all the
time as my ex-wife told me as she took
the kids and the house but anyway yeah
uh there are no foods that boost your
metabolism unless they contain an
obscene amount of stimulants which I
don't think eggs do
is that cinnamon over there Scott the
video
guy I'm not scratching my leg
fellas yeah I did have to reach down a
foot you figure that out Geometry
motherfuckers group four simple
post-workout energy Shake that's a group
through 10 weeks body change you're
going to get to exercise with me and
after we exercise you can have one of
these shakes that's delicious and'll
fill your body full of energy John Cena
there is a way I want you to fill me
that's somewhat like exercise but it
does doesn't have to do with
strawberries no wait it it can less to
do with pears and apples though many of
the liquids that come out of my body
look suspiciously
like 6 days a week I'm going to ask you
to follow these four food groups one day
a week well you can eat and drink
whatever you
want for many people that's a profoundly
bad idea and I'll tell you why if you're
in a caloric deficit and you're
especially a mother that likes to eat
which is nine out of 10 times who the
buys these programs anyway cuz if you
don't like to eat you're generally not
overweighted you generally don't buy
Fitness
shit if you get nice and hungry through
the week eating the kind of shit you're
supposed to
eat that one day of the week where you
can eat whatever you want has a couple
of unfortunate consequences we do have
other videos on the downsides of cheat
meals and especially cheat days one is
that you can actually eat so much
processed shit that you can eliminate
hundreds of calories no no thousands of
calories from your weekly deficit and
make it so that instead of losing 2
pounds of fat a week you're losing a
pound of fat prolonging the diet and
making your results less impressive you
might even get down to half a pound you
might even do enough damage to reverse
the whole shit and end up at maintenance
how if you manage to stuff two large
pizzas in that face of yours which I
know we comment below if you've eaten
two large pizzas but don't lie I'll
check on your profile pick and I'll see
if you're really worth that shit two
large pizzas with some toppings and shit
that's 8,000 calories if you have a
maintenance of 3,000 calories that is a
5,000 calorie
surplus of course you have a Coke with
that as well and you can't just have
pizza without ice cream we're down to a
point where whatever deficit you were
running into every day let's even call
it 1,000 calories 6 days of deficit and
well something like 6,000 calorie
Surplus if you really go ham on a cheat
day and you might because you get hungry
enough to do that and of eliminates the
entire Surplus and here's the thing then
you're sorry eliminates the entire
deficit and and you end up just
maintaining your body is profoundly good
at resisting weight loss it has been
engineered by millions of years of
evolution to seek out tasty food and
keep your body weight level because your
body doesn't know that we live in an
advanced capitalist society in which
groceries are ubiquitous and damn near
free for the average person
it thinks we live in the Paleolithic Era
where if you start losing weight your
body is like hey are we dying we're
starving to this I've seen this before
in evolution I'm going to make you
hungry as and make your mind flip into
the mode of where you seek as much tasty
food as you can and eat as much of it as
you possibly can to fix this dire
situation that we're trending towards
giving people one cheat day per week
ends up many times not always many times
putting them in the cycle of weight loss
during the week Miser
and then can't wait for that cheat day
have the cheat day feel like total shit
by the way get really bloated feel like
crap have trouble switching back into
the healthy diet on Monday or Sunday or
whatever and then a couple days later
you start feeling better again you start
losing weight again but then you get
really crazy because you know that cheat
meals coming up I recommend no cheat
meals for the entire duration of 10 or
12 12 week diet just the good stuff John
Cena was talking about and then after
the diet is over you can have a few
cheat meals no big deal and you get back
into a good healthy intake with a little
bit of that that bullshit food category
2 or whatever and mostly category one
awesome foods that are healthy for you
and are really hard to gain weight with
if you do that you're setting yourself
up much more for Success than um man one
cheat day a week that'll up a ton of
people folks that was fun wasn't it and
if it wasn't fun why the youed still
watching and if it was fun this is
really what you consider fun good God
get some friends go out stop watching
the stupid Channel stupid Scott the
video guy and stupid me sorry Scott just
stupid me Scott's one of the smarter
peoples I've ever met guys it's been
real as to watch Mr John Cena do his
training as a human being mega mega
respect as a totally heterosexual man
hello John
Cena as an admirer of the lifting and
somewhat expert on it I would say this
is very very good and the only
corrections I have really very Advanced
critiques so if I watch John Cena as a
nobody or something in the gym doing his
workout and you were like dude what what
do you think I'd be like that's pretty
dope could I level some Advanced
criticisms yes and I did but the big
picture is that he's doing way more shit
right than wrong which means that he's
not really originally a Hollywood actor
because if you're mostly Hollywood and
not wrestling then you mostly do shit
wrong and not right so so far all the
folks on this channel that have been
professional wrestlers or associated
with the sport they just just train
better than everybody else and
um it's good to see it fills my heart
with joy no no wait that's
atherosclerosis either way I've got a
full heart guys thank you so much for
tuning in John Cena gets an official
9.33 out of 11 and I'll see you next
time all right if you like this video
right over here YouTube wants you to
click on other things please do so
because it gets me money and money is
green and fun to save and invest see you
next time