[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy in
this video we're examining antagonist
supersets which have you perform two
exercises that train opposing muscle
groups back to back examples include the
barbell row and bench press the overhead
press and pull-up the leg curl and leg
extension a biceps exercise with a
triceps exercise
let's dive straight into the literature
foreign
[Music]
literature indicating antagonist
supersets do not compromise performance
in fact it has the potential to increase
your work capacity
a 2014 study out of Brazil compared
performing a leg extensions only to
performing leg curls before leg
extensions performing the leg curls
before the leg extensions increase the
number of reps performed on the leg
extension
they also found the shorter rest between
the two exercises the better the leg
extensional rep performance specifically
performing the leg extensions
immediately after the leg curls
outperformed using a 30 second one
minute three minute and five minute rest
between the two exercises
for clarity subjects of course perform
repetitions to failure on the exercises
and a 10 rep max load was used on the
exercises
other experiments support these findings
a 2015 straight out of Brazil compared
performing three sets of bench presses
and then three sets of seated rows
traditionally to supersetting the two
exercises with virtually no rest between
them
volume load on both exercises was
greater for the superset condition
the volume load is calculated by
multiplying sets reps and load
given both groups perform three sets and
use 10 rep max loads the greater volume
load for the superset would be explained
by them being able to perform more
repetitions
it's also worth noting the superset
session was of course shorter in
duration
three other studies demonstrate
antagonist supersets increase
performance versus normal sets all these
studies also had subject superset the
two exercises with minimal rest between
them
as per the first study assessed minimal
rest is likely the best for increasing
performance resting long between the two
exercises may not produce performance
gains
a 2010 study from Australia further
supports this a superset condition
performed three supersets of bench pools
with bench presses but use two minutes
of rest between the exercises resulting
in four minutes of rest between the
identical exercises
a traditional condition performed three
sets on the bench pull followed by three
bench press sets with four minutes of
rest between sets
both groups perform reps to failure with
a full rep max load on the exercises
overall volume load was not
statistically different between the
conditions
now though this superset protocol didn't
increase performance it still was
quicker to complete than the traditional
protocol
so if an individual doesn't want to
perform antagonist supersets with
minimal rest between the two exercises
having some rest between the two
movements can still be effective for
saving time
so making things Crystal Clear
antagonist supersets do not compromise
performance rather using minimal rest
between the two exercises actually seems
to increase your rep performance
resting longer between the two exercises
does not seem to do this but it's still
worth noting it's not detrimental either
versus normal sets and it can still save
time
if you can't perform antagonist
supersets for whatever reason perhaps
because your gym is busy but you'd still
lack a way to potentially increase
performance antagonist stretching may
work that is stretching an opposing
muscle before an exercise seems to
increase performance
three studies from Brazil designed
virtually the same find that stretching
the chest immediately before seated rows
increase seated row rep performance
versus performing only seated rows with
passive rest between and before sets
why do antagonists supersets and
stretching benefit rep performance it's
not precisely clear but a hypothesis is
it reduces antagonistic co-activation
during any movement the antagonist and
Agonist muscles produce Force this
co-activation is believed to provide
joint stability
take a leg extension we all know the
quadriceps are producing Force to
perform the exercise but the hamstrings
contract to a degree for knee joint
stability
by performing antagonist supersets or
stretching you may reduce the
antagonistic co-activation resulting in
The Agonist muscle producing greater
force
some may be thinking given antagonistic
co-activation provides joint stability
could antagonists supersets or
stretching be unsafe
the truth is I don't know the definitive
answer but there's reason to believe
it's perfectly fine
firstly none of the aforementioned
studies reported adverse effects of
antagonist supersets or stretching
additionally we know that strength
training in the long term chronically
decreases antagonist co-activation
anyway and this is one factor that
contributes to long-term strength gains
[Music]
we've uncovered that antagonist
supersets and antagonist stretching can
increase performance but does it lead to
more muscle and strength with antagonist
stretching unfortunately there's no
research exploring its long-term effects
with antagonist supersets we do have two
long-term studies but both of them are
notably limited a 2009 study out of
Australia recruited 15 men with at least
one year of training experience and
assign them to a traditional or superset
group the design of the protocols was
similar to the short-term Australia
study we noted earlier
both groups train the bench pool along
with either the bench press or bench
throw depending on the session
the traditional group performed all
bench pool sets first then moved on to
the bench press or bench throw they
rested four minutes between sets the
superset group supersated The Bench pool
and bench press or throw with two
minutes of rest between the superseded
exercises and four minutes of rest
between the same exercise the exact sets
and Reps used varied throughout the
study but were of course the same for
both groups
overall their traditional group session
lasted around 20 minutes while the
superset group session lasted 10 minutes
after eight weeks bench press and
benchpool one rep max strength gains
were not statistically different between
both groups
the percentages do seem to favor the
superset group for the bench pool but
this difference may be due to random
chance as it was not statistically
significant
nonetheless this study did not have
subjects perform antagonist supersets
with minimal rest between the two
exercises rather two minutes of rest was
used between the two exercises we
already established this does not
increase performance so similar strength
gains are probably expected
at the least this study shows antagonist
supersets can save time without
compromising strength gains
muscle gains were not assessed in this
study but a 2022 study out of Japan
looked at both muscle and strength gains
23 untrained individuals were assigned
to a traditional or superset group
both groups trained resistance banded
biceps curse and overhead extensions
three times per week for eight weeks a
traditional group performed three sets
of Curves and then three sets of
overhead extensions with one minute of
rest between sets a superset group
superseted the two exercises with
minimal rest between them for a total of
three supersets and one minute of rest
between supersets both groups performed
every set with reps to failure biceps
and triceps growth measured by a
cross-sectional area did not
statistically differ between groups yet
percentages favor the traditional group
but this might again be due to random
chance
triceps and biceps isometric strength
gains did not statistically differ
between both groups either yet the
percentages favor the traditional group
for bicep strength but again this may be
due to random chance
so overall this study does not actually
look promising for antagonist supersets
what's going on
despite the superset Group performing
the two exercises back to back they did
not see increased volume performance
versus the traditional group
the resistance bands may have something
to do with it they were light and
subjects ultimately achieved 30 to 60
repetitions with the resistance banded
exercises
recall all the studies finding increased
performance with antagonistic supercess
or stretching used free weights or
machines with much heavier loads around
10 rep max or heavier loads it's
possible that antagonistic co-activation
is greater with heavier loads versus
light resistance bands so the reduction
of antagonistic co-activation with
supersets or stretching may only benefit
heavier load with free weights or
machines
but this is me speculating and this
speculation also assumes the
antagonistic co-activation hypothesis is
correct
due to these reasons I don't believe
this study is strong evidence against
the effectiveness of antagonist
supersets
evidently more quality future research
is needed
[Music]
in summary solid literature indicates
antagonist supersets or stretching
improves performance
antagonist supersets also save time
more quality research is needed to
determine if long-term muscle and
strength gains are enhanced with
antagonist supersets or stretching
for the time being I think it's very
likely at the very least they do not
compromise gains
ultimately if it interests you I
recommend experimenting with antagonist
supersets or stretching it's possible
you could notice the increased
performance and maybe greater long-term
adaptations if you've made it this far I
have a free ebook you might like it's
the ultimate guide to bench pressing for
strength and or hypertrophy with over
100 scientific references whether you
train for strength and or hypertrophy we
discuss technical factors like grip
width and bar path training factors rep
ranges volume and frequency comparisons
between the bench press and other
similar exercises and other fascinating
signs conducted on the bench press
access the ebook via the link in the
description or comments
[Music]
thank you