you're going to lift your right arm your
left leg your left arm and your right
leg yes minimal range of motion not at a
deep stretch causes the least possible
muscle growth after not moving at all
and Contracting which they did earlier
just going back and forth and tapping
your shoulders nothing in this requires
concentric or Ecentric resistance and
the entire load is isometric unless
lifting your own wrist is difficult for
you and thus it is a profound poor use
of your time if you did body weight
lunges body wait squats push-ups some
kind of row you for this same amount of
time would get so much more value out of
your workouts as a matter of fact we
have a whole video series on how to do
dumbbell only workouts at home which
beats this thing into the fucking ground
I'm not even bragging our video might
not even be that good but the bar for
beating Fe sh is so fucking low give
that a Google if you're interested love
of God