[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike here for Renaissance
period ization hypertrophy made simple
video number 6 if you want more details
on our website hypertrophy guide central
hub or go to order the rest of our
YouTube which has tons of long-form
super informative videos in a very short
brief amount of time how many sets
should you do when you train let's
answer those questions right now so
first how many sets per muscle group per
session so when you come in to hit your
chest how many sets should you be doing
for example so here's the thing really
it's enough to trigger muscle growth and
not so much that you're doing too much
and causing a ton of damage that
interferes with a growth number one the
target muscle should be at least a
little bit pumped and disrupted
something should have happened to it to
disturb it at the end of each session so
for beginners that means as few as one
to five sets per session as totally good
can accomplish that task for
intermediates more like two to ten sets
precession is usually a good amount of
training that stimulates optimal
hypertrophy for advanced the bottom end
is higher 3 sets minimum in most cases
and up to as many as 12 sets per session
is a really good target for hypertrophy
so if you're training chest for example
12 sets of chest and maximally if you're
advanced is probably a good idea it's a
minimum three and everything between
these usually super super good with the
optimum with average being somewhere
between those two values usually towards
the middle now that's if this is sort of
broad strokes of minimum to maximum how
do we know when it's too much well even
you can't recover strength and to your
baseline from the next session for
example if you have chest Monday and
chest Thursday if you did so much on
Monday that your Thursday workout really
sucks you did too much you need to do
fewer sets secondly another way to tell
is overlapping soreness if you train
chest Monday and Thursday and you did so
much Monday that you're still sore in
your chest painfully disruptively to
your workout and you're still sore on
Thursday for your chest workout that's
no way no you've got a next Monday
probably either keep the same number of
sets don't go up or even reduce a little
bit so that's how you know you're doing
too much the best approach usually is
starting at the very low end
a number procession of sets that gets
you to feel like okay yeah I feel that
decent pomp decent bit of disruption a
little bit of soreness perfect and then
if your body's getting used to that the
disruption doesn't feel quite as a big
the pumps are getting a little stale do
you can add sets slowly one to two sets
every week if your body is recovering on
timing you have no or lapping soreness
slowly increase your number of sets
towards the end of that increase you're
going to be getting the too much you're
gonna get overlapping soreness your
performance it's gonna start to fall
then it's time to back away on the sets
give your body a break for a week or two
or three lower volume training and then
start threading back in to higher and
higher volumes that's per muscle per
session
what about total per session like when
you walk in and you have to do chest and
back and legs what's the total number of
sets that you should be doing per
session well here's the deal if you
accumulate enough systemic fatigue
that's fatigue that effects all of the
muscles and the rest of the body - and
it's contributed by every single muscle
you won't be able to muster the effort
to push the target muscle close to
failure right so if you're stopping a
set just because your overall tired
versus the local muscle is super super
messed up and close to its own failure
point that is no longer efficient
training for example if you do like ten
sets of chest
ten sets of back ten sets of legs and
you do biceps after all of that you may
be stopping on biceps because you're
just like oh like I just can't do this
anymore
versus like your muscle your actual
bicep is feeling like it's being trained
super hard and it's the limiting factor
when you can no longer have the muscle
as a limiting factor no good that's too
many sets so how many are we really
talking about here well here's the deal
usually between 15 and 25 cents per
session is a good range of total sets
for an actual day of training actual
session of training that's between all
the muscle groups like legs plus black
plus chest or whatever you're training
in that session if you're strong and
it's really big muscles that really
disrupt you it's probably like you know
quads and back or something like that
it's probably more like 15 is the top
end of the limit there if you're smaller
and perhaps not as strong if you're
training your smaller weaker muscles
like you know side delts and calves and
biceps they don't release aesthetically
beat you up that man it's more like you
can do 25 or even more sets per session
and even the
later sets are super productive anything
under 10 total sets procession G in most
circumstances that means you can
actually just do fewer sessions than
you're doing like if you're doing six
sessions a week in each one's like eight
sets you know who you probably just do
four sessions a week and do like twelve
sets or something and do the same amount
of volume and save yourself a lot of
time in the gym still getting excellent
results on the other hand if you're
consistently doing more than 30 sets
total working sets for all the muscles
that you're training per session you
know you're probably better off least
giving some thought to splitting up that
load into multiple sessions because
towards the end
anything over 2025 though especially
over 30 sets per session those sets at
the end are so crappy they're so junky
in their volume yeah your training but
you're barely stimulating it's just like
going through the motions you're not
getting a lot out of it it's best to
split it for sessions at that point
folks thanks for tuning in see you next
time for the next video