welcome back today we're reacting to
Alexander bromley's take on exercise
science and why it's killing your
games now as a sports scientist Dr Milo
wolf I would like to react to this video
because I think I'm someone who has some
experience actually conducting research
and I have read plenty of studies and
therefore I should be able to provide
some useful and insightful responses to
some of the critiques that Alexander
Bromley is making I haven't watched this
video before I'll be reacting to it
completely unprompted all I've heard is
that it contains some hot takes
regarding Sports Science and I wanted to
react to it so let's dig into it
applying physics chemistry engineering
to the real world requires certainty if
you have the incorrect model it gets you
exposed quickly and in a big way it's a
company failing to invent the next
billion dollar tech product or faulty
architecture costing this is very
dramatic so these Sciences only Thrive
when everyone is stress testing these
ideas applying skepticism and
double-checking each other's work with
the utmost Precision but it's important
to note all academic disciplines are not
created equal the further you are from
the fundamental pieces of reality the
more complexity you have to contend with
and the more mudded I mean he's not
wrong so far but I think that it would
be remiss to compare a an applied
physiological science like sports
science to something like theoretical
physics social sciences don't have a
method for tracking the efficacy of
their mod mod they don't tend to reward
skepticism and they base many of their
assumptions on weak evidence or outdated
models like the blank slate Theory now
these acem dep oh man [ __ ] on
sociology psychology and like is not a
good look uh it just betrays that you
have a certain bias usually a pro
quantitative bias you have people who do
many isolation movements over many
repeating sets and you have those that
do barbell only work you have those
indeed there are a variety of approaches
and all of them are reason ably
effective they may only be different by
a few percentage points and thus in
practice because there are many more
important factors you're not necessarily
going to see that person X following X
approach is getting more jacked and
person y following y approach because
their approach isn't really even what's
dictating the results as much as
nutrition or sleep or stress or genetics
or P
use now the scientific literature has
settled on a few staple recommendations
that seem to hold all of these different
tribes under its umbrella hell yeah
that's this is correct I mean for
hypertrophy anyways I'm assuming this is
for hypertrophy but uh not three no no
not three reps that's likely outside of
the maxim effective rep range Continuum
for hypertrophy and 30 is likely on the
lower end as well in fact we have a
study about Brad shenfeld comparing
seven sets of three to three sets of 10
and seven sets of three resulted in the
same hypertrophy except they spent about
three times the time in the gym so on a
set per set basis doing a set of three
is not nearly as effective as doing set
inste of 10 otherwise you would see like
2 and a half times as much hypertrophy
so clearly three reps isn't enough to
maximize hypertrophy as evidenced within
the study number two the importance of
effort five is often repeated as the
magic amount of reps in reserve the
basic idea is that if you are within
five sets of momentary muscular failure
the conditions for hypertrophy seem to
be better than if you are outside of it
and that coincides with fair enough I
mean you will probably see more
hypertrophy as go closer to failure but
five reps in reserve will still give you
a training effect as often as the point
before the effectiveness drops off with
a caveat that rest periods are
sufficiently long enough and this also
fits a wide variety of trading
approaches as some of the bodybuilders
who do many sets in a workout like Jay
Cutler often use very short rest periods
and didn't rest very long number four
dose relationship of volume per week now
this is one of the most widely cided
bits of information in exercise science
as there have been a shout up renfeld
for this meth
analysis tending to result in more
growth doesn't actually mean anything
here either on average it does or it
doesn't these are all very big ranges
like certainly a big chunk of trainees
are doing something between three and 30
reps with high effort between 10 and 20
sets per week they don't all just see
permanent growth without stopping they
no one ever claimed it was going to give
you permanent growth that's a common
misconception it's like yeah you might
find a better training approach through
science but it's not claiming to give
you infinite gains no one ever made that
claim hopefully inability research to
answer these questions conclusively is
really just the tip of the iceberg it
turns out that there are a lot more
problems than just overly vague they're
not overly vague it just means that a
variety of approaches are reasonably
similarly effective science studies
often struggle to find a sample of
people who are representative of the
typical trainee many studies use
untrained subjects were notoriously
sensitive to any growth stimulus for
someone who has never lifted weights
cardio actually that is true and on the
other hand there is a massive Darth of
accom lifters represented in
research that is true as well if I said
to you f I have this great study shout
up shonfeld what a beautiful
man this is true as well this is part of
the reason why it's so difficult to get
Advanced trainees in your studies the
guy who is currently out of shape who
used to bench 315 back in the day but
can barely do 10 push-ups right now you
will slingshot closer to those old
numbers with just
about and whatever group you were in is
going to look good as a result now all
groups in a study tend to have high and
low performers represent so I'm not sure
what his point here is is his point that
the people signing up for studies all
see artificially High results because
they're usually coming from a layoff if
so that's very very untrue I think a lot
of participants as he mentioned earlier
are just beginners or relatively
untrained people and sure there are
going to be cases where the results that
you find in less trained people do not
generalize to more trained
populations however there are a lot of
reasons why researchers use untrained
participants one they're a lot easier to
recruit as he mentions in the video
getting untrained participants who don't
have an attachment to training a certain
way or to optimizing their results is a
lot easier than getting someone who's
been training for 10 years and wants to
add a tiny bit of muscle for their next
competitive season in bodybuilding so
you can get more people that way and
guess what if you get more people in a
bigger sample that allows you to have
more power in your analyses or
essentially be able to determine with
greater accuracy how big an effect is
for example of using length and partials
versus a four- range of motion by having
more people in your study by recruiting
untrained participants who are more
willing to take part we're able to have
greater Precision in our estimate of how
big the effect really is reason number
two because these participants are
untrained you usually see higher effect
sizes or essentially you see changes or
effects more readily which again allows
you to have a greater Precision or power
in your analysis finally and much to the
dismay of our whole niche of very very
Advanced trainees I'm sure most of the
people watching this video have been
training for 2 or 3 years at
least most people who are in the gym
haven't been training for that long a
lot of people lift for like a year and
then stop lifting I know that's not me
that's probably not you but a lot of
people are that way and so when it comes
to actually producing results that will
apply to most people in the gym seeking
to get results studying people who've
been training for 6 months or 12 months
or what have you is going to be a lot
more relevant to most people than
studying people whove been Lifting for
10 years and plus again add on to that
that those people aren't going to be
willing to participate in research in
the first place the conclusions that get
summarized as this protocol was better
than that are simply an average of the
people in the study I'll give the same
program we working averages before we go
on I just want to clarify that when a
research group typically claims that
this intervention for example link
partials was better than this
intervention for example for range
motion they don't claim this merely on
account of differences in the average
gain between groups they also claim this
on account of how much of a difference
was there between participants in their
improvements in each group for example
if in a length and partials group on
average there was a 10% increase in
muscle size but there were people who
lost half their muscle size and people
who quadrupled their muscle size so
there's a huge spread of responses
versus in the 4ange EM motion group
responses were more homogeneous or more
consistently same between participants
that also plays into whether or not one
group was significantly better than the
other in terms of statistical
significance variance or how much of a
difference there is between participants
in the responses does get Incorporated
so it's unfair or uncharitable to say
that we only look at averages because
when we claim this intervention was
better than this one we do also take
into account variants or different
responses to a given intervention okay
okay so individual predictions are hard
to do so let's say we're going to foro
those predictions for individuals and
lower our standards to just finding what
tends to be best for a population of
diverse individuals just interject
assuming that there is a huge amount of
individual response to give an
intervention needs to actually be
analyzed first with any biological
phenomenon pretty much there is going to
be some variance some people are going
to respond differently than others right
some people might see a better training
effect or a worse training effect
however whether or not a specific
intervention results in more variants
than others is the topic of ongoing
scientific study and there has been a
call for specific analyses to be
performed to look at whether or not
there truly is individual response when
it comes to specific intervention so I
wouldn't just say you know oh why are we
deal in averages when there's clearly
hugely individual responses for a lot of
phenomena lifting can actually reduce
the amount of variance that you see in
for example muscle growth so just
because you put 100 people who are
sedentary and you make them lift weights
most of those people will actually get
closer in terms of how their muscle mass
changes over time it's kind of an
equalizer rather than something that
people have a huge individual response
to what I fear is going to happen here
what Alex bromy is going to say and this
has happened in the past in for example
medicine is that well exercise science
only deals in averages not in the
individual responses and therefore when
it comes to your training you dear
viewer of the wolf coaching YouTube
channel it doesn't really informing as
to what you should do and so it's
useless the truth is in all likelihood
just by virtue of the nature of averages
you are going to be close to the average
responder if you're completely different
from the population being studied and
the circumstances being studied yeah
you're probably not going to be the
average however for a lot of people
you're not that different from the
average person taking part in the study
unless you've been training for 20 years
and you're looking at a study where
people have been training for 6 months
however even when there is a substantial
difference between how long you've been
training for or your circumstances and
the circumstances within the study just
be aware that if you're going to
disregard the study make sure you have a
sufficiently compelling rationale to do
so yes there are going to be differences
between someone who's more advanced and
less Advanced however a lot of the same
fundamental principles do still apply we
actually need in each study to have
confidence in our conclusions a power
analysis hey he's actually touching on
power analysis for this according to
James creger in his volume Bible I would
need approximately 100 subjects per
group to declare a 5% versus 10% gain in
muscle size as statistically significant
80% of the time true most individual
studies in sport Science are underp
there's simply not enough participants
in each group to be able to accurately
and consistently detect effects that
might be there or not be there right and
so one thing that's happening is
metanalyses are being used to group
studies together and have more
confidence about the effect we're
estimating with that being said if you
ever wonder oh why did this one study
not use a power analysis or why did they
refer to for example constraint based
sample size justification that's
probably because in most sport science
studies funding isn't something you just
come by funding is usually something
that is sparse that you provide yourself
or you have no funding in the case of my
PhD for example for some studies I
didn't have any funding and so it was
basically just me working out of my own
free will I guess and it was essentially
limited by how much time could I spend
in the lab with participants doing
research in a lot of sports science
studies that's exactly what's happening
you only have a select number of members
of research team that can actually
contribute you only have so much funding
and so it's not really a matter of let's
get as many participants in as we can
because we have all this funding that we
can use to get a good amount of power
and to be able to accurately detect
effects it's more of a case of okay well
we have this much time we have this many
people let's try and get as many people
as we feasibly can and then make
cautious inferences and extrapolations
based on this one study because in this
one study you didn't have 300 people you
might have had 30 to 50 if you're lucky
and so that's where metanalyses come in
by grouping together multiple studies on
the same topic with limited sample sizes
in each you're able to have a much
larger sample size and therefore a much
more accurate estimate of the effect
that you're observing there wasn't data
to evaluate results based on training
status whether they were trained or
untrained subjects it didn't take into
account weekly volume just what was done
in a single session and only counted
sets per I feel like out the flaws of a
specific paper rather than of exercise
science um there are plenty of met
analyses that do subgroup analyses by
training status or do moderator analyses
looking at weekly volume as a continuous
variable so he's really just citing
limitations of one paper volume and it's
been often cited ever since there's a
more recent metanalysis on the topic so
I'm not sure why he's referring to this
one there's a metanalysis by Bas Balan
colleagues but again it seems like he's
just pointing out potential small flaws
of papers rather than concerned with ex
science as a whole have the density of
data 10s to well here we go another ad I
even purchased YouTube premium to make
these videos you know after you so
successfully funded my YouTube premium I
now able to watch these videos during
reactions without interruption so thank
you for your
support the conclusions from these
studies are often evaluated as if the
observe difference is a new rule that
can just be plugged into any system to
guarantee a better result that was never
claim context behind every observed
difference in a study take for example
this Nipper video tackling the question
of training to failure he includes this
study by carol which shows less
hypertrophy coming from the group that
trained a failure and includes it into
his columns to make a global decision
about failure being good or bad for size
except this study was using athletes in
the context of specific athletic
training not specific hyperv training so
we have a big issue here Alex bronley is
essentially making the claim that
because he circumstances don't perfectly
reflect what we're doing in practice
that the findings do not generalize
whatsoever or don't apply whatsoever and
this is kind of an example of what i'
call colloquially black and white
thinking or dichotomous thinking where
either the circumstances the program in
the study the people being studied Etc
are perfectly relevant to what you're
doing and therefore you consider the
results or they're not perfectly
relevant and therefore you're like yep
St doesn't matter it's ultimately going
to continue
from being highly relevant in the
population of Interest with a training
program that's similar to what you do in
practice measuring things that you
actually care about to a study in
animals looking at outcomes you don't
care about and on a time scale that you
don't care about either so it's all a
Continuum of How likely is it to
generalize to you and I think this black
and white thinking all it really does
here is Foster an understanding of ah
science is useless for our purposes when
in reality even this study here like
doing compound Lifting for athletic
performance isn't actually that
dissimilar from doing hypoy training yes
the rep range might be different yes you
might be trading closer for different
failure but by and large you're
performing resistance training if there
was a big effect of training the failure
on adaptations you would also see it in
this study is it the most relevant study
ever no but is it still to be considered
within answering the question of how
does failure impact things during
lifting absolutely it ends up in a
simplified chart where failure it's a
thumbs up or a thumbs down as if the
noise created by different contexts
don't wash away all the meaningful
conclusions you could make we have a
problem with how popular noise
absolutely plays a role but nevertheless
that doesn't mean you throw away a study
just because there's some noise in it
there's noise in every measurement of
differences while shenfeld kerger Helms
and others can pull double duty telling
people the limitations of these shout
out to shenfeld shout out Helms shout
out
ker oh God
now this is where shade is going to be
thrown Greg Knuckles put it more diplom
the W
paper a criticism that I do have of not
great resarch researchers in our field
um is relatively poor statistical
literacy uh the the Maier folks like the
one who did the study finding that 85%
of exercise science papers had
statistical errors in them which ly
McDonald called directly [ __ ] show the
relli McDonald is not really an
authority on anything hypertrophy
related I'm
sorry the low volume weight training and
beginners needed like 37 to 45 sets to
grow uh it's it's garbage dat quick
guide to Alex or ly whoever else just
wants to throw out a study don't like
the results just collect garbage data
and move on and disregard that study for
the rest of all time it's very good
especially when you have other studies
broadly finding the same thing it very
much make sense to just disregard
studies because they don't align with
your bias neatly now there's an obvious
disparity in rigor with exercise science
compared to other there really isn't
most other Arenas have similar issues if
you think Sport Science is unique try
reading some of the psychology data try
reading some of the data in most other
fields you'll see that most other fields
also have methodological concerns that
doesn't mean we throw them out all
together that doesn't mean that these
individuals aren't smart but it speaks
to the global standards held in the
field now I'm sorry if that's har but
there's a ton of cloudiness in the
research yet people still get to their
first 400 lb deadlift and Mr Olympia
winners still weigh 280 lb on stage
nobody who is conducting yet another
study comparing cess to failure or not
with halfs serious college kids actually
believes that anything Paradigm shifting
is going to come out of it come on dude
like sports science was never about
being Paradigm shifting or it's very
rarely is most studies are just about
Shifting the estimate we have of a given
effect a little a little bit closer to
what reality is so we have a little bit
more of an accurate estimate of for
example now how much more growth failure
seems to give you or how much more
fatiguing failure seems to be these
sorts of effects have to be estimated
and measured somehow each additional
study provides us with a bit more
accuracy regarding what the effect truly
is and in certain areas like range of
motion there are only relatively few
studies so while it's not Paradigm
shifting and no one is claiming it is
and by the way very few papers are
Paradigm sh sh in in general this is the
case in physics this is the case in
every science you want to site most
papers just have a small effect right on
the overall consensus within the field
Sport Science was never meant to be just
Paradigm shifting and to claim that oh
well it's supposed to be Paradigm
shifting but studies aren't really doing
all that much that's probably because
your interpretation of studies isn't
that good if it were you would first up
realize that none of these studies would
be Paradigm shifting anyways a consensus
is built up paper by paper study after
study that is a limitation of sport
Science that each study doesn't have a
huge sample size and not a huge amount
of power but that's why you look at
multiple studies broadly showing the
same thing and guess what most of the
effects as you've mentioned earlier in
the video that we study just aren't that
big the effects of say doing 15 versus
20 sets a week on a hypertrophy probably
not that big and that's why we need
studies with decent sample sizes to be
able to measure them and that's why even
people with a variety of approaches in
the trenches in the gym are still
getting results in spite of not
following the science or having
seemingly a wide disparity in their
approaches now that takes us to the more
Insidious problem in this field and
that's fraud many okay there's been a
few studies of
barbalo yeah barbalo is one of like two
instances of fraud that I can think of
within Sports Science if you're dealing
with hundreds and thousands of authors
and you can only think of two
instances fraud isn't a rampant issue
and certainly not a reason to disregard
Sport Science alog together there are
also accusations of outright fake
numbers where compound movements like
squats are done to momentary muscular
failure I did that pretty
much it does work you can do it once
again allow McDonald no one can squat
five sets of 8 to 12 to failure right it
was listed as a rep max load on 90
seconds it cannot be done so it's been
uh about a week and I'm still wai out
you hear me I got a th000 bucks too so
you know shout out L McDonald thank you
for the money one video no edits prove
me wrong thousand bugs these protocols
can't be done thing broadly speaking
they can pretty much all be done however
if you're reading these papers and you
notice that they say participants did
sets of 8 to 12 rep Maxes with 90
seconds rest that generally nowadays
it's being specified a lot more for
example in this recent study by nson
colleagues that I actually did a session
from you can check that out here but
nowadays it's being specified more but
back in the day they wouldn't specify
that between set sets you would drop the
load in order to actually make the sets
feasible obviously if you just did a set
to failure you're not going to be able
to do the same set again in 90 seconds
if you've read research before broadly
speaking this isn't news to you this is
something that kind of everyone just
knows except for people who are not
really in the field like potentially L
McDonald or Alex Bromley in this case
for instance the discussion of training
effort gets watered down that's not true
failure or not to failure but there's a
lot of real estate in there that matters
he has a point in some older metanalyses
we treat a lot of variables as if
they're binary right like we're either
talking about high volume or low volume
and low volume for example might mean
below 10 sets and high volume for
example above 10 sets or we might talk
about failure AKA actually hitting
failure or non-f failure anything that
is not failure three Ops Reserve six Ops
Reserve
everything that is a limitation of older
metanalyses and from looks of things
that's all Bromley really ever looked at
right like the shown f metanalysis
kind of categorized volumes as opposed
to treating it as a continuous variable
where you're not saying well there's
certain categories that volume falls
into that were defining it's more of a
numerical number right like how does
hypertrophy change when we go from 5 to
10 sets from 10 to 15 from 15 to 20 and
kind of just viewing it as a number
rather than something they need to
categorize into low medium and high and
more recent met analyses like for
example the most recent met analysis on
training to failure by Robinson and
colleagues did exactly this my range of
motion metanalysis also looked at
variables not dichotomously wherever
possible but rather as a continuous
variable so just keep in mind that he's
mentioning some limitations here but
they're almost entirely applicable to
only very old studies and presumably
only the ones that he's actually read so
again only older studies your back is
particularly weak getting close to
failure on a squat is not going to have
the same effect on your quads as a leg
extension and let's forget the music's
very sort of positive all of a sudden
there's a spectrum with effort that is
important to Define hit followers go
well beyond the point of failure and
most volume-based bodybuilders still
actually reach momentary indeed and the
most recent paper on failure by Robinson
colleagues looked at pretty much exactly
all this finally there is stopping short
of failure at some r or reps in reserve
any coach who works with the average
population will tell you that there is a
oh man no it does not oh
man the paper that's most relevant to
the topic is one of been involved with I
was a co-author on this paper it
actually looked at every study that's
previously tried to look at how accurate
are people at gauging RP or reps in
reserve long story short people are off
by less than one rep in their estimate
of how many more reps they could have
done on a given set so people are
actually quite accurate above 12 reps or
so people start become less accurate but
on average we're talking about being off
by less than one rep so claiming now
that coaches know in practice you know
people are wildly inaccurate I don't
don't think that's necessarily true
there might be a difference between how
accurate people are in Lab conditions
when they have people looking at them
and they have to be honest about their
RP but ultimately I think that most
people are accurate enough the big thing
here is I wouldn't site this paper I
would site the actually most relevant
paper because the most relevant paper is
actually looking at how accurate are
people at gauging reps and Reserve
versus just what load do people on
average do a set with similar studies
with RP show he's portraying a consensus
here that simply isn't true as I just
mentioned the some topic says the
opposite any accuracy of effort in any
research that is supposed to compare
word so answer we don't first of all
people are generally reasonably accurate
at least within the context of these
studies right like the studies that we
have looking at how accurate people are
are done in a lab the studies that he's
referring to now in exercise science
where people are supposedly not accurate
that's the same condition so they are
going to be pretty accurate and here's
the real mind [ __ ] just because you
think you're going to failure and you
actually fail a rep doesn't mean you
truly failed and in fact no one
observing you from the outside could
ever really truly tell how close to
failure you were even if you fa a rep
how do you not know that you just kind
of gave it a halfast effort you didn't
really give it your all there's a good
chance that you didn't right especially
if your aim is to go to failure a lot of
people might just slow down their
contraction speed as a means to make the
set end earlier so while Alex is saying
here well all of these studies should
have people train to failure because
that's the only way we know that they're
actually training hard and to failure
the truth is even when participants fail
or even when Alex fails in the gym or
even when I fail in the gym we just
don't truly know whether he hit failure
we just don't know so first off
participants are accurate enough at
repone Reserve or rpe that it doesn't
usually matter whether we have them
trained to failure or not generally we
do have them trained to failure just
because it increases the stimulus from
every given set all right so if we just
want to see is there a difference
between for example 4 in of motion and
length and partials making them train to
failure just means you see larger
effects but more importantly even if you
think you go to failure there's no way
of knowing if you actually went to
failure we have to accept that we can't
speak certainty speak something
scientists don't understanding the
tradeoff between incurring a ton of
fatigue to get that last failure rep
versus staying a reper too short of
failure and maintaining quality over
multiple sets actually seems like it
would be a productive area of
Investigation for the field of exercise
science oh well exercise been something
that science has looked at in we've
looked at the effects of going closer to
failure and what effect it has on
hypertrophy on a given set we also have
a few studies now looking at the effects
of going closer to failure and how that
impacts fatigue at least an unacclimated
subjects one area of research I agree
there is more need for research in is
looking at is failure still fatiguing
once you've actually gotten used to it
AKA if you've been training to failure
for 12 weeks as opposed to it being your
first time does it still produce more
fatigue compared to safekeeping one rep
in the tank my hun is it does but the
effect on fatigue diminishes with time
as you get exposed to it more often and
more often as the repeated bout effect
kicks up given how much of a difference
can occur with changes in exercise
selection in order Alex Bromley makes
these assumptions that I don't know
where he pulls them from I think because
this whole video is kind of like a
bashing on exercise science and a lot of
its flaws which a lot of the flaws are
genuine I don't disagree with that but
I'm not sure where he gets his
information from them because science is
ultimately still our best way to get it
answers and to essentially measure
reality for example he claims that
exercise order has a large effect on
hypertrophy the most recent meth
analysis on the topic and we have quite
a few studies on the topic doesn't
suggest there is an effect of exercise
order on hypertrophy my most published
research is false so
recently have attempted to quantify the
problem by replicating some prominent
past results the reproducibility project
a very important project but found only
36% had a statistically significant
result the second time around and the
strength of measured relationships were
on a half those of the original studies
an attempted verification of 53 studies
considered landmarks in the basic
science ofc for what it's worth it
generally seems that sports science is a
bit more methodologically rigorous than
psychology it's still not perfect by any
means but it is a little bit better
would be Mass coordination to get the
best data but the real Stakes it turns
out are just not getting published in
this veritasium video shout out verit
research is wrong Derek Mueller explains
how the selection of studies increases
the chances of incorrect conclusions
being published and how replication
studies are actively disincentivized
this is
true precognition is a classic example
of research methods not being very
legitimate in the past well surprise
surprise the hit rate they obtained was
not significantly different from chance
when they tried to publish their
findings in the same Journal as the
original paper they were rejected the
reason the journal refuses to publish
replication studies there's been a big
shift in this recently by the way
replication studies are now encouraged
by quite a few journals and though they
may not get published as easily as
significant findings generally
insignificant findings are becoming a
lot more easy to publish and replication
studies are being encouraged all other
sports recognize that the human organism
acts like an entire plenty of other
sports have extremely poor practices
so actually sh when I think about some
of the boxing or football practices on
increases ability directly affected by
how much fatigue you've accumulated and
why some sight gains from going from a
volume approach to an intensity approach
but when you have a lifter that's been
training with a ton of volume for a long
time and you pull that volume back let
him recover a little bit from not you
know doing these crazy you know the
Arnold typ rtin all realiz the adapt so
there absolutely is an amount of volume
that is too much for a given lifter
where they actually see worse strength
gains and worse muscle growth however
with strength specifically what tends to
happen a lot what Alex actually pointed
out correctly here is that when you're
trading with high volumes you also
generate a lot of fatigue and so in the
short term while you're training hard
with high volumes you may not see your
strength gains right away but then when
you pull back to lower volumes you're
suddenly training with much lower
fatigue and thus your strength is able
to be expressed and you see potentially
some of the gains they actually accured
from when you were trading with higher
volumes so if you're overtraining or
training with more volume rather than
you should cuz overtraining is a
separate thing entirely but if you're
training with more volume than you can
recover from and benefit from yeah do
less but that doesn't mean that a more
intense approach is inherently and
categorically better than a higher
volume approach and ultimately what is
high volume is individual this
hypertrophy model can't say anything
about complex training splits where a
day of work isn't supposed to be
singularly responsible for a fixed this
is fair enough right a lot of studies do
not use a trading program that is
similar to what people would do in
practice however when we look at the
effect of periodization on hypertrophy
for example in the most recent metth
analysis it just doesn't seem to play a
large role so to assume that
periodization would somehow change all
the things that we know reasonably well
like higher volumes up to a certain
point seem to lead to more growth taking
a given set closer to failure also seems
to lead to more growth to say that
periodization would somehow invalidate
all of these broad findings that we've
seen across multiple studies not in one
low power study but in multiple
consistent studies is just to say
nonsense that's me
in reality the question of what
percentage of your gains a certain
amount of volume can give doesn't make
any sense without considering the person
absolutely you know if you're going from
an hour in the gym a week to 10 hours in
the gym a week but you're only getting
double with growth maybe that's no some
people diminish returns and then be
outpaced by the accumulation of fatigue
which will lead to plateau and
regression not to be that guy again but
I'm going to cite some more research the
concept of overtraining and I I think
I've made a video about this before if I
haven't I'll make one in the future the
concept of over training is thrown
around a lot but at least in the
research it doesn't get observed that
easily there's not really many studies
out there that have seen overtraining
and overtraining being defined as a
consistent prolonged decrease in
performance lasting months as a result
of training too much so while it can
absolutely happen and probably happens
more in practice than in research I
don't think it's something you need to
be overly concerned about for most
people who have a 95 job and who can
only train for say five 10 hours of week
anyways do you call that volume optimal
because it grew you in the beginning or
do you call it suboptimal oh man you
stop responding to it's not either
answer that's silly it's the question
which only allows for silly answers so
that's a whole take because the most
recent review paper we have looking at
how does your previous volume impact
your growth with different volumes
afterwards so for example if you start
at 10 sets how does your growth change
going from 10 sets to say 15 staying at
10 or going at to five the evidence we
have around that as summarized in a
review paper by Hammerton colleagues
doesn't seem to suggest there's a huge
effect of how much volume you were
training with previously and your sort
of future progress so just because
you've been trading with high volumes it
doesn't mean you're not going to see
good gains in the future that's a
fallacy and I think it's just something
that people who don't like training with
high volumes will just say because
they're like okay yeah you get get a bit
more gains more fast but then in the
long term you end up at the same place I
think that's the feest and probably
inaccurate given the evidence the idea
of volume cycling as perhaps being worth
considering which suggests that volume
may not be absolute it may be I don't
think it is as much as L Norton is
brilliant I think there are some
theoretical benefits to POS I don't
think there is probably I think it
probably just has to do with average
volume move suggesting that there isn't
just a fixed range of training that
people should discover and then adhere
to Forever really going out on a LM on
that one this
is on the one hand Alex is like oh
scientists nothing Paradigm shifting and
they overemphasize the importance of
results when in reality it's plagued
with all these methodological issues and
yet when scientists actually use Nuance
in their claims as he just cded now he
then proceeds to make fun of them a bit
of a double standard de corle to
substantial long-term muscle growth is
progression it's absolutely King it's
the thing that drives your training
forward week to week and the sign that
your training is doing what it's
supposed to so progression technically
isn't the thing that drives your
programm we to weak it's in fact what
happens as a result of good programming
you don't progress and that is what's
driving your program week to week it's
more so you're doing good training and
therefore you grow a bit of muscle you
get a bit stronger and you're able to
progress week to week it's the other way
around essentially when stagnation
occurs which it does for everyone
continued progression needs to be
addressed and you do that by adding
stress implementing a different stress
or allowing more recovery for increasing
stress concentrated periods of high
amounts of work that might be
unsustainable longterm might also be
needed to cause growth in the short term
when you've become resistant to that
stimulus this is Lee Haney and Arnold
Schwarzenegger talking about their
hardest training being the 12 weeks
leading into the Olympia because that's
when that training was most important
and they couldn't sustain that work year
round it's John Meadow talking about how
we did short specialization phases to
increase work for weak points while
keeping everything else at maintenance
two door bmpa writing about
periodization for bodybuilders and
serious strength training Mike isrel
using terminology like mesocycles and D
Loess to talk about hypertrophy training
and in the process actually addressing
the need for fatigue management and
deliberate inclusion of Novel stimulus
it seems to me that Alex is a lot more
into the idea of speculating based on
not too much evidence than on actually
relying on the evidence directly the
evidence we have the scientific evidence
we have tells us a few things for
example it tells us that doing more
volume to a certain point is probably
better for growth at least in a
relatively small time frame likewise
taking a SE closer to failure leads to
more growth potentially doing some
length and partials leads to more growth
than doing a full range of motion it
tells us a few things Alex seems to be
more into the idea of using a few small
studies to make broad inferences about
long-term periodization I'm not opposed
to periodization but it's just worth
addressing that the evidence on the
topic doesn't really support its huge
role in progress I think fundamentally
Alex Bramley comes at it from a very
different epistemic perspective where he
doesn't really regard science as being
the best way to arrive at the answer or
at the very least the iteration of sport
Science that we currently have which is
fine it just means that I don't think we
would see eye to eye on most
topics the short answer is to throw
optimal out the [ __ ] window we can
hypothesize that a thing called optimal
exists but the resolution given in the
research doesn't come close to finding
that for you or telling you how
to oh
man colleting data points all over your
body giving real-time data to a
supercomputer that Aggregates it against
every other lifter in the world might be
able to tell you something specific
about what you should do next claiming
that science isn't going to bring you
any closer to an optimal approach versus
a non-optimal approach I think is the
feest ultimately I think science is a
much better tool to get us closer to
Optimal than is just looking around you
at a number of anecdotes and seeing what
seems to connect them all is there a
number of anecdotes that seem to align
in some way like they're all doing the
same thing and they're all getting
better results the issue there is you
have even less control than you do
within Studies by controlling for some
factors like nutrition like sometimes
even performing within subject designs
where they're training one leg with a
4ange motion and one leg with a partial
range of motion we're able to have much
greater accuracy of does one thing
actually work better than another if
you're dealing with the same person or
if genetics are equated for on average
that sort of
stuff he spell temperament very cool
around that's right if you toone in
theirs
or teen which isn't hard all them
amateur to Elite have gone through long
periods of no progress punctuated by
short periods of quick progress that
means that statistically anyone
blocked was more likely to have done
nothing at all than actually
better most people gradually grow slowly
and slowly as they get more it's not
this random you progress all they don't
progress unless you start takings for
example is the difference between or
between now and your next training block
so with respect to what you do in the
gym between this week and next your
optimal path is not best out of the
field of all possibilities optimal is
just nothing and it turns out that there
are a lot of ways to get the body to do
something and absolutely none of it to
do with the number of PubMed articles
that you've read oh man so that's all I
got for today guys I know many of you
might be disillusioned to hear my severe
take on the state of exercise science
I'm not particularly disillusioned I
have to say I think that Alex Bromley
ultimately
is overly skeptical of science I think
that he's throwing out Sports Science
altogether because of some of his
limitations some of which he understands
correctly and some of which he doesn't
I'm going to give this video a solid
three or four out of 10 because some of
the concerns raised are genuine right
like small sample sizes within a study
are genuine the generalizability of a
given study to your own circumstances
can be questionable depending on the
study but ultimately a lot of these
issues don't mean even if you take them
all together in their totality that
doesn't mean that you just throw out
Sport Science alog together Sport
Science Still Remains our best tool to
arrive at the truth to measure does this
thing have an effect or not because if
all you're relying on is real world
examples you will have too much noise to
be able to tell anything guys that's the
video If you enjoyed the video please
like comment subscribe and I'll see you
guys my subscribers in that next one
peace
no