welcome back Dr mil wolf here today with
wolf coaching reacting to someone I've
collabed with before if you're not
familiar with Jeff nippard he's got a
great channel from what I've seen and
we've collabed on a video on the use of
long length or lengthened partials you
can check that out right here however
I'd like to react today to a video I
haven't seen yet let me break it down
from a sports science perspective in
this video I'm ranking 19 controversial
Fitness topics as either overrated or
underrated and for some extra scientific
credibility this time I'm pulling in
exercise scientist Dr Mike isrel who not
only has a PHD in sport physiology but
as a competitive bodybuilder himself I'm
giving us 15 seconds each to explain why
we think each item is overrated or
underrated and we'll be covering three
categories training nutrition and hot
fitness topics here we go the first
category is training cheat reps also
known as ego lifting go first it is a
journey without an end or a purpose when
you think it through cheat reps or
stupid almost all counts you end up
having a higher probability of injury a
lower probability of stimulating the
target muscle and a very difficult time
tracking I I agree that they're
overrated I think for the most part
people should use good technique I would
argue that on certain exercises for
example bicep curls if doing a little
bit of cheating and slight momentum
allows you to get another rep and then
you control the Ecentric that might be
an extra controlled Ecentric that you
wouldn't have gotten if you hadn't used
that little bit of momentum so I think
that they can have some value but I
would still say overall mostly overrated
I largely with both Dr mik and Jeff
nippard cheating is overrated I would
note that I'm not sure there's a huge
effect on injury risk especially if
you're accustomed to it at least there
is an absence of evidence to support
that claim not evidence of absence but
certainly absence of evidence I think a
better alternative to doing cheat reps
to get an extra few exposures for
example to the a stretch position in a
row would be to just skip the shortened
position altogether right if you wanted
to handle more weight and get more
exposures to that stimulating lengthen
position you could simp simply just not
do the top half and avoid the fatigue
that comes with cheating your row
instead muscle soreness I think it can
be a good proxy that you did actually
hit the target muscle it can be an
indication that the muscle you were
trying to hit was in fact stimulated um
but I think a lot of people are under
the impression that if you didn't get
sore that means you didn't have a good
workout or you didn't grow muscle which
is definitely not true and in that sense
I would say it's overrated I think it's
become fashionable lately in the
evidence-based Community to say that
soreness is overrated or more
specifically that s doesn't really mean
anything and soreness is only a side
effect of novelty I think that fails on
about seven or eight logical grounds
when you do more volume more intensity
proper progression when you come closer
to failure when you generate a lot of
metabolites when you focus on the
Ecentric when you train along muscle
lengths all of those things tend to
cause more soreness and to me that
sounds like a very very close link
positively to hypertrophy it's okay if
you're not getting sore but if you're
not progressing and you feel like you're
under stimulating trying to get sore is
probably a good idea and if you're
getting sore you have 99 problems but
stimulus is not one M okay I disagree
with Mike I've actually spoken about
this with him personally before I don't
think soreness is going to cause growth
I think the evidence currently isn't in
that state yet and I think that the
argument that other things correlate
with soreness and also with growth and
therefore soreness is something you
should be paying close attention to in
training it's also a relatively weak
argument to me I would rather we have
relatively more direct evidence on the
topic before we make these claims
training each muscle only once a week
also known as a bro split there are
better ways to train than training one
muscle group once a week ESP especially
if you're talking about small muscle
groups like if you train your rear ads
once a week or your biceps once a week
there's absolutely no way they take that
long to recover you just missed
opportunity uh and legs or something or
if you have a huge back back is fine
once a week but it's also not optimal I
think you should train muscles when they
recover that generally occurs anywhere
between every day or two times a week
yeah I agree a little bit of Devil's
Advocate the latest frequency research
does show that a bro split is a viable
approach but I would say it's probably
not the optimal approach don't spend 2
hours per workout 5 days in the gym to
do a perfectly fine approach no one in
here in the gym right now wants
perfectly fine they want jacked it's the
same number of days a week you show up
and not do a bro split you get better
results I actually agree with both Mike
and Jeff here I think bro splits are a
viable approach in that they give you
some hypertrophy but they're not the
optimal approach and if you look the
research overall broadly speaking
frequencies of at least two times a week
are going to be better for hypertrophy
than once in all likelihood and so bro
splits are overrated for hypertrophy
then again I don't think that many
people are rating them that highly
anymore anyways what about training to
failure so I think think overrated I
think that the research shows that
there's not a huge difference in terms
of hypertrophy or strength if you go all
the way to failure or if you stop a
couple reps shy I think people think
going to failure is super super
important and I think that you have to
know what failure feels like but I do
think overall it's overrated and not as
important as a lot of bodybuilders think
agreed and I would add that most of the
people that are saying that failure is
super important coming from an
egotistical perspective in which they
need to emotionally drain themselves in
the gym and it's more cathartic and
psychological and less to do with what
gets optimal results nice okay so so I'm
here editing this video now and I kind
of want to update my answer just a
little bit I still kind of think that
training to failure is slightly
overrated however there's a brand new
meta analysis that did find that on
average training to failure was better
for muscle growth than not training to
failure that doesn't mean that every set
you do needs to be taken to failure but
I would say it's important if you don't
take any sets to failure I would say you
are leaving gains on the table if I had
to update my answer training to failure
is properly rated to slightly overrated
but I'm going to give Mike a quick call
and see if he wants to give an update
hey Mike in our last video you said you
thought training to failure was
overrated I'm just wondering if you'd
want to update that yes training to
failure is even more overrated probably
more overrated than ever because of that
recent meta regression that came out
that said that trained a failure was
Superior for hypertrophy but it turns
out that's only the case if you train
with very low volumes you're not trying
very hard you're smaller you're weaker
and you don't train very often if you
train a lot and you're really serious
and you're really trying in that very
study they say trained to failure has no
Advantage because most people didn't
read the study almost no one read the
study I guess then it's more overrated
than ever thank you so so much I really
appreciate it so I actually read the
study and I don't think Mike's
conclusions here are perfectly
representative what the paper says in
fact if you want a good representation
of what the paper actually says I would
recommend checking this podcast out
somewhere over here where Mike speaks to
the authors of the paper long story
short taking a set closer to failure is
going to be better for growth however
the magnitude of the effect the exact
shape of that effect Etc are still
somewhat less understood equally it's
unclear how exactly this translates into
a real program that you're for example
doing where you're doing 5 days a week
in the gym 2 hours a week versus in lab
conditions where often they're training
a lot less with lower volumes and so
forth so while some caution should be
had I think to say that it's wildly
overrated and that no one read the paper
it's incorrect I do think on a broader
level though the fact that they're
calling training to failure overrated is
probably correct I think within the
evidence-based Fitness space it's
underrated a lot of people just haven't
seen the new evidence but within the
broader Fitness bace most people think
you need to train to fil to see
hypertrophy and that's not true so it is
overrated in that sense okay the mind to
muscle connection you go first I think
that people who prefer to talk about
mind muscle connection sometimes are
right in a nuanced way but often are
doing a mind muscle connection at the
expense of good technique and uh a lot
of load and the right movements and
especially progression so as long as
your Technique is good you have
progression then mind muscle connection
becomes important but it's very much
equater or tertiary variable I
completely agree I think it's one of
those things that matters and is
generally good but I think people
overstate how much it actually matters
you can get a good mind muscle
connection and not necessarily have a
sufficiently stimulative set if you
didn't push that set her I agree and in
fact I think the research on my muscle
connection is still in its infancy and I
have a whole video on that over here but
I don't think M mus connection is
something you need to focus on to see
your best hypertrophy and in fact for
the most part I think that focusing on
an explosive concentric getting
sufficiently close to failure getting an
adequate range of motion an adequate
stretch Etc is going to be more
important than focusing on muscle
connection and in fact I think sometimes
focusing on the muscle connection can
throttle your overall effort for that
set how do you feel about pumps okay I'm
going to say properly rated I think
pumps are fun and they make training
more enjoyable they probably have some
connection to hypertrophy and I think
people think that pumps are good and fun
and they are so yeah properly rated sure
I just mean underrated is I think pumps
are great and in the evidence-based
space I think pump pumps are underrated
whether or not you got a really good
pump is a good gauge of if the target
muscle was hit if it's the right place
that they're getting pumped and also a
good gauge of volume I disagree with
Mike's take on pumps here I think the
evidence on pumps as a means to tell
whether or not your training is
effective or whether a certain exercise
is more effective it's just not there
and in fact the evidence is quite mixed
so I wouldn't use pumps as a means to
guide your training substantially the
only case where I would use a pump to
guide your training is if you have a
reasonable protocol doing a good number
of sets good number of reps relatively
close to failure and an exercise you
think is good but you're getting zero
pump that might be something to look at
but outside of that very extreme
circumstance I don't think pump is
something you should pay attention to
the next category is nutrition let's
start with dirty bulking I think dirty
bulking can be fun it can lead to
strength gain but overall it leads to
vastly disproportionately more fat gain
than it does muscle gain and for that
reason I think it's overrated I mean I
have the stretch marks and loose skin to
prove it so I used to do it I thought it
was great it was a lot of fun it caused
a lot of irreversible side effects
and I wish I would have stayed leaner
and it sure sh would have gotten me laid
more often in college yep I agree with
both of them as far as dirty walkling
goes the research suggests that you can
make solid gains in just maintenance for
example you can make better gains in a
bulk but the size of the Surplus
probably doesn't need to be tremendous
and in fact I think if you're gaining
half a percent of body weight to maybe a
percent of body weight a month on
average you're likely getting the vast
majority maybe 95 plus% of your
hypertrophy while minimizing fat gain
whereas dirty bulking is just going to
curtail your bulking phase because you
have have to cut because you just gain
too much body fat and so it often
curtails your bulk phases and makes them
less effective as a result 1 gr of
protein per pound of body weight oh I'm
going to do the Jeff Nipper it's just a
little bit more than enough protein than
you need for almost all cases and
because it's just a little bit more than
enough if you eat a relatively balanced
diet it obviates the need to pay high
attention to protein quality and it's a
really easy number to remember and if
you live in the great nation of the
United States of America then you do
pounds
godamn but grams for food still okay
I'll say L rated as well I like 1 G per
pound with the caveat that it is
actually more than you need in almost
all instances when cutting I would say 1
G per pound is a good rule when bulking
you probably only need like 0.7 or 0.8 G
per pound yep I agree and I think 1 G
per pound is overkill don't get me wrong
cuz that's 0.6 G per kilogram higher
than you probably need but equally it's
just easy to remember so if you just
want a general heuristic that gets you
maximum hypertrophy even at the expense
of overc consuming protein and by that I
mean the literal overe expense because
you're spending more money than you
would otherwise need to then feel free
to follow it I think it's appropriately
rated to slightly overrated because it
is more protein than you benefit from
what about body recomposition also known
as recomping I think recomping is
underrated because most people in the
general population can very reasonably
expect to build muscle while losing fat
at the same time even though a lot of
people in Fitness culture tend to say oh
you need to cut and bulk I don't think
that's actually true for most people I
think those are great and valid points
I'm coming at slightly different
perspective just because you can do
something and it is effective doesn't
mean there's not a better way to do it
almost all goals that you could achieve
with recomping you could do better with
dedicated cutting and bulking if you
want to be Jack jacked or lean lean then
recomping will only take you so far and
after it runs its course which is
probably in about a year of dedicated
recomping you'll get almost all of it
that you will after that you're going to
have to pull some bigger trigger I think
the research on actual bulking and how
biger Surplus should be and I have a
whole video on that P doesn't suggest
that there's as much of an effect on
your hypertrophy as Mike suggests it
there is an effect but that is achieved
with a pretty small Sur plus to
potentially no Surplus so the effect of
going from maintenance into a surplus is
very marginal and so I think it's pretty
much appropriately rated to slightly
underrated so in this case I actually
agree more so with Jeff diet breaks I'm
going to say underrated there really
shouldn't be any like major rush to get
lean I think in general people try to
rush fat loss too much and they'd be
better off just like chilling out a
little bit taking the foot off the gas
every once in a while allowing your
training to improve allowing your
muscles to fill back up people could
take a week or two of and and just put
their calories up to maintenance or even
slightly above and it would actually
benefit them in the long run I think
people like to lose all the weight they
need to lose all at the same time and
generally when it's more than 10% of
your body weight and even that's a high
figure you're going to have to take a
long multi-month diet break for all of
the diet fatigue to settle before you go
on so I think lose you know 5 to 8% of
your body weight take two or three
months of Maintenance and then try again
I agree with diet breaks but the truth
is that they don't make that big of an
impact a recent metanalysis on the topic
I'll put it up on screen somewhere has
shown a slight benefit to diet breaks as
it relates to maintaining your energy
expenditure or essentially keeping your
basal metabolic rate a little bit higher
but that is a pretty small benefit for a
lot of people whether you prefer diet
brakes or not is kind of down to you
whether you implement them or not it's
mostly personal preference and how it
fits or whether it fits into your
lifestyle I think the effect is quite
small but there is one and I think diet
Breaks by and large have a good amount
of proponents in their favor already so
I think it's a bit overrated if anything
about clean
eating H controversy I think it's
overrated because for one it's really
really hard to Define everybody has a
different definition of what eating
clean means if you take it to the
extreme you can get some really
disordered eating behaviors ultimately
it can become so clean that there's
nothing left on the menu I think it's
better to focus on an inclusive approach
to diet so you want to include a variety
of different foods for health you want
to include a bunch of different fruits
and vegetables and I don't think really
think any foods should be like strictly
off the menu I think everything you said
is valid but I would say that clean
eating is relatively easy to define it
is the absence of intentionally High
palatability processed junk food and I
think that taking those Foods mostly out
of your diet especially as a fat loss
phase gets hard can be really hugely
advantageous but in most other
circumstances Mass gaining maintenance
and even the beginning of a diet some
fun foods are awesome and a great part
of life okay I would agree with that on
a fat loss phase you should try to
reduce the super palatable highly
processed foods that Mak sense I agree
more so with Jeff here in terms of you
shouldn't have foods that are off your
diet plan entirely unless you have a
valid reason for it to be that case the
focus should more so be on establishing
Health promoting habits like for example
having your five a day maybe even 10 a
day and generally having a pretty
satiety promoting diet having your
protein Etc but the inclusion of some
additional snack foods are usually not
going to make or break your diet and in
fact there is research suggesting that
by adopting a clean eating approach
versus a flexible dieting approach that
will usually result in a lower
micronutrient diversity within your diet
thus potentially leading to worse Health
outcomes the third category is hot
fitness topics oh jeez I thought these
were all hot how do you feel about Natty
or not videos all right I'll take this
one from the Creator standpoint I think
they're overrated because I believe in
innocent and all proven guilty and if
you're just speculating on someone's
natural status on scant evidence then
you could be hurting their reputation
from the viewer standpoint I don't think
they actually give you any value apart
from just the fun of the drama I guess
because the idea is that oh if they're
not Natty then it's not realistic for me
to look like them but you can't really
look like anyone else anyway gen
differences right so I think that from
both the Creator standpoint and the
viewer standpoint super overrated yeah
the only thing I'll say is I think true
Natty or not journalistic approach where
someone who has made a real commitment
to being drug-free and is lying about it
I think that's awesome exposing those
frauds is a great thing but Nat not
videos are like when you've done zero
research you're just yelling at the
camera and pretending you know things
that you don't about anyone and by the
way for context I'm not Natty just in
case anyone wanted to say anything I
agree with both je and M if you ever see
me making an add off video just assume
I've been taken over by reptilian just a
very good lookalike what do you think
about the idea that Natty training is
completely different from enhanced
training who wrote these all right go
ahead yeah it's just like a fiction
designed by two people one natties that
need an excuse for why they're not
getting jacked and two drug addicted
idiots that think that they don't have
to read science papers I would say
enhanced people can probably recover
better um is that not true either very
nuanced topic it's absolutely true but
if you're enhanced that means you're
more jacked and as soon as you become
more jacked that enhanced recovery
difference goes away because you're more
jacked you're stronger you're bigger and
it's way harder to recover so it just
ends up leveling the playing field and
you get so big that you have trouble
recovering even though you're enhanced
so for all intents and purposes like
training principles are training
principles yes okay I agree that the
training principles for Natty training
versus enhanced training likely remain
the same and full disclosure enhanced
training not my expertise Natty King
right here but I do think that generally
people on steroids will have greater
recovery and generally people who are on
steroids will have been training for
longer as well and that then predisposes
them to have more of the repeated bout
effect in place which also allows them
to train more and still recover so I
just think we need to try cautiously
myself included when it comes to saying
that they should be different or they
shouldn't be different we just don't
fully know cold showers uh research
vetted way to reduce hypertrophy if you
think that they offer you an effect of
that sort of shock therapy waking you up
and being a a a sympathetic driver for
part of your day because sympathetic
parasympathetic balance is really good
then you don't train hard enough GO
train yeah I think overrated I feel like
it's just a lot of hype with very very
little evidence except for reduce
hypertrophy yeah reduce hypertrophy it
does it does seem to definitely do that
all right while I have made a video on
Ice baths before you can check that out
here suggesting that ice baths do in
fact blunt hypertrophy there's a huge
caveat here and a reason why I don't
agreee with Dr mik the studies that have
found worse hypertrophy from cold water
Emer for example an ice bath are usually
one performed right after training and
two usually you're immersing yourself in
cold water for at least 10 minutes most
of the cold shower protocols I've seen
are either not immediately after
training and or last 30 seconds a minute
maybe and so I think to suggest that the
effect from coold Chows and Ice baths
are the same that's a stretch would I
recommend Co Chows to someone looking to
optimize hypertrophy no but do I think
they're going to kill your gains or
substantially reduce hypertrophy very
unlikely all right locking out the knees
is
dangerous go ahead there's neither
evidence nor rationale for that and your
knees are designed to lock out and if
you control the lock out gently and you
don't snap into it like a psycho and
turn your muscles off at the end and
you're not one of the people with some
sort of laxity disorder you're going to
be just fine and you need strong knees
again I think it goes back to people
approaching training with a very fragile
mindset they think if they just move in
slightly the wrong way then everything's
going to break and it's going to be the
end of them it's not true I agree with
Mike that there's no evidence that
locking up out the knees is going to
cause injury again it's an absence of
evidence and I agree with Jeff that this
Frailty mindset of training is going to
cause you injury you're going to get
snapped up your body can't adapt or
can't cope the stressors is also wrong
but I do disagree with Mike when he says
that the knees are designed to lock out
and therefore less likely to get injured
when you're locking out as much as
Mike's reasoning is typically solid in
this case it is kind of a naturalistic
fallacy wherein it's like you know
nature or God designed you to lock out
your knees and therefore it isn't going
to cause injuries there are many
activities and behavior that we as
humans did for millions of years that
would still then lead to early death or
injury or illness that doesn't mean that
they're not going to cause injury just
because you were designed to do it
filming in
gyms think
I'm that was my reaction to Jeff nippard
and Dr Mike Isel I guess on this video
breaking down some of their takes on
training Science Nutrition science and
so forth I would give Jeff like a seven
or eight out of 10 and Mike like a 6 or
7 out of 10 in this case oddly enough
like usually I prefer Dr Mike isel's
takes over Jeff Nipper's takes but in
this video I actually found myself
agreeing more with Jeff versus Mike
iSell if you enjoyed the video please
consider commenting liking subscribing
there's anyone else you want to see me
react to from an exercise science
perspective leave a comment down below
and I'll get to it and in the meantime
have a great week and I'll speak to you
soon peace