okay so it is 5:39 starting this vlog
here so I'm preparing my third meal of
the day
just some lean ground beef fried up with
some rice it's a half a packet of
prepackaged rights roughly 200 calories
and I'm going to mix that together in
Tripoli Bowl with romaine lettuce and
what's left of this kale mix and then
add sour cream and salsa reign supreme
I've been doing this so guys this is
what the finished product looks like
it's a pretty decent sized Bowl so I'm
going to eat that and then I'm going to
get ready for the podcast I'm about to
record I'm so I'm about to do an episode
with while McDonald six and a half hours
late and go finished up a two and a half
hour interview with Wilde McDonald I
think it went really really well had a
bit of a sporadic day so that's one of
the benefits of intuitive eating is that
if you happen to fall behind a little
bit you can sort of catch up a little
bit as far as as fat loss goes and not
even notice it whereas when you're
tracking you'd have to more or less
stuff your face at the end of the night
just to hit your macros that is I think
one of the main advantages so today my
caloric intake is probably lower than on
other days just because I was super busy
and my mind was occupied and everything
so I just didn't eat as much so tomorrow
is a leg day and I'll keep you guys
posted with some training clips from
that tomorrow
okay everyone so I'm back with the
following days leg session so this was
actually my first leg workout back after
my D load so I actually ended up taking
almost two full weeks off it was more
something like 10 or 12 days without
squatting so on the couple of leg days
that I did in that period I just like
pressed with some fairly low loads
fairly low RPE so this is my first
workout back and as you guys would have
just seen that warm-up set with 315 was
moving really fast the weights were
feeling really good I didn't really feel
out of my groove at all with squatting
because you know what after so many
years of training the skill really
becomes something that's ingrained you
know it's like riding a bike you don't
really forget how to do it so taking a
couple weeks or even a couple of months
off of training every once in a while
it's probably not the worst idea in the
world and I was basically right back to
it here so 365 was my first working set
and I actually did an a sending pyramid
on this day so I started with 365 that
moved pretty quickly for a set of 5 so I
added 20 pounds went up to 385 and did
that for another set of 5 and this isn't
a set structure that I typically use I
typically just do straight sets for the
most part at a given percentage of my
one rep max however on this day what I
was just getting back into the squats I
wasn't exactly sure where my strength
levels would be at so I used the a
sending pyramid just for me to kind of
gauge how it is my strength was doing on
that day and based subsequent sets off
of how the previous sets felt and I
actually think that this is a method
that I might continue to employ a few
other coaches that I've talked to seem
to have had some success with this so
basically what you would do is set a low
end a percent 1rm prescription for that
day and then based on how that feel
you can have increases according to you
know how about how the weight feels
basically so on this day I went up to
405 you guys will see here that I am
using the low bar position this is
something that I've started doing again
uh one just because I'm stronger with
this position I would say about five to
seven percent stronger here than with
high bar and also I just feel like I'm
able to feel it in my glutes a little
bit more even though the EMG research
doesn't show a whole lot of a difference
between high bar squats and low bar
squats overall in terms of glute
activation I personally do definitely
feel a difference and I think that that
stands for something so what's up next
guys is a couple sets of rdls I
apologize for the poor footage I didn't
realize until after the filming was done
that I had the camera setting on
aperture priority which is basically
used for stuff that's moving at really
slow speeds so the footage looks really
choppy and kind of weird but I'll talk
you guys through it anyway so here's a
set with 275 the main two things you
want to keep in mind with rdls
are to set your hips back and keep the
bar path straight up and down just like
a conventional deadlift over the the
middle of the foot and keep a slight
arch in your lower back and don't keep
your knees locked but at the same time
don't allow the knees to flex too too
much so you want to be able to feel a
stretch in the hamstrings at the bottom
of the movement and I tend to go with
Bret Contreras as recommendation of
ending the range of motion of the
eccentric at just below the knee people
who have pretty
flexible hamstrings or people like me
who have super short femurs you might
want to go a little bit lower than that
but for the most part probably no lower
than to mid shin hwal so after that it
was on to a knee flexion based hamstring
movement so to hit the hamstrings I
think most effectively you should be
including both a hip extension based
movement like a Romanian dead lift and a
knee flexion based movement so like a
leg curl in this case we were doing
kneeling leg curls and one of the things
I want to draw you guys attention to is
the cheating that I just did there as a
weight got too heavy so I actually
slowed it down in slow motion for you
guys you'll see what I do this is super
common my hips just pop up and what this
allows me to do is it basically causes
my like triceps and chest muscles to
just push the weight up so I actually
lift my hips up off of the machine and
this just sort of like jerks the weight
up and takes my hamstring more or less
out of it and this is just your body's
way of basically making the movement
easier for you so that you can complete
it and I don't think that this is a good
thing so you will see that after this
set I did drop the weight back and one
of the things I've really been focusing
on with my hamstrings is keeping my legs
and hips pinned to the machine so in
this case it's the kneeling leg curl the
same thing would apply on the lying leg
curl and really forcing the hamstring to
do the work instead of you know any of
the other muscles like the glutes or in
the case of the kneeling curl like the
triceps and chest so then it was on two
leg extensions for these I would say the
best tip that I would have would be to
keep your butt planted so you see me
grabbing on to the side of the seat
there basically what I'm doing here is
pulling my butt down because your butt
tends to rise here which reduces the
range of motion at the knee so you don't
have
- you don't have quite as much knee
flexion at the bottom because your butt
is kind of popped up so obviously that
would be not the smartest way to train
the quads so try to keep your butt down
as far as toe position goes I generally
just make the recommendation to point
them in a direction that feels most
comfortable to you there is some
research to indicate that pointing the
toes slightly in which I think you can
see me doing there will hit the outer
sweep so the vastus lateralis a little
bit more but I don't think it's
significant enough to do it if it feels
uncomfortable to you so as a matter of
toes just point them where you feel the
quads working the most or what feels
most comfortable so then we finish off
with some cable pull through 'z so this
is sort of like one of the the metabolic
stress components of my glute training
so I find that I really can feel a good
quote-unquote burn in the glutes with
this movement and so I like to hit it in
the higher rep ranges I'll go as high as
20 to 25 reps on these and I think it's
important to really get a full range of
motion so you want to flex at the hips
until your back is more or less parallel
with the floor and then come up and
squeeze the glutes hard at the top one
of the things that I kind of catch
myself doing or I see other people doing
with this movement is they allow the
handles of the rope to rest on their
quads and this completely takes the
tensions off tension off of the glutes
at the top when they're firing the
hardest so you really want to kind of
keep keep the handles away from your
quads because if they're resting there
and like I said there's no tension
anymore so what I do to do this is I
sort of do activate my shoulders a
little bit and keep the Rope sort of out
in front of me as I do the pull through
and then I squeeze the glutes hard at
the top okay guys so that's going to
conclude this commentary and I hope that
you enjoy the rest of the vlog
here getting some clothes workout
but anything is there any other yeah you
can use 10% off okay well just get the
large and easily so go so sweet
you
and the kid
really really like stomach without
appealing to me I'd rather a more formal
okay guys that's going to conclude this
vlog thank you so much for watching
though I will see you now