hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization fitness myth fitness myths
fitness myths series number seven
extra protein
it has to be better
yes that is a myth we'll talk about the
claim reasoning of why it's wrong grains
of truth and best practices as always
so here's kind of the nature of the
claim two claims in here really
one claim is that eating a gram per
pound of protein per day is good
1.25 grams per pound is better 1.5 grams
per pound is better still and if you're
super hardcore
iron warrior is going to square but the
algorithm doesn't like to do that early
um two grams per pound brother two and a
half i meant three you eating four grams
per pound yet i'm at nine grams per
pound bro i'd like to see someone try
that
now myth part number two uh is that
natty's
they do a gram per pound because they're
pathetic and small but if you're
enhanced you're in the iron legion and
more is better
more protein for enhanced you earned a
brother you earned it with that stick of
the needle so here is why this is wrong
and it's a couple points first
nearly all data on naturals
illustrates that a gram per pound of
protein is usually overkill in almost
every case okay growth tops out at just
below a gram per pound per day so there
are people who are very smart who make a
serious critique even at the gram per
pound number being too high
okay
so and if you look at the data yeah
they're probably right now in some
extreme cases pre-contest
last three weeks for naturals 1.25 grams
per pound can show marginal benefits but
most people are not in that extreme case
by a long shot so if you're not in that
extreme case it really is difficult to
figure out why you're eating more
protein than that
now here's one anti-hunger effects
can be a thing protein is demonstrate
anti-hunger effects i sometimes on fat
loss diets eat a little bit more protein
than a gram per pound for those effects
but
those top out at pretty close to the
same level sure as hell isn't 2 grams
per pound it's maybe 1.25 to 1.5 at most
adding more protein than that doesn't
really do a whole lot of anti-hunger
stuff
and if you eat more like fibrous green
veggies that has a huge anti-hunger
effect for the same calories way more
than eating extra protein hat tipped to
metal henselmans for that uh really
awesome insight and if you don't follow
meadow on every possible social media
you should he's brilliant and one of my
very good friends and also he is like
from the netherlands so he kind of talks
like this which i think is great is
amazing and i butchered the euro accent
just for you meadow
lastly
gear anabolic steroids of various kinds
and other performance enhancing
substances
they increase feed efficiency which
means that for the same amount of
protein more of it goes to the muscle to
grow which if you're keeping track of
this at home that actually might mean
you need less protein with gear right
so with normal levels of protein same as
you were taking in as a natty you should
be growing just fine with gear right now
maybe you can benefit from a little bit
more protein as an enhanced person but
really the big cap on that usually isn't
protein it's calories so you keep your
protein the same up your carbs like
crazy keep your fats normal and that's
really how to eat on gear versus off so
the whole more protein for gear people
maybe there's some research that's going
to come up eventually that says oh yeah
actually if you do way more protein on
gear it works and on theory and on
practical observation it seems to not
make any damn sense at all
now what are some grains of truth
because this isn't all wrong it's just
mostly wrong as with almost every myth
there is a chance that some gear
protocols can benefit from 1.25 to 1.5
grams of protein per pound per day but
two grams which a lot of bodybuilders
eat like they weigh 200 pounds eat 400
grams of protein legit people do that um
man it strains the imagination as to why
and how that would be optimal especially
knowing that you're decreasing carbs and
fats to do that carbs or fats are
anabolic as fuck specifically carbs
especially above a certain range and
especially if protein's already met and
it is
right
uh next individual variations some folks
may actually benefit from more protein
than those some may be able to get away
with less so as an individual you
benefit from more i'm not going to you
know get in your way and maybe eating
more protein is actually a good thing
for you
and
if
you want to cover your bases
that's totally cool so if you don't have
to reduce fats to below optimum and if
you don't have to mess with your carbs
you have plenty of calories if you want
to up the protein a little bit like 1.25
grams per pound per day just to make
sure you're getting enough so you don't
have to worry about protein quality and
adjustability or the idea that you may
be an outlier and you need more protein
1.25 grams of protein per pound per day
is almost certainly going to cover you
in damn near every case so it's cool to
cover your bases and that makes some
sense so you know i'll have every now
and again on my social media i'll post
my diet and someone's like you're eating
more than a gram of protein per pound
per day idiot how dare you it's nothing
magical happens if you eat more than
that and if you want to cover your bases
it's totally cool the opposite of magic
happens when you eat like 1.5 1.75 2
grams per pound per day and then it's
the real question is what are you
trading off for that and the answer is
tons of fats and tons of carbs which at
that level of nutrient intake may
actually be more beneficial to increase
than protein right
so what are the best practices here what
is the take-home message
you eat around a gram of protein per
pound per day in almost every case by
the way if you're vegan a vegetarian you
need less probably one and a half times
as much
it covers your bases gram per pound uh i
wouldn't recommend getting slime eating
less every now and again someone's like
hey like can i eat 0.7 and still grow
and i'm like
really and the protein's expensive and
i'm like man you know if you're that
financially constrained
having a serious hobby of being a
bodybuilder and spending a ton of time
on social media talking to people that
just seems like an interesting use of
your times if you're really uh that
financially constrained which i have
been many times you
work on increasing your career getting
to a place where you can make more money
so then you can finally bodybuild
properly awesome awful awful valley
judgment take that for what it is and
yeah yeah you can probably can grow on
0.85 just fine but especially if you're
not financially constrained uh
eat a gram per pound and you won't have
to worry about making sure your your
that your base is uncovered you at least
aren't going to be spending a ton of
time training and recovering and
sleeping and not getting gains or
getting crappy gains and wondering man
is it really the protein because like if
you're eating underground per pound yeah
there's a very decent chance that it is
you don't want to have to worry about
that and that marginal increase in the
amount of protein is usually so cheap
it's not worth worrying about now
if you are
over 20 fat can you scale that to lean
body mass a gram per pound per day of
body mass instead of that doing lean
body mass so if you're like 300 pounds
and only really you know 180 of that is
muscle do you have to eat 300 grams of
protein per day the answer is probably
not uh you can absolutely eat 180 grams
of protein per day and probably have all
your bases covered for an anti-hunger
fact though i would probably go
somewhere between those two values so
300 and 180 maybe 230 240 grams of
protein is probably a good thing the
rest fat and carbs so that's my personal
advice there
lastly
try eating 1.5 grams of protein per
pound per day if you really think you
may be able to benefit former protein if
you have this suspicion for a six-month
period do this and check to see how your
results are if your results are notably
better drop to 1.25 grams per pound and
see if you can replicate those notable
results
if those results are no different than
usual at 1.5 or 1.25 you pick whichever
one is best but if neither of them seem
better than a gram go back to a gram per
pound and save your money and the
integrity of your anus
folks see you next time
you