the push-up a basic movement but one
that can grow a lot of muscle if you do
it properly here's how to do the perfect
push-up welcome back Dr my wolf here
with wolf coaching teaching you how to
take your push-up game from 0o to 100
and also taking your grandpa sweater
game to the next level double XL Grandpa
sweater Eric bugenhagen famously called
me a pencil neck while wearing the
sweater the neck girth looks good in
proportion to the head but the collar is
a bit loose okay so very important
pushing aside the concerns about the
sweater let's get back to push-ups what
makes for good push-up technique well we
identified three factors that make an
exercise technique better for
hypertrophy first having an appropriate
Tempo many people doing push-ups make
the mistake of just dropping to the
ground and busting out as many reps as
they can possibly do this isn't
increasing your hypertrophy and in fact
it's likely decreasing based on all the
studies we were able to find looking at
muscle growth from different tempos a
good repetition lasts for about 2 to 8
seconds and based on some more
speculative evidence you might want to
slow down on the lowering phase a bit
more and be more explosive on the
lifting phase additionally we have
identified the stretch position is
important for hypertrophy so controlling
the lowering phase a bit more as you
reach that bottom position pausing
briefly and then exploding up might be
be beneficial for hypertrophy what I'm
trying to say is don't just do as many
reps as you can possibly do with dog
 Tempo no one's getting laid because
you can do 50 push-ups versus 30 just
use a technique that's going to maximize
your hypertrophy on the other end of the
spectrum if your repetitions take more
than like 8 seconds you're likely
reducing hypertrophy as well so there's
kind of a sweet spot between around 2 to
3 seconds probably to about 8 seconds
where you don't want to be going faster
than that or much slower than that next
we have the momentum generated by On
Target muscle groups or essentially
cheating on a theoretical level getting
the target muscle close to failure is
important as for example we have a met
regression by Robinson colleagues
showing that the closer a set is taken
to failure the more hypertrophy it
causes so whatever Technique we use
should take the target muscle the one
we're trying to grow as close to failure
as possible AKA it should be limiting
factor there's not a ton of ways you can
cheat the push-up but there might be a
couple things you can do to make the
chest more likely to be the limiting
factor if you want to make the chest a
limiting factor flaring your elbows out
a little bit more might be beneficial if
you want to make the triceps on front
else more likely to be the limiting
factor maybe you want to tuck your
elbows a little bit more but ultimately
the push-up is going to Target several
muscle groups pretty well at once it's
going to Target your front dels it's
going to Target your triceps your chest
both your upper and lower chest and it's
also going to Target the serus anterior
which is a muscle that doesn't really
get trained all that well during most
other pressing movements because you're
not moving your scapular around freely
and for what it's worth I think this
muscle is aesthetically a little bit
underrated it's not something I would
consider too deeply in my programming
besides just including stuff like dips
and push-ups in your program but when
you're lean it can look pretty cool the
next component of good technique we
identified in a review paper is range of
motion specifically using the right
range of motion could have a meaningful
impact on your hypertrophy it could
potentially give you 10 to 20% more
hypertrophy and the main thing to look
out for in terms of range of motion is
making sure you include that stretch
position including that stretch position
consistently causes more hypertrophy
than if you just do top half partials
and there's even some newer studies once
again suggesting that lengthen partials
could cause more muscle growth compared
to a 4 in motion so just doing that
bottom stretched half could lead to more
muscle growth compared to doing the full
rep at the very least the stretch is not
something to skimp on so you could
either do lengthen partials or full
range of motion repetitions or you could
even extend the set with partials when
you can't quite get another full rep on
the push-up we have a study looking at
this idea in the calves that's going to
be published soon where essentially we
compared just doing full reps on the
calf raay to doing full reps and then
when they couldn't get another full rep
keeping going doing stretched partials
and in the like doing stretched partials
after full range of motion failure we
observed 50% roughly more hypertrophy so
doing some stretched partials after
failure on push-ups might be a way to
increase hypertrophy as well because we
want to maximize the stretch and the
push-up there are a few things we need
to pay attention to first we want to
adult roughly a shoulder width hand
placement any wider than that and we
typically restrict elbow range of motion
for your triceps quite a bit any
narrower than that and we typically
reduce both elbow range of motion and
Peck range of motion second we'll want
to avoid resting our body on the floor
at the bottom of each rep if we rest on
the ground at the bottom as a means to
take a break or whatever else we're
relieving tension from that stretch
position which is the opposite of what
we want so that would be silly third
some people when they're doing push-ups
s drop their hips quite a bit and then
when they gets to the bottom their hips
touch the ground prematurely ending the
lift before they get deep enough so if
you find that your hips are consistently
the first thing to touch the ground when
doing push-ups consider lifting them up
a little bit so that you can get deeper
and get a deeper stretch and finally
strongly strongly strongly strongly
consider a deficit push-up it'll achieve
two things that are probably important
when it comes to increasing muscle grow
first very obviously by elevating your
hands you're going to be able to get
deeper before you touch the ground
getting a deeper stretch in your chest
triceps and front belts which will
likely increase hypertrophy secondly and
this is less obvious it'll shift the
Dynamics of the movement such that
there's a bit more difficulty at the
bottom the moment arm is largest and
then as you shorten the PEC triceps and
fr adults the moment arm reduces so
essentially it's making the lift a
little bit harder in the stretch
position and a little bit easier in the
shortened position a final tip for
implementing the push-up within your
program besides using a deficit right
technique Etc is to generally have it
sequenced second after some other
pushing exercise most people who've been
training for a while will be strong
enough to bust out 10 20 plus push-ups
and so doing push-ups second after some
other chest movement can allow you to
train them with a more reasonable rep
range there's nothing wrong with higher
rep training but it can just make it a
little bit harder to gauge whether or
not you're as close to failure as you
think you are and specifically compound
movements like the push-up or like
squatting or life deadlifting generally
are more appropriate to lower rep ranges
as you won't be as out of breath and you
won't have as many other stabilizing
supporting muscle groups that could give
out first before your PEC triceps or
front dels do the final component of
good technique that we didn't actually
identify in the review paper but that I
think is important as a coach is the
following preference and Pain Management
if a certain technique feels like more
fun and you do it more consistently as a
result than another consider sticking to
that technique for instance if you
prefer doing slow reps really feeling
your chest stretch out maybe taking 3 or
4 seconds on the Ecentric and you enjoy
that more and it's still taking those
boxes of what makes technique good for
hypertrophy by all means do it similarly
if a technique gives you pain
consistently consider changing it even
if it doesn't maximize hypertrophy pain
is something to pay attention to for
instance if regular push-ups tend to
cause you some wrist pain you could try
using push-up handles anecdotally that's
helped me without further Ado here's how
to use perfect push-up technique for
your chest first grab a couple of
parallel bars some push-up handles or
some plates or some boxes anything that
is stable and sturdy and allows you to
get a deeper stretch position these so
they're around shoulder width keeping
your hips reasonably flexed so you don't
needlessly restrict range of motion
lower yourself to the ground over 2
seconds at least go as deep as you can
all the way down flare your elbows as
much as comfortable if your aim is to
predominantly hypertrophy your chest
pause briefly when you reached that deep
stretch position then push yourself all
the way up exploding out of that bottom
position or about halfway up to around a
90Â° elbow angle for lengthen partials it
can be very tempting on push-ups to go
faster as it means to get more reps or
make the set easier similarly when it
gets difficult some people tend to rest
their body on the ground at the bottom
avoid both these things as they reduce
hypertrophy in all likelihood where and
when you breathe is mostly personal
preference I would probably recommend
breathing out freely during both the
lifting and lowering phase just because
on push-ups you'll be
quite a high number of reps usually and
you don't want to be gassed out before
you reach failure at the muscular level
but you could also try performing a vava
maneuver where you brace push up and
then breathe in freely all the way down
that is the perfect push-up technique to
maximize stretch maximize hypertrophy
make it more likely the chest the
limiting factor and more let's go
through the technique checklist and make
sure we've hit all of those main pillars
of technique according to the science we
have at least a 2C Ecentric an explosive
concentric phase and we're even pausing
at the bottom slowing down lift a little
bit to the bottom to make it more length
and bias next we're emphasizing the
stretch position even more by using a
defit which both allows you to get
deeper and generally makes the bottom
position a little bit more challenging
compared to the top position if you want
to take this a step further you could
even use lengthen partials as far as
limiting momentum and Body English the
main thing to pay attention to will be
flaring your elbows a bit more
potentially to make the chest limiting
factor or tucking them a bit more to
increase the involvement of the triceps
and front belts that's the video broke
down how to per perfect your push-up
technique to maximize muscle growth if
you enjoyed the video please leave a
like comment subscribe if there are any
other exercises you want to see me cover
let me know down below if you're like
all right Dr Milo wolf with your fake
PHD in sport Science I see you I don't
want to be thinking about all this isn't
there something else that can take care
of this for me lucky for you there is
something else and that something is
called myo adapt check out myod app.com
we're releasing a training app we've
been working on for years this training
app will provide you with the perfect
movements for each muscle group and each
rep range to build muscle it will do all
of this for you at a much lower price
point than the average coach my adapt
will be released within the next few
months so if you go to my adapt.com
right now and sign up to be notified
when it does get released you'll be able
to lock in at a lower price than you
would at any other time point in the
meantime if you'd like me to coach you
check out the link above and we can make
that happen thank you for watching have
a phenomenal rest of the day and I'll
see you guys next time peace