the seated light curl is a better
hamstring exercise than the lying light
curl and here's why a study by Maran
colleagues compared the seated light
curl to the lion lcro and measured
hypertrophy of all four heads of the
hamstrings and also the gillus and
sorious muscle in this study they
observed more hypertrophy of the three
biticular hamstrings in the seated leg
curl and more hypertrophy of the sorious
muscle in a lying leg curl why well
Anatomy 101 the three heads of the
hamstrings that grew more are more
stretched out during the seated leg curl
because they're hip extensors so they
were being trained in a more lengthened
position during the seated leg curl
compared to the lying leg curl
conversely the sort torus is a hip
flexor meaning it was being treated at
lower muscle lengths in the lying leg
curl compared to the seating leg curl so
when it comes purely to the hamstrings
the seated leg curl is a better exercise
at least for three heads but including
the lying leg curl in your program is
wise to get any additional sorious
hypertrophy you might want to get and
that's why