I kind of had to really scale back a
couple things I had to scale back my
Jujitsu like the last month like I just
didn't really have the energy to do a
lot of live rolling and I didn't want to
get hurt and so like I try to train year
round to be ready for Murph do you know
what Murph is it's a workout and
Crossfit yeah it's a crossfit workout
you run a mile you run a body weight
vest you run a mile you do 100 pull-ups
200 push-ups 300 body weight squats and
you run a mile yeah so like that's every
Memorial Day so I want to make sure that
I'm in shape for that because last year
like I basically got my butt kick doing
it so I'm you know once a month I'll try
to somehow do something to kind of keep
ready for that I kind of had to back off
things like that like cardio the last um
you know last month because it just just
didn't have it man