[Music]
is overtraining something we need to
worry about how do you know if you're
overtraining because overtraining even
exists
well a search on PubMed gets you 869
results so yeah overtraining is
definitely a real thing and there's a
lot to cover but most of these studies
are on highly elite athletes competing
in track and field sports not
bodybuilders and much less guys just
looking to pack on some mass and a lot
of them are talking about overtraining
syndrome a clinical condition with a
list of symptoms making continued
progress difficult I think true
overtraining is overrated
yeah it definitely exists but I think
that most people who are really worried
about it probably shouldn't be and I
think that people seeking maximum
results would benefit to push just a
little harder but before I get into that
let's lay out a quick definition
overtraining is when there's an
imbalance between training and recovery
that leads to a decrement in performance
that lasts more than two to three weeks
if you've been pushing hard in the gym
and notice yourself feeling a little
more tired sore and irritable it's
possible that you're simply overreached
not over trained the difference is
important overreaching can be thought of
as a shorter less severe version of
overtraining and the key is to notice it
early enough before that two to three
week mark and emphasize recovery so you
can take advantage of a phenomenon known
as super compensation where in response
to the demanding overreaching stimulus
the body adapts more strongly leading to
even better performance and even more
gains so while true overtraining leads
to a long term drop in performance loss
of gains functional overreaching leads
to a short-term drop in performance with
a long-term increase in gains so the
question is how much training can you
get away with without overtraining in
his landmark 2010 review dr. Brad
Schoenfeld states that overtraining is
more a result of excessive volume than
intensity but that doesn't mean that
overdoing intensity is a good idea
either a study from frying colleagues
showed that when we trained men
performed a 1 rep max machine squat 6
days per week for two weeks the one rep
max strength actually dropped by 12% and
recent data has suggested that even
though volume matched 3 sets of 10 and 7
sets of 3 causes the same hypertrophy
the heavier group experienced more fat
so unless you're training specifically
for strength keep loads more moderate
mostly in the 6 to 12 rep range for
maximum muscle gain as a low-end
ballpark for volume
I like Helms's recommendation of 40 to
70 reps per body part done two to three
times per week as you get more advanced
you might need more volume for progress
so you'll have to titrate in more
workload as you assess your own recovery
so how do you assess recovery well there
are a few practical things you can do
the most obvious is a simple for
questions self survey how is your sleep
how are your energy levels or your
muscle and joint aches worse than usual
and finally how is your strength in the
gym if you answer the questions honestly
the answers might reveal an overtrained
or over each state but for some this
will feel too subjective and it's tough
to be honest sometimes so you can use
heart rate variability or HRV as a more
objective measure HRV simply refers to
the time interval between heartbeats
it's used to predict cardiopathy zin
medicine and has recently found
application in sports physiology there
are devices you can buy to actually
measure it but as a rough proxy you can
simply measure average morning heartrate
establish an average heart rate baseline
for a week and track changes from normal
if you see a change of more than 10
percent or so it's a sign you should
reduce your training workload for a week
or two in other words d load d loading
serves two main purposes first it
prevents overuse injuries and second it
resets 't eise's the body to training
again leading to better results over the
long term to D load you can cut training
volume roughly in half and also drop
back the weight by 25 to 50 percent if
you train more intuitively just make a
mental effort to stop a few extra reps
shy of failure and slash your sets for
every exercise in half for a couple
weeks of course a full training break
once in a while isn't a bad idea either
since you can give your connective
tissues a full break without losing any
progress a 2011 study found that a group
that trained continuously for 15 weeks
saw the same muscle gains as a group
that took a three-week break halfway
through granted I think most of this is
applicable to more advanced trainees
having to overreach more regularly to
make progress beginners should be able
to progress more linearly without really
needing to overreach or do you owed and
overtraining certainly isn't the only
cause of a stall just not varying your
program can lead to
stunted progress due to monotony and
sometimes you just need to push yourself
a little bit harder to see the results
you're looking for in addition to
changes to your training it's important
to look at other recovery factors like
your sleep diet and lifestyle as well I
think the analogy of your body to a
garden is enlightening to quote strength
coach Greg knuckles you fertilize it
tend the soil uproot the weeds water it
leave it in the sunlight and give it the
best conditions for growth it will only
grow as well as its circumstances allow
what is going on everyone just want to
quickly say thank you for watching the
video and I hope that you guys liked I
went with like a slightly different
editing style on this one more like a
glitch gamer style vibe but yeah I
really just enjoy making these videos
and editing them and I also want to
quickly thank Squarespace for sponsoring
this video as you guys know they've been
sponsoring a bunch of my science explain
series and I'm really appreciative for
that if you guys aren't aware of
Squarespace is an all-in-one website
creator platform and they allow you to
custom create your own website and I'm
actually in the process of recreating or
while rebranding my own website that I
use to sell my training programs maybe
some of you guys have seen it so I'm
kind of taking that website up a notch
I've always used more of a very simple
template but they have so many beautiful
designer templates so I'm gonna kind of
rebrand that one but if you guys are
looking to build your own website or
start up your own online store I can't
recommend Squarespace enough so if you
go to squarespace.com forward slash
Nippert and use the offer code Nippert
you can get started with your first
purchase today and yeah Squarespace is a
really incredible amazing customer
service also I'll get a lot of people
asking where I am so right now
Stephanie and I are actually back in
Kelowna BC this is being recorded the
day before I upload us women upload this
tomorrow so we are currently in Kelowna
I absolutely love it here we just moved
into a new place that we're renting in
Jacksonville Florida so we're kind of
back and forth so we're gonna be
spending October here and November back
in Jacksonville for American
Thanksgiving and then we're gonna come
back here for
better part of the winter spend
Christmas here I absolutely love it here
love being in Canada and I just love the
fall weather here you can see you like
we've starting to change color in the
mountains
everything looks so so beautiful here I
just love being in Kelowna anyways if
you guys liked the video please give me
a thumbs up your new hit the subscribe
button and I'll see you guys next time I
may take a little break from the science
explain videos I want to do a little bit
of vlogging maybe a little bit more of
like impromptu informative content so
stay tuned I've got at least two science
explained videos coming in October and
then plenty more after that so yeah
thank you guys again for watching and
I'll see you next time