guys you will get more hypertrophy if
you do the Cat noise at the Top If You
Don't this movement is pointless and if
they come up and try to inquire as to
what is a miss you
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I'm an exercise and sports
science professor at Lehman College and
the creator of the RP hypertrophy app
and I'm going to be appraising a lean
beef hatties training videos to see if
her recommendations are up to muster
lean beef patty prepare yourself alright
let's see can't do a push-up lean beef
patty can help you out let's see what
she's saying
a lot of push-ups three assisted
variations one from the knees keep torso
straight slash core engaged good advice
so far
booty band assisted interesting she's
using it like a slingshot that Mark Bell
makes clever I would say in the real
world this is just gonna probably make
you pretty uncomfortable it kind of
rides up on your titties and I have
titties and also it does reduce the
growth potential of this exercise
because it reduces loading at the
stretch and increases loading relatively
at the peak contraction of the extension
so it does degrade the hypertrophic
value but it can be a tool for
progression that eventually when you can
do real push-ups you get even more
hypertrophy out of them then and then
long resistance band assisted it's just
another way to set up your band which
makes sense suffers a little bit from
that reduced hypertrophy with the lack
of as much of a stretch at the bottom
but nonetheless pretty clever pretty
clever will work higher safeties equals
more assist thinner band equals less
assist yep makes a lot of sense and the
end two thumbs up not bad not bad good
advice let's see what else she has
dumbbell only leg workout people are
always very curious about this because
some folks just have dumbbells hopefully
more than one and it's good to know how
if you have only a dumbbell you can put
together a competent leg workout I don't
know hopefully a competent leg routine
that you can use a few times a week for
a few months at a time to get really
really good gains excellent posing there
as well let's get into it alright first
up is heel elevated goblet squats 3 by
10 15 and 20.
so I don't know if she means first to 10
then 15 then 20 which means she's doing
the heaviest load first then going
lighter and lighter I think that's
unusual advice because most people
pyramid from lighter to heavier and I
also think her advice is excellent
because you want to train heavier when
you're the most fresh you can always
crank reps and fatigue muscle with High
Reps even if it's already tired from low
wraps but you can't do effective low rep
training once you're fatigued from High
Reps because there's just no more juice
let's see how her technique here looks
pretty good if I was really pedantic I
would prefer a pause at the bottom
that'll probably accentuate the
hypertrophic response but these are
actually executed very well I will say
that she's on quite a few plates and
it's a little bit tough to generate a
lot of force when your heels are that
high in the air I would probably prefer
a bit of a wider stance a bit less of a
heel support but I'm just being a picky
this is quite good
oh yeah and then so she's gone from a
heavier dumbbell to a lighter dumbbell
to just body weight and increasing reps
the whole time this is awesome awesome
stuff
and then four sets of 10 to 12 reps of
I think that is a dumbbell stiff-legged
deadlift she does have a little bit of a
curious technique on it when she is in
The Descent phase in The Eccentric phase
she's bending her knees quite a bit a
little bit more than I would like to see
you want to keep the knee back almost
straight but not quite so that the
eccentric and stretch tension of the
hamstring is maximized because that
muscle is pre-lengthened for you as she
comes up she straightens her knee which
is good because it exerts a lot of
requisite force on the hamstring to
contract concentrically but we know from
some literature that The Eccentric
portion of a contraction especially the
Deep stretch at the bottom is probably
at least a little bit more muscle growth
inducing than the concentric on the way
up so I would love to see her this is a
very good technique but to be a
perfectionist I would love to see her
start with her knees back another quick
thing and this is a mistake people make
all the time a little bit more of a
preference than a mistake and that is
she's looking directly down into the
ground and she's rounding her upper back
in this exercise
what I would like to see is her Arch her
upper back that helps you Arch the lower
back and if you look up and forward it
helps you do that it helps you push your
hips back more naturally it's an auto
cue and that also can help you detect if
your knees are too far forward and help
you push your knees back that upright
posture is not the way to lift the most
weight but the Mind muscle connection
you can generate with your hamstrings
and the specific technique to make sure
your hamstrings solving a factor will
occur better for most people if they
arch their entire back and lift their
chest up I see a lot of people doing
this look down stuff I don't really know
where they got it from but this is not
the ideal technique for this exercise
all right that was very good a couple
pointers but in general not terrible I
guess if I saw her doing this at the gym
I'd be like okay respect I wouldn't be
like uh what's that
all right and now we have 45 degree back
races four sets of 12 to 15. so the
first thing I'll say is if this is all
in the same leg routine you're going to
experience probably an unbelievable
amount of hamstring delayed onset
soreness and weakness and you won't be
able to do this routine very often I
think to begin with this is a bit much I
would do half the volume on stiff like a
deadlifts half the volume on this and if
you recover well from that and you heal
on time for your next workout maybe half
a week later you can get back into it
and then over time if necessary add a
certain number of sets she's definitely
doing this exercise seemingly to Target
her glutes we know this because people
who say Target the glutes want you to
have a very rounded upper back and they
want you to sort of look down the reason
they do this is because it tilts the
pelvis in such a way that the glutes can
really help it but it doesn't
pre-stretch the hamstrings a ton I will
say she's going so deep and her back is
flattening out so much at the bottom
that this is still a high stimulation
it's a high stimulus High stimulus
movement for the hamstrings so we have
to factor in that volume which is again
what I think starting out with this
number of sets can be a bit much for
some people but her technique on this is
very good someone messaged her I guess
she posted this and they said great pic
t-h-o and that's one hell of a pet peeve
of mine because that's not how you spell
though you lazy asshole you have a
strange Vibe on your insta are you
unhappy I would file this comment under
trying to get laid in the most pathetic
way possible I guarantee you this
motherfucker has the world's driest dick
and if you're the one that sent this to
her
Su dog all right home back workout
I said home back is one word because
lean beef patty spelled it as one word I
don't know what homeback is but I sure
hope it's a hard workout Superman's
possessive the apostrophe before the s
means that Superman owns this am I being
needlessly pedantic the answer is yes
Superman is a movement which trains
mostly the spinal Erectors and it trains
them at a shortened position and most of
the force is highest in the shortened
position making them not a very good
movement but an interesting warm-up and
something I'm not terribly against
Australian pull-ups interesting I didn't
know they recall that I always call them
inverted rows her execution here is
excellent test the strength of the broom
handle you're using I would also say
that it would behoove you to use
slightly higher chairs than she's using
so the bottom you can get a real deep
stretch that deep stretch is a very
important part of muscle growth process
and it optimizes it to a great extent
she has figured out a way to position
the bar that gives her two things one it
gives her a comfortable position to
touch her body to another thing it does
well is it's leveraged just high or low
enough so that you can get a good number
of repetitions if you try to do this too
high or too low it's either awkward or
you're just not strong enough to do a
good number of reps which is at least
five percent okay so the top hold is not
a very good exercise we know two things
roughly from research that has amounted
over 30 years so far in exercise in
sports science one is that isometrics
probably are of the three types of
muscle contractions eccentric contact
and isometric probably the least likely
to produce hypertrophy AKA muscle growth
and another thing we know is that
contractions at shorter muscle lengths
where your lats are closer to their Peak
contraction versus longer muscle lengths
when they're stretched out typically are
not as hypertrophic so you want longer
muscle length contractions typically in
a dynamic sequence of concentric and
eccentric but if you're going to
emphasize one it should be the eccentric
these are great this is a great exercise
I think in order to train to be able to
do more pull-ups and in order to get
limited equipment situation of back
hypertrophy at home what I would like to
see is her actually eliminate that few
seconds of top hold at the top as soon
as she gets up to the top start even
more slowly than she's doing coming all
the way down holding at the bottom for a
little bit re-jumping and hitting up
another rep again emphasis on The
Eccentric and on the contraction at
longer muscle lengths rather than
shorter another great tool to help you
get your pull-ups though
we got a little thumbs up from Awkward
nerd girl continuing on she can do
pull-ups by herself which is ultra
impressive now she's just showing off
struggling with pull-ups but scared of
the band smacking you in the face this
is a legitimate fear if you're a man it
can also smack you in the general is it
supposed to do that to a woman too but
there is another way okay aha she's
gonna put the safeties up
and I assume she's gonna string the band
right there
and then you step on the band Yes so the
problem with band assisted pull-ups is
that precisely when you need the help
which tends to be more at the top and at
the bottom is where the band kicks out
and doesn't help you much and precisely
where you need the most tension which is
at the very deep stretch at the bottom
that your lats are getting pulled apart
that's what caused the most growth
that's when the bands steal more of the
force away from you the best possible
way to be able to do pull-ups when you
can't is to use the assisted pull-up
machine it's a neutral Force curve just
like the regular pull-up it's the best
your next best bet is a lat pull down
and a bunch of rows if you do a bunch of
rows and a bunch of pull Downs you get
stronger on pull Downs for a while
eventually doing pull-ups will be an
obvious thing this kind of band
assistance I would say is somewhere in
third or fourth place maybe in third
place before that is a friend helping
you get the concentric version of the
pull-up up by pulling up by your feet
and then you come down under your own
power with eccentric as soon as you're
at the bottom they help you up and get
inside on and so forth that allows them
actually to help you more where you need
it less where you don't it makes a very
very good Force curve the the situation
is that you don't actually have any
friends and you are too socially awkward
to reach out to anyone at the gym to
help you also you don't like people
touching you and then so you are stuck
doing band assisted pull-ups which isn't
the worst thing in the world certainly
not the best Smith machine leg exercises
by lean beef patty let's take a look
okay the back squat
her technique generally looks very good
the depth is very good
if you are interested in the best quad
development and you're interested in
keeping your lower back feeling as good
as possible it would probably be a good
idea
turn completely around in the Smith
machine you want the Smith machine as it
goes down if you have a slanted machine
to also come out in front of you what
that's going to allow you to do is to
get your knees over your toes further
keep your heels planted stay more
upright that bar path which is the
reverse of what she's doing is going to
allow you to have your back not be as
much of a limiting factor and have your
quads really take most of the strain and
get your body into a position where quad
is the huge stimulus if otherwise her
technique is good you'll see her kind of
sort of rounding out and forward at the
bottom and that that is as a consequence
of her facing
the wrong way in a sense in the Smith
machine this is not a mortal sin but
nonetheless there is some optimization
missing here all right we got a split
squat
um also done in the reverse Direction I
would prefer to see it but less of an
issue with split squat great glute
exercise she's doing it very well I
would like to see her ideally go a
little bit slower on the way down to
military Centric and then come up more
athletically on the way up she's doing
the athletic on the way up part very
well but the slow on the way down and
maybe a gentle pause at the bottom I
don't even do this myself half the time
it sucks it hurts but it's a good kind
of pain I suspect one of the reasons
she's demoing it this way is because all
of these are ass shots and the way you
get to female stardom is you show your
ass a lot the way you get to male
stardom is
show your ass a lot God damn it I just
figured out social media sissy squat
brutal this is brutal now she's doing a
very good job here in the sissy squat
couple of notes for the for the Y's one
is she's wearing the knee sleeves which
will help that bar sensation without
them it's an interesting sensation on
the back of your knee another thing is
you had better hope that plate does not
slip holy shit you are going to go
flying I think based on the thinness of
that bar she could go much deeper take a
pause at the bottom I'm talking about
dunk like get those glutes real close to
those ankles that stretches the quads
out like crazy crazy crazy and can allow
you to get an unbelievable amount of
muscle growth for each repetition slowly
going down to The Descent pausing there
for Chi one or two seconds and then
coming up that would take a very good
exercise execution which she's
illustrating and make it a great
exercise execution let me tell you guys
about the RP hypertrophy app with over
28 preset programs already in the app
you can choose to make your own you can
modify an existing program or you could
just run the programs exactly as they
were written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
Bulgarian split squat okay very very
well executed again looking down for
some strange reason I'll never figure
out uh people do on social media she is
sitting very far back into the movement
that's excellent this is gonna toast her
glutes right off of her body good
eccentric control I really can't dog
this move at all this is a plus work all
right body weight push workout let's see
how this goes
okay starting out with a pike push-up
it's a fine exercise a little bit
awkward and the range of motion at the
shoulder and elbow joint is severely
curtailed by the fact that your head
gets in the way I don't love this
exercise but it's okay if you're just
using your body weight and the ground
handstand push-up for the advanced
uh yep very good similar to a pike
push-up except harder again handstand
push-up if you don't have any kind of
supports to push your head through which
you need to be even stronger for it's
necessarily a partial range of motion
movement at the top doesn't work ideally
and you know that limited top range of
motion is not superb it also requires a
lot of balance a lot of setup I'm going
to say something a little bit
controversial I think most handstand
push-ups are a lot more about showing
off than they are by getting good high
quality training but uh not saying she's
showing off she should she's jacked and
really strong but uh maybe not the ideal
Choice okay incline push-up
very well executed this is a great
movement for folks not quite strong
enough to do regular push-ups yet the
benefit of an incline push-up is as you
get lower the exposure of your strength
to gravity increases because you're
going from more vertical to more
horizontal and thus it challenges your
muscles more at longer muscle lengths
during the stretch for both triceps
front delts and chest making this a very
very good choice for movement especially
if you can be challenged in anywhere
between 5 and 30 reps with incline
push-ups alright decline push-ups these
are brutal she's doing them very
appropriately see it looks quite good
and she's controlling The Eccentric
pretty well if she lifted her head up
she could get more range of motion and
let her chest touch the ground so I'd
like to see her lift her head up maybe
even Arch her back a little bit
otherwise looks looks very good these
are very challenging and not so
comfortable because you have to make out
with the ground basically I don't have
anyone else to make out with so I make
out of the ground all the time but it's
pathetic and I hate myself every time I
do it push-up plus oh that's cool you do
like a little little cat back
guys you will get more hypertrophy if
you do the Cat noise at the Top If You
Don't this movement is pointless make
sure everyone in the gym hears you and
if they come up and try to inquire us to
what is a miss you
[Music]
foreign
that's it for Miss lean beef patty
overall I think this is great stuff of
all of the Mega influencers you could
have on social media she's top tier
because most these movements are very
good they're foundational core movements
often compound well-controlled well
progressed well thought through there's
so much crap with single leg glue this
and one arm across the body that little
tiny pink dumbbells lean beef patties
not falling for any of that I give
overall at least an A minus to this sort
of lifting a minus that's my thing
because she could do a A plus work by
slowing down her eccentrics choosing
slightly more optimal exercises for that
bottom end position but overall this is
really good stuff if you follow lean
beef patty you're in for a whole lot of
knowledge and awkward memes
see you guys next time
[Music]