how can you make sure you're pressing
off of the whole foot you have to
experiment where on the plate for the
hack Squat and leg press where on the
platform you're putting your feet you
might even have to put them out or in a
little bit more because sometimes your
feet are really far in it's all on your
toes or it's all on your heels you put
them out it actually distributes the
force better sometimes you have to turn
your feet out or turn your feet a little
bit more straight again something you
have to experiment with and I highly
highly highly recommend weightlifting
shoes a weightlifting shoe will
revolutionize your quad training I'm not
paid by anyone to say that as a matter
of fact nobody pays me at all make sure
your back isn't rounding a ton if you're
trying to put your feet up a little too
high on the platform so there has to be
a balance between getting the foot firm
and making sure your lower back is nice
and tucked if you do that hack squats
leg presses lever squat squats Etc turn
into magical magical movements that give
you big quads and at the end of the day
big quads are like more magical than
anything else