so if we look at the order of exercises
being leg extensions and leg press then
squats this is an advanced bodybuilding
thing if you're an advanced bodybuilder
and fatigue is a very serious concern to
you it is your limiting factor that's
something great to try and I'm really
happy to see Chris doing it but if
you're a beginner or intermediate and
you just need meat on your bones and
fatigue is not a realistic impediment to
you you train three or four times a week
you don't even know what your maximum
recoverable volume is then compounds
first discret because they're going to
have the biggest raw stimulus magnitude
for your time you spend in the gym
they're going to build the most muscle
and since fatigue is not an issue that's
all you really give a about they're
also going to develop your overall body
strength overall coordination and
overall musculature if you squat you can
build your back your glutes your
adductors your Sartorius sometimes even
a bit of your hamstrings and calves and
definitely all the quads that you need
as a beginner that's amazing as
an advanced lifter leg extensions start
to become marginally higher utility
because you want to focus on the quads
everything else is already pretty well
built out but as a beginner it's like if
you just begin doing leg extensions and
for years just only do those you're
going to have a weird looking leg not a
whole lot of muscle anywhere else so
definitely something to think about