hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance periodization is the
overhead press bad for dealt growth
how could he
what a controversial way to start the
day well before we begin to
scientifically
deconstruct the overhead press
I have to say a few things I love the
overhead press I'm in love with the
overhead press one of the people I Look
to most in this world for everything
guidance is is adrenist of viscous
multi-timer strongest man
probably one of the best if not the best
overhead pressers of all time I trained
overhead press for years and years and
years I was genetically gifted at it
and some number of years ago when I
peaked in my overhead pressing mostly
because I just stopped training it
afterwards I got very very good at it
and uh Scott the video guy will
hopefully pop up video here that shows
me overhead pressing 275 pounds at a
body weight of just over 240 Standing
full range of motion for eight reps gee
whiz that's very good right I'll Pat
myself on the back if I could reach it
but
the overhead press is awesome it is a
spirit exercise and it's an amazing
exercise for just making you nonsense
strong and really strong in the real
world you showed me a guy who can
overhead press you know 225 percent of
10 standing and I'm just like man I
don't want to fuck that guy that's a
real world strong ass human being
however it's a very different question
than what it does for dealt size so
let's take a look
just from a real
first level analysis
doubt training via the overhead press
has a couple of features first it trains
due to angle of push the front delts
significantly more than
any other exercise and better than any
other exercise so if you want unreal
front delt hypertrophy the overhead
barbell press is a very good place to
start
now when people say delts they don't
usually just mean front delts they mean
side delts and rear delts and the side
belts get trained somewhat during the
overhead press but other exercises like
gee even upright rows and all kinds of
laterals uh even front raises engage
your side delts more than overhead
presses okay even on Raw stimulus
magnitude the amount of sheer stimulus
forget about fatigue usually it's better
for side belts in like 10 other
exercises than overhead press so if you
consider the overhead press overall
doubt growth yeah you're right about
front delts maybe not to write about
side belts on the stimulus to fatigue
ratio because especially standing
barbell presses create so much spinal
loading and so much requisite for
stability the fatigue is really high and
the stimulus to fatigue ratio of almost
any other delt exercise is usually
better than overhead barbell presses not
great now third point is the worst
people say oh I need big dealts I'm
going to do overhead press it basically
doesn't train the rear delts at all so
saying hey I've got delts I'm going to
train delts here's a delt exercise
overhead press what do you think of
overhead press for delt hypertrophy
you know
it's not the best way to phrase that
question because for overall that
hypertrophy the overhead press is just
not that great it trains the front delts
very well but everything else meh all
right so just to frame that
last two slides we're going to go
through a question and answer system of
reasons that you could train the
overhead press and reasons that you
probably shouldn't so can you still use
the overhead press lots of you are
probably panicking right now and going
oh my God Dr Mike but I loved overhead
press can I still use it well here's the
thing if you want to grow your triceps
and front delts yes the overhead press
is a very good thing to use
if you get a very good side dealt pump
disruption soreness Etc from overhead
presses then yes they're a great
exercise even for side dots
if you get a good stimulus to fatigue
ratio so not only is the stimulus good
but the fatigue is minimal for other
presses for all those things number one
and two then yes again the answer is
that it's good to train overhead press
however standing presses
which is generally what people say when
or mean when they say overhead press uh
because of the axial fatigue the spinal
loading they are so often highly
fatiguing that the stimulus to fatigue
ratio is usually not great but we can
fix that so Point number four yes you
can train the overhead press
especially if you modify the overhead
press for a higher stimulus fatigue
ratio for your shoulders how do you do
that first do them seated versus
standing I'm not a big fan of seated
barbell overhead presses there's
something manly that's removed from the
exercise specifically the standing
upright but as far as stimulus to
fatigue ratio you get much less
compressive Force traveling through your
legs much less records or for stability
if you're seated you get the same or
higher because you're stable stimulus
for the delts seated but you get less
fatigue so it's usually a better
approach and it's one of the things that
there's nothing in my heart makes me
happy to say that but that's just the
way it is
next point is keep the load close to
your face if you push the barbell out
this way it's more frontal triceps less
side adults because the side alts don't
work this way the side delts keep the
bar close to your face pushing up and
back as soon as you clear your head push
back and out make sure you're seated in
a position in which you don't fall
backwards like that and then you will
hit your side delts better your traps
better it's not just all front delts
that's very good and the last thing is
given that you're already overhead
pressing giving it you're doing a
technique which stimulates the side
belts more my recommendation is to do a
bunch of side out work before you even
overhead press and maybe do it last
maybe even superset it so for example
you do a bunch of seated laterals with
dumbbells side delts are fried as fuck
put down the dumbbells take the bar out
and do overhead process your side outs
are so close to local muscular failure
they will instantly be the limiting
factor in this overhead press you're
doing as the second exercise of a
superset is now a very good stimulus to
fatigue ratio exercise for those side
tones where if you do it fresh it's
mostly frontal give that some thought if
you want to override press and you may
still be able to do it if you love it if
you do it properly in the ways described
now
what about reasons you shouldn't be
doing an overhead press in your program
first if you don't need a lot of front
dot Focus if your front delts honest
assessment are big your side out theme
will work results need way more work
your arms your chest Etc your front
notes are just big for your physique
it's gratifying to do overhead pressing
because you're probably really good at
it because you have big ass front delts
but you probably also don't need it so
for Z perspective don't overhead presses
if your front delts don't need a lot of
work right I have an overhead press in a
really long time because my front belts
are just fine and I have other places to
put my efforts to make my muscles bigger
where they're actually needed
if you want lots of side out growth but
you feel a ton of front belt activation
soreness disruption Etc and a ton of uh
front delt and tricep in your overhead
pressing then as an honest assessment if
someone says hey you're overhead
pressing you're trying to get big dealts
you're like yes do you feel it in your
delts you're like
uh frontals and triceps are right don't
you want side note growth you're like
yes
but you're right that this exercise
clearly doesn't stimulate those a lot if
that's the case for you if you feel a
lot of frontal triceps not a lot of side
outs and overhead press if it's not your
number one exercise it's not even a
number five exercise right so maybe you
can put it away until and unless you
want to use it and lastly and this is a
big one if you get a really bad stimulus
to fatigue ratio on them I wouldn't
recommend using them especially if the
modifications from the last side to
increase your sfr just didn't work all
that well
a lot of times we stick to exercises
because we like to do them because we're
strong at them because we like the
progression or because we consider them
core exercises that Define our manliness
and shit like I can't not squat bench
dead overhead press and do pull-ups fuck
that like I got to be a man and do that
shit yeah sure if that means a lot to
you Hey listen do it but if you want
just pure hypertrophy and pure strength
in the most efficient ways possible
you're going to have to jettison some of
that attachment to manliness and all
those lifts and lifts you love and lifts
you're good at like I was incredible at
overhead pressing I love doing it
the problem was I would do it it would
take me 30 minutes to do the whole
exercise with all the warming up and the
huge fatigue and huge long rest times
between sets I think you know for 30
minutes of effort and a crapload of
fatigue the lower back stuff would
interfere with my squatting interfere
with my good mornings
um the Central Drive I would get quad
cramps pressing the top of the rep
because my whole body was Contracting I
just thought she was you know for all
this fatigue the stimulus just really
isn't worth it and it was painful to
have to get rid of them but now I've
gotten rid of them and you know I only
think about them sometimes Sundays
when the you know it's cloudy outside or
rainy I'm curled up with a book and uh
sometimes I think I I wonder what
overhead process we're doing right now
maybe they're at a really loud club with
their hot date and maybe they're sort of
like scrolling through their phone and
hey what's update hey hey guys and there
is the pretending to scroll through
Instagram but they're really thinking
about me
just maybe hey um overhead process if
you're out there
no pressure just
hey
see you guys next time
hey folks want exercises and styles of
doing them that really maximize your
side belt size check this video out and
you'll have side out so big that well
well gee whiz they'll just be real big