[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
of periodization and today I'm gonna do
a recipe that is not in any of my
cookbooks this is another one that I
made for myself at home one day and
posted pictures of it and you guys were
really interested in the recipe and
thought the dish looked really good so I
wanted to do it for you here on the
cooking show so again you guys have
followed along with me on my recent cut
I kind of got really back into these the
zero calorie noodles and the zero
calorie sort of fake rice and I know a
lot of you have had a really bad
experience with that in the past and I
encourage you to try it again because
it's all in the prep with these if you
prep this correctly it will not have any
weird taste
now texturally you know it certainly
isn't the same texture as a pasta or as
a rice there's a little bit of
rubberiness to it but when you're
dieting really hard and your carbs are
super low and your fats are super low
and you get to eat a big bowl of
something that resembles pasta it's
pretty exciting these are the zero
calorie fettuccine noodles and I saved
the bag so I could show it to you this
is just one brand I mean there are a few
of them out there there's actually a
refrigerated product that you can find
this was actually a shelf-stable one
that I ordered from thrive market and
it's just been in my pantry on the shelf
just at room temp so there's different
ones but just they have the the prep
instructions on the bag or the box
follow those so with these I rinse them
really good in a strainer and ran cold
water over them for a long time
drained all the water off and then
boiled it for like three minutes that's
all you need to do but that boiling also
again is important don't skip that step
I know it's kind of annoying but it's
important to the prep I've got these
noodles in the pan I'm gonna turn this
on to like a pretty high heat like a
medium to medium-high heat because we
need to dry these out now and again this
is really important to the prep process
so getting rid of the shine starting to
kind of like toughen up a little bit
that's what we want go ahead and put
them on a plate just for right now I'm
gonna add them back in later so for this
recipe I made this because I had made a
big slow cooker beef recipe so this is
some earlier slow cooker beef ahead so
if you have some already made if you
don't just go ahead and cook some or you
you know go ahead and put them in put it
in the slow cooker overnight and then
you can use it in this recipe and then
this is the broth that I had from the
slow cooker recipe so I always save the
cooking liquid and cook with it so I'm
gonna add a little bit of this to the
pan and I'm gonna saute a shallot
chopped up if you haven't cooked
shallots before it's just a milder sort
of like a mild onion and then this is
some Chinese cabbage if you have a
different kind of cabbage or if you
don't like cabbage you can leave it out
you could sub in celery probably leeks
would just be a little bit more on uni
and then this is some fresh ginger I
love fresh ginger so we're just gonna
saute this and I mean the smell is so
nice right now but between the shallot
and that fresh ginger I do want that
cabbage to soften so I'm gonna add in
more of my broth also because it's
amazing so this is porcini powder and
this stuff you know it's 14 e mushrooms
dried and then ground up so I just want
to stir that around and that 14 e powder
kind of helps thicken this sauce so it's
already thickening so once I've
incorporated the porcini powder I'm
gonna go ahead and add in my beef and
again this is just catching up this is
just some slow cooker beef i had made
earlier in the week mix that in and now
i'm going to add back these miracle
noodles that have been hanging out bring
those guys back to the party all right
let's plate this
it is already that's it beef mushroom
not pasta
you're looking at a amazing no carb dish
that could easily also be no fat
eat that and be completely compliant on
your RP template looks like you're
eating a big old plate of pasta
[Music]