as a competitive natural bodybuilder I'm
frequently met with one of two questions
are you natural and based on my answer
which is yes why do you choose to stay
natural and for the second question
there are three main reasons for my
decision
first I'd tend to prefer the more
natural look of course there isn't
really such thing as a natural look and
an enhanced look except for other
extremes and certainly some natural guys
can look enhanced and some enhanced guys
can look natural but those differences
in the middle mostly come down to
genetics a topic for another video but
I've always been drawn to the more
classic look of the pre steroids era
bodybuilders or even the Olympia
competitors of the 1970s guys like Frank
Zane who while having admitted to using
steroids themselves still have a look
that I think is achievable for
genetically elite natural guys in the
modern era with an optimized training
program and diet and while I have a
strong interest in the sport of
mainstream bodybuilding as a fan that
isn't really a look I'd want to emulate
for myself second doing it naturally
simplifies things
although steroids are often seen as a
shortcut and it certainly can't be
exactly bad with one case study
following an internationally competitive
elite level bodybuilder showing a 16
pound increase in lean mass over one
year roughly 16 times the gains of
natural at his level of advancement
could realistically expect but
introducing it as a variable does
complicate things without having to
micromanage steroid dosages and cycles I
can focus all of my attention on the two
basic factors completely within my
control my training and diet and
optimize those to the best of my ability
without having to worry about the
additional complication steroids
improves the third reason is that I
think it's healthier and in this video
I'm going to focus on this third reason
despite compelling medical data and
steroids disfavor I'm personally of the
opinion that provided one is aware of
and accepts the risks associated with
steroid use it's ultimately a personal
and legal decision on
behalf of the individual one that can be
made without any judgment on my part and
I think the only ethically relevant
concern is if someone is dishonestly
competing in drug-tested natural events
or being intentionally deceptive about
their use or lack of use to fans or
followers so with the political
debriefing out of the way let's dig into
what the scientific literature has to
say I think it's important to start with
basic terminology and the literature the
term peds or the performance-enhancing
drugs is most frequently used with
androgenic anabolic steroids like
testosterone and the most frequently
used class of peds amongst athletes and
recreational bodybuilders who are the
most frequent users and what's estas
drone is the most popular in this class
there's a laundry list of others that's
just getting longer but for the sake of
the video we're gonna lump them all
under the androgenic anabolic steroids
umbrella and it's worth noting that the
effects of steroids can be tricky to
research since it's not exactly
ethically advisable to pin study
subjects with dosages high enough to
represent what bodybuilders actually use
so while much of the data has emerged
from lower quality research like case
studies and retrospective surveys animal
studies are enlightening and it seems to
me the controlled trials that do exist
are more likely to under-represent
rather than over represent the true risk
associated with steroid use a 2014 paper
published in endocrine reviews sought to
formulate a position statement for the
endocrine society and noted a fairly
exhaustive list of potential maladies
associated with steroid use with
cardiovascular effects making the top of
the severity list also citing quote well
recognized and probably seriously
concerning evidence for testicular
dysregulation major mood disorders like
mania and depression and dependence
cardiovascular complications seem to be
the most broadly and commonly accepted
concern with a 2015 paper referencing 25
independent case studies wherein
athletes
mostly bodybuilders aged 19 to 54 and
using high-dose anabolic steroids
suffered a frightening mix of fatal and
non-fatal cardiopathy
including heart attack which is when
blood supply is cut off to the heart
itself resulting in her tan
failure and stroke which is when blood
supplies cutoff to the brain in the
author's note that unfavorable changes
in blood lipid profile namely a drop in
HDL and spike in LDL cholesterol he
noted just two months after the
beginning of a steroid site and long
term routine use can often lead to
atherosclerosis or hardening and
narrowing of arteries which if allowed
to build up over enough time can result
in heart attack heart failure the water
retention associated with anabolic
steroid use has also been associated
with high blood pressure which according
to one study out of the University of
Saarland in Germany can persist for up
to a year after discontinuation of drug
use another common side effect of
anabolic steroid uses left ventricular
myocardial hypertrophy which is
basically a thickening of the main
pumping chamber of the heart and as a
result that hurt loses some elasticity
and can eventually fail to pump blood as
forcefully as required increasing the
risk of heart attack and stroke and this
isn't just speculation or hearsay in
2006 a German PhD dissertation Dexamyl
autopsy data of 10 young bodybuilders
with an average age of 33 years old who
used combinations of anabolic steroids
in four cases the cause of death was
acute cardiac dysfunction like heart
failure and in all 10 cases the average
heart weight was 517 grams
significantly higher than normal heart
weight which according to the Journal of
the American College of Cardiology is
both 300 grams for a man over can reach
up to 500 grams with exercise through an
increase in fiber size but not fiber
number they say 500 grams is a critical
level passed which further increases in
mass are attributed to an increase in
the number of fibers a strong indication
of cardiopathy and while the cardiac
implications may be the most lethal
complication a direct toxic impact on
the liver is also well documented
especially in cases of chronic abuse of
the orally administered 17 alpha
alkylated steroids or in other words
steroids that you take orally rather
than through intramuscular injection
such as these
and liver adenoma as or benign tumors
have appeared as early as six months and
as long as after 15 years of steroid
abuse in cases from sokka's and
colleagues where two bodybuilders took
five different steroids in high doses
including stanozolol and oxymetholone
luckily after stopping drug use both
tumors disappeared without surgical
intervention but not everyone is so
lucky as in two more recent cases
investigating 29 and 39 year old
bodybuilders respectively the tumors
progressed to liver carcinomas and at
this stage unless the abusers have a
chance for surgery or transplant death
by liver coma is imminent according to a
2008 review out of Harvard Medical
School evidence of persistent toxicity
and other organ systems is modest and
there's not much evidence of an
increased prostate cancer risk covered
because of a pop Tata or cellular death
causing effects on neural cells the
authors say irreversible
neuropsychiatric toxicity is a
possibility and while the whole
roid-rage concept was likely a bit of
media over height many experimental and
naturalistic field studies have shown
that anabolic steroids can directly
cause hypomania of a severe form of
mania characterized by elevated mood
increased self-esteem and decreased need
for sleep symptoms commonly exalted by
users federal manic episodes have been
linked with aggression and violence and
many of these studies however some
studies don't report any mood changes at
all indicating that the psychological
effects of steroid use are more
individual what appears to be more
common as the onset of depression during
withdrawal from steroid use such as at
the end of a cycle perhaps in part due
to the fact that body composition
changes due to steroids fade away quite
readily after discontinuation abuse
ending a cycle can also lead to other
problems namely hypogonadism in other
words the body shuts down its natural
testosterone while it's getting injected
resulting in testicular shrinkage and
everything else associated with low
testosterone including reduced sperm
count and infertility
this is often reversible within weeks or
months but not always and the
development of gynecomastia or the
growth
breasts issue as a result of
testosterone to estrogen conversion a
side effect prevalent and 37% of steroid
users according to a 2000 study is
generally not reversible except for with
surgery the same study reported that 43%
of users experience acne and 61%
experience negative changes in libido
especially at the end of a cycle while
most of the data focused on male
bodybuilders it could be argued that the
effects on females are even more severe
and more permanent in addition to the
general health risks women also
experience a deepening of the voice
enlargement of the clitoris decreased
breast size altered menstruation and
baldness but it's important to note that
we've been looking primarily at steroid
abuse and while I painted a fairly grim
picture of its effects individual
response and outcome will of course be
influenced by genetic factors family
history and other substance abuse and
according to a review article titled
medical issues associated with steroid
use are they exaggerated authors Hoffman
and raddimus conclude that although
clinical case studies continue to link
anabolic steroid administration with
myocardial infarcts suicide and cancer
the evidence to support a
cause-and-effect relationship is lacking
and it may be that other contributing
factors such as genetic predisposition
diet play a substantial role in
potentiate the harmful effects from
anabolic steroids and while in my
opinion the conclusion of this article
felt out of sync with the data presented
the practical takeaway that consistent
physician monitoring is critical to the
athlete who consumes anabolic steroids
who seems well advised and of course the
data is open to the idea that
testosterone has its share of benefits
for men with low testosterone including
increased libido bone density muscle
mass mood cognition and quality of life
of course even supplementation under the
guidance of a physician is not without
the usual risks like liver toxicity
cardiovascular problems and worsening
sleep apnea so this is a decision that
should be made under a physician's
counsel in my testosterone science
explained video I covered the most
effective way to boost testosterone
naturally and I see an effort to
maximize that these basic principles is
a viable first action to improving low
testosterone because I got curious about
where my own testosterone levels were
while making the video I decided to get
a male hormone test from a diagnostic
splat
one club let's get checked basically i
collected a small sample of blood from
home sent it back to their lab using a
prepackaged and prepaid envelope and
then a couple of days later my results
were available online which in my case
turned out to be in the normal range for
testosterone however i think i do still
have room to increase it naturally and
if you do have a low sex drive or low
energy levels or maybe like me you just
wanted to get it tested for the sake of
optimizing testosterone for teens and
you can do so at let's get set calm the
whole process was super simple and
convenient and i really liked the fact
that you could speak to a nurse at any
time during the testing by phone call or
text chat so i've got all the
information about that linked in the
description box below if you guys would
like to check it out thanks once again
so much for watching if you're new
around here please subscribe to my
channel for more videos like this one
I've got a genetics science explained
video on the way so you can stay tuned
for that like the video if you enjoyed
it yeah I will see you guys next time