last week at the arnold sports festival
i went for a workout with amanda bucci
her boyfriend brian decosta and my
girlfriend stephanie buttermore and even
though there was an even representation
of the sexes we did more or less the
same workout with a few minor
differences i'll highlight and the
significance of the term minor really
can't be overstated since practical
training differences between men and
women come down to slight variations and
tweaks to an already sound fundamental
training philosophy embedded in basic
human physiology not necessarily
predicated on sex differences earlier
that week a female grocery store cashier
told me that she wanted to get more
toned but not bulky and explained to me
that more cardio must be the solution i
told her that lifting weights might be a
better solution a lot of folks still
seem to be convinced that women who lift
weights will end up looking thick bulky
masculine and so on and while women
certainly do have an impressive
potential to build muscle doing so
generally results in that so-called
toned look that most women are aiming
for not the monstrous physique that is
usually only attainable with steroid use
or an advanced and extremely rigorous
training and nutrition plan specifically
dedicated to attaining that more
muscular look one look through the girls
who lift hashtag on instagram will
provide about 14 million counter
examples to this common misconception
but while it's untrue that women will
look like the hulk if they start lifting
weights it's also untrue that women have
a poor potential to build muscle while
on average men can have 15 times more
testosterone than women their natural
potentials to build muscle are actually
quite similar the answer to how similar
will depend on who you ask i spoke with
scientific author meno henselmans about
this and he seems convinced that men and
women have pretty much the exact same
potential to build muscle it's not that
controversial actually because most
research indicates that women and men
actually have the exact same relative
growth potential
and certainly there is some evidence to
support this a 2001 study looking at the
differences between men and women in
response to strength training found no
difference in muscle gained after six
months and there's plenty other similar
research to support this idea as well
however conflicting literature suggests
that men can build more muscle than
women for example this paper found that
in a six-month strength training
intervention men gained about twice as
much muscle as women a summary that
falls in line with scientific fitness
author lyle mcdonald's suggestion that
women can expect roughly half the muscle
gain of men in all women certainly can
build an appreciable amount of muscle
likely falling somewhere between 50 to
100 of the hypertrophic potential of men
the main difference in the final result
is due to the fact that women start out
smaller they genetically have less
muscle and more body fat but as far as
we know their propensity to build muscle
is actually very similar to that of men
and although men tend to be stronger
than women on an absolute basis 97 of
this difference is attributed to
differences in muscle mass and nothing
else so if you have a man and a woman
with the same muscle mass there's a good
chance they'll have the same strength
and this is a trend that follows through
across many training variables usually
the differences between men and women
can be explained by differences in
muscle mass and body fat not sex per se
but for all that there are still some
things to highlight the first being a
difference in hormones because women can
have about nine times more estrogen than
men it means they get to reap all the
rewards of that hormone on not only
metabolic health and glucose handling
but muscular repair and preventing
catabolism the main training implication
here is that women are able to recover
from more work which means they can do
more sets and reps per workout and more
workouts per week and since training
volume or the total sets and reps has
been very tightly correlated with
increases in size and strength it makes
sense that assuming all else equal women
should do more than men if they want to
maximize the results the second main
difference relevant to training has to
do with so-called fatigue ability we
still need more research to flesh out
exactly why women don't fatigue as much
as men but it appears to be fairly
complex with differences in the muscles
themselves hormones the nervous system
and more to highlight a couple key
points women have better blood flow and
muscle perfusion which means that
fatigue-inducing metabolites can be
cleared out of the muscle better in
women they also have a greater
proportional area of the slow type 1
muscle fibers which are better suited
for endurance tasks these factors in
concert with others yields the net
result that women are better at doing
higher reps than men and that they can
do more reps at a given intensity than
men women can probably get away with
shorter rest periods between sets than
men for the same reasons of course the
flip side of this is that women are less
suited for explosive training than men
which means that assuming playing to
your strengths makes sense men can
benefit from more explosive tempos with
a more forceful positive and women might
do better with a slower tempo of course
it isn't smart to think in black and
white terms so i think it would still be
smart for men to include some slow tempo
or high rep work and for some women to
include some more explosive work in
their routines and finally there is a
pretty clearly documented difference in
the upper and lower bodies of men and
women a 1993 paper reported women having
about 50 percent of the strength of men
in the upper body but 66 percent of the
strength for lower body and this might
explain why women tend to enjoy training
legs more than men they're better at it
so the main training differences between
men and women stem from women having
better recoverability and lower fatigue
ability with some upper to lower body
discrepancies with these nuances in mind
the majority of fundamental
musculoskeletal physiology applies to
both sexes and ultimately the primary
mechanism driving hypertrophy namely
mechanical tension doesn't discriminate
based on gender
[Music]
what is going on everyone uh first i
just want to say thank you so much for
watching the video uh don't forget to
hit the thumbs up button if you did like
it i put a lot of effort into this one
so please show me some support and hit
the like button i am back in canada but
stephanie's coming to visit me this
weekend so i'm really excited about that
i put the links to stephanie's amanda's
and brian's channels all in the
description box below my full interview
with meno henselmans is going to go live
very soon so you can check that out on
my podcast and just stay tuned to my
social media channels for more info
about that also a lot of people will ask
me how it is that i find all the
information that i use in these videos
and one of my most trusted resources
that i use all the time is examine.com i
recently did an interview for them on
their monthly research review they're
running a 50 off sale starting today on
their whole website so i have an
affiliate link where you can save some
money support me and subscribe to the
research review and check out that link
in the description thank you guys so
much for watching i'll see you in the
next video