hey do you guys want more nerd stuff
more deep dives on technique more deep
dives on physiology biomechanics
exercise analysis
lots more q a and a bunch of insider
videos of me training myself and there's
lots of silence around and you get to
see all my sets cool well then hit the
button below
to join our members community and you
know what there's a special prize i'm
just kidding we don't have a special
prize but i'll see you in the members
community
hey folks i am not actually doctor mike
this is a life-size real robot designed
to imitate dr mike perfectly uh almost
perfectly in any case
more or less the same because dr mike's
kind of a robot anyway today we're going
to learn about bands versus reverse
bands you guys have seen this practice
occur people tie bands onto a leg press
and they push against the bands or they
tie bands onto the top of a leg press or
a hack squat or whatever else and then
they have to load a crapload more weight
on the top and then the bands make it
easier on the way down because you tie
them at the top versus the bottom which
one of these is best and in what
scenario let's talk about it so
fundamentally bands and reverse bands
are very very similar they're almost the
exact same thing because the effect
kind of ironically because it's a
completely different position is largely
the same it is to make the movement
easier at the bottom and more difficult
at the top and it's almost identical so
if you are
listening to this lecture and you think
gee whiz this is really nitpicky it is
so you can choose to use bands and
reverse bands and you'll probably never
pay a price or notice a difference
however there are some small differences
that are worth you know
intellectually picking at a dead horse
for that's why you follow this channel
so let's go through them
first small difference
is that it tends to be that straight
weight
so non-banded weight is a little bit
more stable at the top of say a squat
than banded weight so in squatting if
you would like to band your squats it's
probably a good idea to use reverse
bands rather than bands because if you
use bands from the bottom up as you go
up the bands pull in directions that
don't exactly align with gravity and
that can really throw you off but if you
reverse band it the bands actually
support and stabilize you on the way
down because they're not fighting
gravity they're going along with it and
at the same time
what the bands do is they un sort of
reduce their tension at the top and you
can ride a really smooth curve and then
gravity takes over more at the top and
the
movement ends up being smoother and this
is something that a lot of
equipped power lifters have figured out
over the years so it's much more common
to see reverse band than band another
thing is you can set up reverse bands in
a power rack just across the rack on
both sides and then as you dip into the
bands the tension gets in if you set up
a conventional band so around the bar
unracking that shit is damn near
impossible if the band tension's high
enough and as you unrack it
the band is actually at an angle and it
pulls you back the whole thing is
fucking dangerous i would recommend
reverse banding your squats just for
that reason and unusual to use regular
bands especially for heavy loads
second difference
is that
reverse bands again win for equipped
power lifting so if you're doing quick
power lifting and you want to simulate
the suit you know the squat suit are
briefs but you don't want to put them on
because it takes a year to put them on
takes a year to take them off what you
can do is do reverse banding reverse
banding mirrors the force curve of the
suit almost exactly because at the top
you have to have a crapload of straight
weight on your back just like in a
reverse band and at the bottom
the force curve of the suit increases
more and more and more as you go down
that's actually a little bit of the
opposite of what happens with
conventional bands where you feel that
band tension more at the top and less at
the bottom so again reverse bands win
this one because if you're an equip
power lifter and you're trying to get
something to simulate the effect of a
suit reverse bands win by a mile
small difference number three
going in the other direction
if you are using bands to try to
encourage ballistic moves
it's probably good to use regular
straight bands or sorry bands pointed
against the direction of movement rather
than reverse bands so for example if you
are doing bench presses and your goal
isn't to stop the movement at the top
but your goal is to try to follow
through and have the bar rip you off the
seat if you're training for let's say
throwing or something or punching or
something like that you're an actual
athlete not just a bodybuilder or a
power lifter right jk power lifters are
actually athletes bodybuilding i'm not
so sure so if you want to encourage
ballistic following through
the top of the movement not to the top
of the movement
conventionally tied bands that get
harder as you go
really good at encouraging that because
you have to follow through in order to
get the movement to be successful
because it resists you more the more you
go up and
with
something like reverse banding as soon
as you get to the top
from the top all the way through
following through is not much harder
because it's the same weight at the very
top when the reverse bands kick out and
an inch or two above that but if you
have bands on inch or two above is even
harder and that can teach you if you
have the right cues to follow through to
really follow through and and keep that
acceleration going to keep pushing
against the bands because if you slow
down and the band tension is still
increasing you're gonna get stopped but
if you continue to move through and
continue to push through that velocity
ballistically then there's a good chance
that you're going to get a little
further and it's going to teach you once
the bands are off and somebody puts a
shot put in in your hand that you really
can follow through and it'll be super
good again that wouldn't be the majority
of your training for shot put the
majority or something like shot but
training would be actually training with
shot put and lifting just conventional
straight weight but if you wanted to use
some light band tension then that would
be the way to do it probably not reverse
band style but actual conventional band
style
lastly there's a teeny tiny difference
that may or may not actually be there
and this difference is discussed by
coach kassem of n1 performance and i
encourage you to check out his opinions
on a variety of things
he's making the claim that if you
reverse banned a hack squat for example
then you get a little bit more
tension at the bottom than if you
equivalently same band tension uh use
bands at the top because bands at the
very beginning of their stretch seem to
produce a bit more force pushback than
they do relatively speaking as they
stretch out further and further i'm not
sure i'm convinced by this but it's an
interesting idea
and
that way i think maybe the hypothesis
here is that if you're going to ban your
hack squats or lag process do a reverse
band style instead of straight band
style another idea is to take the bands
on a leg press for example and you tie
them into the middle of the machine so
at the very bottom of the leg press you
get total straight weight halfway
through it straight weight and then when
you reach your halfway point and the
movement starts to become easier the
bands kick in and then it gets really
really hard that might also be a decent
idea to experiment with again that means
you're locking out with bands at the top
things get really wobbly in a way that
straight weight doesn't the benefit
though with that is you don't have to
use every plate in the gym whereas
reverse banding you do have to use every
plate in the gym and on that note those
are the small differences all
encompassed
what do we do with all this and how do
we use bands in our training generally
well
if you're using banding for any reason
make sure you at least hit the following
two super super major points so that
you're not just using them for no reason
at all first make sure
that your use of bands makes sense
for example if you are trying to use
bands for pull-ups you have to
understand that the probably more
hypertrophic region of a pull-up is at
the very bottom stretch not at the top
and bands actually make that bottom
easier and relatively speaking makes the
top harder
or they make the top no harder but make
the bottom a lot easier so what ends up
happening is if you use bands on
something like pull-ups
based on just pure biomechanical
analysis
with reference to the literature that
says stretch under load is probably more
hypertrophic than uh loading without a
stretch you're actually going backwards
as to what you should be doing so just
throwing bands on something doesn't make
it magically better it's also not just
hope it's another variation remember
variations have to meet the check mark
of they're still very good variations so
make sure that if you're using a band
you can at least tell yourself why
you're using it and you're convinced by
it i wouldn't just use bands be like
just something we're trying out like
well why right it could you know if you
if you have a gun that shoots you know
accurately at 500 meters you wouldn't
just get a gun that shoots you know very
inaccurately at 500 and just be like oh
i'm just trying this gun out like okay
what are its other advantages you're
going to buy a gun maybe it shoots a
wider spread of pellets or something at
a closer range it's got to have some
other check marks and if you're using
bands like well i know they alter the
force curve in a way that's not positive
hypertrophy
but
huh
why the fuck am i using them again if
that's how far you go just don't use
bands but if you're like but there's
this other benefit that i can rationally
at least to myself explain great that's
point number one point number two
is make sure that the bands result
in a good stimulus to fatigue ratio for
your goal so if you're using bands to
train the chest you want the chest to
have more perception of tension and or
burn compared to knot bands or at least
a comparable one you want it to have uh
you know the bands generate a really
robust pump at least a comparable pump
you want the disruption and the
tiredness and the fatigue and the
soreness to be at least comparable and
you want your joints and connective
tissues to feel a bit better so for
example if you have shoulder problems
where heavy pressing at the bottom
really hurts your shoulder but if you
use bands you get a baller chest bump
everything's checked on the stimulus
side but your shoulders just don't hurt
at all because it's a little less
tension at the bottom i mean that's a
huge win your stimulus to fatigue ratio
is higher and then bands get a giant
check mark but if you're using banded
bench and you're like it actually takes
me four sets to get just as pumped and
sore with the bands as without the bands
i guess it really worth all that and
especially because a lot of times at the
top bands generate so much tension that
the overall rep has more tension and
thus more systemic fatigue if the
overall repetition on average has more
tension applied right you're doing more
physical work force times distance it
had better do some stuff on that
stimulus side tension pump and
disruption and if sorry burn as well as
tension if that's not happening then you
got to wonder why am i doing this so one
of the best uses of bands when they are
useful is to take stress off of joints
not at the expense of the stimulus side
if you can reduce the fatigue side
specifically joint fatigue with bands
but the stimulus side is still really
strong hey it might make sense but if it
doesn't make sense don't just use bands
because they're super cool
and a whole bunch of politically
incorrect band jokes referencing to ways
in which people end it all
you know but you can fill in the blanks
on those i'll see you guys next time