hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and welcome to video
number five in our how to make the best
training program for your muscle growth
needs video number five
what is too heavy or too light and how
to manually change your load AKA wait if
you're not that sciency
I'm going to be illustrating some stuff
with the RP hypertrophy app which I use
for all of my training now it if you're
catching this video in mid earlier than
mid-may 2023 which is probably when it's
going to come out
hit the link in the description and sign
up for the list
the list will get you a discounted app
price earlier than other people and it
will also get you loads of free
informational goodies infotainment we
could call it if we wanted to combine
words arbitrarily
if you are watching this video after May
2023 then you can just go to the same
Link in the description top link and it
will just be a buy link for the app and
you can get the app if you want
this however is not a video just guiding
you through the app that would be
insanely boring and you could just get
the app and guide yourself this video is
going to be talking about how to
actually manage and change and execute a
good training program but we'll use the
app as an example because it's the best
program builder of all time I'll say yes
all right
guidelines on training load load
selection weight selection how to pick
the good weights and if you've picked a
good weight you think is good how to
know if it's a bad way that you need to
change I think four guidelines here
first this is a huge point
anything between sets of five instances
of 30 is just not a wrong answer
fundamentally there are more correct and
less correct answers but they're all
kind of right
you know it's like if you're going on a
first date with a girl you take her to a
KFC or you take her to McDonald's this
is no losers right Wendy's Taco Bell
check check
out the video guy we got Pizza Hut we
got what else
take that bitch to Domino's that shit is
expensive as fuck yeah dude I just got a
Domino's Pizza it was fucking 24. 24.
what is this shit did it come with a
blowjob machine dude how crazy is that
girl you must be out your mind that's
how much that wedding ring costs
shit in any case
unless it's dominoes and prohibitively
expensive sets a five to Thirty no wrong
answers it just don't have to worry
about it a ton
now there are more particular nuances
which we can get a more correct answer
than already the generally correct
answer and here's a couple of ways so
Point number two
whatever leaves the muscles that you're
targeting as the limiting factor is a
better rep range and thus whatever
weight gets you into that rep range for
example
if you do squats at more than 15 reps
per set you will generally notice two
things give out before your quads your
lower back it's really tired you start
to round over and you're like my quads
of more juice but I can't stand up
straight anymore or two your lungs and
you're like
and it's not about your legs anymore
it's that your lungs are hearing out so
squats and other what are called
anti-gravity stabilization exercises
um like rose for example above uh 15
reps or 20 reps if you do barbell rows
for 20 reps your lower back just gets
tired or you get out of breath and your
muscles the pulling muscles of the back
just aren't doing anything anymore so
make sure the muscle is still limiting
factor the rep range has a lot to say
about that
next
pick loads and stick to loads that feel
safer and Kinder on your joints for
example if you're doing one arm preacher
curls
or lateral races with dumbbells and
you're doing it sets of five to eight
reps fresh as a first exercise
oh man that's just I
look I'm not into like the whole
kinesiophobia shit so like you rock on
technically speaking you probably won't
get hurt especially as you get stronger
it's just a lot of freaking and clinging
and weirdness and just if everything's
roughly similarly effective between 5
and 30 reps
you will find over time through
experience that sets of 10 15 20 plus
for isolation exercises just tend to
feel better on your joints compound
movements if you want them properly
because they distribute the load through
multiple joints and one joint can take
the slack of another seem to be much
better for heavier loads and for lower
wrap ranges but for isolations it's kind
of fucking weird to do a curl for a set
of six heavy and be like yeah but that's
it someone's like how does that feel on
your bicep really
my elbows hurt I think the bicep's close
by so maybe some of the pain could go to
the bicep and throw it somehow I don't
know if that works like that it doesn't
lastly
if you get to close to 5 or 30 reps
and start to get below five or above 30
the RP hypertrophy app will warn you
and
it's no big deal if you know your shit
you could just be like whatever I don't
care
and I know I'm doing sets of five and
four but this is what works for my body
or you're like yeah I'm doing a sets of
35 walk-in lunges it fucks me up and
technically speaking the difference
between an hypertrophy between sets of
30 and sets of 32 or 35 is like nominal
but basically non-existent yeah sure
sets of 1560 definitely there's a
distinct drop off because the weight's
not heavy enough but like you know you
could do a set of 35 in a little walking
lunge if it's close to failure you're
fucking growing period so you can always
just say nah no thanks
or if it's too heavy lower the load
if it's too light raise the load and
avoid the extremes no worries either way
you're in charge
if your load
is off of what the app thinks it should
be
and it's way outside the margins like if
you were gonna lift 100 pounds but
you're like man I need to do either 50
or 150 100 is just not working
the app isn't going to be able to tell
you hey you have to do XYZ number of
reps because last week you hit eight
reps for example let's say you're using
the 50-pound dumbbells for chest
dumbbell chest press
you hit sets of eight last week
this week the app's like you know hey
like 55 pounds and you know you should
hit
sets of eight
but for some reason you find it like
compelling for you to do
70 pounds the app's not going to be like
yeah like that converts to a sets of
three it's so far away that the
prediction algorithm is inaccurate and
we don't want to spit out one of the app
telling you things that are nonsense
so the app is going to say okay 70
pounds great that's the weight so right
here on the uh the thing you say Okay I
want you know barbell bent rows let's
say here as an example lift doesn't
matter we choose 70 pounds it's going to
have the rir for you as opposed to like
having a weight here and the Reps
already as a Target you could even have
had the Reps as the target but then it
switches from like saying hey you have
to do eight it'll look like this it'll
say hey actually two RAR that's the Taps
that's the app tacitly admitting that
like I don't know what reps you're gonna
get because everyone's so different that
far away from the weight they planned
that it can't tell
that being as it is I would recommend
that if you want to use the app to its
best abilities stay real close to the
weight so for example if the app says do
135 pounds because last week you did 130
it's totally cool to do 130 again or
even 125 it'll auto adjust the Reps to
be higher so that you get the same
stimulus
uh slightly better stimulus actually the
app make sure you progress
and if you want to do 145 or 150 that's
totally cool but if you did 135 and you
want to go to like 180 the app's going
to be like ah man I just don't really
know what to do for that because it's
way outside so I would recommend for
progression purposes for the app to keep
you on track and for repeatability and a
little bit on the safety side and just
good progression stick with the weights
first of all that the app recommends
because it has your best interests
literally programmed and also if you
have a little bit of discretion which
you should totally take if you think
like yeah 145 is too light I'm going to
go to 150. it will auto adjust the Reps
if it's close to make sure you're still
on track for progressing
damn that's pretty dope folks that's it
for this time let's see what we're
talking about next time next time we are
going to talk about
how to use the different training
modalities and work them in through the
hypertrophy app we're talking about
straight sets down sets drop sets
supersets
etc etc et cetera we're going to go
through every single one of those
special modalities
talk about how what they are why they
are useful in training and how
maybe even what exercises to do them
with and maybe what exercise is not to
how to do some rest times we'll cover
all that stuff and we'll show you
examples of how to track that
programming in the app so the app
becomes your best friend you only ever
talk to the app you shun your friends
and family you stop showering your
fingernails go out and as long as you
hit that subscribe button every year for
the low low price of the yearly discount
I'm mad at you
see you next time