it's fine if you want to skip leg day
yes I said it yes get up from your chair
start clapping this is the video you leg
Skippers have been waiting for all this
time Dr pack here straight out of the
Doctors Without Borders office AKA
Milo's office who's also a doctor a real
one borders schor 2024 we out here gang
a bit click baity or quite a bit C Betty
I know but hey ho man's got to eat we
got to play the game you know the dealio
ailio
so the past year plus the past couple of
years I've been training my legs with
relatively low volumes now for the past
year those volumes have been extremely
low one to three sets of squats and
deadlifts for my quads and hamstrings
respectively usually in the form of
singles or triples with the odd five rep
set here and there and I've had like a
few months where I also did Romanian
deadlifts why you may ask because I
simply don't want to train legs and
that's really the point of this message
if you do not want to train your legs or
any other body part you're fine to not
train them it's totally fine you're not
going to miss out on the health benefits
of resistance exercise and you are not
going to be less of a lifter I mean in
certain circles you will be and in my
opinion if you are not blessed with
solid leg genetics and you're you know
you're essentially looking like a
[Music]
flamingo it's probably wise to do
something for your legs to get them up
to speed but these are my aesthetic
standards and in reality you shouldn't
care what some random fcho on YouTube
thinks about you so if leg training is
not something that you have fun with and
you don't look forward to leg day and
you're not a bodybuilder modifying it or
doing just the bare minimum to get some
gains and keep your legs at a solid size
or maintain leg strength just for the
sake of maintaining leg strength is
totally fine you could completely skip
training your legs but obviously that
may then result in other muscle groups
not being trained whatsoever including
your glutes including your um Erectors
and ideally you'd want to have some
stimulus for those muscle groups for a
more complete development or of your
physique and strength again do I think
that the average person person who is
engaging in resistance training let
exclude any sort of compound or
isolation work for their legs and
they're doing a bunch of upper body
resistance training multiple times per
week and they're Physically Active do I
think that that person is going to
notice that they're not training their
legs massively in their everyday life do
I think that they will be less healthy
and less functional no could they look a
bit funny when they're wearing shorts if
they have an extremely developed upper
body sure but then that's up to them to
decide whether they want to go with that
look or not overall though the message
here is to not just skip what is hard
simply because it's hard but see what
aligns with your overall goals and do
what fits within your goals if you're
somebody who hates leg training I would
personally recommend to not Skip Leg
training altogether to find two to four
exercises in total so two for quads two
for hamstrings that you can perform with
a minimum effective training dose sort
of approach where you do a couple couple
of sets of each exercise per week at a
very close proximity to failure quickly
bang those out whichever exercise you
like and make sure that if all those
exercises are isolation exercises or
exercises that don't massively involve
your gluten Erectors to throw in some
form of direct erector and glue training
that you could do some hyperextensions
you could um do some ghr you could
literally do whatever you feel is
appropriate and what you enjoy doing if
you want to have the juiciest quads
glutes Erectors adductors hamstrings
calves Of All Times be go ahead smash
your legs if you're like me and I am a
bit of an exception and you're somebody
who has been putting in the work for
years and now you're just like okay
that's enough of you know I've had
enough of grueling squat sessions I'm
just going to do some heavy squats every
week to maintain my strength you could
do that as well I've as I mentioned I
personally love deadlifting and I have
been deadlifting progressively for the
past 5 years or so so although I train
with very little volumes on for my
hamstrings my deadlift 1 RM is
relatively solid and it's still going up
and my hamstrings do get a couple of
heavy close to failure sets of deadlifts
per week all beat at lower reps and
because I love deadlifts and my quad
exercise of choices squats my rectors
and glutes all get some form of stimulus
at least enough stimulus to be there to
be strong to be healthy but if you're
the third archetype and you absolutely
hate any sort of leg training and you
don't care about how your physique looks
or and you don't care about whether you
look somewhat disproportional it's
totally fine to skip them you don't need
to feel any guilt you don't need to make
up excuses to skip like they you don't
need to say oh my knees when I was young
I was playing football and something
something something or the usual or I
had surgery even if you had surgery it's
an excuse Vlad alhazov came back from
tearing both of his knees and squatted
520 kilos you're going to be fine you
can still do a plethora of exercise with
low uh low loads now I'm hating on you
for skipping legs no I'm hating on you
for lying and just being an archetype of
oh I skipped legs but I'm pretending
like I wanted to do legs just own it
just be out there and be like yo bro I I
don't [ __ ] want to do legs I'm not
doing legs I'm not going to train my
legs go [ __ ] yourself okay okay and then
proceed to list other things that you do
outside of the gym that these other
people don't do get in a fight stop
being friends be sad be upset get fat
quit the gym then end up having to
return to the gym and training legs cuz
now you've completely atrophied ever and
that's how you trick yourself into
training legs but I digress and we're at
this part of the video where I'm
completely losing it and I'm ready to
tell you to like subscribe hit the
notification Bell hit the the the wall
in celebration to the ending of this
video because you couldn't wait for it
to end psych you loved it leave a
comment below send me money send me love
hug me if you see me on the road but
please throw a disclaimer before you hug
me because I may get overly horny all of
a sudden and we do not want a lawsuit
just kidding this was a joke do not sue
me I will not touch you unless I have
your consent and a written form
specifically going over the ways that
I'm allowed to touch you and even then I
will ask for more consent and video
evidence and another consent and another
form 2024 uncan go yourselves
peace