diet soda just the switch is one of the
easiest things in the world because your
body sort of still feels like it's
getting the sugar and the diet soda
tastes great but if you just take like
three regular cans or bottles of
Coca-Cola classic and replace them with
Coke Zero let's say you just have three
cans of Coke or bottles of Coke
throughout the day that is in excess of
500 calories that if replaced by Coke
Zero is simply gone from your diet and
if you change nothing else which you
often won't you can lose a pound per
week for many many weeks ahead and I'm
sure you have stories of your own or
friends or family and relatives that
have lost a ton of weight either
starting with or only switching out
regular drinks and putting in diet
drinks it's a thing that works really
really well