all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of the fundamentals series it's
been a while since I've had the
whiteboard out so Before we jump into
everything to do with rest periods I'm
just gonna do a super quick recap of
everything we've talked about so far and
if you'd like to skip that recap that
you can just jump to this time stamp
over here but very quickly
so far we've laid out our training
ladder and this goes up in order of
importance
so forming the two legs of the ladder
we've got safety and enjoyment it's very
important that you have a routine that
you can run through safely and one that
you enjoy on some level if you're gonna
be sustainable with it over the long
term and that forms the bottom rung of
the ladder which is sustainability
moving up from there we have effort so
once you have a routine that's safe and
enjoyable now it's time to apply an
appropriate amount of effort so you need
to be exerting yourself enough to see
some growth but that doesn't mean that
you're gonna be taking every set to
failure you need to be within a
reasonable proximity to failure
once you apply some effort it's time to
apply progressive overload so basically
over time you need to be doing something
more whether that's doing more weight
more reps more sets etc that's really
how the muscle grows in the first place
and you also want to keep prioritization
in mind so you want to make sure that
what is important to you is in fact what
you're emphasizing with your training
and so your weak points your goals you
need to prioritize them by putting them
early in the workout or early in the
training week or perhaps by training
them at a higher frequency and then
moving up one rung from there we've got
all the acute training variables and
this is all the stuff like volume
frequency intensity that everybody talks
about and we've gone through most of
these now so for volume we said that
something like 10 to 20 sets per body
part per week there's a sweet spot for
most people to optimize their progress
and there is some newer literature
suggesting that perhaps you can get away
with more than 20 sets per week per body
part for some body parts but I still
feel like that's a little bit more
speculative and we're gonna go with this
as the sweet spot for most people when
it comes to frequency we've said that
training
body-part twice per week is better than
only training each body part once per
week frequencies of three or more may or
may not be better if they allow you to
perform more volume than perhaps they
could lead to more hypertrophy but if a
volume is equal the best we know is that
two times a week is better than once a
week then we also talked about load and
intensity in the context of how many
reps you should perform so should you do
high reps or low reps and we said that
really multiple for a wide range of rep
zones have been shown to be effective
for hypertrophy but they tend to have
differential effects on recovery so for
practical purposes we established six to
fifteen reps has the practical
hypertrophy zone where you want to be
doing most of your work so here we said
six to fifteen reps for most so
something like 75% of ear volume should
be coming in that practical hypertrophy
zone and then when we talked about
exercise selection we talked about how
it's important to prioritize compound
multi joint movements over isolation
movements so compound stuff squats
presses deadlifts should form the core
of your routine and then you should use
isolation exercises for some of the
smaller assistance muscles things like
biceps calves hamstrings etc and now
we're gonna get into rest periods so
this is even lower still on this order
of priority over here but that isn't to
say it doesn't matter at all
so before we get into some of the newer
research on this I just want to
highlight what the old school train of
thought is when it comes to rest periods
and you'll often see tables almost
exactly like this in current strength
and conditioning textbooks even though I
do think it is quite outdated at this
point but the reasoning went that if
you're training with the goal of
increasing muscular size or hypertrophy
you want to usually rest about one
minute between sets if your main goal is
strength now you'll want to rest a
little bit longer something like three
to five minutes and if your goal is
muscular endurance you won't want to
rest too much at all between sets so say
keep it under something like half a
minute now more recently a lot of this
old dogma over here has come under
scrutiny by more recent literature and
I'm just gonna highlight two of these
studies as - the first is from
Schoenfeld and colleagues in 2016 and
what they did was they split subjects up
into two groups so one group rested for
one minute between sets and the other
group rested for three minutes between
sets and they ran a eight-week full-body
training program and what they found at
the end of the eight weeks was that
there was better hypertrophy in the
quads in the triceps in the three-minute
rest period group there was better
strength in terms of bench press one rep
max and squat one rep max in the
three-minute group and there was no
difference in muscular endurance between
the groups so this was really a major
win for the longer rest period group and
then the next year in 2017 grid Jaques
Grichuk I think I'm saying that right
and colleagues did a meta-analysis where
they took six studies investigating this
pool the results together and
essentially found that resting for more
than one minute between sets was better
than resting for less than one minute
between sets so if you're gonna give
this any merit over here you should at
least rest for more than one minute then
really be rushing through your workout
and rest for less than that and the main
rationale for that was that it allowed
the subjects to perform more total
volume which I'll get to in a minute and
it would also depend on a specific
exercise that you're doing and how hard
you're exerting yourself on that
exercise which will also get to so given
this new data over here I really do
think it's time that we have a paradigm
shift when it comes to rest periods and
we really want to start to think about
rest periods in terms of their function
and how they can serve the rest of our
training goals over here so I think that
on my analysis there are two main
functions that rest periods have the
first is to allow for enough recovery
between sets and the other is for the
sake of time management or training
efficiency so let's just look at this
using me using an example if your rest
periods are too short basically you're
not going to be able to recover at
but leave between sets and so you're not
gonna be able to push yourself as hard
or move as much weight or do as many
reps on subsequent work I'm just as a
quick example if I had three sets of
five reps to do on the bench press I was
gonna put 300 pounds on the bar now I'd
be able to go in there and get my first
five reps no problem
however if I was only to rest let's say
one minute between my first set and my
second set there's no way I'd be able to
get five reps again for my second set
with 300 pounds I might get maybe two or
three reps and so by having too short of
a rest period the total amount of work
that I'm able to do is being diminished
we know that volume actually ranks
pretty highly over here when it comes to
priority on the other hand let's say you
had breast periods that were too long
I'm your workout may begin to feel
dragged out you might start to sort of
lose steam or energy as the session gets
really long and so I think that other
than recovery the other main function of
rest periods is to allow you to manage
your time in the gym so you're not
spending all day in there so with that
basic conceptual landmark stuff out of
the way and now I'm gonna dig into some
specific programming examples okay so
I'm next we're gonna talk about some of
the practical stuff so how long should
you actually rest between sets you know
split this up according to type of
exercise and we're going to talk about a
few potential exceptions so for the most
part between heavy compound exercises
that are gonna require a large amount of
muscle mass get involved and typically
have a higher recovery cost you're gonna
want to rest for slightly longer time so
for these I say three to five minutes
and then for isolation exercises that
usually have a lower recovery cost and
utilize smaller muscles I'm gonna say
one to two minutes for these and whether
you rest three minutes or five minutes
will depend on now the specific exercise
you're doing I'm so exercises like say
squats and deadlifts are gonna be a
little bit more damaging we'll say then
an exercise like a barbell row even
though it is a heavy compound and I'm so
for something like a row you might want
three minutes something like a heavy
squat you might want
minutes and then it also depends on just
how heavy you're going so if you're
doing you know a really heavy triple
just a set of three reps on the squat
you're probably going to want to rest
you know at least five minutes but if
you're doing something that isn't quite
as heavy if you're doing some speed work
for example then you might not want to
rest quite as long so there's going to
be some individual discretion on that
but that's a good general ballpark and I
don't think that you need to actually
time your rest intervals between sets as
long as you're somewhere in this range
and you're being careful and monitoring
that roughly speaking then you're good
when it comes to isolation exercises
again 1 to 2 minutes can depend on what
you want the pace of your workout to be
so if you're trying to get in and out of
the gym a little bit more quickly you
might want to go somewhere closer to 1
minute if you've got time to kill and
you enjoy training and you want to make
sure you're fully recovered then you can
go as high as 2 minutes but I probably
wouldn't recommend going higher than
that because like I said earlier you can
just slow down the pace of the workout
needlessly you can get distracted start
spending too much time on your phone and
then the pace of your workout is just
not quite as productive so those are my
recommendations they're very rarely if
at all will I recommend resting for less
than one minute between sets but there
are a few exceptions so in the case of
separated super sets so super sets where
your training antagonistic muscle groups
so let's say doing a lat pulldown super
set it with a dumbbell fly you're gonna
be training the back and then while the
back is recovering you're gonna be
training the chest and so assuming each
set takes about a minute to perform
you're effectively giving your chest
rest time while you're training your
back and vice-versa but I don't
necessarily recommend this in all cases
only if people are really pushed on time
and then it can potentially be useful as
an intensity technique so if you're
let's say just trying to really blast
the muscle or really get a crazy pump
and then I could see you know having
those shorter rest periods could help
force more blood into the muscle but I
see this more so as an advanced
technique and something that should be
done more so for fun rather than
something that's like fundamentally
driving Prague
forward when it comes to when it comes
to fat-burning I don't think I'd
recommend shortening your rest intervals
too much even though it may make you
sweat a little bit more it may make it
seem like you're working harder and
burning more calories in reality the
differences in caloric burn between say
a 15 or 20 second rest period in a one
to two minute rest period is going to be
really small and I think that we should
be looking at our training program as a
vehicle to drive muscle gain and we want
to think about our diet in cardio
routines as tools for causing fat loss
so I don't really like structuring a
training program in a way that's
centered toward increasing fat burning I
think that that kind of has it backwards
so that doesn't really come very highly
recommended from me so anyway those are
my practical recommendations for rest
periods and I think I'm going to leave
it at that for this video
if you guys found it informative please
leave me a thumbs up now if you happen
to be new to the channel don't forget to
subscribe and in the next video we're
gonna talk about tempo so how fast
should you lift the weights how fast
should you move them up how fast you
bring them back down and so make sure
you guys subscribe and stay tuned for
that video I'll see you guys all here in
the next one
[Music]