i forgot about that again folks i'm back
dr mike's back we got questions to
answer it's good to be back dr mike
how's it going
yeah well luckily that zoom said that
we're recording um that gets me every
time i'm used to the old zoom now it's
like it always psychs me out it was the
one reporter guy who was like jacking
off that they did this for right oh god
that's such a nightmare that's such a
nice i've had
nightmares actual nightmares very
similar to that i guess it's not
nightmares but like stress dreams where
like i like people see me jacking off
i'm like no
you know like oh nightmare scenario dude
honestly bro
on the one hand
yeah
on the other hand
after it happened if people were like oh
my god i'd be like yeah
they're like your dick yeah we all have
yeah i jerk off i do it a lot and that's
the best part is like if someone caught
you doing something immoral
or something deeply embarrassing in some
weird way
that people aren't supposed to know
about it would be like a it would be a
thing right like if he if he had gotten
like a piglet and was pleasuring himself
with the piglet then it's like oh now we
got we got some issues here but jerking
off
bro and this thing is like anyone that
says anything it's like you shut the
fuck up you jerk off there's two three
kinds of people people that jerk off
liars and psychopaths
oh that's a good good classification
scale that's it
all right fourth
speak with people jerk off that are
weird speaking that's right james what a
great transition speaking of people that
don't jerk off
or do jerk off we eric you let us know
because our first question is
eric eric oh it's got that nice rp tag i
like it it looks yes
folks a reminder
we are going to be answering something
like 10 questions per
episode all 10 will be of rp members
only and then we're going to be doing
something like two questions per episode
of non-rp members so if you want
to join the membership it's super
fucking cheap there's like two tiers
they're both cheap as fuck just click
the little join button there
send us some money i'm collecting
lamborghinis james collects off-road
trackers and we need you know again i
made this clear in another post
i don't drive my lamborghinis i pay my
butlers to do it i can't be bothered
with that stuff but you know james if
you have a car that you don't use the
oil gets gunky you got to drive them
around to keep them fresh how many
butlers does it take for your off-road
equipment to be attended to
i was actually just when you said that i
was like i haven't driven the van for a
little while fuck i gotta drive that
around damn it
so i need more butlers that's that's for
sure
i'm not doing a good job
yeah your butlers are doing a great job
so eric
speaking of great jobs we're gonna
answer your question and try not to fuck
it up too much also eric it's gonna be
tough to answer your question because
seemingly you are a dog i was gonna say
he's got a sweet dog a dog avatar yes a
very excited oh my god
sorry tangent i took the dogs to the dog
park the other day um
and
on the other side of the dog park there
was two corgis that were walking down
one was like burnt color and one was
like peanut butter the peanut butter one
was the fattest corgi i've ever seen it
must have been like 40 or 50 pounds i
don't even know how and it was like
belligerent too
like it wasn't even on a leash because
it's like that motherfucker ain't going
anywhere i don't know how it was walking
it was it was like a watermelon it was
so rotund it was it was a round boy for
sure
james what is your opinion on that real
quick before we start are people who let
their animals get really fat like
somehow immoral
or is it like it's a dog let it eat it
doesn't live a long time anyway i can't
judge for that because i have two of my
three animals are overweight so
not like obese but like a little like
you know low low he's always been kind
of a fat fuck ham got like too fat but
she's been on a diet and now she's back
to she's in better shape but yeah she's
big she's a big lady
you know the thing is about it's like
with humans and animals it's often
really similar the animals and humans
that are obese just have like a really
high drive to eat and it doesn't really
yeah there's not any external
circumstances like low the cat just
loves food but what are you gonna do put
him on a diet his whole life like that's
kind of i know that's that's was my
thing where i got him to like a like
like just below obesity like on the
highest end of normal before he's obese
i got him there and i was like let's
just hang here it's like not too painful
for either party let's just let's get
here you can just be portly yeah
[Laughter]
[Music]
all right
first question is eric's eric says hi
docs i have a question about
straight-legged deadlifts sldls when i
do the exercise keeping the bar touching
my body and heating my hips i feel a
huge stretch in my hamstrings but never
a full pump
after two or three sets of sldl i don't
feel tired but when
but i can't feel the stretch as well
typically my hamstrings are sore for two
plus days afterwards is it normal not to
feel a pump in this exercise any advice
is welcome so it's absolutely normal
we have a checklist system
of uh you know the proxies for stimulus
and the checklist system that's in our
hypertrophy book it's not exactly a you
have to have all the checklists
otherwise you're doing a bad job
more cases than not it's like if you're
at least getting some of these you're
fucking golden so for example if you're
getting big ass pumps
crazy skin stretching mind altering
pumps but you never get sore james and i
aren't too worried about you under
stimulating so what more can you do
other than get a gargantuan pump some
shit's happening another one is if you
don't get a big pump but
you are getting doms for three or four
days bro how are we going to tell you to
do a better job what do you get for
eight days and lose muscle or something
like that
another one is tension perception and
fatigue
if you feel like the muscle you're
contracting let's say your biceps crazy
amount of tension through put through
that you can feel your bicep fucking
tearing and after five sets of that you
can barely curl your own arm to your
face what am i gonna do tell you to
train harder let's say you don't need to
get sore from that let's say you barely
get a pump
what what other levers can you fucking
possibly pull so if any one of those
three little structures if you're you
know tension and fatigue uh soreness and
or pump and or all of those if you can
check all three boxes hey you're fucking
really winning but even just one of
those boxes is honestly good enough i'm
not worried about it especially the doms
one the dom's one is a special place
because if you say look
i don't get pumps or whatever but i get
crazy soreness for a few days how can we
possibly tell you to train better if you
train better you get more sore after
being sore for two to three three to
four days anything more than that is
pretty well shown in the literature to
correlate with no hypertrophy or
actually atrophy because you're damaging
yourself like if you're sore for a week
and a half after training a muscle i'm
not a sustainable strategy for getting
muscle growth as a matter of fact you
can lose muscle like that because it's
just excess damage your body has to heal
so if you're getting sore especially in
your case eric i wouldn't worry about a
fucking thing
well especially too it's like you're
sore in the hamstrings not like sore in
the lower back right that's when we'd be
like ah that's not so great um yeah and
you know this is just my personal take
but i don't i i feel like most people
don't have great like pumps in the
hamstrings in general like there are
some instances like if you do like leg
curls and stuff where you might get more
of a noticeable pump but i feel like
that's a tough body part for pump
perception or even just
uh whether i'm not sure how i'm trying
to phrase that but no i agree with you
james yeah yeah yeah correctly yeah but
so um
i wouldn't worry about that too much
especially if you're getting like the
soreness as mike already kind of touched
on
one thing that you did mention after two
to three sets of sldl i don't feel tired
but i can feel the i can't feel the
stretch as well that's just because
you're stretching out after each
subsequent set a little bit and by the
time you get to that third set you're
nice and loose not a huge deal there i
would say
you know you could maybe stand to warm
up a bit more but i also would say you
probably aren't doing anything wrong
either so i would just keep doing what
you're doing i think with hamstrings in
lieu of like uh the pump perception
which is like again it's just a tough
tough muscle for pump
i find that like the the stretch is a
good one uh and just the general sense
of like disruption i know that's maybe
kind of a vague word but like when you
do sldl's
well or you do hamstring curls well like
you can't move for like a solid like
seconds you're just like fuck fuck fuck
fuck i gotta
just have to be still for a second and
then you hobble over to wherever you're
resting right and you can tell that like
you you you cannot ask that muscle to do
anything else
i have another two another two hamstring
indicators for actually
disruption and the subsection of this
james is what we put in the book is
perturbation like your hamstrings are
perturbed and actually just had a video
released earlier on this so the guys
should be up to speed on this concept
but
uh after stuff like it does specifically
and in general hamstring work uh two
things
after like at any time after including
12 to 24 hours after try to raise your
heel to your butt and if you really got
a good stimulation that feels different
i don't feel like i'm using everything i
used to have back there another one is
like let's say you're in a shower
preferably a public shower with other
men hopefully they have erections trust
me i'm getting to a point here and you
drop the soap and you have to reach down
uh tldr hopefully shower alone and you
know occasionally you actually drop your
own soap i've done this on a few
occasions you reach down and you're like
oh my god the hell's wrong with my
hamstrings like you reach down you're
like whoa and you come up but way more
slowly than you thought you'd like you
know usually you reach down grab
something and pop right back up you
reach down you're like you feel this
tension and tightness and weakness
you're like oh you may be almost cramp
and you're like thank god i picked it uh
you know ducked a bullet on that one so
anything in which your muscles are like
oh damn you're fucking doing super well
and
you shouldn't be super worried about it
uh fun fact about public showering my
well pump died this week so i've been
showering every other day at my local
truck stop very fun
james this is one of these situations
in which i have so much to say so i
actually have nothing to say it's the
bottleneck problem where all my thoughts
are just going like this and then they
all hit each other and nothing comes out
uh have you seen any truckers in which
you were like
if i was gay
this would have to go down because
that's oh yeah fucking trucker yeah oh
yeah and you know what's cool when you
go to the truck station and ask for a
shower like i was feeling self-conscious
about it because there's
a it's a fee you have to pay
i go to the thing and i'm like i need a
shower and they're like yeah whatever
dude that's their job to give you a
shower
no big deal you ever have asked for help
in the shower you're like can i get one
of your employees to help me i can't
reach my back
yeah that's probably something john
phillips has asked for before but this
time john is here to ask a question
so next up is john phillips got it let's
expand his question there so we can see
the rest of it oh
john you presumptuous fuck oh
sneaky fucker sneaky fucker all right so
john asks hey doctors love these q and
a's multi-part question the first two
related a single leg unilateral tree
number one
oh
one of my doctor james i'm burping my
ass off here
squats are a constant source of lumbar
injuries for me i've never fully
ruptured this but i get debilitating
spasms at least once a year
i'm just recovering from the last bout
it's been a six week frustrating this
whole process i'm 56
years old i guess um
i just not that i identify as the number
56. 56 centuries years old
vampire shit
um
like you need more virgin blood that's
definitely
there
you just need to get in that coffin and
recover a little bit my man you need to
go to sleep james is there in most
because you're quite familiar with lore
is it is it accurate to say that most
vampire lore
has um
grades various blood sources on their
quality or is it is that uh unique to
just some vampire because like it's like
if you're a vampire and you like
exclusively feed on rat blood other like
high society like really pale vampires
that are victorian dressed they're like
disgusting but if you only have like you
know like if you only feed on korean 17
year old virgins that's like peak
vampires and let's deal with that yeah
there's a couple there's a couple series
that deal with it some of it deal with
like people's diets and they they like
the
way some people's blood tastes based on
what they eat um others i was i can't
remember was it was it uh castlevania
one of them did there was a vampire who
only wanted like like uh young women or
something from some region of the world
but usually no usually with most of the
vampire stuff they just kind of
they just assume that you're you you
kind of already know what's going on
they just just kind of ease you into it
i hate that i'm like a resident expert
on this shit lame speaking of i finally
saw vampires there's a tie in here
segway i finally saw
the batman
oh how was it some of you might remember
that uh what's his name robert pattinson
was in twilight movies um
did you see it i don't wanna give any
spoilers i know i i didn't but you can
feel free to spoilers are fine i don't
care about you
okay i'm gonna keep it spoiler free but
um okay i i really liked
the world that they did so they they go
right they just go right into it like a
i love it i don't need a fucking intro
everybody knows who batman is goddammit
exactly it was just like we're doing
batman you're like okay great i love
that they did kind of a twist on some
familiar characters i loved the the
scene at everything
ah i just couldn't get into
the the the the way he did batman i just
couldn't get into it i liked everything
else about the movie i just he was kind
of how did you do bruce wayne was he an
okay bruce wayne
so they they they they did like a um a
younger um
less developed version of bruce wayne so
he was kind of like like like young
adults bruce um so he was very kind of
emo and brooding and sure i like that
they they did a twist on it it just i
just that's not how i like my batman i
like my batman to be like grizzly and
old man batman edgy old man batman yeah
batman at his best it's worth the watch
i would say it's worth the watch it just
um oh and what's her name uh zoe kravitz
played catwoman and she was hot as fuck
lenny kravitz's descendant i believe i
believe it is her his daughter um she
was smoking
hey all right all right we're gonna go
see it um okay sorry john phillips
you know a lot more about vampires than
you ever wanted to learn um
all right great job for milo
i j oh poor milo i just started he's
going to be like john phillips answer 15
minutes later continuing on with john
phillips answer
just started seeing a chiropractor he's
encouraged me to give up squats until i
really can really bulletproof my core
and get my glutes to fire better
so on his recommendation i'm doing all
single leg exercises now
hold on james reverse barbara lunges
walking lunges front foot elevated
bulgarian split spots i have to say that
pumps and disruption are off the charts
yeah those questions do you have any
thoughts on single leg only training my
current thought as i'm reading this is
totally fine
what do squats really deliver that these
exercises cannot other than impressive
one around numbers
context the chiropractor is big into
olympic lifts and works with sports
teams not an overrate old man who looks
like an account well that's really good
that's really good that a chiropractor
knows some shit in the real world um i
mean squats deliver a really great loss
stimulus magnitude and they shorten the
amount of time you have to train just
enough to do one leg at a fucking time
uh but other than that they're just one
of the great tools in the toolbox and
they're not the the only tool that works
and they're not a requisite tool for
generalized hypertrophy so i think it's
totally fine what i would say before we
let james answer this sub question one
is by no means clear to me that your
injuries are as a result of
insufficiently active glutes it's
biomechanically i don't even know how
that would happen so again injuries are
probably
if i had to guess something as a result
of uh you know insufficiently strong
lower back that's typically the number
one reason people get hurt other than
just like structural pathology um and so
yeah technique um
practical breakdown with high fatigue so
but um look it i'll say this if the
single leg shit really works and if it
keeps you from hurting your back then
fucking do it i would some point later
try to really clean up my technique and
thread squats back in because you don't
want to not be able to do regular person
shit forever signing it off to like i'll
never be able to do this i would listen
to it at some point yeah but if this
works for you i think it's totally fine
james
yeah so all those exercises are fine
exercises the one so so the the downside
and i think most of our audience will
relate to this um with this strategy is
that that becomes more like leg training
and not necessarily muscle specific
training because it can be very
difficult on those movements in
particular to isolate like quads hams or
glutes it tends to kind of just really
work the legs and the hips kind of
overall so if you the reason why that's
important is because if you're trying to
figure out like your mevs or mavs stuff
like that trying to do weekly
progressions and sets or whatever it can
be kind of difficult to
do very muscle specific ones whereas
with this style you might just have like
a leg day and you do whatever it is
until you can't really walk anymore
because you're doing all those goddamn
lunges um but that's perfectly fine and
i agree with dr mike here i think um
you don't want to sign off the squats
more often than not i think especially
in your case where it's like a
consistent problem over time
uh it would seem that like whatever the
way that you're doing them doesn't fit
your build well for whatever reason
maybe it's a flexibility maybe it's a
range of motion maybe it's a technique
breakdown under fatigue like mike said
maybe around on your back i don't know i
have no idea but when it's a consistent
repeating thing it's usually that you're
doing something that's hurting yourself
and you don't know what it is and
sometimes you have to you know that
might be good to have your chiropractor
evaluate you while you're
practicing something like that um so i
would say don't give up on it you
definitely it's definitely worth it in
the sense that like if you want to be
jacked at some point it's in your best
interest to get higher sfrs from doing
more muscle specific training per each
muscle group rather than doing more like
general like you don't train just like
you don't just do upper body training
right you train like your chest to train
your arms change your shoulder same idea
here so i would say for now that seems
like a fine way to go um it might be
harder for you to do very specific
excuse me very muscle specific
progressions in that sense but you can
still use the same markers and you know
that like when your performance starts
to go down you're probably doing too
many lunges or split squats or anything
along with this along those lines yeah
number two is a much more
straightforward question paige's great
response by the way uh number two is
very youtuber slash fitness website to
even touch on front foot elevated
bulgarian flip flop which is not because
yeah which is odd because it really
seems to lengthen the range of motion
assuming i can tolerate the form is
there any reason not to do them no not
at all it's an amazing exercise so go to
town
and like one thing that mike and i like
to reiterate too is like it's not that
like there's a reason to or not to it's
just a variation on exercise so you
might have a a particular block or
mesocycle where you're you're just
focusing on the longer range of motion
variation instead of the more heavily
loaded variation right so if you shorten
the range of motion
more often than not you can use a little
bit more weight and it's just a
different emphasis that you're kind of
focusing on right where you could be
doing a little bit more load tension
heavy you could be doing a little bit
more control range of motion mind muscle
heavy
worlds your your your bob ross painting
here
yeah
well uh point number three is
contentious your thoughts on
chiropractics
never seem to come up on your channel i
would never have considered seeing one
until this recent injury so i prefer
sports medicine doctors to chiropractors
they know all the same stuff except uh
they don't come with the baggage of the
fact that chiropractors know a lot of
good stuff that works
and some for a large fraction of them
know a bunch of stuff that's actually
not true or the opposite of true or
completely insane
so um
i think they're a large fraction of
chiropractors that really know their
shit and don't deal in bunk or bologna
um essentially pseudoscience but you
never can't tell who that is unless you
really know your shit and so if
someone's like should i go to a
chiropractor my general answer is no you
should go to see a sports medicine
doctor
but if they're like hey my chiropractor
is really evidence-based and knows a
shit and doesn't think you can
solve
a viral cold by compressing the spine
which some chiropractors literally on
paper say they can do
then i'm like oh great that's probably a
person you want to see so the
chiropractics is kind of like
um you know there's enough of them that
are insane people to really sell you the
profession
and for me not to recommend them as a
matter of course but if you have a good
chiropractor that it's just specializing
in essentially sort of orthopedic
medicine then that's totally fine
yeah i tend to agree with dr mike here
there's enough charlatans in that field
where it's very hard for
me to like really get behind it i think
if you're having like back specific
problems especially those that are
impeding your activities of daily living
then yeah that's might be worth going
into
uh c1
the problem that you run into is that a
lot of chiropractors think that they are
also by proxy strength and conditioning
course coaches and or physical
therapists which they are not
um and they often kind of don't stay in
their lane and are willing to
like i said kind of act in a like a
charlatan way so i i'm not really big on
it unless you have like back specific
problems that are kind of um
affecting your entire the entirety of
your life if it's more of like an
exercise related thing i tend to agree
with mike sportsmeds probably the way to
go
all right
um next up is forrest nash fitness
i know that name oh found him yep a long
time friend of the channel forest nash
fitness says hi docs thanks for making
the channel membership available i'm
glad to be able to support rp monetarily
is the knowledge i've gained from the
content has been absolutely priceless
well thank you so much forest if it
really is priceless give us all of your
money drain all of your accounts sell
your home sell your car sell your
clothes
sell even parts of your body
forrest says my question is this how
concerned should we be about the effect
of aerobic activity quote-unquote
washing out some of the anabolic
stimulus for training i understand that
going for a walk slash run right after a
leg workout is probably not optimal for
perturbate but how many hours or days
after training does that remain the case
for example is there still a trade-off
of potential gains if i go for a walk
the day after a hard leg workout when my
legs are fairly sore
i'm currently doing a fat loss phase
trying to keep my steps up but i also
want to do everything possible to
maintain leg size many things in advance
for insight so we've got a couple of
things here solid question
solid question so uh first of all you'd
have to do a lot a lot a lot even right
after the workout to mar to
significantly reduce hypertrophy
but if you want your best chances i
would keep the walking and walking is
totally fine
unless you're walking for so long that
your legs feel really tired then you are
definitely turning the clock back on
some anabolic stimuli but if it's just
like i'm walking 10 minutes home from
the gym there's not a goddamn way that's
going to impact jack shit as a matter of
fact the extra blood flow coupled with
the fact that you're drinking a shake on
your way back may actually enhance the
anabolic stimulus sir i'm not sure sure
is how it hurt
if you're walking into running enough to
get tired from that after training i
wouldn't do it
uh what about walking and running enough
to get tired on other times well i'd say
for the first six hours maybe for the
first day i would try to avoid as much
of that as possible once doms has set in
all the anabolic
triggering you're going to do is already
triggered and the processes are going to
roll forward what you don't want to do
at that point
is incur uh such a difficult walking is
essentially not going to be and if
there's no way walking's going to impact
you running at that point if it creates
enough
local ampk activation and local fatigue
and burns enough glycogen to severely
affect you for your next leg workout
then you have something to worry about
so i would say as long as you don't walk
a ton or run a ton or basically do
anything that makes your legs tired
within the first several hours or even
day after your leg workout
that's a good thing and then keep your
walking and running within context
before the next leg workout such that
you're not uh sore or tired or your
joints hurt for the next slide workout
because of the walking and or running
you've done so basically like this if
you trained legs on monday
and you didn't do much on monday
afterwards you walked home from the gym
five minutes and then you sat around for
a few hours and you walked normally the
rest of the getting 10 000 steps you're
good to go
tuesday you walk normally 10 000 steps
wednesday if you go to amusement park
with your family and you walk 30 000
steps and then thursday is your next leg
workout you can't fucking barely move
your legs you're so tired that's a
fucking problem other than that you know
i wouldn't say there's a problem at all
and i wouldn't worry about it james
yeah this is actually like a really
great question and great answer from dr
mike um but i i appreciate this because
this is a point of confusion for a lot
of people and there's a lot of
interesting exercises at play here so um
generally speaking uh the washing out
effect is is kind of a time-sensitive
thing from for doing continuous type
exercise after doing more like you know
anaerobic type exercise so generally
speaking from what i have read
if you are going let's say um you're
doing like a concurrent training program
you're doing lifting and cardio and
maybe you're doing like cycling or
something or running
ideally you would have about at least
two hours in between because that should
allow the secondary signal cascades to
kind of do their thing after that they
kind of have already done their thing
and there's not really a huge um you
know washing out effect anymore it's
more in that immediate kind of like one
to two hours and most of your
metabolites and stuff kind of like your
lactate start going back down in that
timeline anyway so that's pretty
consistent but what's also interesting
is what mike was getting at is like if
you're just like walking to and from
your job or home or something like that
the effect is not going to be super
profound because
those are very low like activation
threshold activities right you're not
actually using a lot of muscle mass to
walk and a lot of the action once you
actually start moving a lot of it's
actually just stretch shortening cycle
of the muscle like you're actually just
very efficient at kind of springing
yourself around
the problem is when you are getting more
high threshold activity and you're
actually causing a very large proportion
of blood flow to be redistributed into
those muscles which walking generally
doesn't do a ton now it does
redistribute some blood flow but because
it's very low threshold you're not
seeing that effect whereas if you were
to do like a whole bunch of squats
and then you went on a bike and started
cycling what you'll see is a very large
distribution of your blood start uh
moving towards your quadriceps and
you'll actually start to see
vasodilation in your quadricep muscles
the ones that are being worked and the
harder you go the more of the muscle
mass that will see that effect so that's
kind of where you can run into a problem
for low threshold activities like just
walking and doing that kind of stuff you
really don't have to worry a ton about a
ton about this because you're not going
to have this like huge
muscle contraction across a very large
portion of the muscle which is then
causing reactive hyperemia and blood
flow changes so um it's kind of a i
really enjoyed that question but for the
most part
this really only is going to come up if
you're doing like concurrent type
training where you have like a cardio
like a continuous
and and you know intermittent like a
lifting if you're just talking about
like walking or going on hikes and stuff
mostly not a big deal at all
boom
all right next up is
ashton
bakazak
all right we're doing we're doing the
control f ash
oh god there he is
all right
ashton asks what it do docs
hello paw wall
not sure if i ever heard you guys
mention this phenomena before so i'm
curious after doing a workout that
usually leaves me with one to two days
of soreness
i didn't feel any during my workouts
today
comma i realized that i had hit my
systemic mrv so my question is
i like he was probably lifting and was
like you know what
i think i bet my systemic mrp
so my question is when you're past your
systemic mrv do you experience less
local muscle soreness and or
compensative recovery
maybe for similar reasons not getting
assumed when you don't sleep eat well
after a hard workout or am i likely just
experiencing stimulus adaptation repeat
about effect i can't rule out that last
part because it could be a ton of
reasons why you didn't get sore but i
will say that as you approach and
surpass your systemic mrd your ability
to fully tax the local musculature
declines because it's capped by your
system like ideally it would take six
cents to get you sore six high quality
sets but you did five sets because you
got real tired and they were low quality
since the effect of three and a half
sets three and a half cents hasn't
gotten used to it in weeks and it won't
this time so absolutely it's systemic
and mrv encroaching
means that you can do a workout that by
the numbers looks okay
but
you know it's underperforming and you
didn't stimulate enough and that's
really the big problem with systemic rv
is you're not able to really tax local
musculature if you were able to still
make the local musculature very sore
then you could still be beyond systemic
mrv and you're taking yourself a nasty
systemic hole but you'll still be able
to at least say hey i stimulated local
musculature well notice i didn't say
caused growth because you may be beyond
growing or beyond recovering at that
point but at least you're stimulated
well really when you hit your systemic
mrv in many cases that means
when it's a problem that means you
actually can't reach the muscle anymore
and stimulate it a ton like if for
example an extreme case
stiff-legged deadlifts
he did 150 pounds for 4x10 your last
workout got sore for three or four days
now it's your next workout you do 155
pounds you do 10 9 7 4 and the last one
your backgrounds and you're like i can't
even do this anymore you don't get sore
you're like why didn't i because what it
would take for you to get sore something
like the last workout you just didn't do
anything remotely like that so i would
say uh yeah that's it's a it's a finite
it's a fine candidate hypothesis that
getting close to your or over your
systemic mrv prevented you from getting
locally sore and if you're nowhere near
your systemic mrv getting sore should be
easier than if you're close to it
yeah i agree with dr mike here i'm
trying to think of examples of like uh
in my life where i might have
experienced something similar and i
can't really think of any because kind
of what you were alluding to there is
like when you hit your systemic mrv like
you're kind of just unable to do much at
all your life kind of is starting to go
into shambles so uh ashton what like
would be a would be telling for me in
this question would be like did you
notice your performance was going down
on everything not just one or two
exercises but like generally was going
down on everything like classic signs of
overreaching because then it could be a
problem like mike said of just being
your training was under stimulative
because you weren't able to produce
those big overloads
um but i was i've i've been systemically
overreached plenty of times but it
usually came with accompanying muscle
soreness
unless i was cutting that was really the
only time when i could really think
about like doing a really hard workout
and not getting what i would think of
appropriately sore it's one of the only
instances where i can think about that
the other times it would be like um
if i was systemically overreached i
would have to do fatigue management
because my workout or my life would just
be like all fucked up right so i'm kind
of i guess my point being here is like
um that seems like something that
generally works itself out in that
you're just not able to do anything
when that is the problem so i'm
wondering i'm wondering if you actually
were systemically
uh overreached or not or maybe just
something else don't know
uh the repeated bout effect is also a
thing it's hard to rule that one out and
it's something that i've been thinking
about more and more lately of where you
know your mevs and stuff just shift up
over time especially if you've been
using the same movement so you might
have done like three sets for a while
and now three sets doesn't get it done
anymore now you need four sets five sets
something like that that is a very
strong possibility
and the reason i think that ladder is
more kind of i would lean in that
direction is like
since you didn't report like that all of
your workouts were horrible uh because
you were systemically overreached like
that would be the then then we could all
go oh yeah that sounds about right but
if it wasn't the case
then maybe you were just under training
boom
next up is kyle e just the letter e
after i just appreciate this person's
name before i go to kyle e he's up next
afterwards oh yeah all right where the
hell is kyle e i'm gonna have to search
him
[Music]
knock kyle three kyle e there we go oh
superman
all right kyle e another member
asks
hey doc sorry if i missed
something and this is answered elsewhere
probably is
um all right i purchased a physique
training template and just completed my
first metabolite mezzo lots of fun not
either in the how-to fact
this
sorry either on the how to or the fact
yep
it mentions you can't if you can't do 10
reps
it's too much weight
and to back off the weight what i found
in some cases especially the supersets i
did the first set and hit like 20 to 30
reps and then i'd quickly drop by set
three plus and i'd be hitting like eight
reps it would be at failure
assuming it was less than two ounces too
little more than 30 reps is too much
what does one do in this situation i
wound up just taking an approach where i
started with heavy weights and then
dropped the lighter weights for the last
couple of sets trying to raise the
volume but i'm not sure if i'd be better
off just doing the same weight would
decrease we're calling it at that point
and moving on to another for that matter
so
i think that that generally referred to
the first set of an exercise later sets
we don't care if they drop in reps as
long as it doesn't go below five
um i do forget what we said for the
metabolite phase if we said below 10 and
all then the answer is absolutely to
make the weights lighter so that you can
stay over 10. so you reread that more
specifically see what it says but those
are the two uh potential
possibilities
and then just also food for thought like
if you are doing like eight ish reps by
you know in the subsequent sets but
you're getting like crazy good pumps
good mind muscle connection good
soreness like
those are all indicators that the
training is going over what overall
really well so
you know um generally we say for
hypertrophy you don't want to go below
five um i think sometimes we try to
streamline things for the templates i
don't remember what we said either but i
would also say like if you did like 20
you know 12 88
that's perfectly fine especially if you
really felt it in in the muscle that you
were training
boom
next up is
blomber
very well
all right blappa says good evening to my
fellow shredded doctors i got a question
that i've been pondering and thinking
about for months that i've had a clear
answer to completely changed my training
wow hopefully we can learn
do my sets have to have a constant time
under tension with no rest at all or can
i have a three to eight second rest
between some of my last and hardest reps
just help squeeze out a few more
for example my goal is nine reps on the
hexagon if i get eight reps at the top
end of my eighth rep i take a five
second break to let the burn go away a
bit and then finish it off with the last
rep would this be okay
or this be considered my reps and should
i only be counting and tracking the
first eight reps i do understand that
doing the type of training where i pause
to get a female reps is higher stimulus
and also higher fatigue so there's two
attempts close to failure rather than
one thanks chad's so there's only one
answer this question
there's only one answer to your question
luckily and it should be very clear
the amount and time of rest breaks you
take should be consistent for each
exercise through the mesocycle
if you started with my reps you finish
with my reps you finish with the same
number of my reps as a matter of fact if
you
started with straight sets where let's
say in week one you did 300 pounds in a
hack spot for a set of nine
with no brakes just regular cadence
if you can't get nine you can only get
eight without taking a pause you reached
failure
that's it so to answer your question
very directly no you cannot take that
pause unless you want to turn it into a
myra and no you should not turn it into
a maya rep it should have been a
pre-planned my rep break beforehand week
one my reps with two my reps with three
my reps so you can consistently track
your performance so
yeah if it's eight reps is all you can
get with a certain cadence that you set
out at the beginning of the mesocycle
if you can't get eight or if you can't
get nine and you need a break
that's failure i would mark down eight
yeah i agree and so um blampa you can
people do this a number of different
ways like so um sometimes we just call
it breathers where
this is more common on something like a
squat where if you're doing like a set
of 10 you might get to like seven and
then just do what we call a breather
where you just take a deep breath and
kind of recollect yourself and then
finish the last three sets you're like
that's okay if you're taking a really
long break like eight seconds that
starting to sound more like mild reps to
me um but like dr mike said consistency
is king here so with some exercises like
squats is another good example where you
might just prefer to do breathers on
squats as kind of like your normal
technique as long as you're doing you
know similar number of reps and that's
just like maybe how you do squats but um
you can kind of change those things
as you see fit but i find like uh if
you're just taking like a couple seconds
like what we would call a breather
that's just your technique at that point
anything more than that in that three to
eight seconds i know we're kind of we're
splitting hairs here on seconds but that
seems more like an intensification like
a mile reps type thing and that should
be planned out and executed consistently
across your training
boom
yeah
all right next up is our main man adam
klingelholtz
where i saw that earlier where was it
there he is klingelhoe it's
klingelhotz
adam asks what is the best way to
prioritize upper legs i've watched the
video on prioritizing muscle groups i
understand the concept of training
priority muscles first
and putting all the muscles on the back
burner mv i understand doing this for
several measures and increasing the
volume and frequency as mrv and systemic
fatigue a lot however do you see value
in putting quads and hams on different
days
keeping them together in the same
session keeping them the same day but
one in the am and the other pm or play
with all three and determine what's best
for my unique physique where would you
start any advice is great i would start
with the simplest thing and see if you
can still crank it so what i would do is
i would just have like two days of the
week
where i did uh upper leg i would do quad
and hamstring on both days one of the
days i would start with quads and end
with hamstrings picking a very easy
hamstring exercise a very difficult quad
exercise or two and the other day i
would start with hams and end with quads
picking a more systemically fatigue
hamstring exercise that you need to be
fresh for first and then maybe less
systemically fatiguing you're actually
loading quad exercises after for example
if on their
quad day i could start with something
like high bar squats then go to hack
squats and then go to lying leg curls
because you just need to lie down and go
up and down with your hams it's easy on
the second day maybe you could do stuff
like a deadlift i wouldn't do squats
after that i would do something like leg
press where you can sit down and crank
on a bunch of reps or some leg
extensions or something like that i
would start there and if you can get
both muscles sore and super fucked up
through that strategy i wouldn't even
bother doing anything more advanced me
personally
i've never had to do anything more
advanced than my quads and hams get all
the stimulus they ever need and as a
matter of fact it's so easy for me to
stimulate those muscles then recovery is
much more of a limiting factor for me
than the ability to stimulate you you
just never need to do anything
if you have a crazy mrv you can
absolutely play with two a days and
splitting them up you can try three
sessions
where two of the sessions have
hamstrings and three other sessions of
quads all kinds of different stuff but
generally speaking i would start with
the easiest simplest thing as i
described and go from there james
yeah i totally agree um there there are
other things you can do like to try and
play around with it and i have tried in
the past but one thing that i found is
that with the lower body exercises they
tend to just have a lot of spillover
into other muscle groups like glutes
like lower back so what you find is that
there's only so much like isolation that
you can you can really do on the leg
training so if you're trying to do like
quads on one day and then hams on
another day and then quads on another
day and then hands another like the
problem that you run into is that you
end up training a lot of the same muscle
groups just back to back to back or like
four times a week on accident
and that can cause its own unique
problems so what i find is what dr mike
said is usually the best strategy is
start with doing them both and have a
priority split
and then see how that goes i don't like
splitting up quads and hams um like as
by themselves on separate days i just
i've never been able to do it in a way
that worked well in my my best
estimation i can i personally will
sometimes do am pm but i only do that
when the movement is like very isolation
like ham curl knee extension and i do
that more not for performance reasons
but just as a way to force myself to
increase my step count throughout the
day so it's actually like not specific
to muscle growth in that case it's
actually more specific to like weight
loss and just forcing myself to get on
that fucking treadmill twice a day um
but again that that's not not like a
performance thing so that i'm training
my hamstrings harder necessarily or my
quads harder so i think dr mike's
suggestion is the way to go
all right next up is thomas just thomas
no last name thomas the tank engine
thomas got it
thomas another member says hey guys
thanks for the q a it's a question about
powerlifting and cutting
i have to cut about 2 kilos 4.4 pounds
to be in the range for an easy water cup
to make weight does it make more sense
to cut while i have a hypertrophy focus
program or a strength program i feel
like hypertrophy one will make me retain
more muscle and cutting while i'm a
strength program might be more impactful
in my performance but i'm not sure
if it's even relevant for only two kilos
to lose what do you jack doctors think
well i'd say it's relevant on the
margins if you want the best possible
performance even by half a kilo on your
total you will choose the first one
where you would cut during a hypertrophy
phase
the biggest problem with cutting during
strength phase as thomas you guessed
correctly is you know when you show up
for your strength workouts as a power
lifter it's your job to have those
workouts be the best workouts you've
ever had showing up on hypocaloric diet
blows
like it doesn't
and it all failed miserably
whenever you're doing those heavy
weights and you're dieting dude it's
it's just a downward spiral of like that
one didn't go so well and i'm feeling
shitty and i'm worried about the next
one like just spiral until you give up
on it
yeah definitely hypertrophy
should be the
default outside of special cases where
you had
you know scheduling conflicts
100
all right next up is shake daddy s h e i
k
oh boy
s h e i
s m
s h e i k
[Music]
did i not uh maybe i didn't unveil it oh
it didn't load yet
oh there he is shake daddy got it boom
my gastrointestinal doctor has requested
i temporarily follow a strict
elimination diet which eliminates a lot
of food groups and leaves me
for now with my carbs coming mostly from
fruits and sweet potatoes almost all the
carbs have a good amount of fructose is
there any science i know how high are
fructose levels
sorry higher levels of fructose versus
other effects
hypertrophy especially on a muscle gain
phase it's sad fructose liver glycogen
and not muscle any research into the
differences in fructose glucose and
other carb sources so i'll tell you this
fruits are generally have at least half
of their uh or an average of about half
of their
uh
carbs come from glucose and sweet
potatoes the vast majority of them
so it's nothing i would ever worry about
unless i was on a ton of drugs and
eating exclusively fructose
so i really just think you're totally
fine that's my best estimate
yeah it's a very healthy lifestyle too i
mean fruits and sweet
potatoes solid solid dietary choice but
yeah performance wise there's no no
reason to fuss worry
next up is our last painting member
question and then we move on to two
non-paying members to give you guys a
little taste
wesley pendergrass oh my god
this kind of commonwealth imperialist
name is that yes
count wesley pendergrass
i love it
his butler typed in the question for him
any tips on mind muscle connection on
bent over rows i can't seem to get a
good stimulation from this exercise
at most i get a lot from the erectors
but seldom the other back muscles this
is just a sign of my erector's limiting
factor probably
mirror and video work seem to show my
pin position
is good and that there
that isn't the setup for the exercise
that is the issue
uh i have two tips uh that i'll have for
you maybe they work maybe they don't um
one is to really emphasize the stretch
i find that that really lets me connect
to the muscles in the back and another
one is to try higher reps than you
normally would a lot of times sets of
five to ten on bent rows feel like a
whole lot of dick is happening yes of 15
20 and even 25 reps because they bent
rows actually happened so quickly that
the time spent generating tension
is uh a really
just not that much so instead of 25 bent
rows is maybe only 35 or 40 seconds
which is typically a set of 10 uh in
another in a pushing exercise for
example so based on that i would say try
to do higher reps and try to do a bit of
an emphasis on the stretch and see how
you see how that feels another really
quick one is
try to pull the bar into your hips
instead of just to your chest or to your
tummy and so let the bar straight out
real far this way at the top at the
bottom and then bring it into the hip
sometimes a wider grip can help and you
may be able to feel your back muscles
more james you got anything for him
yeah yeah so all those are excellent
suggestions and um sometimes too uh the
kind of the chest supported variations
can really help you focus on the
movement and not so much like
maintaining the posture so i find like
the seal rows the like the chest
supported style rows and then sometimes
even just like modifying like i have a
home gym set up and sometimes i'll just
put like uh
my chest on an incline bench or my head
on an incline bench just to kind of take
some of the
the thought off of my postural control
and really focus on the movement and
then combining that with like the higher
reps like i think 10 to 20s for me is
like a really solid and i think for a
lot of people is good but even the
higher rep stuff like the 20 plus is
really a good way of getting that mind
muscle connection on the rose another
one like mike said is widening the grip
a lot of times for whatever reason
people take like a almost like a close
grip bench press grip i see a lot where
it's not bad it's not inherently wrong
but if you're really not feeling it in
your upper back muscles that wider grip
really just focuses you to pull your
elbows out more rather than tuck them in
which i think a lot of people have a
tendency of like
getting real tight and then not actually
retracting their scapula as much as they
could
okay
first question second to last question
here from our
non-members is from
old rp favorite ali al mohman
there we go
got him all right
ali asks hey docs thanks for the amazing
videos as usual it's our pleasure
if the total time in the gym is fixed is
it worth increasing the number of cents
throughout the block by reducing the
rest periods
we consider this as a form of
progressive overload
especially since the reps will fall off
due to the reduced rest or to simply
order do the two simply trade off um i
think it's increasing
the sets is a good thing until the rest
time comes in and then you have to make
sure that you're not interfering with
the rest uh four factor rest model that
we've developed so like if your
sets are no longer limited by your
muscles but they're limited by your
cardio because you're not resting long
enough
you know any number of sets you add to
that equation is just going to make the
quality of the sets worse
so i would say
if you have to
change anything about the quality of the
sets in order to shout more sets in is
by definition not a good idea to do
um that's like kind of saying like hey
you know like we have uh generally this
you know we paid a lot of money to get
this
eight course super chef restaurant meal
um but it turns out we don't have time
for that so can you the guy just bring
out the courses really fast and i'll
just shovel them in it's like you're not
paying for shoveling in food you're
paying for the aroma the presentation
the smell that's like the sound mind you
it's all period theoretical i hate that
myself whenever i do it
as long as i live but uh you're
degrading the quality of experience and
quality really is number one in the
experience um
so i would say it's not worth it and i
would say keep your sets stable and uh
progress through irs faster potentially
get closer to failure and at the end of
the day when people ask hey how do i
maximize my results
with a short rest or sorry with it with
a certain level of time you you train as
high quality as possible within the time
you are allotted
and there's you just can't really do any
better than that
because the time is the fundamental
constraint
like there's just quality is going to
have to suffer and and that net result
is the same except you're just rushing
at best at worse the quality of
everything suffers so much that you just
end up being more of a
like a cardio workout than it is a
muscle workout and then you actually
throw the baby out with a bath water
yeah i agree um another couple things to
think about in addition to what mike
said is you might have to just start
thinking about choosing exercises which
you might have heard us say is maybe not
a great idea but you might have to start
choosing just more raw stimulus
magnitude focused exercises given that
you have a time constraint so you might
have heard us say like deadlifts aren't
great because you know the systemic
fatigue and the spillover on the other
muscles is problematic well
it's great when you're in a time pinch a
couple sets of dead lift hits a lot of
muscle groups and hits them really hard
so that's a good like a good example of
like a really just high rsm type
movement another thing um this might
sound contradictory but it could be kind
of complimentary is a mile reps is
another way of just kind of getting a
lot of high quality reps into a
relatively short amount of time uh the
problem with my reps obviously is that
some exercises are more conducive than
others so you know you can't really do
uh mile rep deadlifts though i was
thinking about shit
mike i'll take your i want your take on
this so i got a belt squat now at the
garage
i was and it's it's so great oh my god i
love it i was like i could actually i
think i could do mile reps on this but i
haven't like actually
gone for it yet and i was like oh i
should ask mike if he's done that
because this done it it's great
is it and the reason you can do it is
because it's not at all actually fatigue
there's not weight on your spine it's
just on your hips so when you're locked
out now mind you because you're locked
out there's a massive occlusive effect
and because you can't just completely
lock out your knees and rest because you
have to still balance you only get so
many maya reps out of that thing but one
mile rep set for sure will work if you
try to go for two or three by the third
one you're gonna do in one rep at a time
and then vomiting blood
oh okay so i did like a whole meso of
belt squats i'm on meso two and i know
i'm at that point now where i'm gonna
get to like
week one four sets week two five sets
and then after that it's like i need to
add something else or it gets shitty and
i was like maybe i should do mile reps
on this one and uh okay
i'll go forward one rest my reps like
two approaches to failure in one set
we'll change that exercise and magnify
it like crazy
fun fun okay i'll give it a shot
all right next up in our last question
for the day is by
a gentleman named trend bear
[Music]
cleverness at a thousand
oh damn it this trend wasn't specific
enough okay there we go trend but it's
funny
all right trend bear's question is very
straightforward that's a blood pressure
that's the perfect combination of this i
love it he says hey doc's do you have
any lifestyle tips to reduce high blood
pressure stop using
right although my name might suggest
otherwise i'm not actually i'm trim
i don't smoke or drink or do drugs i'm
about 220 pounds with a six-pack at six
four and trading combat sports four or
five times a week yeah and i'm an
astronaut trend bearer the fuck out of
here harry potter looking ass
motherfucker i'm just kidding we're
gonna take you out your word i randomly
found out that i have high blood
pressure went to a family physician but
she told me to exercise more lose weight
stop smoking and drink
and drinking and fuck off since i'm only
30 and nothing else is wrong with me so
your family physician is just one of two
options here was not available to the
reality of your current situation or is
derelict in her duties
um
you almost certainly need to get a
doctor to give you a second opinion and
that doctor if intelligent and trained
properly will prescribe you blood
pressure reducing drugs there are no
large levers in lifestyle
since you i assume train hard
if you have a fucking six-pack and you
train combat sports four or five times a
week and i assume you also lift weights
and you're 220 at 6'4
unless you're not sleeping ever or you
use meth which clearly you say you don't
use any drugs the only course of action
at this point is pharmaceutical
intervention good thing is they're on
like the fifth or sixth generation of
blood pressure drugs they've essentially
engineered out all the side effects that
blood pressure will kill you
it'll fuck up all your organs and
abilities along the way before it does
blood pressure drugs as far as risk to
benefit ratio
are like 10 orders of magnitudes better
than just walking around high blood
pressure if not infinitely because some
of them just have no side effects at all
or any long-term negative effects on
your health so i'd say blood pressure
drugs are the way it's at
what kind in what doses is between you
and a qualified doctor which is to say
not the doctor you're currently seeing
yeah i absolutely agree there's there's
no amount of um like relaxation
meditation or even adding more sleep
that's going to bring you
from a high blood pressure state into a
normal state at this point like the
biggest confounding factors are like
being over fat and being inactive which
clearly you are not so this isn't this
isn't like a thing that you can kumbaya
your way out of unfortunately i wish you
i wish it was um but it's not so i think
pharmaceutical intervention at this
point is really the only option i wish i
could say yeah just you know
do mindfulness training or do meditation
or do um
any other thing but it's just it's a
drop in the bucket you've already done
the big important things
100
and that's really the last word on it
because
it's it's tough to see this from doctors
too you think doctors won't say stupid
shit like this but
there's this whole idea of like well you
shouldn't you know you shouldn't be
using drugs as a matter of fact um a
proper course of action being that blood
pressure is such a nasty killer
good doctors usually have a completely
opposite approach to what your doctor is
seeing it's well let's get you on these
blood pressure drugs to control your
blood pressure put out the fire first
yeah right because the lifestyle stuff
takes a long time to kick in weeks and
months
and is by no means clear people even do
it and taking a pill is way easier than
changing your lifestyle so let's give
you this pill by the way it has
basically no side effects and uh
if you're responsible listen to this
whoa it's just big pharma shut the fuck
up you're delusional you're completely
out fucking out of touch with reality
technology is your friend you hypocrite
fuck you use an iphone shut up you use
youtube
and when you get hurt you go to the
hospital they give you tons of drugs and
they're great so sorry to get emotional
but on a serious note it's totally fine
to take pharmaceutical interventions for
something that we know is so fucking bad
and so terrible for you it'll kill you
and a lot of times blood pressure in
people
of course in the minority of cases
statistically but in a huge
um number of cases mathematically in a
large nation or a large world lots of
people just have genetically high blood
pressure and they will fucking grow and
get tons of health problems along the
way and they're already lean they're
like i know people who had like high
blood pressure when they were harry
potter lean looking fucks with high
activity when they're 19 years old what
else are you going to do you know even
youth isn't helping you you say we
really just got to switch to a vegan
diet to get out of here is drugs first
in blood pressure because it's so
goddamn serious and then you do all the
other shit to see if maybe eventually if
you do all the other shit you can come
off of drugs but in your case you're
already doing all the other shit there's
nothing for you to do but just get on
drugs and stay on drugs and have low
blood pressure and live a healthy happy
life
thank you big pharma for the love of god
we got a pill that solves this problem
and motherfuckers including doctors
apparently are out here being like wow
when i want to put you on this pill get
out of here
yeah i agree with mike here and then
trenbear just one thing to think about
with that recommendation in mind i mean
i'm assuming if you are training four or
five times a week in combat sports it
seems likely that you are competing in
combat sports maybe maybe not but just
make sure that whatever medications that
you get put on are congruent with your
competition schedule because some of
them are not so uh just be be aware um
obviously high blood pressure is a
killer as mike said and that should take
priority but if you do have competitive
aspirations just make sure that it's uh
an approved drug
boom
that's it that's all i got that was a
lot that was a bunch of really good ones
this time it's fun uh seeing the whole
gamut of you know like from the from our
subscribers and from other people so
really great questions really fun uh
let's see
dr mike any any interesting things going
on i do have interesting things going on
but i can never talk about it but i will
be able to talk about them soon soon
very soon
doctor not doctor uh nick shaw and i are
going to be in chicago for an rp thing
coming up i don't know if i can talk
about it though
chicago
um so
i might see some of you in my hometown
uh anything from you dr mike anything
going on any projects any fun stuff
don't get shot in chicago james
that's my house
see you i knew you were gonna say that
my man
now we're just going to be hanging out
at the
mostly at the airport hotel so nothing
excellent that's fun
yeah and i'll have joshua with me he
gives me more street cred
tons of street cred maybe too much uh i
got nothing i think we're ready to wrap
it up all right folks thanks for all the
great questions i hope you enjoyed it
make sure you guys subscribe and we will
see you next time