in this video i'm going to be ranking my
top 10 chest exercises from worst to
best now these are my top 10 exercises
meaning i think they're all good it's
just that some have a slight advantage
over others but of course this is very
individual so exercise number eight on
my list could very well be number one on
your list and just because an exercise
isn't on my list doesn't necessarily
mean that it isn't any good i'm gonna
rank each exercise out of five stars so
the perfect exercise would get a five
star rating and i'll be ranking them
according to personal enjoyment do i
like doing the exercise tension
generating potential does the exercise
effectively apply tension to the target
muscle progressive overload potential
can you reliably add weight or reps or
some other variable to keep driving
progress and finally convenience slash
ease of access will most gyms have the
exercise and will people be able to do
it without a ridiculous amount of setup
and then after i give my top 10 i'm
going to list three of my worst chest
exercises so you can probably avoid
those all right number 10 on my list is
the amrap push-up where amrap stands for
as many reps as possible so basically
body weight push-ups to failure the main
upside of the amrap push-up is that it's
so accessible all you need is your own
body weight i usually use them as a
finisher at the end of a workout to burn
the pecs out in a more metabolic
capacity however because i have to do so
many reps to get to muscular failure
like 50 reps or more i do find that
they're a bit too cardio intensive for
me i'll usually get to rep 20 or 30
before i start to feel my chest at all
which is essentially wasted energy as
far as muscle building is concerned now
obviously you can knock the rep count
down by loading the push-up in a number
of ways which we'll get to later in the
list and of course there's nothing wrong
with having to work your way up to a
full push-up either using a progression
from your knees for example regardless
the main thing to keep in mind is that
you should go all the way to failure
otherwise you do risk leaving your pecs
under-stimulated from the low loading
but despite its limitations the amrap
push-up can be a great way to challenge
yourself to beat your rep count from
last time i give the amrap push up three
out of five stars
number nine on my list is the dumbbell
stretch iso hold this is where you hold
a pair of dumbbells in the bottom
position for 60 seconds or so generally
i recommend picking a weight at around
50 percent of your five rep max so if
you can do a hundred pound dumbbells for
five reps i'd choose around 50 pound
dumbbells for your iso hold and similar
to the amrap push-up i think these are a
great way to finish off a chest workout
and they're one of those rare exercises
where you can directly overload time
under tension by incrementally adding
time to the set so for example if you
start at 50 or 60 seconds you can try to
add five seconds to the hold time each
week as a novel form of progressive
overload granted because this exercise
uses what's called isometric resistance
meaning the muscle doesn't go through a
full dynamic contraction and eccentric
contraction it may be slightly less
effective than exercises that use a full
range of motion with that said since
almost all other common exercises
already use dynamic contractions i still
include these periodically as a novel
way of stimulating the muscle there is
some albeit inconsistent research
hinting toward a possible benefit from
weighted stretching especially if done
at the end of a workout so later sets
aren't compromised and there's very
convincing evidence that training a
muscle at long muscle lengths in other
words in the stretched position is more
hypertrophic than training a muscle at
short muscle lengths so as long as these
are included in addition to dynamic
movements rather than replacing them i
think they're a technique worth trying
out i give the dumbbell weighted stretch
isohold three stars number eight is the
pec fly machine now there are a bunch of
different options here the most popular
is the standard pec deck machine where
you're essentially doing a flat fly now
i personally prefer a fly machine more
like this one because it's set at a
slight incline so there's a bit more
emphasis on the upper packs but since
it's not as common i'll use the standard
pack deck here which still accomplishes
the same basic thing and in general i do
like most pec fly machines because
unlike a dumbbell fly where you have
high tension at the bottom and zero
tension at the top machines offer a nice
even tension profile in the stretch
position at the bottom and the
contracted position at the top now the
reason it doesn't rank higher for me is
that they can be a bit harder to
progressively overload on compared to
other exercises at a certain point if
you just keep increasing the load you
might find it harder to feel your pecs
working or to keep your form tight so
when it comes to progressive overload
once you hit a certain weight on the
stack i mainly stick to just increasing
reps at that same weight or focusing on
the mind muscle connection at the same
weight but since i don't really think of
the pec fly as a heavy overloading
movement anyway i don't think that's a
really big deal and i mainly use it as a
tool to squeeze in a little extra chest
volume without taxing the triceps or
shoulders too much i also like the fact
that the weight stack makes it really
easy to do a drop set on your last set
where you can strip the weight back by
50 or so and crank out another 10 to 12
reps i give the pec fly machine three
and a half stars number seven on my list
is the cable crossover ladder for these
i do three sets of cable crossovers with
the cable set at different heights for
each set so for the first set i put the
cables low and fly out and up to target
the upper packs a bit more for the
second set i put the cables at around
chest height and fly straight out to
target the mid packs a bit more and then
for the third set i put the cables high
and fly out and down to target the lower
packs a bit more this variation between
sets allows you to individually target
the upper mid and lower chest with just
one piece of equipment cables also give
you a nice even tension profile so you
don't need to worry about losing any
tension at any point in the range of
motion and i find the uniqueness of
modifying the focus on each set helps
keep me more engaged on an otherwise
kind of vanilla exercise now this isn't
a movement that lends itself extremely
well to progressive overload but it is a
unique and effective pump style exercise
that most people will have access to i
give the cable crossover ladder three
and a half stars coming in at number six
is the dip now the dip is without
question one of the best chest exercises
from a tension generating standpoint you
get this fantastic stretch at the bottom
and a big squeeze at the top with even
tension applied throughout the range of
motion the main reason that it doesn't
rank higher for me is that i don't find
it to be the most enjoyable exercise the
fact that you have to load it with a
belt can be a little annoying and i find
that if i don't load it heavy enough i
have to do so many reps to get close to
failure but if i load it heavily it can
start to crank my shoulders a bit that
said i really do love the dip from a
pure efficacy standpoint and it's a
staple in most of my programs as an
exercise that lends itself well to
progressive overload as a chest builder
i give the dip four stars number five on
my list is the deficit push-up plus
bands i really like this movement
because unlike the regular push-up you
get an extra stretch at the bottom and
if you use a band you get extra tension
at the top so to set it up stack a
couple plates on top of each other and
loop a band around your back so it sits
just under your shoulder blades place
your hands on top of the plates and do
push-ups with a nice and controlled
tempo i usually do these for sets of 12
to 15 reps sometimes lower depending on
the weight of the band now obviously you
can just do body weight deficit push-ups
if you find that sufficiently
challenging or if you don't have any
bands you can have a partner load a
plate on your back regardless i think
this is a very underrated chest builder
that packs a huge stimulus without too
much fatigue they can be a bit of a pain
to set up but overall i do think the
gains are well worth it i give the
deficit push up plus bands four stars
okay exercise number four on my list is
the incline dumbbell press so i'm a big
fan of this one because as of 2020
incline benches have officially been
shown to result in superior upper chest
hypertrophy compared to flat and decline
benches for the first time before this
we mostly just had biomechanical
inferences and emg data so that
speculation has now been confirmed with
longitudinal data also with the
dumbbells you do get a little extra
range of motion at the bottom which
could be slightly beneficial from a
hypertrophy standpoint the reason it
doesn't rank higher for me is again
related to personal enjoyment getting
heavy dumbbells into position can be a
bit annoying and the effort required to
get the dumbbells up can cause a decent
amount of fatigue before the exercise
even starts especially if you're doing
multiple sets with heavier weight but
overall i still think they're easily
effective enough to override that minor
inconvenience i give the incline
dumbbell press four stars now for the
record i'd give the flat dumbbell press
the same four star rating it just
doesn't have quite the same emphasis on
the upper packs
okay in the number three spot i've got
the cable press around which has been
recently popularized by the n1 training
crew and it's a new movement for me it's
essentially a single arm low cable fly
with a few important features that i
think makes it better for one you get
quite a lot more range of motion in the
fully contracted position normally
people stop crossovers just before their
hands hit one another but that's
actually quite a bit short of the peck's
full contractile potential now you could
always just cross your hands over but
that can feel awkward especially if your
hands hit one another and then you have
to remember to alternate the over and
underhand from rep to rep so doing them
unilaterally just feels better it's also
a rare instance where you can focus on
each peck individually while still
having solid stability by bracing
against the cable machine with your
other hand i usually do these in the 10
to 12 rep range and they're a great way
to accumulate more peck volume without
fatiguing the triceps or delts much at
all i give the cable press around four
and a half stars okay so coming in at
the number two spot is
the machine chest press this may come as
a surprise to some of you but i'm
actually a huge fan of chest press
machines as long as they give a smooth
resistance profile and use a full range
of motion in my experience a good chest
press machine creates a better mind
muscle connection with the pecs than
almost any other movement because you
don't have to worry about stabilizing
and so you can focus all your attention
on engaging the pecs now obviously this
is a bit of a catch-22 as the lack of
stabilization means that other smaller
stabilizing muscles won't be as active
however as long as you're using a
combination of machines and free weights
and this isn't the only chest exercise
you do i don't think that's a big deal
also because most machines lock you into
a more fixed position you won't have the
same freedom of movement at all joints
meaning if the machine you're using
doesn't fit your particular skeleton
well it may not be the best option for
you in general i'm a fan of most hammer
strength chest press machines and i'm a
huge fan of this plate loaded machine at
my gym in particular i just haven't
found a piece of equipment that i
personally feel working my chest this
well while at the same time allowing me
to apply progressive overload
consistently and efficiently assuming
it's a good one i give the machine chest
press four and a half stars and coming
in at the number one spot this should
come as no surprise to longtime
subscribers
the bench press
going back to my criteria real quick the
tried and true bench press ranks about
as highly as an exercise can for all
four criteria it's probably my favorite
exercise period for any body part it
places high tension on the entire pec
throughout the full range of motion it's
very easy to overload especially since
you can micro load it with just five
pounds or less and it's very accessible
almost every gym has a bench and a
barbell now there are some people who
make arguments against the bench press
as a so-called hypertrophy exercise
they'll usually say that it's good but
maybe not the best choice because the
barbell limits your range of motion at
the bottom
this is true however i think this
concern pretty much goes away once you
consider that the bench press is rarely
if ever the only chest exercise someone
does as long as you're including another
exercise like the press around deficit
push-up or a fly variation your pecs
will experience their extra end range
benefits there and the overloading
benefits from the bench press also i
think it's worth mentioning that the
so-called range of motion deficit is
often exaggerated in my opinion
especially when you look at the range of
motion at the shoulder joint itself some
people also say that they don't get as
good of a pump from the bench press as
other exercises which is fair from a
personal enjoyment standpoint however
the pump is not nearly as correlated
with hypertrophy as many think and
mechanical tension is far more important
than the pump for muscle growth now i
tend to favor the flat bench myself
especially with my power lifting
background but i will periodically
include the incline bench press
especially when i'm trying to focus a
little more on my upper chest perhaps
most importantly though the bench press
is a very motivating exercise most
people myself included like seeing their
bench numbers increase which makes
progressive overload more likely there's
just something about hitting bench press
pr's that's so much more motivating than
hitting pr's on any of the other
exercises i give the bench press five
stars now as promised there are a few
exercises that i'm personally not a fan
of the first is the standing plate press
this one just gets gravity wrong gravity
always points down meaning the
resistance is pointing vertically but
you're pressing horizontally this is
much more of a dealt exercise than a
chest exercise and for that reason i
give it one star for the record doing a
lying down is slightly better but you're
still not maximizing pec tension at all
with this and i'd suggest just using
dumbbells instead next there's the
alternating one arm dumbbell press this
is fine enough and it will work your
chest however the extra balance that you
need to stay on the bench means you
won't be able to load the pecs as
effectively they also give each pack a
little mini rest in between each rep
which isn't detrimental as long as you
take each side too or close to failure
but i really doubt that it's optimal i
give it one and a half stars lastly
there's the dumbbell pullover this
actually isn't a chest exercise even
though some people still use it for that
purpose it mainly targets the lats
triceps and teres muscles of the back
and just about the only chest
involvement you'll get is when you
squeeze your pecs at the top as a chest
builder i give it one and a half stars
now obviously having a list of exercises
like this can be very helpful as a
starting point but it's also important
to know how to incorporate them into a
complete training routine for example
some of the exercises i've shown here
are better performed earlier or later in
the workout or for higher or lower reps
and so on so if you're looking for a
full routine to put all of this
information to use you can check out my
complete training programs at
jeffnipper.com i've got push-pull legs
upper lower and full-body programs for
all experience levels and if you aren't
sure which one is best for you there's a
program selector tool that'll make the
best recommendation for you and your
goals so i'll put a little more info
about my most popular programs down
below and if you use the code chest you
can save 20 off any program on my site
and that'll also let me know that you
came from this video and i'd really
appreciate that support also i want to
give a quick shout out to john green's
book the anthropocene reviewed for the
five star review idea i read that book a
little while back and it gave me the
idea to apply the five-star rating
system to exercises here on the channel
so that's it for this one guys don't
forget to leave me a thumbs up if you
enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and i'll see you guys
all here in the next one