[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the upright row with perfect technique
while avoiding injury and preventing
shoulder pain and we're also going to be
looking at a few creative alternatives
now in my opinion the upright row is
actually a pretty fantastic exercise if
performed properly because it may be the
only multi joint compound movement that
heavily targets the lateral deltoid not
the front deltoid like a shoulder press
or a bench press would so before we get
into the technique itself let's have a
quick look at the muscles involved first
so with the upright row we're gonna be
hitting the lateral delts through
shoulder abduction basically bringing
your arm out to the side like in a
lateral raise
and we'll also hit the upper traps
through some degree of scapular
elevation so basically shrugging your
shoulders up and the biceps will also be
involved as they perform elbow flexion
however that elbow flexion range of
motion is pretty small so we're gonna
think about the upright row as a
shoulder and trap exercise but I think
that if we modify the exercise properly
we can make it even more shoulder
dominant since I think you'll be able to
overload the upper traps better through
one of the shrug variations we discussed
in the trap technique Tuesday video so
first things first I want to address the
potential shoulder health concerns with
the upright row since according to one
2011
nsca report 36% of weight training
injuries occur at the shoulder complex
and since the upright row is thought to
have a fairly high risk profile because
of its potential for subacromial
impingement I think it's important to
consider three simple modifications to
avoid pain and prevent injury so
impingement is basically what happens
when the space within the shoulder joint
is constricted causing the bones of the
joint to jam up against the muscles or
tendons of the rotator cuff which can
then lead to inflammation in pain now
one way to cause shoulder impingement is
to raise your arm up above shoulder
height in an internally rotated position
so if you have healthy shoulders you can
try this now so basically you can
internally rotate your shoulders and
then lift your arms up and there'll come
a point where you'll start to feel
tightness in your shoulders which is
probably where the impingement
starts however despite the fact that the
upright road does involve elevating the
shoulder in a more internally rotated
position according to the NSC a report
upright Rose can still be safe and
effective provided proper lifting
precautions are followed so first you
want to keep the bar in close to your
body we're just going to help keep
tension on the lateral deltoid and keep
elevation of the arm more in the
scapular plane second you should think
about pulling through the elbows rather
than with the wrist another way I like
to cue for this is to think about rowing
out and up not just straight up which is
also going to prevent the traps from
taking over by emphasizing shoulder
abduction / scapular elevation in third
since most studies do show impingement
between seventy to a hundred and twenty
degrees of elevation these authors
recommend keeping elevation just below
90 degrees or below shoulder height so
in other words you should end the range
of motion once your arms are parallel to
the floor or you can think about ending
the lift once your elbows reach shoulder
height now with all that said clearly
there are individual differences in
structure and mobility so it doesn't
necessarily mean you're definitely going
to get injured if you don't make these
modifications however I think this is
what's really gonna keep the shoulder
safest for most people and I think
another modification worth making just
for the sake of optimizing muscle
activation is to take a slightly wider
grip 2013 study by McAllister hotel
found that a wide grip led to more EMG
activation of the lateral delt than a
shoulder width grip or a closed grip but
still because everyone's skeleton is
different you're gonna want to figure
out what grip is most comfortable to you
without going too close or too wide with
the sweet spot being usually around 1 to
1.5 times shoulder width for most people
now another thing that I love about the
upright row is that there are so many
effective variations my personal
favorite is the standing rope upright
row since it allows for more freedom at
the shoulder joint than the barbell and
you can use the cue to pull the rope
apart as you initiate the concentric
which is really gonna turn on the side
delts so you want to grip the handles
with a double overhand grip and stand
with a stable stance just behind the
cable I find a staggered foot stance
most stable here so I don't lose my
balance and rather than rolling straight
up I like to lean slightly back and then
pull the rope
up along the front of my torso once you
reach the point where your elbows are in
line with the shoulders or just a
of the shoulders depending on what feels
most comfortable for you and you can
reverse the motion allowing the handles
to move back down in as you lower the
weight down under control another spin
on this is the lying rope upright row on
a seated cable machine and I like this
option as well because it really locks
you in preventing cheatin and shifting
most of the tension onto the delts I
also really like the one-armed dumbbell
upright row or you can focus on
isolating one shoulder at a time with
these I'll brace myself up against the
end of an incline bench with my non
lifting hand leaning slightly forward
and then lift the dumbbell out to the
side so it should feel very similar to
how you'd initiate a dumbbell lateral
raise except you allow your elbow to
bend which is gonna allow you to lift
heavier weights you can also switch up
the resistance curve by using bands
which I'll do as part of my shoulder
warm-up or sometimes I'll add these at
the end of a shoulder workout to really
blast the side delts with higher reps
also because there's very little tension
at the bottom here I'll reverse the
range of motion early keep in constant
tension on the delts so for the most
part I recommend loading the upright row
in a more moderate rep zone something
around eight to twelve reps because it
is a multi joint compound movement you
can load it reasonably heavy however in
my experience when people try to load
the low eight reps or so I can't help
but cheat as their lower back and hips
get involved and it becomes a much
harder to establish a solid mind-muscle
connection with the side delts so as
long as your form doesn't deteriorate
there isn't anything necessarily wrong
with using higher reps as a way to
really burn out the shoulders at the end
of a workout as well so other than just
going too heavy I would say the most
common error that I see on the upright
row is bringing the elbows up too high
even though I don't think this is gonna
put most people with healthy shoulders
in the hospital right away I do think it
is contraindicated based on the
scientific literature it should be
avoided if you want to keep your rotator
cuff safe and healthy over the long term
it's also really common to see people
turn the upright row into some sort of
weird front raise looking movement which
kind of defeats the purpose of the
exercise as this is just gonna shift
emphasis away from the lateral delt and
on to the front delt which is already
getting plenty of work from any overhead
pressing or horizontal pressing in your
program if you want to make sure you
keep the barbell or rope in tight to
your body try to lift in that scapular
plane
lifting the arms out to the sides
similar to how you would in the lateral
raise
so guys that is all that I have on the
upright row I'd recommend watching my
video on the overhead press I really
think that's probably the main bread and
butter compound exercise for developing
overall shoulder strength in my lateral
raise video which is gonna target the
lateral delt but through an isolation
movement I'm sure you're probably going
to want to include both of those in your
routine you can also check out jeff
nipper comm for all my training programs
which always come with a list of
coaching cues for every exercise in the
program and they have a detailed
explanation of the biomechanics involved
that's what my fundamentals hypertrophy
program comes with three separate Eaton
training splits designed for anyone in
their first couple years of lifting and
I'll have a link to that down below if
you'd like to check it out I don't
forget to leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video subscribe to the channel if
you happen to be new and I'll see you
guys all here next Tuesday