far as I can tell there was no
compelling reason for most hypertrophy
oriented lifters to incorporate strength
training
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is going
to make an interesting claim that will
maybe upset you but don't worry we'll be
friends after
it is going to be the claim that I will
be making that getting stronger won't
help you get bigger
oh
cue comments
here we go
first reaction when I wrote this
PowerPoint that I had was how could it
not how could getting stronger not make
you bigger not help you make bigger what
a ridiculous idea and the idea that
getting stronger directly makes you
bigger is true like if you train for
strength and also going to help you with
hypertrophy but what we're talking about
today is a more nuanced idea it is the
idea that if you train hypertrophy for
an extended period of time months or
years
going and doing a strength specific
training phase for several months or
longer and then coming back to
hypertrophy after can grow more muscle
than just staying in hypertrophy
training all the time
the idea that means is getting stronger
potentiates improves the future result
of
actual hypertrophy training IT
potentiates muscle growth later
right it's like brushing your teeth
before you go to the club doesn't
actually get you laid unless you really
creatively use the toothbrush and then
maybe you don't even have to go to the
club but if you're brushing your teeth
that potentiates you getting laid at the
club later it doesn't itself actually
physically cause you
to be laid it is not the laying again
unless you're creatively using the
toothbrush so uh no judgment and as a
matter of fact kudos
the idea that getting stronger
potentiates size gain is very old
at face value very persuasive and it's
kind of often assumed as like well duh
however
we have to examine Point by Point what
strength training sets of three to six
repetitions as general strength training
is defined in the sports science
literature what is it actually doing for
you
and then we're going to open that up
Claim by claim and see how does that
transfer into making you more jacked
later
I can think of a few things that
strength training does for you
first it helps you coordinate the
recruitment of your high-end motor units
so you can produce a ton of force in a
sequenced way to actually complete a
lift versus stalling out
it also teaches you what technique is
good to use to coordinate as much muscle
as possible to actually get the lift
it's like trying to deadlift but using
mostly your glutes versus deadlifting
and using glutes lower back adductors
quads hamstrings everything
strength training teaches you how to
coordinate all those muscles to work
together
strength training teaches you how to
preserve your Technique even under heavy
stress if you could have good technique
under a three rep max you sure shit can
have a good technique under a 10 rep max
no problem
it directly strength training directly
stimulates muscle growth via high
tension duh easy so it doesn't just
potentiate potentially
it actually grows muscle for sure but
that's not controversial that we are not
arguing
it does allow you to use heavier
external loads later in training you
take a power lifter versus a bodybuilder
power lifter can for the size of their
muscles use way heavier hack Squat and
leg press weights and ostensibly you
would think that would help hypertrophy
it was using heavier weights maybe
stimulus muscle more and grows more
muscle we'll figure that out
and lastly it provides a much needed
volume and exercise variation if you
just crank high intensity high volume
hypertrophic training all the time then
at some point just having any kind of
break is great and strength training
lower volume sets of three to six versus
higher volume sets of 5 to 30 reps man
like that break by itself could do some
potentiating okay let's take this clean
by claim so first
strength training helps you coordinate
the recruitment of the highest end motor
units to produce a lot of force and a
sequenced way to get the lift
yes this is true but near failure
hypertrophy training sets of 5 10 15 20
Etc also does this and it's not going to
the hypertrophy training won't make you
produce more Force but it'll help you
get extra reps either way your
performance is higher and your ability
to get extra reps push that muscle
further to its actual failure point is
trained just as well with hypertrophy
training as it is with strength training
and as a matter of fact I would actually
submit that it probably trains it more
specifically with hypertrophil training
if your goal is to try to go from doing
sets of 13 in the leg press to sets of
16 by just eeking more fucking juice out
of that muscle training in that 13 to 16
rep range is the best way to do it yes
of course people who train for sets of
three to six will be able to take a lot
of juice out of a muscle as well but
their ability to do so may be limited
they may be not used to the kind of
lactic acid pain and psychologically
they want to hold in their cardio may be
more limited so the transfer of training
effect for making you able to squeeze
more out of training is actually better
or at least tied with the very actual
higher reps that you're doing
think of it something like well you know
if you're a boxer and you punch a wall
you hit the wall really hard and if you
can hit that you could hit a human face
true but what if you have sparring
partners isn't the most specific thing
to hitting a human face hitting a human
face the way to get better at least
directly at hitting human faces
going to the club and starting fights
I'm kidding don't do that
grappling is better Scott Scott Scott's
video guy are you are you seriously
that's what I said to her this is so
rude are you okay
it turns out if you want to learn how to
eat more out of the muscle
doing the hypertrophy training itself at
least does that as well as strength
training so on that no advantage to
strength training moving on point number
two strength training teaches you what
technique to use to get as much muscle
mass as many different muscles into a
lift as possible from the many muscles
into one group together in unison like a
deadlift that uses everything adductor
squads glutes blah blah blah blah
now that is actually learning a
technique that is directly antithetical
to what we want to do in hypertrophy
training which is usually pick one
target muscle group and develop a
technique that really tries not to
isolate it as much as to focus on it to
make sure it's the limiting factor when
you're doing hack squats you want to
make sure that your quads are the
limiting factor and if you have learned
to hack squats and strength training in
such a way that uses a lot of your
glutes and a lot of your lower back and
tons of adductors that doesn't really
help you push the quads further as a
matter of fact you're training a skill
that is a little bit of a detour away
from what you should be training so to
me no no dice there for strength
training no advantage and maybe even a
small disadvantage one thing I will say
is when we train people for hypertrophy
here at RP and they come from a strength
training background and they will attest
to this themselves they have to kind of
learn how to train for strength training
like people who are from power lifting
will try to use every fucking muscle in
their body to get a lift and we're like
no no no no this is a skull crusher
using triceps and they're like oh and it
takes them a few sessions to really get
into the groove so maybe it's actually
doing something you don't want it to do
number three strengthening teaches you
how to preserve your Technique even
under heavy stress give it like so does
high rep hypertrophy training near
failure training sets of 12 sets of 10.
yeah you'll learn how to preserve your
Technique or die trying same with
strength no Advantage there
it's the going hard that does that not
the heavy loads number four strength
training directly stimulates muscle
growth by high tension accurate but it
misses out on much of the metabolite
stimulus it misses out on high volumes
entirely thus it grows much less muscle
than hypertrophy training and for a
higher price of fatigue it would be very
curious to be doing power lifts for sets
of three or six anywhere between that
and be doing that next to a power lifter
who's doing sets of five to ten and you
he asks you hey you're getting a lifting
you're in a powerlifting I thought you
were a bodybuilder yep just trying to
put on more size and using strength
training for it he's like huh okay and
you're like what are you doing why are
you doing sets of five to ten he's like
trying to get bigger because that's the
hypertrophy fucking range for the love
of God backwards
right so it makes no sense
number five
heavy training strength training allows
you to use heavier external loads like
more weight on the bar in future higher
rep training right
but here's the deal
we try to have technique in hypertrophy
training to maximize internal loads I
want to use as little weight on the bar
as possible but I want to Arc and
architect and move my body into such a
way that really hits my triceps
internally the triceps generating a ton
of force externally not so much here's a
really a good example for the quads
squatting for hypertrophy you squat a
little bit back and then down letting
your knees come forward letting the
quads stretch a ton now the quad
stretched at the bottom means internally
they are pushed to their limits with
Force production externally it's such a
poor leverage point for quads that if
you simply sat back and down and went
just below parallel the quads are better
leveraged you can lift externally a
shitload more weight
same thing that if you put the bar in a
lower bar position crazy external loads
but internally your muscles are working
no harder so what exactly here is the
advantage
most muscle growth occurs per fiber per
muscle cell and if you just bring a
muscle close to failure and you really
try hard that really checks pretty much
all the boxes some growth does occur
between fibers and through connective
tissues but again if you try to Arc
sorry try to position that muscle and
position those movements in such a way
as to put themselves into a mechanical
disadvantage the internal tension
generated by the muscle is at least as
high as it is in strength training but
at the benefit of not having to put 500
000 fucking pounds on your back
not a winner here again number six
strength training can provide much
needed volume and exercise variation you
do different movements low bar versus
high bar squats competition benching
versus incline benching and your volumes
are like third or two-thirds of what
they would be in hypertrophic training
that's really good that's really good
but sets of three to six are really
heavy and thus provide a lot of fatigue
specifically joint and connective tissue
fatigue and they layer in a small but
notable addition of injury risk I mean
it's just a statement of fact that
lifting heavier while on everything else
being equal be more likely to hurt you
than lifting lighter so is it worth let
me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you could modify
an existing program or you could just
run the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
tough very tough so that's all six
points let's get to the verdict sort of
what I finally think about all these
things uh we got a b c and d
I I got tired of numbers now we're using
letters
point a
as far as I can tell there was no
compelling reason there could be Nuance
marginal reasons but no compelling
reason for most hypertrophy oriented
lifters such as maybe yourself to
incorporate strength training as a
matter of its own benefit to the whole
process of growing muscle
not to say that if you don't want to get
just fucking strong hey my blessing to
you
point B
for variation and volume reduction you
can use maintenance phases
and then you can use sets of five to ten
reps fewer sets so it's just maintenance
and not between your minimum effective
volume and maximum recoverable so really
about a third of the normal volume used
for training and if you use those
they're Superior on fatigue accumulation
they accumulate very little fatigue and
much less
injury risk because it's not heavy as
fuck that's a three to six it's much
lighter significantly five to ten
and if you layer in maintenance phases
with some active rest phases You're
Bringing Down the total system fatigue
like crazy in a way that is
categorically better than what a
strength training phase would do ask any
power lifter after three or four months
of hard strength training sets of three
to six are they really less fatigued
that would be an insane thing to say
they'd be like what the fuck is wrong
with you I'm beat to shit that's not
really bringing down fatigue for my
bodybuilding purposes and you would be
completely correct
see
beginners should probably spend the
majority of a first year even to doing
sets of five to ten reps they do get
lots of volume for growth but also that
five to ten five to six five to seven
gets them a lot of benefits of strength
training as well uh technique under
stress neural coordination motor unit
recruitment because they might not have
the technical wherewithal to do High
Reps close to failure they can
absolutely do lower reps relatively
close to failure and maintain their
technique
after about a year maybe two of training
the return on an investment of just
dogmatically sticking to the five to ten
range and avoiding 10 plus reps just is
very low the return on investment could
even be negative where it's like why are
you doing this compared to using the
entire broad range of sets of 5 to 30
repetitions and finding out where your
best training in there occurs and
varying it your best stimulus to fatigue
ratio
lastly
Point d if you choose to strength train
you're like look Mike I hear you man but
I want to get fucking strong too and I'm
bored as fuck doing a perjury training
no worries at all
a few tips for you as to how to take you
and take your hypertrophy training and
transition it to a type of strength
training and doing strength training in
a way that hurts you the least and
benefits you the most so here it is a
couple of tips first ease into the loads
if you've been squatting 225 for sets of
15 do not just will come to the gym the
next day and start your strength phase
and just put 275 on the fucking bar Cuda
245 then 255 then 265 Etc don't just go
and say
next you're probably trying to focus on
exercises that will carry over
hypertrophy a little bit more High bar
squats if you want to get stronger but
you don't want to compete in power
lifting just stick to high bar squats
versus low bar in most cases because low
bar beats the shit out of your body more
ask any power lifter High bar is gentler
on the body but will make you very
strong in high bar so when you come back
to doing our purchase your work hey shit
you'll be a high bar got
next take a few months so you can
measurably improve two mesocycles at
least not just one
a lot of people will say oh I want to do
strength training it'll do it for like a
few weeks their body just begins to make
the neural and Architectural and
Technical adaptations to really start to
get them stronger and they're like I'm
done well okay you just kind of beat up
your body for a few weeks you're just
taking a maintenance phase if you want
to get really strong strong
three four five months of strength
training in months three four and five
is when you're gonna be like holy shit I
might start to fight crime I can bend a
fucking barbell and then it snaps and
part of the metal just
flies and fucking hits the old lady in
the eye it's just like ah ah you're like
oh shit am I a villain and you lean into
it you're like fuck it you finish off
the old lady with the other bar handle I
don't even know what I have anymore shut
up Mike
next
make sure the total volume is low so you
can at least use the strength training
time to resensitize to higher volumes so
that once you're done with strength
training and then you take that last
point of an active rest phase after to
really clear out all the fatigue
specifically the joint and connective
tissue stuff which will beat you up a
little bit after that active rest phase
and a whole bunch of very low volume
strength training you can come back to
hypertrophy training start at very low
volumes and slowly ease up and you will
notice that your pumps and soreness and
all the other proxies for growth are
incredible at very low volumes and it's
going to take you months to get back up
to traditional volumes if you're going
to be gaining the entire way all the way
through
so folks if you have questions in the
comments I'd love to address a few of
them at least give it some thought if
you like this kind of nerdy stuff we
will see you in our members area which
for more money uh we'll get you more
nerdy videos every week and guys
remember I see none of this money it
goes directly to my Butlers who go
directly to the Lamborghini dealership
and they drive back in a Lambo they all
take Ubers to the dealership because
they always come back with a new Lambo
it's kind of a official rule at my house
if a butler leaves to go to the
dealership and comes back without a
Lambo they don't have a job anymore I
don't give a shit if they were out of
Lambo steal a motherfucker
and lastly if you like this kind of
stuff and you want to ask me questions
in real life and by real life I mean in
a live video chat
see you on ChatterBait I'm just kidding
do you think we'll get flagged for that
I sure hope not
uh see you at the team for ROM Forum all
the links are below get off ChatterBait
degenerate get a job see you guys next
time