so over the last month i quizzed 113 000
people on a muscle and fitness iq test
that consists of 30 multiple choice
questions about building muscle gaining
strength and losing fat in this video
we're going to be breaking down how well
my audience did and what the correct
answers were for example i was
pleasantly surprised to see that over 98
of people correctly selected a caloric
deficit as the most important factor for
losing fat but i was a bit surprised
that only 49 of people selected the
anterior or front delts as the least
active muscle on a cable row and only 16
percent of people got the refeed
question right but i do think that
overall you guys did pretty well the
average score was 61
so about 18 out of 30 questions right
and over 87 000 people passed the test
which i think is pretty solid because
the test was pretty hard i mean only 158
people scored a hundred percent so just
about one in every 1 000 people got a
perfect score and this is what the
results curve looked like so pretty much
a perfectly normal distribution with the
majority of scores clustering around
that 60 to 70 percent zone and if you'd
like to go ahead and take the test for
yourself you can still do so over at
jeffnipper.com forward slash muscle iq i
broke the test up into three levels easy
medium and hard with 10 questions each
so let's get started with the easy level
first all right what is the most
important factor for losing fat 98 of
people set a caloric deficit and the
correct answer is a caloric deficit of
course these other factors can play some
role in determining how much of a
deficit you end up in but overall the
first law of thermodynamics says that
even if your diet is super high in
carbohydrate or super skewed toward one
time of day versus another you will
still lose fat as long as you're in a
net caloric deficit over time making it
the most important factor for fat loss
okay next question do you need to train
to failure to stimulate hypertrophy
90 of people said no and the correct
answer is no you don't need to train to
failure to stimulate hypertrophy now
some people who said yes might have been
thinking that you need to train to
failure to maximize hypertrophy which
would be more open to debate but there's
no question that we can stimulate muscle
growth by training pretty far from
failure i personally do still think that
both failure and non-failure training
have their place but no you don't need
to train to failure to build some muscle
okay is it possible to build muscle and
lose fat at the same time 96 say yes and
the correct answer is yes we see body
recomposition all the time in the
scientific research in fact if you look
at the individual data from pretty much
any random training study you'll most
likely see a bunch of subjects that gain
muscle and lose fat at the same time
granted i still think doing separate
bulking and cutting phases makes sense
for some people i'm actually nearing the
end of a bulk myself but that doesn't
mean that recomp isn't a perfectly
attainable goal for a lot of lifters all
right so the next question is who would
have the hardest time achieving body
recomposition 86 of people said a lean
advanced trainee and that's the correct
answer the more advanced you are the
harder it is for your body to build
muscle at all especially as you get
close to your genetic ceiling and so at
a certain point of advancement a caloric
surplus becomes the most practical way
to push that ceiling up which then makes
simultaneous fat loss or recomp less
feasible whereas for the other options
here recomp is much easier to achieve
and i've explained why in another video
that i can link down below okay which of
the following supplements has the most
scientific support for muscle and
strength gain 87 of people said creatine
monohydrate and the correct answer is
creatine monohydrate the second most
common response was bcaas selected by
just over 6 000 people but this 2019
study concluded that bcaa
supplementation alone doesn't enhance
muscle protein synthesis any more than
consumption of complete high quality
protein and i personally don't recommend
them especially if protein intake is
sufficient all right what is the most
practically efficient rep range for
building muscle 92 percent of people
said 6 to 15 reps and the correct answer
is 6 to 15 reps now it is true that all
of these rep ranges will build muscle
and no there isn't one single
hypertrophy rep zone however the
question asks what is the most
practically efficient rep range for
building muscle and that's definitely
six to 15 reps if you do too much heavy
one to six rep stuff you'll need to do
more sets to accumulate enough volume
which is less time efficient and if you
do too many high rep sets you can impair
your ability to recover meaning more
rest time in between sessions so 6 to 15
is the most practical middle ground
however including some sets in the other
rep zones is still a good idea for
stimulating slightly different
adaptations okay which muscle is not
significantly activated by the exercise
shown below anterior deltoid was the
most common response which is the
correct answer however this question
definitely tripped a lot of people up
tens of thousands of people picked
either the lats traps or biceps as
non-active muscles here so let's clear
this up the lats will definitely be
highly active because you're extending
the shoulder or bringing your arm down
and this is the case for pretty much any
pulling exercise you do i think some
people pick the traps because they were
thinking of the upper traps but the
traps actually fan out and run all the
way down the mid-back so any time you're
doing a row your mid-traps will be
active because they squeeze the shoulder
blades together in fact even if you
modified the row to make it more lat
dominant by really just driving your
elbows down and trying not to squeeze
your shoulder blades together your traps
would still be very active because
they'd be playing a major stabilizing
role and even though the biceps won't be
quite as active as they would be on a
bicep curl you're still flexing or
bending your elbow so they're going to
be contributing to some extent what
won't be contributing are the anterior
or front delts they'll be active on
pushing exercises like presses flies and
front raises and the back muscles and
the biceps will be active on vertical
and horizontal pulls like this one okay
which of the following describes the
important eccentric phase on a bicep
curl 77 percent of you said when you
lower the weight back down and that's
the correct answer the eccentric or
negative is when the muscle is
lengthening and there is research
showing that having some control on that
eccentric phase is very important for
muscle growth all right which of the
following factors contributes the most
to muscle growth people seem to be
pretty torn between mechanical tension
and muscle damage but the correct answer
is in fact mechanical tension muscle
damage and metabolic stress may play
some secondary role but there's
scientific consensus that tension is
what drives hypertrophy i discussed
these factors in a lot of detail in my
five levels video from a couple months
ago if you want to check that out okay
last question on the easy level what
does rpe stand for most people said
rating of perceived exertion and the
correct answer is rating of perceived
exertion so rpe is your rating of what
you perceived your exertion to be now
these days most bodybuilding and
strength coaches set this up on a reps
and reserve scale where rpe 10 means you
hit failure or had zero reps in reserve
rp9 means you had one rep in reserve and
so on down the line all right let's move
on to the medium level
which rest period length tends to be
better for hypertrophy this one was
split pretty evenly down the middle with
46 saying shorter rest periods and 53
saying longer rest periods but the
correct answer is longer rest periods
this 2017 systematic review by gergich
and colleagues found that resting longer
than 60 seconds was better than resting
shorter than 60 seconds and that was
likely because the longer rest periods
led to higher training volumes okay
which of the following would not count
as a form of progressive overload so
progressive overload is when you
gradually increase the amount of stress
you're placing on a muscle over time the
most common way to do this is by
gradually adding volume so that can be
either adding some weight adding a rep
or adding a set from workout to workout
so just looking at the options here
option c increasing exercise variation
would not count as progressive overload
because when you're switching up
exercises there's no guarantee that
you're actually going to be gradually
increasing stress on the target muscle
this is why i recommend having at least
a few core exercises that stay in your
routine week to week that you aim to get
progressively stronger on over time and
i was happy to see that 88 of people got
that one right okay so complete the
sentence muscle soreness blank muscle
soreness can be a useful proxy that you
hit the target muscle yes that's true
for example if you do hip thrust and
your lower back is super sore but your
glutes aren't sore at all that's an
indication that you might want to modify
your technique next time to get your
glutes more involved muscle soreness is
very important for muscle growth that's
not true for example running a marathon
will get you very sore but won't build
much muscle at all muscle soreness
shouldn't happen when training with good
form that's not true either muscle
soreness is normal especially when doing
something new regardless of whether the
technique is good or bad so a is the
correct answer here and i was happy to
see that 78 of people got that one right
all right noelle is a late beginner to
early intermediate level lifter who
wants to build full body strength in
size with an emphasis on glute
development assuming she does multiple
exercises for multiple sets for her
glutes each workout how many days per
week should she train her glutes to
maximize gains without seriously risking
recovery issues okay so 96 of people
said two to three times per week and i
do think that's the right answer you
could argue that once a week might be
enough as long as she's doing enough
volume and that could be true however i
think two to three times a week would be
more optimal because she'll be most
likely getting in higher quality volumes
by spreading it out more and then i
think she could risk recovery issues
hitting multiple exercises for multiple
sets five to seven days a week that'd be
a lot of volume so i would say b is the
best answer here next question which rir
range is most likely to optimize
hypertrophy responses here were kind of
all over the place and i'm assuming
that's because many people just weren't
sure what rir stood for so rir stands
for reps in reserve so basically how
many reps should you leave in the tank
to maximize muscle growth so 44 people
said zero to three reps in reserve which
is the correct answer and i'm assuming
the 29 000 people who picked six to 12
probably thought rir meant something to
do with rep range so i was a bit sneaky
to put that in there but zero to three
reps in reserve is the right answer all
right for an average lifter using
standard technique which of the
following muscles is least activated by
the barbell back squat 75 said the
hamstrings and the correct answer is
the hamstrings there are two separate
emg studies showing low hamstrings
activation on the squat and if you just
think about it biomechanically three out
of the four heads of the hamstrings
cross both the hip joint and the knee
joint meaning that they'll be
lengthening at the knee while shortening
at the hip so the total muscle length
actually doesn't change much throughout
the range of motion on the other hand
the quads get absolutely hammered as you
extend the knee and the glutes will be
the main muscle extending the hips as
you stand back up next question billy is
an intermediate lifter who's been weight
training for almost four years he really
wants to grow his chest assuming he's
taking most sets close to failure how
many sets per week should he do to give
him the best muscular gains without
seriously risking recovery issues so 64
of people said 14 sets per week and 28
said 24 sets per week now this is
another coaching question that could be
open to some interpretation however i do
think 14 sets per week is the best
answer especially given the recovery
clause i think the further you push
above 20 sets per week or so the more
you risk potential recovery issues
especially when most sets are close to
failure also james krieger did a
meta-analysis on the current volume
literature and he suggested 12 to 16
weekly sets per muscle group as a
practical range for most people
obviously this will vary by muscle a bit
all right which is the most appropriate
protein recommendation for an average
lifter in a caloric surplus whose
primary goal is to gain muscle well 69
of people said 1.6 to 2.2 grams of
protein per kilogram of body weight or
0.7 to 1 gram per pound and
that's the correct answer for muscle
gain in a surplus 1 gram per pound is
about the upper end of what you'll find
recommended in the best science even
though i do think a case can be made for
slightly higher intakes and more
advanced lifters who are either in a
deficit or seeking body recomposition in
this case b is the best answer okay
which exercise is shown in the image
below 55 percent of people said meadows
row and the correct answer is meadows
row named after john meadows who was a
great mentor to so many people in the
bodybuilding world myself included and
you can see him demonstrating the
exercise here where you grab the end of
a barbell brace against your leg with
your non-working arm and drive your
elbow out to really hit the mid traps
rhomboids and rear delts okay last
question for the medium level what joint
action is shown below 47 of you said
shoulder abduction and the correct
answer is
shoulder abduction so you can think of
lifting your arm out to the side like
your arm being abducted by aliens and
the same thing goes for hip abductions
which is when aliens are abducting your
legs out that's how i remember it anyway
all right let's move on to the hard
level
okay you're programmed to do a max
effort set of four to six reps on the
deadlift if you put on a lifting belt
and use it properly which of the
following is least likely to occur a you
lift more weight yep that's likely to
occur most people can lift around five
to ten percent more weight with a belt b
you lift the weight faster with more
explosive force yep several studies show
that people can move weight faster with
a belt than without one c you
significantly decrease core activity a
lot of people think that belts make your
core weaker but this one actually isn't
true there are a number of studies
showing that wearing a belt doesn't
decrease core activity so c is not true
and then d you significantly increase
iap which stands for intra-abdominal
pressure that is true basically you
create this rigid column of air in your
torso when you push out against your
belt so the correct answer is c and it
looks like 43 percent of you got that
one right all right a strength standards
question here so michael weighs 80 kilos
or 176 pounds and has been training
seriously for almost five years he bench
presses twice per week with good
technique and uses structured
progressions to increase his strength
over time assuming he has average
genetics for strength and is dedicated
to the gym how much should he
realistically be able to bench press for
a one rep max and for choices we've got
80 kilos 100 kilos 125 kilos and 165
kilos so 66 percent of you said 125
kilos or 275 pounds
and i do think that's the right answer
if you've been training seriously for
five years you should be in the
intermediate to advanced category and
according to the strength standards from
my last video that should put you
between a 1.5 to 2 times bodyweight
bench press which would be 120 kilos or
265 pounds to 160 kilos or about 350
pounds for 80 kilo or 176 pound lifter
of course i think b or 100 kilos or 220
pounds is also realistic but i don't
think it's the best answer that would
only be a 1.25 times bodyweight bench
and for the example lifter given i do
think that would be selling himself
short and then 165 kilos or 363 pounds
is also certainly possible but that'd be
over a two times bodyweight bench and
that's usually only realistic at the
five year mark with some pretty good
genetics so c is the best answer here
and i was happy to see that 66 percent
of you got that one right all right this
was a tricky one internal queuing would
be most appropriate for which exercise
from a hypertrophy standpoint well 42
percent of you said easy bar bicep curl
33 said barbell back squat and 18 said
barbell bench press and six percent said
incline treadmill over 5000 people
inclined treadmill
so internal cueing is when you shift
your focus inside your body whereas
external cueing is when you think about
what your whole body is doing in three
dimensions so an example of internal
cueing we'd be thinking about flexing
your quads as you squat whereas external
cueing would be thinking about driving
through the middle of your foot while
lifting your chest up and based on a big
body of research internal cueing does
seem to impair performance including
strength performance you lift more
weight when you focus your attention
externally on the lift itself rather
than internally on squeezing certain
muscles so for this reason on heavy
compound movements like the barbell back
squat and bench press i generally advise
against internal cueing even from a
hypertrophy standpoint because you'll be
limiting tension by limiting the total
load that you can use so i side with the
most popular response here which is the
easy bar bicep curl to support this
there's also this 2017 study from
schoenfeld and colleagues which found
that internal cueing by telling subjects
to squeeze the muscle led to greater
increases in biceps thickness than
external cueing by telling subjects to
just get the weight up now if you still
think a or c is the best answer i'd love
to hear your rationale in the comments
as i do think there is a case that can
be made there all right what is the
average fiber type composition of the
soleus muscle of the calves so the
soleus muscle is one of the two muscles
that make up the triceps suray the
muscle group that we simply call the
calves with the other being the
gastrocnemius or gastroc for short and
it looks like 34 percent of you chose b
thinking the soleus is slightly type 2
or fast twitch dominant however the
correct answer is c soleus is actually
very type 1 or slow twitch dominant
probably because of its function in long
duration low intensity tasks like
walking and standing so i think you
could argue that the soleus is better
targeted through higher rep training
however the research is a bit mixed on
that so i'd suggest still using a
variety of different rep ranges for
optimal calf development okay which of
the following activities has been shown
to acutely reduce muscle protein
synthesis about 50 percent of you set a
high sugar meal 23 said cold water
immersion 22
stretching in between sets and 4 foam
rolling and the correct answer is
cold water immersion this 2019 study
showed that cold water immersion lowered
myofibrillar muscle protein synthesis
and this other study from the same year
showed that cold water immersion led to
significantly blunted muscle hypertrophy
across a seven week training study so if
your goal is to maximize muscle gain
cold baths are probably not the best
idea as for the other choices they were
just red herrings there's actually some
research showing that stretching in
between sets could be beneficial for
growth i did a whole other video on that
that i can link down below and i'm not
surprised that most people selected a
high sugar meal because sugar seems to
take the hit for pretty much everything
negative these days but there's no
research i'm aware of suggesting it does
anything good or bad for muscle protein
synthesis all right rachel is an
advanced level lifter who's been
training for both strength and size for
almost 10 years on an amrap set so as
many reps as possible roughly how many
reps would you expect her to hit with 80
percent of her daily one rep max on the
squat 43 of you said seven to ten reps
and 42 percent of you said four to six
reps the correct answer is
seven to ten reps there is some
individual variability with this but on
average most people should get around
eight reps with eighty percent of their
one rep max if you only get four to six
reps you've most likely overestimated
your max for the day maybe you're weaker
than you think and if you get 12 to 15
reps or higher your max is probably
higher than you think just consider this
chart from reactive training systems
where if we look at the rpe 10 row
because it was an amrap set and go over
to around 80 percent you'll see that
would correspond to about seven to eight
reps on average i don't love these
tables because new research shows that
rep maxes at any given percent 1rm do
vary quite a lot from person to person
but they're still good for giving you
some ballpark idea of what to expect
next question which component of
metabolism refers to activities like
bringing in the groceries and is a major
factor in metabolic adaptation to weight
loss so 54 of you said neat and the
correct answer is neat or non-exercise
activity thermogenesis which is simply
the number of calories you burn from all
your daily activities other than formal
exercise and as you get leaner your body
starts subconsciously reducing this
component of metabolism by moving around
less you'll park a little closer to the
grocery store fidget less at your desk
drag your feet a bit more without even
realizing it so this is something to be
aware of and can probably be offset to
some extent by ensuring you meet a daily
step count goal or just making a little
extra effort to move around a bit more
as you get deeper into your cut all
right what type of periodization is
shown in the table below this one
definitely tripped a lot of people up
and the most common response was block
periodization but the correct answer is
actually daily undulating periodization
or dup so dop is when the rep range
varies or undulates within a single week
so you can see that here in week one
we're on the first chest shoulders and
triceps day we're doing eight to ten
reps and then on the second chest
shoulders and triceps day we're doing
four to six reps so we've got this
undulating pattern of reps on a daily
basis hence daily undulating
periodization it can't be block
periodization because each block
typically lasts four to eight weeks at
least so there's not enough info here to
know and it can't be linear or reverse
linear because each week the rep count
stays the same if it was linear
periodization the reps would decrease
from week to week and if it was a
reverse linear the reps would increase
from week to week so c is the correct
answer okay second last question a 2020
paper from campbell and colleagues has
been called the first bodybuilding
refeed study in the study one group
dieted continuously and another group
used 48-hour refeeds over a seven-week
dieting period which if the following
was a finding in the refeed group all
right well 66 percent of people said d
all of the above but the correct answer
is b
better dry lean mass retention so this
study showed no fat loss difference
between a group doing refeeds and a
group doing continuous dieting however
there was better lean mass retention in
the group doing refeeds so rather than
think of refeeds as some kind of special
fat loss tool we should instead think of
them as a strategy to potentially
prevent muscle loss and improve diet
adherence all right last question which
of the following would cause muscle
protein synthesis to be elevated for the
longest period of time well i was happy
to see that 72 percent of people said
one hour of weight training which was
the correct answer this figure from dr
stu phillips 2014 review shows that
protein feedings give these short-lived
spikes whereas resistance exercise gives
a much more prolonged muscle protein
synthetic response so yes training does
have an overall bigger impact on muscle
growth than additional protein does
although increasing protein intake
definitely augments the effects of
weight training up to a certain point
and that's a wrap for the muscle iq test
if you guys want to send it to any of
your friends or take it again for
yourself i'll be keeping it live over at
jeffnipper.com forward slash muscle iq
and if you enjoyed this type of video
please let me know i'd be happy to make
another test like this and we can go
over the results again in another video
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and i'll see you guys
all here in the next one