what can we do with our diet to make
sure that during our fat loss phase
we're not like doing anything stupid or
not doing anything that needlessly
slofts off muscle number one keep your
protein above minimum wobbles for the
love of God gram of protein per pound
per day if you want to be extra sure are
there studies in which people don't lose
muscle unless yes there are are there
studies when they do with contest
bodybuilders that they still lose muscle
on more yes so if you want to shoot that
middle ground put a little bit air on
the side of Plenty gram per pound is a
real good place to start so you know if
you weigh 200 pounds 200 grams of
protein per day anything less I would
just describe as not a very serious
attempt to try to mitigate muscle loss
eating much more than that it's probably
not super advantageous but you gotta at
least eat at least that to get like a
good old junior varsity attempt at
preventing muscle loss