alright hey guys so this is part three
of our three-part video series covering
our trip to the internal classic so I
just got some footage from the actual
Arnold Classic men's bodybuilding finals
itself and I thought that branch should
have one or at least I expected him to
take it all because this is the best
machine I've ever seen on branch and
this is coming from someone who's really
not a branch warranty at all it was
crazy to see his conditioning like in
real life I think that pictures don't do
him justice like if he's ever been in
this condition before I was like
completely taken aback like Melissa fell
off my seat they saw branches
conditioning and like I think that what
you see on like streamed videos and
photographs is branches like ugly like
it's just overall like structure and
then it just takes like you just don't
even notice how good is conditioning is
so I think that's why he places higher
than anyone really expects him to
because he's like the judges see his
conditioning like a few feet away but
that's just my take on it yeah no I
agree and like just look how crazy like
they're so yeah then after finals
friends ESP their teammates in McCarthy
and yes oh we had a dinner had some
nachos nachos were like the weirdest not
yes ever they were potato chips with
sour cream on them like what yeah it was
really weird they were called Ohio
nachos and it was they were just today
that they were actually potato chips
with sour cream no cheese like what and
this was a snapshot that Alex Kowalewski
got him he was smashing nachos so then
the next day which was Sunday we went to
the beyond limits gym again and did some
deadlifts it was really cool because
Lane Norton randomly showed up and he
offered us a few tips and we got to
train with him a little bit which was
really cool and the gym wasn't actually
really busy today which was a change of
scenery and that guy warming up in front
of me he's actually friend friends with
backer of the Russian who competed in
the USA Pro Racha injure the USA PL for
a challenge and it was funny because
when he saw me deadlifting he came up
and said you look more like body builder
who then power lifter in like a just a
thick Russian accent
so this is basically you know and so
then after that I sort of took what he
said and tried to put it into practice
and I think I was just pulling for fifty
five four five sets of two on this day
and then this is a set of me doing
hammer curls but trying to get laying in
the background and he's talking he was
like like probably try to get a shot
he's like usually not like discrete at
all and I was painting he's like over
there over there like she'd be caring
that you're actually I was like oh my
god it don't what we ended up getting
was it so then at the end of our workout
Matt Ogas and the rest of the crew it
was cool to meet agus and he actually
came up to me and said you know I've
been looking forward to meeting you for
a long time which I thought was kind of
cool because I didn't even know that it
was long and at this point I was like I
was I trained for like four hours I
probably had like 300 no joke calories
that day and like I was so out of it and
like I remember saying nice meet you
Matt Ogas three times and it was so
embarrassing because like I like that Oh
kiss and I followed some of this stuff
but I'm not like a huge fan girl and I
totally came up this one but you know I
guess that's funny so anyway then after
that week we moved the next
and that was our trip so thanks for
watching guys if you liked the video
please like the video and subscribe if
you haven't already