oh I can explain to you why they train
like that but that's not a good thing
for them to do they haven't thought it
through they're just doing it wrong flat
out hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance priorization let me ask you
a question why does it seem like
pro-athletes suck at weight training and
what the hell can we get out of
understanding why they seem to suck at
weight train what the hell am I talking
about specifically how is it that I'm
alleging they suck well if you watch
this channel we've critiqued a few pro
athlete videos uh of them training uh
you know LeBron and shit like that um
and remember pro athlete in a non-weight
training sport you know and sometimes
their training like really really sucks
how does it suck well first a lot of
crap exercise selection a bunch of
unstable BS that's not really
overloading a distinct muscle tons of
Bose ball shit that doesn't work all
that well then they have really crap
technique even though the exercise sucks
their technique sucks really partial
ranges of motion not in the partial
ranges that accentuate results but in
the ones that are just easier to do
inconsistent ranges of motion jerky
Herky kind of stuff and maybe worst of
all and offensive of all crap relative
effort because even if someone has weird
exercises and even if the range of
motion sucks well that's a lot of ifbb
Pros in bodybuilding but at least those
guys go hard right they fucking try a
lot of pro athletes you look at their
weight train and you're like
motherfucker what was that 15 reps in
reserve what the hell is going on here
now to be clear not all pro athletes
weight train like shit huge fractions
I'd say vast majority of pro athletes
actually train very intelligently and
very very hard but at least some of
these terrible videos keep popping up so
what's the deal why is this happening
let's dig
in first I have to share with you five
hypotheses as to why pro athletes train
lak shit that I don't think are very
likely to be true or at least very
contributory to the overall equation of
why some pro athletes train very poorly
with weights then I'll share some
hypothesis that I think are more likely
so first to the unlikely ones because a
lot of times when we post uh these
athlete critiques in the on YouTube post
the videos in the comments we get a lot
of people understandably trying to make
sense of the shit and they'll um throw
out some hypothesis as to why they think
pro athletes train like sh uh some of
these I've sort of scraped from your
comments and um I love reading in the
comments in this kind of instance
because it's really uh interesting to
see what people can come up with
anywhere between an intelligent approach
and an educated guest to a a really
obvious rationalization and some of
these are spot-on we'll talk about those
in a bit some of them I think are less
spot-on and no offense to anyone we just
sometimes we guess wrong I could be
wrong about all this here we go number
one unlikely hypothesis as to why uh
these athletes don't train all that well
people will say things like it's it's
just a front for the Graham they do this
for the Graham behind closed door doors
they train like fucking machines and
Sport scientists and East Germans or
whatever the thing is I've been with
professional athletes behind closed
doors and not just as the stripper that
pops out of the cake at their various
celebrations though I have many times
popped out of a cake mostly in the nude
or in some kind of seductive on Tandra
that uh then strip that's disgusting I'm
grossing myself out imagining me as a
stripper made me almost throw up hope no
one ever hires me for that capacity but
for real for real I been around pro
athletes I've helped train pro athletes
for a very long time I've been a lot of
um places
where there are pro athletes training
and I'm helping them train or I'm just
spectating and you're actually not
allowed to take out your cell phone and
record them because well gee they have a
a celebrity status to upkeep and it
would just be insane if everyone was
doing that all the time and I got to
tell you I wish this was true I've known
some of the athletes that train like
shit and behind closed doors they they
train like shit and on the Graham they
train like shit and as a matter of fact
it's often the case that it's even worse
than you think for the Graham they'll do
some bullshit on a bosu ball with the
trainer when the fucking cameras aren't
on they'll skip sessions they just won't
weight train they weight training you're
seeing is maybe the first weight
training you've done in two months what
the fuck don't they do this all the time
well no they play basketball all the
time sometimes they hit the gym after uh
they get a break from games that last
longer than a week and then they put it
on the gram and then that's it and then
you know hashtag hardw work gatorade's
my sponsor and everyone's Off to the
Races the reality is I wish they were
training harder in the back rooms
usually they don't train as hard as what
you see on the video cameras which is
really fucked up but also kind of to be
expected number two people will say look
they're already so Elite they don't need
to train hard to improve dope but they
also have to stay on top of their game
against the also very best and many of
them are upand coming they're younger
they're hungrier and they lift hard if
you want all of the best weapons to
defeat your opponents you're not going
to just jettison a fucking really
awesome one like weight training
willingly if you're really logical about
this shit so you can say Well they're
already really good why would they try
to get better because as any astute
Observer of sports in general
understands every year or two the game
levels up everyone on average gets
better and so like yeah like wi
Chamberlain was arguably the greatest of
all time in basketball but you put him
on a court today he's just a superstar
what does that mean just a superstar
just one of maybe five or six guys in
the league today that puts up similar
numbers how the fuck did that happen
everybody got better over time so by the
way Will Chamberlain absolutely loved
weight training and did it all the time
was one of the reasons he was successful
not the major the major is he's
genetically maybe the most elite
specimen of human ever born but uh it's
definitely was part of his equation
hilariously enough and back then nobody
in basketball really weight trained and
so Not only was he genetically gifted
but he also trained with weights and all
of a sudden he was just just like he
just did whatever the fuck he wanted but
nowadays many basketball players train
hard with weights you can't get away
with the shit anymore so it really is if
you look at it logically in the best
interest of athletes that are already
really good to continue to try to get
every Advantage including proper weight
training proper weight training proper
strength and power training can improve
performance for all no matter your level
and it especially has this amazing
effect of lengthening a career for
already a top Pro so this reason
if this is the reason they that might be
the reason athletes say to themselves in
their heads they're doing it but it's
not a logically thought out reason
that's like yeah yeah no don't worry
this is why they do it like no no no no
no they might think that's why they do
it but that's not a really good
reason number
three maybe they're trying to reduce
injury risks so their training will look
more like rehab than strength training
because they're trying to Bullet Proof
themselves from injury they're not just
trying to get stronger well here's the
thing you rehab to get better after
you're hurt you don't actually rehab to
prevent injury there's no such thing
prehab is not a thing it's just not
people say it's a thing but it's not you
don't go to school anywhere to study
prehab that's nonsense preab is some
bullshit personal trainers and PTs met
up to give themselves more of a job
prehab is fucking full range of motion
compound lifts in the fucking uh Basics
like squats benches deadlifts cleans
push presses Etc that's what that shit
is use strength train to prevent injury
to and you don't prevent injury you just
reduce the RIS risk of injury so they
might be trying to do this but it's not
working that's not how it works number
four another interesting hypothesis is
that they actually are training ideally
and US muscle nerds that think everyone
needs to be a bodybuilder just haven't
caught on because the science is behind
these guys are ahead of the pack man do
I wish this was the case I could train
so much easier myself and get amazing
results it's just that everything we've
seen and have to believe including
taking really good athletes and then
getting them to train with weights hard
and seeing the insane elevations in
their performance leads me to believe as
a member of the scientific community
that that's just fucking bullshit I love
it when science gets shit wrong and when
people in the field get shit right like
yes I'm a scientist but also politically
I'm basically a Libertarian so I have an
inherent mistrust of formal institutions
and top- down expertise I love it when
some organic shit comes together and
people who really do the thing know the
thing the best but in this case that
just ain't one of those things man just
it just got it wrong and lastly a
hypothesis that I think goes almost
nowhere is people be like they just take
steroids man but that's confusing
because powerlifters strong men
weightlifters and bodybuilders they take
steroids too but they go hard as fuck in
the gym why don't they just take the
steroids they can spare themselves all
this annoying gym time um and also
lifting plus steroids works much better
than steroids do alone so if athletes
were really intent on taking steroids
which a lot of pro athletes do not all
but a bunch then if they really what did
they take steroids for for muscle and
strength and vitality and energy like
you get all that shit from weight
training too and if you weight train
plus stake steroids holy fuck you're a
goddamn machine and people really have
trouble stopping you so if they were
taking steroids to performance enhance
and their lens is I'll do whatever it
takes to enhance my performance
motherfuckers would also be training
really hard if they really thought the
shit through so what I'm trying to say
is for all these five things that are
unlikely
hypotheses even some of the pro athletes
themselves might think this is why I'm
doing this and it might be why they're
doing this but their logic doesn't makes
sense so we as Spectators shouldn't be
like oh no no no I can explain to you
why they train like that like oh I can
explain to you why they train like that
but that's not a good thing for them to
do they haven't thought it through
they're just doing it wrong flat out now
what are the more likely hypothesis to
explain at least why they're doing it
and maybe give some justification but
maybe not justification maybe just an
explanation because there may be no
justifying things that are wrong like
not training hard with weights or
properly with weights
first question who chooses their coach
and who chooses their Program for weight
training who chooses LeBron's weight
training coach who chooses the program
that they're running uh Lebron does nine
times out of 10 it's the pro athlete
that makes the choice they just don't
know much about strength and
conditioning I'm fairly intelligent if I
go to buy a computer I don't know dick
about computers and if I buy a computer
and you go someone sees me at this
fucking laptop here right now I don't
know what the fuck it is lenov or some
shit like that and if you're like if
there's videos of me cuz somehow I'm
famous and people are like oh my God Dr
Mike uses his computer must be good and
other people are making uh YouTube
videos making fun of the kind of
computer I use those people will be like
oh my God Mike's such a clown it would
be really rational for you to go in
their comments and be like um I think he
knows what he's doing cuz he's like a
fucking trillionaire has his own derable
and a fleet of butlers all those things
are true mind you except for the fact
that I know what I'm doing with regards
to computers I have no fucking clue what
I'm doing this is a laptop that costs
like $300 or some shit because it works
for the two things I needed to do
display PowerPoint slides and pick up
the internet that's it so I could be so
fucking wrong just because I'm a person
of you know some relevance in this
industry doesn't mean that in the
Computing industry I know anything and
believe it or not athletes who are
really good at their Sports man they're
damn good at their Sports and they know
a lot about their sports but weight
training isn't their sport so sometimes
they make big fucking mistakes and they
train like something and some person's
like know that that's wrong but who in
their life is going to say that to them
they get the choice and everyone's like
LeBron you know what you're doing dope
when other people choose that are better
trained and better in incentivized and
positioned to figure out how to train
usually get better training here's an
example pro athletes free agency on
their own a lot of times they do wacky
shit what about division one athletes in
the United States a lot of them get the
best fucking training or at least really
good training why because the person
that hired the strength and conditioning
coach is the athletic director and they
don't have any one athlete interest in
particular they don't even lift
themselves they want to pick a strength
ignition coach that is qualified based
on some objective ideas they went to
school they interned under somebody
really effective and they seemingly know
what they're doing that filtering
process is usually better than a
pro-athletes filtering process of like
who's that one guy lived with in college
and he was great and he'd like lifted
weights he'll be my trainer a lot of
times guys legit that's how it happens
with Pros top Pros it's just the boy
they've known him forever or it's some
guy they met at a cocktail party and he
talked a big game he was really wordy
and they're like yo you're the fucking
man let's fucking do this and that's it
and that guy make makes $1 th000 an hour
putting bosu balls together and a
fucking Hopscotch paded on the ground so
the athlete can play like don't touch
the lava which is legit What some pro
athletes do for what they call weight
training D1 strength coaches are usually
fucking great why because the people
picking them are athletic directors and
Sport coaches or even a committee with
all those people together and there's
people on there that know things no
things to hire the right person number
two one of the number one reasons why
athletes actually skimp out on weight
training or do basically like pussified
bullshit is because of fatigue
conservation lifting makes you tired it
makes you sore and it makes you stiff
for sport practice and if you don't know
modern periodization I'd say quite well
lifting at odd times of the week in
regards to practice with no periodizing
of practice which almost nobody does um
makes your practice go worse and if
practice is going worse at my actual
sport the fuck am I going to fuck this
lifting bullshit are you nuts and if I
say you know like I suspect lifting is
making me tired and sore and I stop
Lifting for a few weeks or I switch to
just easy bosu ball bullshit and five
pound dumbbells my short-term fatigue
Falls my practices that week and the
week after are the best they've ever
been what lesson am I going to learn
most athletes don't have the scientific
education to take the Long View and
realize well the lifting makes me a
little bit tougher to get good practices
for a few months but then it elevates my
game so much that when before important
games I go easy on the lifting I'm like
God over here dunking on motherfuckers
left and right most there's no reason
for them to suspect that they don't take
a second and third order view of
periodization they didn't go to to
fucking PhD program in sports science
like somebody did am I right me folks
it's all about me I'm the fucking man me
hey Scott the video
guy am I the fucking man or
what he's paid very well very well paid
to say that in any case
athletes just they might not know that
kind of shit and so if they notice a
onetoone relationship of them lifting
more and things sucking more when they
lift less or easier they suck less in
the acute term that's absolutely correct
but notice that's flawed logic uh but
understandable logic it's like should
you go to college to make more money on
the one hand absolutely because
statistically people that go to college
make way more money over their lifespans
of people that don't but on the other
hand it's like wait a minute I'm GNA pay
$80,000 over four years lucky if it's
just that much
to make money isn't that losing money
well yeah and that's a good point so if
you want to not lose money for the next
four years definitely don't go to
college but you can see how there's a
delay there I'm not I'm not even I'm
mostly against College to begin with I'm
not saying college is objectively a good
idea but if you're like a chemical
engineer and training yeah you got to go
to college and you got to eat shit for a
while and then it makes itself up on the
back end just the same way weight
training during times of the Season
sometimes during practice season um
means that you won't be as frustr in
practice as you would like to be but
then later when you pull back on the
weight training a little bit and you do
more practice or more um just pull back
in the weight training you do regular
practice you end up being just Superior
and so your level as a basketball player
goes up even though in a short-term
delay fashion it wasn't as great as it
could have been most athletes don't
think about that just because most
people don't think about shit like that
there's probably 10 trillion things in
my life where I'm not using some kind of
delayed mechanistic periodized model I'm
just doing shit that I like you know
like so I'm taking Edibles on the
weekend and someone's like you know that
if you preload with XYZ other CBN
Edibles I'm like motherfucker would you
you fucking PhD and weedology get out of
my face hippie I'm just trying to get
high I'm probably making the wrong
decision but at least you understand why
I am so acute things one toone
relationships weight training makes you
slower in the short term in the long
term faster but if it makes you slower
and more tired and more sore a lot of
athletes are like fuck that and when
they lift easy pussy bullshit exercises
they don't get any benefit from it but
they get to check mark the green box of
I trained with weights people say that's
good and also my practice is going well
I think that's probably 90% of how that
shit
happens number
three injury
fears big weights can hurt the athlete
that's just true and athletes accurately
sense this especially if you use shit
technique and progressions that are
irrational like 45 pounds added to the
bar every week which a lot of athletes
also do and they have an experience
sometimes of getting hurt from the gym
because they were so fucking bad at
doing the gym that in their own
understandable ecological local space
they go you know what weight training
gets me hurt fuck that I'm either doing
easy light bullshit that I know can't
injure me or I'm not doing shit at all
the thing is there's a dark side to that
is that proper training and proper
progression actually reduces injury risk
itself and is a huge net positive to
sport performance most people don't know
this not only does proper weight
training reduce the injury risk of
weight training it reduces your injury
risk in sport practice and Sport play in
addition to that proper weight training
has such an infantes small risk of
injury in the gym compared to sport
practice and training which have huge
risks in almost every sport compared to
weight training it's really just not
seeing this through the right lens but
again if you're not properly trained the
weight training you do in the gym might
be bad for you like you see some
athletes like dive bomb benches and dive
bomb squats and you're like who the fuck
let you do that well that's their
understanding of what weight training is
and then their right to say it's fucking
really injurious and maybe I shouldn't
do it to put it in a more extreme way
athletes will think that just through
and say look you want me to go in the
weight train wait in the waight room and
go hard as fuck right okay right right I
don't get paid to be in there
motherfucker I'm not shitting away a $10
million a year contract because I got
hurt and pulled my quad in a fucking
weight room with no one watching even if
it was being Instagram now it's extra
embarrassing fuck that your boy's going
to take it easy in the waight room
because I get paid to play out in the
fucking basketball court it's like good
respect that makes sense as far as it
goes it doesn't go far enough to explain
everything but if athletes knew the
everything part of this they would all
be train with modern periodization and
that brings me to my last
Point there's this big dichotomy that
seems to be this kind of sore spot and
it's like look Doctor Mike where the
fuck you got your doctorate if you're so
brainy and shit and if all pro athletes
are fucking wrong and you're right I'm
never saying that by the way I think
most of them are doing a great job but a
few odd ducks are doing wacky shit if
these odd Ducks happen to be fucking
LeBron and fucking Tom Hardy and people
that are better at their sport than I
will ever be at anything else in my life
maybe I have it wrong maybe I'm
Incorrect and that may fucking be true
however so so basically when I say
eventually everyone will do modern
periodization you're like shut the fuck
up dude these people left you behind you
should be doing what they're doing facts
I love it
however the trend of shitty weight
training or no weight training at all is
actually in Decline we just see the
sporadic shit for example I'll give this
to you and you can fucking Wormhole this
all you want on YouTube and wikip IIA we
see a lot of violence on TV on news
media on your Instagram feed crazy
fucking Wars and all this Rebels and all
this kind of shit War mongering and
World War III did you guys know that
violence per capita in human society has
been roughly in Decline with es and
flows here and there two world wars has
been roughly in Decline for as long as
much data as we have the anthropological
record is Crystal Clear violence is just
always in Decline on average and right
now we are absolutely in the most
peaceful time in human history you'd be
like what the fuck are you crazy no
facts look it up Google Steph Pinker
decline of violence if you want a whole
book on it but otherwise just like get
the research and it's just like this not
something that intelligent people who
don't have a political act to gr even
debate anymore violence is absolutely in
Decline now with es and flows of course
but it's in Decline does that mean you
don't see videos of the shit or fucking
crazy Instagram reals of people doing
insane violence shit of course not CU we
have access to six billion other people
telephones and everything's being
recorded now so you can always find
examples of violence even if it happens
once out of every thousand instances and
it used to happen once out of every 10
thousand instances time six billion
people recording that's a lot of
violence you're going to see just the
same way there's tons of clown show
bullshit that athletes do in the gym
even though more and more athletes are
doing proper shit but proper shit
doesn't really get the Instagram clicks
as much and a lot of the athletes are
train properly they're doing it in D1
settings where you're actually not even
allowed to record athletes on a phone
and there's rules about how they can
record each other and post various
videos and if you do catch them D1
training Clips a lot of times you're
like oh this just people doing cleans
and squats and push
presses guess that's good it is no one's
really talking about it so there's a
situation in which we think that will
athletes train wrong according to you Dr
Mike well the thing is athletes are
training more and more correctly all the
time every five years and every five
years the fraction of Athletes Training
stupidly or not training with weights at
all falls and falls and Falls but even
though we we do see it that's where the
illusion can come from that trend is in
Decline this is something I say all the
time because it's true NFL lineman
lineman in the National Football League
in the United States used to weigh about
225 pounds on average in the 1960s
because it was kind of received wisdom
that weight training made you
slow weight training makes you faster oh
and bigger and less likely to hurt and
more likely to hurt others weight
training is the drop that colors the the
soup of professional football in a
completely different Hue it's the
greatest the weight training is the
greatest thing to happen to American
football after helmets and pads all
right it's the shit what how do we know
this now everybody in football trains
with weights in basketball they're still
coming up a little bit some guys do some
guys don't some guys train like little
pussies some guys train like fucking
animals in American football almost all
the guys go hard all the fucking time
cuz now we know that but we didn't
always and imagine you go take a time
machine back to the 60s
you talk to a pro football coach you you
got your guys in the wait room he be
like wait room man see I just give a
1920s accent fuck we don't want a guy
slow see football's a a game of speed
son you look quite fast yourself you
should put on a few pads and run a run a
couple laps with us you're like right
they just didn't know but now they know
so athletes are learning all the time
things are getting better all the time
so it seems like shit sucks but actually
there's less and less sucky shit it just
ends up on your newsfeed you subscribe
to this Channel and we make fun of those
people
so what we see in the clown show videos
is a trend that's in
Decline what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours
now lastly what can you take away from
this discussion first mon PC monkeyd has
serious limitations as a practical
intelligent Philosophy for making
yourself better at things so before you
copy pro athletes in everything they do
just think for a little bit right
because a lot of comments from people
that probably don't follow the channel
or subscribe to it but are there to hate
because you know we're hating so it's
all due respect hate away but a lot of
guys are like if Tom Brady does it it's
got to be right he's the fucking goat
yes he is uh the greatest of all time
absolutely no contention but does that
mean everything he does is ideal I mean
in the 19 Babe Ruth in the 1930s I guess
was the greatest baseball player of all
time at the time and uh he like
literally had hot dogs and beer before
during and after games is that proper
sport nutrition fuck no but if we had
YouTube back then and somebody made a
critique of you know fucking the guy who
invented the KB cycle or discover the
shit as like makes a YouTube video about
Babe Ruth fucking sucking on his
nutrition and some fucking asshole from
the 1930s be like nah see he's the goat
see and you can't critique him because
you're a little bitch on the internet
and you're like well I guess I am but
that doesn't make bab Ruth right it's
you you can't just copy people and be
like yeah yeah it's the yeah it's the
it's the beer and the hot dogs that make
him good no it's not it's God's greatest
gift to a baseball bat that makes him
good and maybe he was really hardworking
and maybe he was really sharp and maybe
he was really athletic but sure shit
isn't the fucking hot dogs and beer so
Tom Brady is an unbelievable football
player but it's not the bosu balls and
the vegan food that's making him good
Fellas it might even make him less good
than he could be you got to think a
little bit more critically than this
person is the best everything they're
doing is correct bullshit because
someone's going to be better than them
in five years did they do better than
100% correct how the fuck does that even
make sense next number
two not everyone gets the message of the
best science at the same time uh you do
because you watch the channel ha but
you know people kind of expect athletes
to osmotically absorb messaging like
well that's LeBron of course he should
know best weight training practices like
really why should he know them he's got
people around him but we already covered
that just as boys as some motherfuckers
that are good at talking the talk
LeBron's not a sports scientist how the
fuck's he supposed to know about shit
you guys ever hear his political views
Jesus Christ Che as hell does know
politics Scott did I just step in a
whole big pile of shit probably but in
any case you know when it's a little bit
outside of his expert area look B
basketball I want to know what LeBron
has to say but at the same time even
there he's not 100% right about the shit
like if I'm talking to LeBron about how
to play basketball and I'm talking to um
Scott what's your motherfucker name that
coached the Bulls and then coached the
Lakers Phil Jackson if Phil Jackson
contradicts LeBron I kind of want to
know both of them have to say because
the Avant guard of modern coaching might
be somewhere between them and maybe even
closer to Phil Jacks and so it we can't
just assume that everyone knows uh all
the modern shit just cuz they're at that
Elite level there's guys at the elite
level of almost every institution of
every field that don't know some many
things that could be better for them for
example I'm like a pretty decent
Master's level National bodybuilder like
I've taken second before Masters USA is
oh it's quite good and I'm Dr Mike you I
should know things right but like my
knowledge of pharmacology especially
ancillary drugs to cancel out some of
the side effects of the Peds I'm taking
is actually dog shit and literally I
record this after just two weeks ago I
consulted uh with a gentleman named Jake
Benson and you should Jakey be 63 I
don't forgot his Instagram in any case
Jake Benson just Google him or look him
up on Instagram he's the fucking man he
told me to take a few compounds that are
totally super legal they're just
ancillary and they help unfuck some of
the things that Peds fuck up and I
literally feel 10 times better as of two
weeks ago but I was all smart and PhD
like before this you would think well if
Dr Mike doesn't take this bullshit that
means it doesn't work no I'm just a
fucking ignor
but I know a lot of things so if me
knowing a lot of things leaves me
ignorant a bunch of other shit if you
look at a pro athlete and you're like
well he's got to know the best science
motherfucker it's probably better bet
the other way he doesn't know shit
except this or this you know what I'm
saying I'm getting it well by the way
let's just just do this now Scott I'm
doing this now Jeff nippard hear me I
hear you fancy yourself a basketball
player you versus me on the fucking
Court I'm I'mma have that shit cuz I'm
hungry Jeff I'm ready to eat you used to
call me back on the McDonald's
All-American team that I was on as a
Junior League alternate Pacman I'm I'm
I'm eating these motherfuckers left and
right eat the ball eat the fucking that
eat up all your shots
crossovers shit Scott what do you think
how are my chances I mean you know their
chances they exist and that's all I need
baby Jeff you've been warned and as a
matter of fact challenge somebody get
into Jeff's comments and tell him about
this I could just text him what fun
would that be usually I save that for
dick piics in any case lastly and this
is a big one fucking with a dynamic
equilibrium is a trip what do I mean by
that when LeBron is putting up LeBron
numbers consistently month to month year
to year you don't want to be the
motherfucker that hey say hey LeBron you
should try weight training in an
organized a productive fashion he's okay
I'll give you a chance you train me you
make one miscalculation or the fact that
he's like 39 years old at this point or
some shit like that he hurts his knee in
the gym you've been making gains for
months and he hurts his knee and that
ends his career you just ended LeBron's
career do you want that kind of
responsibility I suspect that you don't
so if you say well you know Dr Mike you
should be training all these pro
athletes whoa whoa whoa whoa easy that's
a very finicky thing every pro athlete
is their own dynamic equilibrium there's
500 variabl in there and I don't know
any of them and I have to insert a new
very very disruptive variable of weight
training that is a process it is a very
much easing in and Discovery and all
these other crazy things so you don't
simply wipe the Slate clean with their
stupid bullshit that they're doing and
go now you do this no no no no that's
tough and a lot of people don't even
want to do that so if LeBron is looking
around for hey someone like train me
properly a lot of people who could do it
the best are like I don't want to dunk
my reputation by getting this
motherfucker
fuck that it's not worth it so true
professionals have a reverence for
understanding complex systems are a trip
and maybe we don't want to get in there
just fuck everything up at the same time
however over time especially with
younger athletes just starting out in
other words future
professionals converting current Pros
especially after injury some Pro Pros
will get hurt and they're out for a year
anyway and they' be like okay time to
wait train properly I can't play
basketball how do I weight train they
get a somebody who's really intelligent
that gives them a year to work they're
training in get them used to it nobody's
getting hurt healing their injuries and
then they come back 2.0 and then they're
the shit and then they start prizing for
proper scientific training because they
like dude it changed my fucking life so
younger athletes in Pros that want to
take the plunge especially after injury
scientific training is absolutely
catching on and that's a fucking awesome
thing you want to learn more about
scientific training stick around watch
more videos on this channel also the
monetization helps pay my Butlers and
they do many things for me which I'm
just honestly too wealthy to do myself
at this point it's an ins for me to have
to wash my own dishes
Butlers do the thing with the
dishwashing where I get clean
dishes and I'll see you guys for more
videos like this and more reacts videos
I guess well we'll do some light-hearted
laughing at the clown show that is
training for all sorts of things
celebrities and sports see you guys
then