your warm up is too long and it's
costing you progress and time cardio
foam rolling stretching prehab exercises
activation drills and there's even more
guys your warm does not need to be that
long or complicated and in fact if it's
too long it may just be cutting into the
time you have to do work sets that are
productive and actually stimulate muscle
growth try a very simple warmup instead
do a few sets of the actual exercise
with the first few sets being enough
repetitions to make you feel reasonably
warm and with the final set before you
do your first whacking set being a
single rep of a relatively heavy load
this will get you warm enough for
lifting and it will also provide you
with the post activation performance
enhancement effect there's just no need
for a 20 to 30 minute warm-up session
before you even get into lifting