[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization we're gonna do another
protein powder recipe today this is a
vegan protein truffle
so again if you're having protein
powders you know once or twice a day you
kind of want to mix it up I mean
especially if you're really hungry and
you're dieting a shake just really might
not do it for you might not feel as
substantial as if you get to bite into
something eat something so I'm always
trying to come up with different ways of
playing with protein powders I will bake
with them sometimes but I don't love
baking with protein powders I have yet
to find one that you know really bakes
well and doesn't have like a weird
aftertaste that really bugs me and I try
to you know I've kind of accepted that I
have that aftertaste and I try to find
stuff to mask it but it's it's a you
know it's definitely not easy to work
with so I kind of like keeping them cold
refrigerated or frozen so today we're
gonna do some truffles so this is a
chocolate date spread if you guys follow
me you know I love the date stuff date
sugar this date spread date syrup so
this is my chocolate date spread and my
date syrup I'm gonna stick both of those
in the microwave just for a couple of
seconds just to loosen them up a little
bit and it definitely doesn't take long
you don't want to let it go too long
it's like one time around in the
microwave and it's done but it's just a
lot more liquidy so I've got my bowl
with my vegan protein powder in here
you can totally use regular protein
powder there's nothing magical about it
being vegan alright so I'm gonna add
that in add in my warmed date syrup and
this is another recipe where consistency
is gonna be really important for the you
want this if you're gonna roll this
we're gonna make truffles it's got to be
the right consistency
so let's stir that around see how we're
looking so actually you can add
sugar-free syrups to this that's what I
have right here I think this is a
sugar-free coconut syrup I'm not going
to use it because I think I've got the
consistency right without it so I'm just
going to mix that up and you can see
it's like protein powders weird it
absorbs water or liquids I'm sorry not
water I don't like to use water with it
cuz then it gets like crystally and
weird but it absorbs liquid strangely so
it can go from like dry to pretty soupy
pretty quick alright so I'm gonna take
my little tiny scoop here this is my
smallest cookie scoop I live for these
things it's amazing that I bought three
and still have three that I haven't lost
or that aren't broken but I have a small
one this is my small one and then a
medium one and then a big one and it's
just it's really great for what we do
you know you guys have your templates
and you know portion size is everything
you want to get things the right
portions and equal portions and all that
good stuff so these are just really
helpful for that if you're making
meatballs cookies really anything that's
something that you're gonna scoop out
the scoop just makes it so much easier
to at least start with a similar sized
portion right off the bat okay so now
this is cool like you know you can kind
of push it around it's making it's doing
what it's supposed to do so I'm gonna
roll this and I have some water here
if it really starts to bother you it
gets really sticky just like wet your
hands and that's really easy to work
with and then I've got cocoa and then
just roll it in the cocoa powder and now
it becomes not sticky right cuz it's
covered so it's just like a truffle
almost like the real thing put that
there
move on to the next one get a little wet
hands that's really easy to roll so cute
if you're drinking a protein shake or a
casein shake or whatever and you could
sit there eating truffles or bonbons
instead what would you choose I would
choose this because if you all are
having your shakes once or twice a day
this just kind of makes it a little more
fun so they're really small of course
you know I'm gonna put sole on them this
is like 20 grams of protein for me so
that would just be one meal but if you
wanted to make up you know three batches
these so you have three days worth just
keep them in the fridge that's where you
want to store them and there you go it's
just the idea of kind of mixing things
up a little bit having some variety so
you're not just always doing shakes a
shake takes two minutes to drink and
then you're done if you're hungry and
you want to choose something you want
more satisfaction this is more of a
treat finished shape so it's just
another option for you guys
[Music]