agressive overload is the Cornerstone of
an effective weight training program one
of the best things about high-intensity
training philosophy is they tried to get
objective and they try to send landmarks
and they try to kind of aim for Higher
and Higher and Higher a lot of folks
that trained before and many folks that
still train today Sam still look they'll
go in the gym and just do stuff and
they'll train hard and that is 90% of
the fun and the effect but there is a
meticulousness that comes from tracking
and setting little progress goals only
if you challenge yourself appropriately
regularly do you know when fatigue is
high enough for you to need to back off
if you just don't feel like lifting you
have to ask yourself the question am I
just being a little bitch or am I really
overreached you never can tell unless
you have an objective performance goal