okay don't let that breath get stuck
here I'm sorry what don't let your
breath get stuck in your fucking neck
you would die if that happened Peak
nonsense where the fuck do these people
come from
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike Israel of
Renaissance periodization I'm a
professor of exercise and sports science
at Lehman College in the Bronx and I am
the creator of the RP hypertrophy app
I'm going to be praising Mark Wahlberg's
Hollywood workout I can't wait let's get
to it I've trained Mark Wahlberg for 13
years now gotten ready for Brian Nguyen
is an athletic performance coach Mark
Wahlberg's not an athlete he's an actor
so fault number one if you guys have
been through these videos with me before
this is probably going to be a giant
disaster but I'm getting ahead of myself
maybe it's great gotten ready for
several movies including painting game
shooter the fighter yeah he's training
for a long time good good he knows
Mark's Body I know Mark's Body pretty
well too mostly from pictures and videos
that I have in my collection at the end
of the day Mark's got to be able to move
like a cat like a cat and still wield a
heavy ass gun okay these aren't real
guns they're prop guns for the 50th time
Hollywood but maybe they're good prop
guns and they're actually regulation
weight that would be dope Market needs
to be strong for that I agree in order
to do that he's got to be athletic as
heck he didn't swear is that athletic as
heck very nice
foreign
Mark Wahlberg always has has gardening
gloves on when he trains I just don't
know why I can't figure it out folks
when you wear gloves when you train it
does nothing for your calluses how do I
know that I used to wear gloves when I
was younger and it did nothing for my
calluses and also it's just gunky and
Ooey and gooey and sweaty and gross just
don't do it don't do it unless you have
a compelling reason I don't know about
which maybe Mark does but it's unlikely
[Music]
God the fuckery begins already
trained like Mark Wahlberg oh there's a
very young picture of him and an older
picture of him so we work out in a
two-day split meaning that we have a day
a regimen and a day B regimen two-day
split the A and A B makes sense so let's
say on Monday we do upper body pushing
and lower body pulling then on day B our
focus is on the flip side so now I have
upper body pulling
and then lower body push it okay so he
does upper body pushing and lower body
pulling on one day and then upper body
pulling and lower body pushing this is a
very strange way to construct a split
and I'll tell you why there are
exercises like cable rows bent rows
almost any kind of row almost every kind
of stiff-legged deadlift and good
morning which pretty severely tacks your
posterior chain including your back but
also tax other parts of your posterior
chain like your glutes and your
hamstrings and your lower back is a big
limiting factor in many cases so what I
would like to see and is much more
commonly done for well sort of obvious
reasons is push upper and lower which
means pressing exercises and then
exercises mostly for your quads like
squats leg press Etc and then on the
other day pulling exercises with lower
body pulls as well stiff legit levels
good mornings deadlifts things like that
now when we talk about form for Mark a
lot of what we deal with is that upper
cross syndrome upper cross syndrome not
a real syndrome by the way this is make
believe PT bullshit a lot of that a
little slouch that all of us are
developing all of us are not developing
a slouch from the sedentary lifestyle or
the texting right texting does not
promote folks posture is the single
biggest Cesspool of bullshit ever
posture is mostly genetic it is almost
nothing to do with muscle strength it's
just how you usually sit if you want
better posture check this out just be
attentive of it sit more upright and
over several weeks you'll learn to by
default sit more upright there's no
exercise you need to do in the gym
nobody has bad posture because their
pecs are too strong and their back is
too weak if that was really the case
your back would be constantly pulled
into eccentric load and then hypertrophy
and grow to respond to get better and
auto fix that posture and also you'll
notice something about your muscles
they're not just on all the time if your
pecs are really big and strong my packs
are rather big and strong if I say so
myself what are they doing right now not
diddly dick I'm not sitting with my
fucking packs activated where the fuck
do these people come from wait a minute
Hollywood
why we use this particular exercise
spine band overhead hold
why do you use this particular exercise
Mr Nguyen is the chaos that you have to
control what it's the chaos you have to
control no my friend if you open up your
gym door and three Rottweilers run in
that's chaos you have to control this is
you laying down with a band all around
your body it's a shit minivan too it's
barely any work ah the fact that he has
to hold that band apart really
accentuates the muscles that have to be
on to stay tall now Chris you want to
accentuate the muscles that have to be
on to stay tall otherwise you would be
accentuating the ones that keep you
short and short Kings no offense but
that's a bad thing absolutely press the
slow back to the ground to keep these
ribs down and tucked engaging that
anterior core and tying it in with that
breathing this is one of our big bang
for your buck warm-up exercises for the
posterior chain absolutely be focused on
good breath in nose out the mouth when
you breathe guys breathing in with the
nose and out through the mouth is
nonsense almost any breathing technique
that doesn't involve vipasana meditation
is fucking nonsense Evolution designs
you to breathe you do it real fucking
well believe it or not you even do it
automatically in your sleep this is high
grade BS and that pull apart crap is not
a great warm-up for the posterior chain
you know what is a great warm for the
pursue your chain dead lifting
stiff-legged deadlifts bent rows and any
other exercise that uses the fucking
posterior chain
don't let that breath get stuck here I'm
sorry what don't let your breath get
stuck in your fucking neck you would die
if that happened it always goes to your
lungs Peak nonsense we've achieved it
folks after like seven episodes of
whatever the fuck exercise science show
we got on this channel we're here you're
gonna die of not being able to breathe
properly if you're not doing
bullshit kill me Scott the video guy no
wait wait I'll do it myself
I'm breathing normally
oh shit oh my God that was so crazy
of course mountain climber which is
fucking pointless unless you're warming
up for Field Sports and a fucking power
plate folks I was actually directly
involved in research on the power plate
no offense power play company though I
do think you sell a product that's
entirely needless and insanely
overpriced the power plate is a
vibrating platform what it does is it
actually helps you while you're on it be
much more flexible than you would be if
you were not on it it's great for
stretching what's happening here isn't
stretching it's warming up and the power
play does precisely the following to
help you warm up
diddly dick
when we start getting into any pushing
emotions a big thing that can happen is
that okay so his technique sucks he's
fucking dive bombing onto his chest he's
pressing up visibly asymmetrically he
has the dildo bar wrap thing in case
what you hurt your chest dive bombing
hang on an idea control The Eccentric
and you won't have to have that stupid
thing on their limiting range of motion
limiting The Eccentric load limiting the
stretch limiting your growth damn am I
on a tear today it's important to get
the core part of the pushing complex
what if you get the core part you now
contract your abs in even more extremely
push into a fucking folded over crap
when you're doing a proper bench press
you retract your shoulder blades you
actually relax your abs so that your
chest can Arch and then you're a good
pushing position is the very opposite of
what he's saying it's as if it's all
fucking make belief in Hollywood oh
that's it makes a lot of sense now as
Chad sets up for his push-up I have him
in perfect plank position I'm going to
get him to bring your chin over this
fence there you go so now I have a
direct line wrist under the shoulder you
don't want to be anywhere else you don't
want to be anywhere else or else what
can happen I don't know so go ahead drop
into your push-up chat by Falling
forward notice that forward fall creates
that 90 degree Bend here in the arm
90 fucking degrees it had to happen at
some point what happens when you go
below it I'll tell you you get more
tricep hypertrophy what happens if you
go above it nothing magical again 90
degrees is as Arnold would say bullshit
get out of here no once we've worked on
our breath worked on that posture we
round out our warm-up with some Versa
climber motherfucker the warm-up done
lasted 50 minutes bro we about to leave
what is this 10 minutes left for the
workout versaclimer you know I'll find
hard a versa climber is to do you're
gonna be gassed out by the time you get
to your workout
you may not have a versa climber handy
in your gym you can still work on your
cross body patterning cross body
patterning a make-believe term by a
person who does not have an advanced
degree in coaching athletes here's a
couple of exercises that I love if you
don't have versaclam
fucking bear crawl
Chad's doing this bear crawl in a figure
eight pattern so he's going to be
crawling around
I've done this once to Great benefits I
paid my regular 380 pound dominatrix to
put a ball gag in my mouth where I
summarily crawled on the ground in front
of her in any pattern my mistress
desired that was a lot of fun outside of
that context this is the equivalent of
the embarrassment only a dominatrix can
provide but with another fucking sexual
relief I'm kidding by the way
she was more like 400 pounds notice I
can put an object here on Chad's back
and that keeps him more mindful of I
can't believe this is happening he's
putting an object on the guy's back to
demonstrate that his back is so stable
and and so Plateau like what the fuck
are we even doing here I thought we were
trying to lift weights so we can look
like Marky Mark none of this so far I
mean none of it will make you look
remotely like Marky Mark and he looks
great this is nonsense
oh
no way
he just used the bear crawl as a
potentiation to a four-point mountain
climber in the middle of a warm-up he
did a warm-up for the next warm-up
God strike me down now that we finished
our warm-up and our bodies ready to go
let's do day a now that we finished our
warm-up 10 fucking years later maybe
we'll work out
foreign
barbell floor press with a dead buff
this is if you want to limit the stretch
on your chest and triceps because the
floor prevents you from going deep
enough thus limiting the muscle growth
yield of this exercise and also to
further reduce the load from making your
muscles bigger you had to distract
yourself with doing some weird dead bug
bullshit with your feet Classic
Hollywood nonsense and this is actually
the workout
Chad's gonna squeeze his low back to the
ground before pushing the bar up it's
going to squeeze his low back to the
ground what are we even training here is
this just like learn how to move weirdly
with a barbell hour as he pushes the bar
up he's gonna in control drop one leg
and hover the ground this isn't even
lifting weights anymore this is like a
circus act with no entertainment value
good God
is this still the warm-up or not I can't
tell this is if you're so weak that an
actual single leg RDL isn't enough so
you need a band to hold your dumb ass up
cat's gonna pull back into tension here
pull into that big tension he's gonna
kick that left leg back hinge at his
hips and drop towards the tension and
then he's just gonna pull and stand
right back up okay great so even
assuming this exercise has any
hypertrophic yield which is basically
not true he's actually leveraging in
such a way that the band tension reduces
as he goes down but he's even making it
worse by extending his hand forward so
at the very point that the hamstring is
most likely to be growing which is at
the very bottom stretch he is reducing
the amount of load on the I can't stand
this shit after those two I always throw
in a corrective exercise always have to
throw in a corrective exercise this is
just day one stuff guys so will farmers
walk a figure eight pattern
oh my God stop the video guy is this a
fucking joke this is a real workout
figure eight
fucking walks with an unbelievably light
load in the farmer's carry give you
nothing at all motherfucker I get better
training walking my groceries to my
fucking car literally in every respect
it's a more complex pattern it's more
distance and I sure should have more
groceries than he has fucking
kettlebells first walk a figure eight
pattern for about anywhere from 50 to
100 yards this is just wasting energy
sorry I've been so light on the exercise
science there is no fucking science in
any of this
kettlebell deadlift in case you're weak
enough for a kettlebell to be a good
load for deadlifting guys a kettlebell
that weighs 150 pounds is profoundly
heavy very rarely they're they're heavy
and most adult men after several weeks
of training can do 150 pounds in the
deadlift for 20 plus repetitions Marky
Mark has been training with weights for
the vast majority of his life he should
be able to pull 225 through 15 even more
for reps what the fuck is he getting out
of a fucking kettlebell I submit to you
the answer is very little we did
unilateral on the lower body pull last
time so we're going to go bilateral on
the lower body pull this time that makes
sense it makes as much sense as any
other string of random words strewn
together let me tell you guys about the
RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you could
choose to make your own you could modify
an existing program or you can just run
the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the app adjusts to
your unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
half kneeling unilateral overhead press
if you want to focus on anything other
than the front delts and triceps which
you're actually trying to train you
muddy The Waters by making this an
exercise that's also difficult to
stabilize during what are we training
for oh that's right it's to make Marky
Mark as Nimble as a cat for when he's
doing fake guns and fake scenes of fake
shootouts half kneeling position when we
get to a half kneeling position we're
really helping the body to understand a
little bit of a different base getting
the hips to split really helps to
accentuate that posture because the core
is more active
getting the hips to split helps
accentuate that posture because the core
is more active
type in random letters and numbers as a
chat GPT prompt you will get a more
cogent string of words back than this by
a fucking long shot now you're into your
corrective exercise oh thank God finally
corrective exercise which by the way is
a term serious scientists basically
don't use because it's fucking nonsense
what we're going to do today is our
power plate figure four if you want to
you can be on a bosu of course anabosu
everything is better I figure four
pattern is a big stretch for your hip
why is a hip stretch good no one ever
asked no one ever answered
we've done all this work on the pieces
and patterns pieces and patterns check
check I have a feeling it's time for
some battling ropes now I'll just play
some music with the body
he really just said now let's play some
music with the body
that used to be one of my dog shit
pickup lines that never got me laid but
I can't believe he's actually saying
this in a training context and you know
what music looks like it looks like
fucking battle ropes
kill me now please
this is metabolic work
of course
random exercise term generator came up
metabolic work guys every single active
physical work you do involves you
guessed it the metabolism there is no
work that is not metabolic work it is
sheer impossibility because how do you
move if your metabolism doesn't allow
you to process the energy requirement to
actually move my head so if you're at
the end of your he is grooving in that
video though Marky Mark makes everything
look good I take back all of my
criticisms seconds and you're not
feeling that
and yes that's being out of breath by
the way Mr Wynn you're not breathing
properly I didn't see the nose in mouth
out stuff you're gonna die soon the
heart's not thumping maybe you want to
pick up a rope that is a little thicker
I like picking up a thick rope all right
did I mean rope no I didn't or a little
longer ooh thicker and longer hmm the
black robe am I allowed to say that
Scott's video guy
we'll keep it in
our favorite finisher oh but he's
getting pushed around he's the sled push
why number one because it's super
challenging yes of course you want to
put the most challenging thing at the
end when you have the least energy makes
sense and number two it's super
corrective in nature super corrective in
nature that makes a lot of sense if we
assume that corrective is a nebulous
term that has no definition which is
actually true in this case
[Music]
okay uh instead of doing the traditional
rating system
I'm gonna go off myself
[Music]