[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
my name is Chad Wesley Smith 33 years
old
cancer Costa Mesa California so I began
competing powerlifting in 2010 where I
went on to squat nine hundred and
seventy pounds 440 kilos bench 250 seven
and a half kilos 567 pounds deadlifts
370 kilos 815 pounds for a 1055 kilo 20
325 pound total which at the time of
doing was in the top 10 all-time for raw
powerlifting it's moved down the list a
little bit since then
I also competed in strongman won the
2012 North American strongman national
championship which earned me my pro card
there you know will coach some of the
best power lifters in the world Marissa
and uh Andy Huang Brandon Allen Kristin
Dunsmore it's multiple IPF world team
competitors and now competes in
Brazilian Jiu Jitsu where I was third at
both the Pan Am's and World
Championships in the blue belt division
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
my first exposure to sport I think
they're those pictures of me holding
like a stuffed football in the crib and
began competing in sports father was
formalised sport at four or five years
old in soccer swimming I ended up
playing doing both of those with like
like club level Club basketball track
and field to the youth national level
but yeah it really started when I was I
think four or five years old not a thing
that my parents ever had to push me
towards if anything it was probably more
of a raining raining in my enthusiasm
that a lot of times like hey how about
you go inside and do some homework
instead of you know staying in the
driveway and and shooting hopes until
like 9 o'clock at night
you know it was probably a seven year
old in 1993 I had seen Muggsy Bogues
ugly then Charlotte Hornets and standing
five foot three and I was like yeah I
thought that much taller than me I too
would like to play in the NBA
so dad can you get up a video camera and
record me playing basketball in the
driveway and speaking into the camera to
the Charlotte Hornets coach and general
manager explaining to them why I would
have been an asset to the team
I've since found out that my parents did
not in fact send that to the team
betraying my trust
thankfully the video has been lost or
destroyed by the ravages of time
it's probably a early success that that
jumps out in my mind for reports was was
in track and field going to Youth
Nationals were in Salt Lake City I was
nine nine years old now
I had it might've been on my ninth
birthday actually and I got 9th at
nationals there which missed going to
the finals by one spot I was frustrated
in the moment but I think
the time also saw like like okay your
top ten in the country and like you're
good at throwing the shotput
but I saw how much more could be there
at in like a pretty high level at the
national level for for that so I always
knew like sports are what I'm going to
do so I started throw-in the shop up
when I was eight years old I competed
all the way through college
one two NAIA says small college national
championships my senior year I had been
coached my junior senior of high school
and junior senior year of college by the
same guy gentleman by the name of Len
blue trick and coach pool was just like
great guy kind of grandfather figure and
that was like always my goal as any
track and field athletes goal is to one
day go to the Olympics and something
like coming out of college because I had
almost two years off of track and really
training in the middle of college I was
behind a little bit but was improving so
fast then it's like okay you know it's
would have been realistic by 2012
Olympic Trials like all right you could
be throwing these distances to have a
shot to make the team and coach blue
passed away from cancer right after I
graduated college so then I had no coach
that was definitely like a tough time
like do I continue with no coach to like
I do this for kind of Coach Blues memory
tried to continue doing it and then
found out like having that having no
coach makes it really hard I've become
very reliant upon his eye watching me so
that was tough I kept trying to throw
for about a year after college and
before switching to powerlifting
[Music]
the decision to make the switch from
shotput to peril of teen was a fairly
simple one of the time I I was sponsored
by elite FTS as a shot putter prior to
that was just sort of a unique thing so
I was around the world of powerlifting a
little bit or sighted my last track meet
in May 2010 and then in June 2010
started doing the juggernaut method /
you know what I had written for a
forthcoming ebook at that time started
doing the exact program for that to
train for my first powerlifting meet
which was four months later in October
2010 I squatted 800 benched 462 dead
lifted 700 you know real career
highlights that stand out for me in the
shotput would have been winning
I think the indoor indoor national title
and the AI at etsu in the Thunderdome or
whatever that thing is called mini dome
that's not as cool as Thunderdome yeah
but when my first national championship
there was was a great highlight in
powerlifting breaking the then American
record in the squat in the 308s class
let's go ahead 905 at 308 in August 2011
that was a really big moment for me yeah
my first thousand kilo total which I did
as my first mate back from my herniated
discs I told
22:37 which is I think a thousand
fifteen kilos so my first time breaking
that 2300 pound total was a thousand
fifty kilo total I travelled to
Australia to compete at the GPA Worlds
those are yeah definitely the
power lifting moments that stand out to
me and then in strongman winning the
national championship and earning my
earning my pro card there and it was by
a wide wide margin like 21 points or
something like that I was I believed it
was up to that point the widest margin
that Nationals had ever been won by at
several different stages I could I could
have you know regrets or things that I
would have done differently as I look
back on my own track and field's the
career and now that I have the
opportunity to to help some of the
world's best athletes of us number one
hammer thrower us an Olympian for Greece
rather in the shotput
I would have put a lot less emphasis on
getting so strong so quickly and put a
which would have afforded me a lot more
energy to actually practice my sport
more throw the shuffle more do more
special strength type of exercises I
could have ended up just as generally
strong by the time I was 26 or 27 but
with so much more special strength like
specific strength of the shotput and
more efficient technique and everything
by that time by just de-emphasizing the
weight room a little bit so that's
probably the main chain the main change
that I would have made to that part of
things so I do think I had the ability
to throw the shout foot 70 feet or more
than 70 feet to have a real shot to make
the US Olympic team sport has been a
part of my life my entire life for as
long as I can remember
so I mean everything that I've done is a
you know from a career standpoint would
have never occurred if it wasn't you
know that I began doing track when I was
eight years old there is all the great
character stuff and sports about
perseverance and hard work and that kind
of stuff but I mean it really it has
opened almost every every door in my
life that's been open for me was because
of
sports I think the main advice that I
would give to anyone there is that you
gotta control what you can control don't
worry about what you can what you can't
control is what genetic hand you were
dealt in addition to my beautiful blue
eyes hit me with the close-up
an incredible knee girth I know that I
got some pretty good sport jeans when I
started that lifting weights in high
school
released more consistently my freshman
year of high school I had been probably
the third best offensive lineman on my
own freshman football team I understood
like lifting weights will make me better
a better player and the next year I was
you know the best on our team and then
the next year I was the best in the
league and the by senior I was like one
of the best in our County and so much of
that I attribute to taking control of
that one piece that I could control is
how hard can you work in the offseason
then knowing like that I was not gonna
fail because I didn't work hard enough
and even you know where that really
transferred to like the business of
juggernaut you know there were some some
lean some lean times there you know
under $100 an hour in our business bank
account if this doesn't work it's not
gonna be because we didn't work hard
enough like we are not gonna let that a
lack of effort and exhausting every
possible option and resource we have be
the reason why and I think you know that
kid I can definitely trace that back to
like if I don't get a college
scholarship or I don't win this
championship or win this game it's not
be it's not gonna be because I didn't
exhaust every possible resource I had to
do that and that you know just being
working as hard as I possibly could I
think because my whole life I've been a
competitor I'm competitive about the
success of our business I'm competitive
about my own success in whatever
endeavor
I choose had times in my life when I was
like I'm just gonna train to train like
this is just for health now that lasted
like three months because it was
extremely boring to me and then from the
business side of things was like I'm
very committed you know committed to
juggernaut providing the best quality of
service and information to the lifting
community and do it in a way that it's
not you know cost prohibitive to some 16
year old out
there who wants to be the best football
player or sch√ºttler that he could the
way that I did I didn't have money to go
to seminars or something or you know
it's good like private coaching I mean
that really existed at the time I was
just reading all the free stuff that I
could and and you know using my
Christmas money to to buy books and and
everything so I just want to be able to
provide that quality information to
people to help them reach their goals
whatever they are
[Music]
you