are you snacking and not losing weight
your children may be at risk tonight
news at 11.
all right anyway
the advice here for this quick tips
lecture is to stop snacking to lose
weight hold on a second
you may be in that position will you be
pretty well but you have a few snacks
here and there maybe your clients tell
you stuff like that like hey how have
you been eating I noticed you're not
losing weight like we planned like well
I'm eating really good and then you're
like okay you turn your head like this
and they turn their head like this
like but I've been having a few snacks
have they do that face and you're like
uh huh and they're like fuck fuck fuck
he got me don't take the snacks away
please the only thing I live for here's
the deal
some people can lose weight while eating
snacks and for them and if that's you
fucking rock on that's a huge win
amazing feel free to turn off the rest
of this video unless you like shitty
exercise based comedy
it's like no one ever
now
the other hand probably way more people
have trouble losing weight
and they should at least think about
cutting down or cutting out their snacks
in the short term once they get to
whatever stable weight they want you can
they can absolutely reintroduce snacks
and that's totally fine but there are at
least four good reasons why you should
consider if you're not losing weight
like you want to cut out snacks and if
you have clients or friends or family
that are Snackers
maybe giving them these four sort of
thoughts can let them make better
decisions about things that actually are
effective in losing weight here's why
first point
snacking is often discordant from
tracking a lot of people who snack like
you can give them an app and say Here's
picks all of your meals for you the RP
Diet Coke chapter does a fine job of
that eat these meals you'll be in shape
that's how a lot of meal plan Nutrition
Works is do this and get that a lot of
people when they snack if they have a
diet app they can put their snacks in
the app too and that works but a lot of
people who snack and they don't use apps
to begin with they're not putting that
in they do eat their normal great
healthy food in their three or four
meals a day but then the snacks add up
they're not tracked so you get that kind
of answer that I alluded to earlier if
you're a personal trainer or a diet
coach you ask your client like hey how's
your diet like well I eat really well
and they'll even describe the shit you
don't ever need to fucking be here like
for breakfast as if every fucking
breakfast the same like for breakfast
they have egg whites oatmeal and
cucumber slices and for lunch I have one
turkey sandwich with light mayo no
cheese and a handful of raspberries and
for dinner I have fish and blah blah
blah we've all fucking heard that
dumbbell shit before first of all
they're fucking lying nine times out of
ten at least wildly exaggerating they're
picking their best
they never had a single good day like
this in their lives they pick one sample
really good two week period and
composite together one breakfast two
lunches with minus out some of the M M's
they ate for two of them and then one
dinner and then over the course of two
weeks they happen to have three good
meals they just cluster those together
and tell you that's how they eat
everything right
and I say look no that's the that's it
shows me here that you're 270 pounds
so this diet you described is 1900 daily
calories something doesn't add up you
usually wouldn't phrase this curtly but
then they say oh well you know yes I do
some snacking and you go how much
snacking that's when numb Point number
one really hits you in the face they go
well
and the answer is they don't fucking
know because they never kept track why
would they it's just some M M's here and
there some nuts here and there uh folks
that shit especially like at the office
adds up like crazy so if you think
you're eating healthy and this thing is
charitably a lot of people are in this
awful situation awful Western uh first
world problem here they're in the
situation of being like I eat well but
I'm fucking losing any weight and then
if you take away their snacking they go
oh that was 800 calories a day off
snacks and here's the thing
it's Point number two easy add a load of
calories in the form of snacks if you
eat any time you're in the mood a lot of
times you'll be eating often especially
considering that snacks are often very
palatable they're very tasty that's why
they're fucking called snacks can you
imagine like you go to see your boss for
a quick chat at her desk and she's got
some snacks lined up that she lets
people eat that's pretty common in the
workforce and it's like slices of
cucumber and broccoli you're like what
the fuck she's like snack you're like
I'm good but she has fucking chocolate
covered almonds I'm saying your boys
hitting that up no mind if I do get me a
little plate a little bit of this a
little bit of that snacks are tasty
they're super easy to eat and they make
you feel nice it's nice it's enjoyable
it's actually entertaining
I'm always I was always fond of the idea
that I colloquially at various
conferences and academics and corporate
structures they'll have Refreshments
between talks like is the purpose of
these three Oreo cookies to refresh me
I've never felt refreshed after eating
Oreos I've just felt like that was
delicious but I feel sick right so a lot
of times we have to understand that
snacks are designed to be super tasty
and because of that they're a lot
oftentimes really high in calories and
because they're super tasty and high in
calories you just kind of keep wanting
to eat them and voila you get into a
situation where you can add up an
unbelief amount of calories and they've
done various studies and estimates of
how much people snack some people get in
over a thousand calories per day every
day just through snacks alone is not
that hard so if you're thinking well I
eat really well but I snack a little
and your personal trainer your coach is
like snacks you're like I don't know but
it's not that much you're like oh how
much is it like I don't really know
but I had five jars of chocolate covered
cashews yesterday it's 20 000 calories
clear that's exaggeration but it's so
easy to get lots of calories so Point
number two is like look if snacking was
like you ate a cucumber every hour and a
half nobody give a flying fuck that
almost never happens number three
snacking
the practice of it can capitalize in not
such a good way on emotional eating
bubbles okay why do I call them bubbles
because the desire to eat emotionally is
almost never stagnant now like you wake
up at 10 am oh geez that's late pothead
you wake up at 8 A.M and you're like oh
man I need to eat food so I can be
happier than I am now I just feel like
if I just had some chocolate I'd feel
better A lot of times that's not
necessarily the case and the same
feeling at lunch same at dinner and same
late at night a lot of times you're like
your boss will yell at you for a while
then you get off work and you're like
God damn it I need something tasty to
plug this hole leaking out of my psyche
and then you go to the emotional eating
so essentially if you don't snack it's
difficult to do emotional eating in a
way that maximizes how much weight gain
because precisely when you want to eat
the most emotionally after whatever
incident happened be it in your brain or
an external reality you have instant
access to snacks if you're a snacker and
you can fill that bubble up with food
and get all of the emotional to
bodyweight connection that you didn't
want on the other hand if you're a
regular meal leader and just not a
snacker on principle if you're at your
desk there's no snacks around and you're
like ah shit I fucked up that project I
could if there were Cheetos here I could
make myself feel better but there aren't
I have dinner at five anyway whatever
fuck it that's already packed I'm just
gonna fix whatever I have to fix or take
a couple walks around the block come
back and get to work then that emotional
leading bubble goes away you fix all the
stuff you needed you send off the email
to your boss five minutes later she
responds and she's like hey you did a
great job you're not fired you're the
fucking man get out there this weekend
and get fucked up I don't know if your
boss talks to you like that maybe
um but you're like hey I did it the
emotional stuff is over you don't want
to eat compensatorily to feel better
about yourself anymore and then it's
dinner time it's 5 PM you get your
Macros anyway so if the snacks are
around
it's kind of it can be a bad deal
um
just to have around ideally you would
let it pass and eat your meals when it's
time if you're a snacker that's not
going to happen oftentimes lastly I sort
of alluded to this already but I can
actually dig in a little bit more
snack food is very often junky which
means it is high palatable it's super
tasty and it's high calories and it's so
super tasty that it makes you want to
eat more of itself I don't know about
you guys but I've never had a single
chocolate covered almond and been like
ah yes Serendipity nonsense if I get one
I want 18 and if I get 18 I want 36 000
and then butthole does this and the
doctors say things like wow we've never
had had to sew someone's butthole in
five different places before
and you go yeah what am I paying you
guys for anyway I have insurance
as soon as you're out of the hospital
back to the chocolate covered almonds is
this a story about me yeah the world may
never know but in any case if snacks
were Ultra healthy sweet
if you keep Ultra healthy snacks around
this whole snacking problem may be no
problem for you at all or much smaller
of a problem the thing is a lot of times
the snacking situation is fucking bad
and a lot of times it's not just your
shit how many of you guys buy a show of
hands try to look through your TV at you
through your computer screen through
your phone how many of you guys are in a
workplace office situation where'd
fucking Debbie who I don't know fuck she
stays in shape
bitch right she comes in every fucking
Thursday she's like I made my homemade
mini Donuts again huh fuck you Debbie in
your goddamn perfect life eating these
goddamn mini donuts and not being a fat
piece of shit like me every time you
bring him in I smell the shit smell
unbelievable I ate 15 of them every time
and well I'm struggling with my weight
in many situations snacks are just
around uh it's a pretty common thing
like I'm from Russia originally we were
poor as fuck we just didn't have this
and I don't know if it's a cultural
thing or just a poverty thing but when I
came to America I noticed that my
American friends always had this like
Pantry area in their home
stocked full of snacks that seemingly no
one ever ate they were just available if
you live in a situation like that and
you happen to be a snacker and an
emotion leader oh man you know you got
those um
gushers hey Scott the video guy you
remember gushers
amazing commercials you just want to be
the coolest 90s kid in the world eating
gushers they're the ones with the juice
juice and if you read the back they're
like liquid candy product not juice
they were like
like ostensibly not food they're not
food at all mom did a good do you
probably five IQ points higher and gonna
die five years uh later than otherwise
if you'd have gotten those shits but in
any case if you have all those snack
foods around if people are at the office
bringing them in it can be tough because
almost always the snack food like you
know like if there's like a hippie lady
who works the desk next to you your call
center or whatever and you're like hey
Sharon what you got for stacks and she's
like I've got dried quinoa pellets
you're like I'm sweet you make up some
shit like oh yeah my grandma loves those
she's like do you want some you're like
no Cher nobody wants your snacks hippie
nobody eats that crap it tastes awful
like my horse wouldn't eat it yes I have
a horse how do you guys think I get to
my Lamborghinis if not on Horseback but
in any case most the time snacks are fun
snacks peanut M M's and all that shit
and that's a really good way to not only
add tons of calories but want to keep
adding tons of calories because they're
amazing
at the end of the day all of this may
not apply to you all this may apply to
you only marginally or all of this may
apply to you in a big way if you're that
kind of person that's tried snacking and
it seems you you honestly say man if I
stop snacking I can fucking eliminate a
lot of calories
try it if you have problem clients
because I know a lot of you guys are
coaches yourselves which is awesome if
you have problem clients that if you
know for a fact they're snacking or they
tell they're snacking but they're like I
think it's fine try to get them to
reduce their eliminate snacking just
during their fat loss phase and they
will oftentimes report unbelievable
compliance unbelievable results and be
like wow I'm losing a ton of weight and
I've actually had the situation where
they're like how do you think it's
happening I'm like well you're not
eating at a fucking horse trough of
snacks anymore that might have something
to do with it so in any case that's to
your advantage and uh if you like
snacking go away you're not welcome on
our Channel I'm totally kidding all
right answers do the one that works for
you see you guys next time