[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization today I'm gonna demo one
of my recipes from something sweet that
was our all suites 50 recipe book that
we put out right before holiday season
in 2017 so this one is all about texture
so I know a lot of you have played
around with casein pudding at night and
even that can go south pretty quick
because if you add just I'm always like
at the sink like adding a tiny bit of
water and then stirring and then a tiny
bit of water because it can go really
bad really fast it's weird the texture
of the casein and how it absorbs liquids
so this was this is one that I've played
around with a billion times before I
feel like I got the right consistency to
be cookie dough and then there always is
like this is sort of like my extra
liquid to try and make sure that I get
it just right without going too liquidy
or too crumbly all right so we're gonna
start so I've got my casein powder in
the bowl already and then I'm gonna add
in some coconut flour and almond flour
this is powdered peanuts so that's gonna
be my fat I'm just gonna stir that
together first so this would be this is
just you know kind of a more fun way to
have your casein before bed if you've
done the casein pudding to death if
you're bored of casein shakes I know a
lot of you guys like to try to make your
food really interesting and something
that you look forward to at the end of
the day especially if you just don't
love powders I mean we get a lot of
clients that just don't love the powders
casein is perfect before bed because
it's that slow digesting protein so it's
just the perfect thing for you to have
before you go to bed and so this is just
kind of a something to break it up a
little bit something different to do
all right so we've got that all
incorporated I'm gonna add some
unsweetened almond milk pour all that in
and this is just some sugar-free syrup
but obviously there are I use the
Taurani kind there are other ones out
there I always say you know some women
buy shoes i buy Taurani so i have like a
massive embarrassingly large collection
cuz every time they come out with a new
flavor I'm like oh my god I have to have
that so it's just a great I don't use a
ton of it I am a little bit more
sensitive to some of the sweeteners than
I used to be but a little bit can go a
long way especially in something like
this I'm trying not to have it a ton
during the day but in something like
this it can really help with flavor
actually I'm gonna go ahead and add by
nibs and see if that kind of you know
makes it a little bit more solid if you
want it more liquidy you could add more
the sugar-free syrup or you can add more
of like unsweetened milk so I think this
is probably about where I want it
you know if you're if you want it more
wet that's what I would add if you want
it more dry you could always add a tiny
bit more of the flowers that we added or
you could add like crunched up cereal
which would be really good like an
amaranth or a spelt flake or something
like that you could always do that but I
think this is ready to go it still is
going to be again it's better than a
pudding and it's not a drink
it's just something like a little sinful
well it makes you feel like you're
having cookie dough
so I'm gonna put a little bit of flake
salt on there I got a giant piece right
there
there you go
[Music]