for that person forcing like 20 plus
sets per week and stopping starting
having to to de lo very often and so on
and so forth you could argue that that
could lead to inferior gains versus
somebody being very consistent um and
doing
less folks me my name is Dr Mike uh you
know I don't remember what I'm a doctor
in but this is Dr Pac Dr Pac what is
your full given Greek name it's patrios
andreakis kakis patrios the lover of
Achilles for for the history enjoyers
you have a PhD you are do pack PhD isn't
oh let's let's back that up what if I
get sick what kind of sick do I have to
be for you to help me out sick muscular
my man sick Bro sick looking sick bro
that's the kind of doctor I you're like
looking sick yeah literally here's a
program um so you uh have a PhD in sport
Science amazing and where did you get
your doctoral degree uh doctoral
degrees.com that's a great website yes I
got it from solent University in the UK
the United Kingdom oh my I am also a
British citizen really last time I
checked we're speaking English here Rule
Britannia yes exactly one of your expert
areas is on a very curious topic of the
minimum effective dose for training
which means training
at the boundaries of as little as you
can to still see Dependable growth yes
so that's a very important concept
because some people really want to know
I have some hours per week to train it's
not enough for me to make gains fuck it
I'm not even going to the gym but it
turns out it might not require a whole
lot of training to see some really good
gains tell us a story about uh your
research your familiarity with the
research and just generally kind of like
a bullet point list of like what's on
average the minimum effective dose sets
and Reps and blah blah blah per week
frequency that you can like on with
average genetics if you're starting out
expect to be like okay this is probably
going to get some results anything below
this is like n anything above is like
for sure yeah so my PhD was specifically
on the minimum effective dose uh for
powerlifters MH so we did look at get
strong yeah to get strong yeah we did
look at highly trained individuals if I
remember correctly our intervention
studies were
the strongest studies out there as far
as like participants the participants
were because a lot of times you read the
shit and you're like these guys are
pussies they ain't mening shit but these
these were stacked motherfuckers for the
literature yeah for you you wouldn't
lose your mind looking at somebody you
know squatting 440 but they were they
were that's fucking respecto yeah they
were respect respectable for sure um but
obviously having to look at the totality
of available evidence I got familiar
with the literature in general around
the topic and it's nice that you touched
on because I wanted to aside from
looking at what the literature says as
far as low volume training and Gams go I
wanted to also Define What U effective
means what meaningful gains mean so we
also interviewed a bunch of high level
coaches and athletes to see what their
definition of meaningful is because I
was a participant in that part of the
study you were a participant in many of
our interview studies I'd like to thank
you on camera and other participation
things that were not on camera mostly
that so
essentially to take a few steps back for
somebody who is looking to make solid
gains gains that will be meaningful
gains that will matter obviously not
optimal gains even as low as four to six
sets per muscle group per week for
hypertrophy and for strength as well um
is more than enough for them to actually
see gains so I can do two sets of dips
close to failure on Monday wide grip I
can do two sets of incline dumbbell
presses for chest close to failure on
Thursday and if I really haven't trained
much and even if I've trained for a
little while I can see some kind of
notable gains over the weeks and months
of training from even that small amount
yes it may not be optimal but you could
be looking at 50 to 70% of your
potential gains now as the literature is
evolving the number may change and we do
expect it to potentially shift a bit
lower than what we currently think yeah
because it keeps going down every time
we test it like it we haven't really
found much of a floor yet have we
exactly which means just for the viewers
it means like scientists have to guess
at what kind of low volume is the low
volume in a study so they compare normal
volume to low volume be 10 sets a week
to five sets we've done that a few times
and it's like five sets still grows
muscle so like still makes you stronger
so it's like so is it two sets in the
next study per week is three what is
really the key to saying okay anything
below this really just doesn't grow on
your muscle yeah I mean we know that
even a single set per muscle group per
week will still yield um meaningful
growth in beginners in beginners and in
train individuals at least from the
strength from the strength data that we
have uh we went as low as a rep per week
and holy shit yeah so like a single a
heavy single on on the deadlifts and
based on the definition of meaningful by
coaches and athletes and I'm talking
like top five uh powerlifters in the
world regardless of sex and age and
coaches that have coached multiple
Champions that group that did just like
a single a handful of times for the
squad bench and deadlift one single for
the deadlift a few for Squad a few for
bench they had um they had they still
had like a let's say 30% chance of
achieving meaningful Gams so so for some
of them that was enough to at least Peak
them it was enough to at least eek out a
little bit more yeah for sure but for
for most of them then Mo for most of us
heavy single just once a week is yeah it
will be enough for you to maintain your
strength but it's not going to it's
probably not going to be magic however
doing around six sets per week per lift
per exercise um had about a 99% chance
of achieving gains that were greater
than what the coaches and athletes
regard as meaningful that's as far as
strength goes as far as hypertrophy if
we look at previous M analytic data by
Sean FAL we see uh and some of the
interventions as well if if we take them
and look at them in isolation like want
to force sets may be enough for you to
achieve let's say 50% of your potential
hypertrophic gains and then as you go up
obviously you you know you go into your
five to like six to 10 sets per muscle
group per week and you get closer to the
80% of potential gains uh and then
obviously 10 to 20 sets for that that
extra 20% however as you noted there's
more research coming out uh and there
was a a new study that came out lately
showing that that ceiling may be higher
than we thought yeah which would again
you know push those numbers a bit lower
but at the same time the message here is
like look you have lives you have shit
to our view our audience doesn't have
lives that's nonsense Grandma lets you
lift only three times a week the rest of
the time you spend in the basement
that's how actualize that so the time
that your grandmother allows you to go
to your great basement um or actually
leave your Bas leave your basement and
go to the YMCA exactly the local Fitness
Center that time if you you know if you
just have those few days thinking that
oh I'm not going to be able to make
optimal gains is not the way to go
because you the person that tries to do
what's optimal for like let's say let's
take two two examples person a person B
person a is super busy um has a family
and is really trying to force like an
optimal like volume uh load yeah but
they're yeah they're unable to keep up
with that so they start they work up to
a bunch of sets then they feel super
tired they feel disappointed that they
can't complete a workout the wife's like
do you just not find me attractive
anymore it's like baby I would have sex
with you I just my quads the answer
there is yes and then a divorce if
you've signed a preup if not then you
got to complain free legal advice yes
there you go Dr pack real doctor real
lawyer um overrated lawyers by the way
you heard it here first just kidding um
keep going this is all wisdom as far as
I can give so yeah that person forcing
like 20 plus sets per week and stopping
starting having to to de lo very often
and so on and so forth you could argue
that that could lead to inferior gains
versus somebody being very consistent um
and doing less still we're not talking
about a single set a week we're still
talking about close to 10 sets per
muscle group per week 10 sets per muscle
group per week yeah close to that for
hypertrophy at least sure CU I don't
think that that's a lot like people make
a big deal out of 10 sets it's two
workouts a week where you do five sets
exactly like that's ridiculous but the
number 10 specifically is thrown around
a relatively high volume in the
literature at least it's yes it's it's
sometimes moderate sometimes higher
volume yes um but yeah the person that
can keep it keep that up for a long
period of time you could argue that they
could see better gains in the sure um
one thing that we get uh as a question
quite often is when people are
concerned that the muscle they built
let's say training
five days a week uhuh they're in a
entering a life situation where they're
only going to be able to train three
days a week for some number of months we
get a lot of very concerned people
asking essentially like how much muscle
can I expect to lose going from training
five days a week to three days a week
I've said before and I'm wondering now
that we have the expert on if this is
true is it's much more likely that you
are going to continue to gain albeit a
little bit B slower to lose muscle you
have to go below your maintenance volume
which might be like two to four sets per
muscle group per week and good God he no
problem to get that in one daily session
or one weekly session so when people
have to regress in their frequency from
5 to four or 5 to 3 or 6 to four are you
concerned about them stopping all of
their gains or even losing muscle or are
you able to confidently assess from the
in your own experience that like well
actually you'll probably still make
gains just maybe a little slower on
average what what's the reality there
exact exactly you said exactly what you
said I would even say that even if
you're doing like let's say you were
doing 20 sets and then whatever
something tragic happens and you can
only do one to four sets per muscle
group a week I'd say that if those sets
are really intense sets you're very
close or to momentary failure tragedy
often fuels intensity exactly this is
for you you Grandma God too soon I'm
right here I can see you ghost Grandma
spotter it's a good idea she's around
still she's like you you think you did
zero R but like some like the rafter
shake and she's like oh pussy you're
like what the fuck grandma all right
I'll do a few more reps but even like as
low as one to four sets per muscle group
per week I'd say you're definitely
maintaining you're definitely
maintaining if nod maybe like a slight
increase okay so to interpret this for
someone not intell like myself the
simple words maintenance is much easier
than most people think very very much so
okay minimum effective dose for both
strength and hypertrophy is somewhere
around just to be very general for the
average person there's differences of
course five sets per muscle group per
week somewhere in that area a lot of
people can start to see Dependable gains
so maintenance maybe 2 to four
Dependable gains starting just north of
that that and then we have another
person who will be talking in another
video about the top end so don't you get
too carried away talking about mrv yet I
invented mrv it's my console yes it's
yours and um I've trademarked a minimum
effective dose and for a cheap
subscription of 99.99 99 yeah 99 uh you
can also train with low
volume but I get your seal of approval
on it so I feel confident about it yes
exactly but yeah as you said than make
your worst gains possible
what a great like title toe program uh
make the slowest gains you can Dr pack
approved tired of training a lot don't
worry you can still make some gains I
love it he's selling the fuck out of us
we did have though like we do have um
data like longterm data as as long as
seven years and we're talking like
15,000 participants um from a gym chain
in the Netherlands they live in a gym
and they're not allowed to leave for
seven years that's how research works
that's how the Netherlands Works what a
terrible country everyone knows
Netherlands is really bad about civil
rights abuses so there there was um
there is actually still a Jim chain that
their thing is 20 minutes of training
per week okay and they give us access to
their data this is all like more premium
training so it's for your like average
businessman or like whatever above
average businessman above average bus
above average business enjoyer and
businesswoman okay this is 2023 o
careful women is a concept we don't
fully understand quite yet oh yeah it's
the RP the RP Channel women people are
logging now they're like oh no said the
W for the one and a half ladies that
follow the channel this is for you
anyways um so 20 minutes per week of
resistance training and we had data for
over 15,000 individuals over 70 years
for the first one or two years strength
went uh up like 40 to 60% above Baseline
again obviously you're not talking about
Ron Coleman here uh or you know he's
just not Dutch so it makes sense sure uh
but they were still seeing gains after
one to two years in terms of strength
vir was not assessed and that strength
plateaued after one or two years but the
trend was remained
upward and at the same time because they
were like 40 something years old You
could argue that you know because age is
sort of battling against their gains the
fact that they didn't lose strength was
good but we have data on people being
able to make gains and maintain them
with as low as literally a set per
muscle group per week and that's like
they were doing like leg press some
chest press some L pulled on it's not
like they were really really like
targeting each muscle group um with a
lot of attention yeah sure so things are
looking good just make sure you train uh
and you get something in if you're
trying to maintain if you're like if
you're H if you're going through a very
rough period of uh in your life even
going to the gym a couple of times per
week yeah you may not be making a bunch
of gains but hey you're not losing games
yes one recommendation I would like to
layer and please correct me if I'm wrong
but there are and I've talked about this
on the channel before but I think i'
always uh always at least in this case
it's a good idea to repeat your exercise
selection can greatly enhance how much
efficiency you get out of the gym the
concept I call Str Str stimulus to time
ratio um what I like to do is um
basically uh a version of compound
lifting where you pick the compound lift
that recruits a lot of the musculature
so for example if you do a wide grip
bench it's technically compound but
really your triceps don't get a big
stimulus and your chest gets a huge one
but if you choose lifts more like close
grip bench more like underhand pull pull
down uh then all of a sudden you're
doing compound lifts but you're checkbox
the chest and the triceps so you can do
some close group benching some underhand
pull-ups some upright rows some shoulder
presses and right there like that's kind
of your whole upper body exactly at
least maintained Y and possibly even
grown in some cases even if you're
really Jack already you do some kind of
squatting or lunging movement you do
some kind of hip hinge for the lower
body two movements you're fucking done
and like if you do that workout which
lasts 40 minutes twice a week you will
indefinitely remain roughly your same
size but for the ravages of
aging and before someone preempts this
in the questions you will shrink down a
little bit and lose a couple kilos in
the first few weeks of doing that mostly
because the intracellular swelling of
your muscles goes down when they're
exposed to less damage you're not going
to look like you're like like Pack's
looking in a shirt Peck the fuck out of
his mind his pecs have pecs you're not
going to look like that but when you go
back to your four days a week of
training with normal volumes I'm telling
you guys within one week you're going to
be like holy shit yeah how did I gain
back that much muscle you didn't lose
any muscle you just gained a little bit
of uh inflammatory response back totally
agree and it's that's a very nice
message essentially this video is a no
excuses video
uh sort of covered up as a scientific
video but in reality look like if you're
somebody who cares about building muscle
and being strong it is very easy to
really like maintain and then if you if
you just throw in a couple of sets on
top of that then you could be looking at
meaningful gains yes like in our studies
the group that was doing just the
singles again like they had some you
know the 30% chance of making meaningful
game less than that actually I had a
much lower than 30% chance when I was
single of making meaningful sexual
interactions
but look at you now having sex with me
after this you promise but let's see if
you deliver we have an only fans for
that Lo in Greek versus Russian it's not
a fight no it's Orthodox Brotherhood
Cooperative yes oh well actually not
Orthodox Brotherhood the Orthodox
Christian religion will not be approving
of what we do behind closed doors
exactly the group that did just the
singles when you threw in an act an
additional two sets so we're not talking
about a lot of time commitment they went
from like it wasn't 30 was 13% chance of
making meaningful gains 13 yeah to 99 oh
wow yeah so like you're in the gym and
you got five minutes to spare and you
just did your lot pull down like um with
a different grip you do a couple of
bicep curls you do a couple of push-ups
a couple of sets of push-ups and then
you could be looking at even like it
makes a difference at those low volumes
that that extra set may make a big
difference so things are looking good
guys that's what we're saying great a
couple of Oddball questions for you
before we kick you off um Greece you're
from Greece uh good place
or best best place in the world we
invented everything but yeah great place
for Holiday personally excellent um the
300 movie documentary or slight
exaggeration I I when I first watched it
I was like okay so they just went to the
Acropolis Museum and just took a video
of like that's it you're like that's
literally my grandfather yeah that was
that's literally Lally grease like when
I when I was born they threw me into the
the ditch what's that like oh the hogi
or whatever the where they tell you to
go fuck off BR you're three months old
yeah how jacked was the wolf that you
personally killed in your manhood uh
exercise she's he's pretty Jack he's
Austrian Belgian Belgian wolf he's right
here in the room with us oh that's right
Milo Milo wolf I didn't kill him though
we killed each other and by making love
so we killed our spiritual yeah you have
two wolves inside you I had one wolf
inside me
but there was a lot of them inside you a
lot of them too much for some points and
I just caught myself off where can
people follow you they can follow me on
Instagram at Dr
drore P AK yeah I mean I've been I've
been messaging the DRP AK and the
dr.pak and it's like it's two accounts
was like zero or like 50 followers and
I'm like I I give up every few months I
I message and I'm like please just just
account let me have it yeah um so
Instagram is the best place to find you
yeah and all my links are there for
research G we were publishing research
and and you are going to be a visiting
Professor we're visiting Vis visiting
scholar visiting scholar my word and
where is that that's where you're a
professor at Leman College Leman College
in the Bronx in the Bronx so if you want
to fuck with that Bronx shit check him
out uh Dr Milo is uh another person is
going to be there to check out uh in any
case welcome to the United States enjoy
our everything Gatorade zero um actually
civilization right there Acropolis was
cool but this is this is where this is
the tip of the SP this is the tip of the
SP thank
[Music]
[Applause]
you