alright hello everyone and welcome to
the ice cream for PRS podcast my name is
Jeff Nippert and I am your host and I'm
going to get to introducing this week's
guest in just a minute but first I just
want to cover a couple quick bookkeeping
items so the first is that this podcast
is available on iTunes it's also
available on stitcher and both the video
and audio are available on youtube and
that can be found at youtube.com forward
slash Jeff Nippert and I'd also
recommend subscribing there so as to not
miss future episodes the second item is
if you guys would like to support this
podcast in any way given that it's
currently unfunded the best way to do
that is simply by going to iTunes and
rating the show so they'll give you an
option of rating somewhere from 1 to 5
stars so however you feel about the show
you can feel free to go and let me know
over there
you can also give it a review on iTunes
and that's actually surprisingly helpful
to me so if you're enjoying the content
that I'm putting out through this
podcast that would be much appreciated
so this week I've got Lyle macdonald on
the line so Lyle is probably one of two
or three guys that I recommend weekly
almost daily to people who want to learn
more about the science of training
nutrition and supplementation and his
blog body recomposition comm is a
resource that i just can't really
overstate the value of so if you guys
aren't familiar familiar with Lyle and
his work I would definitely recommend
checking out his blog so a little more
background on Lyle he's a published
author on physiology training nutrition
supplementation he's published about a
dozen books on those topics he has a
bachelor's degree in exercise physiology
to my knowledge he was the probably the
first person to speak publicly about
flexible dieting and what is today being
called if it fits your macros and he has
a book published on exactly that topic
he like I already said you know as the
founder of body recomposition calm so
while it's a real pleasure to have you
on the show this week thanks Jeff it's
good to be here
so Lyle basically what I want to do here
is kind of touch on an array of topics
just because I feel like you're such a
wealth of information and have have such
a diverse range when it comes to the the
information that you put out there so
what I'd actually like to start off with
is something that I think you're you're
working on quite a bit currently as I
understand it you have a book coming out
pretty soon on women specific training
and nutrition recommendations so I'd
like to first get into some of the
nitty-gritty with the sex specific stuff
and then maybe move into just some more
general nutrition and metabolism stuff
probably mostly pertaining to to
bodybuilders and athletes and then and
then we'll move on to some basic
training stuff sure sounds good alright
so first things I want to quote you so
you've been quoted as saying women are
screwed I so I'd like it if maybe you
could just outline a couple of the main
reasons why it is that women seem to
have a tougher time losing body fat than
men do sure
um first to give credit that was
actually a friend of mine named LC Volk
who uh female bodybuilder she written
some stuff about this years ago I think
that was actually her quote but it's it
is something that I said you know
observational II anybody women men can
will tell you that women have a more
difficult time losing body fat there's a
lot of really good you know the reasons
sort of at a fundamental level our
evolutionary women's bodies essentially
evolved to be much better at handling
energy deprivation and the base of this
was known decades ago but was shown with
animals that you know women are much
female animals or
to survive starvation even there's some
some observational data that you know in
uh like concentration camp type things
or war related famines men are hit
harder men men die sooner and they lose
body-fat more easily and sort of the
basic idea or the theory behind it is
that you know women very much more so
than men were responsible for the
survival of the human race they have to
be able to store calories were the
eventualities privacy have enough
calories to get through pregnancy make
sure the child survives long enough to
survive in a very real way once men have
done contributed what they need to - the
pregnancy they can go away so that
that's kind of the basic the the distal
explanation for why this all occurs as
far as you know the you know the
physiological reasons one of them that I
actually hadn't really appreciated -
like dug very far into it is really has
to just do with the differences in body
size and so on average women are about
10% or more lighter than men but they
carry it more body fat they typically
carry about 10% less lean body mass 10%
more body fat right so average male body
fat 12 to 15 percent women 12 22 to 25
27 somewhere in that range and it's
turning out that on a lot of the
previously considered physiological
gender differences really do come down
to differences in body size all right
women will have a low restaurant resting
metabolic rate simply by a function of
being lighter and having less lean body
mass they will use different amounts of
fuel they burn fewer calories from say
the thermic effect of food right the
calories burn when you eat simply
because they eat less they will burn
less calories during exercise because
they're smaller and because since they
have less muscle mass they can't run us
the same speed they can't generate the
same power outputs on a bike if they
obviously generally they don't lift as
heavy of weight in the weight room and
all of this kind of adds up to a system
that sort of by definition everything
runs not a little slower rate but it's
just all the numbers are going to be
smaller so in a practical sense a lot of
this means that
the type of diet a man can do or the
amount of exercise that male can
typically do to the number of calories
he can burn will generally be larger if
men and women both exercise for 45
minutes at the same intensity she will
burn less calories
she will create a smaller deficit she
will lose less body fat so for years
they used to say that you know the
research suggested that women's bodies
women just didn't lose fat with exercise
men would women wouldn't and as they dug
further into that it's true and it's not
true part of it is also that if you're
looking at total weight right feeling a
total weight loss or total fat loss of
course women what is less they're
smaller but if you look at the total
loss in percentage of starting weight
the differences tend to really disappear
and this is true of a lot of things
they'll talk about you'll see it
referred to as normalizing for body
weight right so if you look at strength
levels men lift more than women but if
you normalize the amount of lean body
mass their strength is roughly like a
woman's muscle demands muscles to say
women just have less of them in any case
one researcher has done a couple studies
in admittedly overweight women and they
have the women burn as many calories
during exercises than men so they both
worked up to was praise about 600
calories a day and the men and women
lost identical amounts of body fat okay
well fat number one this is an
overweight women and a lot of what I'm
going to talk about next gets worse as
women get leaner right when people gain
a lot of body fat a lot of this stuff
goes up when starvation isn't a risk
you've got plenty of body fat a lot of
these adaptations don't occur however
one of the observations was that the
women had to exercise anywhere from 20
to 35 percent longer right that's just
reality they can also conceivably work
in a higher intensity that brings up its
own set of issues you know I do wonder
empirically and as much as too much
aerobic activity can cause a lot of
problems
female physique athletes do typically do
more than men well they almost have to
to burn the same number of calories or
even a similar number of calories same
goes for diet right take a woman that
has whatever a daily energy expenditure
of 2,000 calories male that has 3000
to take 500 calories out of both of
their diets is much harder for the woman
her food intake drops drastically it
also represents a larger percentage of
her starting point if you instead set
calories the way I you know if you say
I'll take 20% out of their diet well the
man is reducing his calories by 600 and
she's only by 400 again she of course
shall lose fat at a slower rate so that
actually ends up explaining more of it
then I think I even recognized till I
really got into the research and a lot
of those early studies the supposed
gender difference had more to do with
the differences in body weight than
anything else but there are some really
distinct physiological differences a
line and most of these are hormonal
right and without getting into too much
detail right if you want to really sort
of pinpoint the biggest difference
between men and women it comes down to
the menstrual cycle all right if you
look at a male's hormone levels across a
month testosterone is basically a
straight line that's pretty much true
over most of our lives it's kind of a
slight slope down with age women who
aren't on birth control or don't have
other stuff going on have this monthly
hormonal cycle that is changing week to
week to week estrogen and progesterone
being the key hormones these are
affecting appetite metabolism fat
storage fat mobilization you name it and
it's changing almost weekly
and it's a pretty significant difference
so there are there are distinct
differences in how women store fat
one of the big differences for example
and have women mobilize fat right so in
the body we fat can kind of come from a
couple places one is that you've got to
store your muscle called intramuscular
triglycerides obviously the other part
is from body fat now there's multiple
types of body fat
you've got visceral fat which is the
type around the midsection or not it's
not stomach fat it's that deep fat that
kind of surrounds your organs men
typically carry more of that than women
due to testosterone when then typically
carry more subcutaneous fat more
underneath the skin and of course anyone
with eyes can see women typically
carry more in the lower body so men tend
to lose this visceral fat comes off very
easily so that comes off super super
super quickly so you'll frequently see
this this fast weight loss in them that
you don't see in women another issue
well sorry before I get off-track so
during our robic exercise for example
even when men and women burn similar
amounts of fat in terms of grams or
percentage it's coming from a different
place
women's muscles tend to use more of that
intramuscular triglyceride and basically
their bodies spare body fat and when you
crank all the numbers for any sort of
moderate calorie burn by the time you
figure out the small total amount of fat
that's being burned and the fact that up
to half of it may come from one of the
muscle the amount of actual body fat
being burned is just insignificant
now and don't seem to use as much
intramuscular triglyceride they use more
fatty acids they also have more upper
body fat which is much easier to
mobilize for fuel than lower body fat
there's also a difference after exercise
right during exercise men use less fat
and more carbs but after exercise they
use more fat right and as we all know
it's not what you burn during that hour
that's important it's the rest of the
day
women are reversed women they burn a
greater percentage of fat all the more
of it comes from the muscle during
exercise but they shift back to carbs
later in the day so they may be burning
a tiny amount of fat for that hour but
they're burning a lot less for the other
23 hours of the day so all of that kind
of adds up to this but probably the
biggest issue has to do with you know
metabolic adaptation and that has to you
know that refers to the slowdown in
metabolism that we know occurs when it
during dieting and it can happen in all
four of the components of energy
expenditure resting metabolic rate goes
down thermic effect of food goes down
because you're eating less you burn less
calories during exercise and then
there's also that that non-exercise
activity thermogenesis I'm sure you
talked about it on the podcast those
calories that are burned just through
general daily activities people get
tired they tend to do less they tend to
move around less those are the decrease
in that can occur for one or two reasons
one is just being smaller
right if you have smaller smaller body
burns for your calories so smaller body
weight you lose weight you'll burn fewer
calories at rest you burn a few calories
as exercise but there's also what's
called this adaptive component and
that's the drop in metabolic rate that's
larger than you'd predict based on but
and that's hormonal that's when you get
into changes in leptin thyroid
nervous system output there's changes in
muscle that your muscles become more
energetically efficient during exercise
and all of this adds up to reduce energy
expenditure and there's some definite
indication that women's bodies regulate
energy P energy homeostasis different
right they tend to adapt more quickly so
we know that leptin is very involved in
this whole system right leptin release
from fat cells goes to the brain cause
your brain how much fat and caring I'm
at wreak in response to diet leptin
drops really quickly can be as much as
50% within a week clearly you haven't
lost 50% of your body fat women's left
and drops faster than men buy it can be
up to like 20% greater drop there's also
some indication that women's brains
respond differently to leptin the nuns
what this all adds up to is a system
that will sense that energy deficit will
sense that calorie deficit and cause a
faster adaptation to occur and it can be
really brutally fast when you have a
women that jumped into really high large
calorie deficit within as few as five
days active thyroid woman can go down
significantly which means the metabolic
rate is going to go down like it takes
it only five days for that to occur
depending on what's done and the reality
unfortunately is a lot of women cut
calories too hard they do too much
activity we know that that's part of it
but there's done you know the whole
system and when that just does can to
adapt harder again for those the same
reasons that I mentioned up front which
is their systems have to be better
suited to preventing fat loss because
they are their entire system from top to
bottom basically is aimed at energy
store calories or they store fat better
and they lose it with greater difficulty
and there's adaptations from the muscle
the fat cell to
all energy balance that all play a role
in this right so that was pretty
comprehensive well thank you sure
so the first thing I want to touch on is
just I think at first you mentioned a
study that had the subjects exercising
but maybe they didn't have any change to
the diet so they just can guess their
energy output and that was more
effective in men than in women correct
there was there was definitely some
indication of that you know part of it
is that in exercise only studies nobody
loses a lot of weight so like it's it's
kind of splitting nits it's like oh the
men will lost four pounds and the women
lost two but in the big scheme who cares
but there is definitely you know it but
in other studies women's in even in that
study and it was like half marathon
training for six months in the second
half of that study women's hunger and
food intake started to go up and that
seems to be really one of the drive and
that's all related to again that
dropping left and tends to increase
hunger and appetite so a lot of this in
people concluded that exercise without
dietary control was ineffective for
women and again in you know if you're
looking at at the obese if you've got
someone who's really carrying a lot of
body fat when you work them up to 400 to
600 calories a day of exercise yeah
they're going to see fat loss and that's
what happened in the one group that
studied that that's pretty unrealistic
and it took months to get there but when
you start to get into those into leaner
women who's left and lovers are leptin
levels are already lower those
adaptations kick in a lot faster and
hunger and appetite can can often go up
a lot faster so you know you add to that
the fact that most exercise sessions
just don't burn that many calories you
know typical low intensity moderate
intensity aerobic maybe three 400
calories especially for smaller one
under 20 pound one just isn't burning
that many calories during exercise 160
pound man 180-pound man is going to burn
it much much more and if her appetite
goes up higher to or to a greater degree
and she ends up eating more it's very
trivial toss about right and the other
thing I just a couple things I want to
comment on the first is leptin I would
say most of our listeners are familiar
with that hormone by
now but just to make sure yeah one is up
to speed leptin I guess from a dieting
perspective is like a good hormone like
you want it you want it to be high and
you want to be receptive to it right yes
so in that plummets in women relative to
men that makes it a lot more difficult
to them because it increases their
hunger and also reduces their energy
expenditure yes it's a key player in all
of this basically it's sort of sends a
signal to the hypothalamus the structure
in the brain that integrates all this
that decreases the iris stimulating
hormone decreases nervous system output
increases cortisol decreases you know
it's also really heavily involved in
menstrual cycle function and this is
something else that women deal with it
men do know which is women have a
menstrual cycle to lose and that's
that's a big issue as much from a health
standpoint as any other standpoint it
turns out that the degree of menstrual
cycle dysfunction is very related to the
degree of energy conservation and that
whole signal is coordinated by leptin
and one of the the really early studies
that I wish they'd really followed up on
they took a group of people and they
died them to 10% below their body weight
energy expenditure was down thyroid was
down hunger was up they then gave them
enough leptin the injection to raise
leptin back to the pre die at levels
just a normal hunger went down energy
expenditure went up thyroid went up and
they kept losing fat without changing
anything so like replacing just that
singular hormone pretty much corrected
the system and it would do the same
thing and women's sub work has shown
that leptin injection can reverse the
loss of menstrual cycle and so like it
really is and there are others ghrelin
which is released from the stomach it's
it's not that it's a bad hormone but it
goes up on a diet that stimulates hunger
that's part of that signal to the brain
and there's a whole host of other
players but yeah in an ideal world we
would be able to keep leptin high or
increase left and sensitivity in the
brain so the signal is better in the
real world you know there are dietary
strategies that we use refeeds diet
breaks things of that nature and I would
almost argue and I'll talk about this
pretty extensively
they're almost more important for women
both from a general metabolic standpoint
as well as a menstrual cycle dysfunction
standpoint and as I've looked for you
now has thought of it I could probably
make an argument that women probably
need those types of things in their diet
a little more frequently than them if
for no other reason than their leptin
levels are dropping faster their whole
system is adapting more quickly and I'll
be giving some fairly specific
recommendations based on starting body
fat and how big the calorie deficit is
and all of that to try to offset a lot
of these changes that are occurring
right so a couple a couple other things
I want to get into so the first actually
I'm gonna get you to speak at some
length on the adaptive thermogenesis
later because I want to talk about
metabolic damage and reverse dieting yes
what will table that one for now but I'd
like for you to talk about water shifts
in women because yeah so one thing that
I see in some women but not all is you
know every every four weeks or every
month they like they'll spike up four or
five six pounds but it doesn't seem to
happen in all women and it's not always
consistent like it's not always when
they're on their period for example
right so as what have you observed in
regards to that um a couple things one
is that you know this is something else
that you don't have to worry about in
men with normal menstrual cycle and and
by normal I'm not saying that like any
other situation is abnormal I'm just
basically that's a descriptive word for
like the standard nostril cycle you see
these shifts and hormones and they're
typical typically a couple problems
spots where body weight the water weight
does tend to spike right so brief
overview of the menstrual cycle it's an
average of 28 days divided in half by
ovulation that's when the egg the
follicle explodes yeah is implanted in
which I think it's great they actually
described it that way in the literature
they're like when the follicle explodes
which is just awesome that that's at the
halfway point the first few weeks are
called the follicular phase during this
estrogen is dominant kind of sweeps up
to a big spike and then crashes and
that's when the follicle where the egg
comes from is developing hence
follicular phase into the second half
called the luteal phase so at this point
Esther
those kind of efforts crash comes back
up to about halfway a progesterone the
other major female hormone hits a much
higher level and despite the fact that
people think of estrogen is you know the
bad female hormone it's actually got
mostly good effects progesterone is
really the problem hormone it even
directly stimulates fat storage in the
thighs like it's really a nasty hormone
but during the luteal phase it increases
energy expenditure increases body
temperature women's body temperature
tends to be a little bit higher during
the luteal phase it but it also
stimulates hunger and it's and women
tends to crave carbs and fats during
that time and again if you think about
it this is the body's way an idea egg
has dropped this is the time for her to
get pregnant it wants to make sure
there's enough calories stored in case
pregnancy occurs like the whole system
makes sense it's just the pain so anyway
generally speaking the few days before
ovulation when estrogen goes up that
typically is a water weight increasing
time for most when an estrogen changes
how sodium is stored in a body in the
second half of the luteal phase that
last week is typically what you call you
know that's when PMS is going to occur
that's typically when water way it goes
up again progesterone has an odd effect
it actually blocks the receptor involved
in water retention but when it drops
there's this rebound effect so now you
get increased increased water weight and
that can overlap into the next the next
part of you know and after PMS occurs
that's administration it starts and the
whole thing starts over again so it can
take a couple days as women in
termination for body weight to come back
down another thing about women you know
again yes are there there differences in
that right men have individual responses
or whatever women show a variability
that is just completely unpredictable
right some women during PMS will feel
nothing other women will be
incapacitated and unable to get out of
that
all right it's called premenstrual
dysphoric disorder they will be
depressed they can be suicidal they may
be so doubled over with cramps they
physically can't function and most women
are probably in between those two
extremes and a lot of it has to do with
the relative levels of estrogen or
progesterone how they're changing diet
can impact on this a little bit and
that's why they like there really is is
many generalities as I can give in this
book women and their coaches really have
to be their own best scientists and keep
track of this getting a little off-topic
it's the same thing with performance
right there's been a general idea that
there's no effective of the menstrual
cycle and performance but it's just so
hugely variable I've seen women cross
the cycle no big change I've seen women
that could hit PRS in the first week of
the cycle and handle no more than 60% of
machine work during their PMS week like
if the variability is just enormous in a
way that men just don't see but it
actually brings up I think what you're
getting out on top of that variance is
it makes tracking diet results much
harder for one of them a male can can
check his weight every Monday and
compare or whatever it is a woman's
weight is maybe changing every single
week and water weight can throw off
calipers can throw off body composition
measurements and it makes that
comparison really really really
difficult one of the things I really
recommend to women is you just can't
compare one week to the net X you can't
your body weight may be here and seven
days later and it's all water and it
drives women crazy like it I mean it's
even when they know it's water weight
it still drives them crazy and and
that's on top of that your daily
variation women have to compare the same
week to this they have to compare week
one to week one week two to week two
week three to week three before week
four the measurements to have any
meaning this is another hassle consigns
it can make it take a month to know if
the diet stalled or not because the the
lack of changes could be due to water
weight it could be due to the diet be
you know no longer being deficit or
whatever is going on so it this is just
yet another play
is that I think males have no conception
of and it's a really really really huge
ikan out on top of again if you're
training female athlete whether physique
or comp competitive it might be great
for her to come in and you're ready to
hammer her and give her hard workouts
and if that's PMS week she maybe the
phrase is emotionally labile which is
just sort of emotionally unstable I just
put it that way and you may not be able
to train as hard it really does
introduce a wrinkle that like said male
athletes just don't have to deal with um
so yeah those the water weight shifts
can be significant they can be variable
you know it interacts that that pre
ovulation PMS thing interacts with
sodium intake because basically that
what's happening is the body is hope is
holding more so yeah so decreasing
sodium high sodium intake will make that
worse so decrease odium jacket potassium
can help to offset that but it's going
to happen sometimes and and sometimes
it's just really unpredictable also
women's menstrual cycles can vary
month-to-month
some women are machines some women 26
days 28 days 30 days just on on the nose
like on the dot others they may have a
long one followed by a short one
followed by a medium one again it just
depends on that on the woman so even if
you're tracking it on a seven-day week
what used to be the first day of her
follicular phase the start of
menstruation may not be this time around
so it like I said it just it becomes an
enormous ly more complex system and so
in terms of mitigating that the
frustration that the logistical
frustration in terms of getting
measurement measurements and weigh-ins
you you say you compare a month two
months so say the first of the month
January to the first of the month
February is that kind of how you would
do that basically yeah basically yeah
you know you're trying to compare that
first the first week of the follicular
phase to the first week of the next one
right like Euler phase and that one
think is pretty easy once she starts
menstruating that's when the follicular
phase stars like that is at least an
easy one to identify usually two or
three days in is when all the water
weight has dropped off so that's a good
comparative point that's tip
we pretty consistent the second week is
pretty consistent you know some women
know when they're ovulate they kind of
feel it and there are some changes which
you can really feel like their hunger
will shut down for about three days
before ovulation that's an estrogen
effect and just randomly the funniest
theory I've heard about this this guy
wrote this paper about why he thought
that happened the idea was that my
estrogen blunting a woman's desire for
food and drink
it would allow her general physical
desires to be for more of the flesh and
I just found that particularly amusing
for some reason like yeah it's very
that's super did oh yeah yeah he wrote
this up don't you looked at all this
animal models and looked at that's you
know female animals that are right
before ovulation will basically move
around more and yeah it is that well
they're out looking to find the best
genetic material to mate with MA
they don't eat but they're hornier so I
just I don't know I found that really
amusing for some weird reason but and
there's human data on this at ovulation
women's hips swing in a different way
they're more receptive to giving out
their phone numbers and we're septa
sexual advances like this is her body
trying to get her pregnant anyway so
ovulation can kind you know but if her
cycle is compressed to 24 days it can be
really tough to tell you know when when
the first week of luteal phase is
happening unless you know they're there
ways that women have typically checked
for ovulation um mainly to get pregnant
you know you can look at the body
temperature increase woman's tracking
morning temperature her body temp will
go up by about a degree when she starts
the luteal phase so that's at least one
way to get an indicator of it but that
previous 28-day cycle even if you're
looking at a seven-day week you may or
may not be in the exact same part of the
cycle so it can be a real problem I mean
obviously she gets on the scale and
she's five pounds lighter than the
previous month you're probably not
hitting it right but it just does add
that extra bit of complicated sure gosh
yeah okay so maybe we can briefly talk
on what it is you would do to maybe
mitigate some of these some of these
factors relevant to women in terms of
nutritional or training strategies for
getting the fat to come off because some
of the lemon are are you know
competitive physique athletes and so on
and so getting a getting mean is a is a
requirement for them so I know that you
mentioned a minute ago that you think
they need more frequent refeeding maybe
so maybe this would be a good place for
us to talk about diet breaks and refeeds
as they pertain to yeah so just sort of
for you know for clarity refeeds I used
to refer to fairly short term periods of
increased carbohydrate intake carbs are
better than this is a way to raise
leptin in the short term when I
originally wrote guide to flexible
dieting back in 2004 I had described
refeeds ranging from five all into 48
hours and having looked into it more
with more data and observations short
refeeds will refill muscle glycogen it
gives people some food variety it will
at least eat but it's probably not long
enough to really have major metabolic
effects like especially 5-hour refeed a
24-hour refeed done a little bit more
frequently can probably work this is
something I've been discussing action
with Eric Helms he's been doing sort of
a it's called intermittent caloric
restriction it's kind of a new approach
where rather than dieting for five days
or two weeks and then refeeding every
third or four day is a higher calorie
day kind of like some old calorie
cycling ideas because we know that the
brain takes about four days to really I
don't notice for lack of a better word
that drop and weapon like when you start
to die it you don't we start to get
hungry about day four or five
so in premise maybe putting a one-day
refeed every third or fourth day might
work or you could put a two-day refeed
you know every five to seven days refine
but a lot of it will depend on how lean
the woman is and we're kind of talking
he mentioned physique athletes so we're
probably looking at relatively lean
women and I define that mic cutoff is
about 20
or percent body fat right women again
about 10 to 12 percent higher than men
so 124 percent is equivalent to man of
about you know 10 12 percent and they
have to get to a male body builder has
to get the four female bodybuilder
physique has to get to that ten to
eleven range if you're looking at
fitness it's probably a little bit
higher bikini is about 20 percent and
doesn't have nearly the problems it's
really it's really the bodybuilder
physique athletes that have to get to
the the real lower limits of body fat
and that gets really tough at the end a
lot of it depends on the deficit right
bigger deficits tend to cause these
adaptations to occur faster so you can
get away with large deficits if Yuri
feed frequently enough and it's actually
kind of interesting you know one of my
books the ultimate diet 2 is the
seven-day cycle and it's like four and a
half days of super hard dieting and then
two and a half days of refeeding and I'm
almost inclined to think it would be
better for women than for men because it
actually fits in with a lot of the
research on women's hormones and how
they adapt men can probably get away
with a longer period of dieting before
they refeed unfortunately I don't have a
lot of women do it just because it
doesn't really kind of appeal to their
mindset the woman I have had that have
done it have gotten fantastic results
but Eric has noticed some differences at
least in you know he's not seeing the
bigger fat loss stalls the loss of
menstrual cycle at Lee is at least
occurring much later in the diet seems
to be a lot less physically and
emotionally stressful by doing those
those one-day refeeds a little bit more
frequently you can also do a two day
refeed you know I would say every 5 to 7
days again it depends a lot on the
deficit and one of things the book will
have is scheduled is if you're on say a
small dietary deficit and by that I mean
20% below maintenance right a pretty
mild diet you can probably you probably
need a two-day refeed every two weeks if
you want to do a moderate or a heavy
deficit you know anything over 30%
you're probably going to need a two-day
refeed every week or somewhere between
that that's 7 and 14 days I usually try
to put them on the weekends just because
it fits people's lives
somewhere in that range um some of it's
a training issue if you've got a
physique athlete is doing a lot of
volume they may be best served by doing
and if they've got a small deficit but
doing a lot of training a one-day refeed
once it you know every seventh day to
refill muscle glycogen for performance
and then a two-day refeed the next week
might be the best option so there's a
there's a lot of different possibilities
here and there's a lot lot of variables
but I'm going to have like charts and
schedules that are like small deficit
this body fat this is where you need to
read I spent weeks drawing these little
gridded boxed sharks because everyone
had to have 28 boxes with all this
different information I nearly went
blind and wait I have even I have talked
about like hormonal modifiers again this
is the thing women deal with because on
top of the menstrual cycle you can add
birth control which is really common
issue of which there are six different
application types eight different
synthetic progesterone 's all these
different schedules they all act a
little bit differently some women can
have elevated testosterone polycystic
ovary syndrome then you get into issues
of uh you know perimenopause menopause
an agent thing like women's hormones
change from one thing to the next across
the lifespan men's just do that but
could all this length and for every
hormonal modifier I had to do a
different set of charts for different
situations and it just nearly killed me
but yes that would be a big part of it
another is that lean women especially
because their bodies are going to fight
them right I think a mistake a lot of
especially beginners make they start
their diets way too late and especially
by the time you factor in the metabolic
adaptation that it's that's true for men
and women but I think for women
especially especially a lighter woman
she may only be losing half pand a half
a pound of fat a week in the best
circumstances that may be a six month
diet like by the time you factor in
refeeds and I forgot she didn't talk
about the full diet break I'll talk
about that in a moment
uh-huh you know my recommendation and
I'll have these
Galatians in the book like first you can
eat me a theoretical estimate of how
long it should take you to reach your
goal and then realistically you better
double it like if you think you'll get
like that this this idea that you can do
a 12-week diet and get in shape is so
unrealistic for Naturals and the first
time out you're better off starting way
way way early because it's just not
going to come off as fast as you want so
you know especially likes if you can use
harder deficits but you can't do them as
long I think that's a place where a lot
of women they're just like yep the lower
my calories go the more cardio I do the
better and it actually ends up
backfiring on them because when women's
bodies perceive too large of a deficit
that shutdown happens faster they lose
their menstrual cycle that's a huge
energy can't like everything just go
sell on top of the physically damaging
effects we let me back up so I talked
about refeeds
other concept is the full die upright
actually Lyla I want to pause on refeeds
for just another quick that's okay so
the first thing I wanted to mention here
is I just want to tease out the
difference between the psychological and
physiological benefits of refeeding it's
because I think that I've seen them have
clear psychological benefits in terms of
they lift some of the lifestyle
constraints that dieting puts on people
and so on but oftentimes I'll get
physique competitors with the like
whatever it takes mentality or whatever
and say you know what I'd rather forego
the refeed to increase the deficit a
little bit if it means I'll get ready a
little earlier or what have you so my
question would be is there any
physiological reason
distinct from any psychological benefit
that would make it worthwhile to refeed
say in the four weeks before a contest
if someone has a little bit of catching
up to do or just in principle yeah well
in principle I mean absolutely like I
said the the five and the 24 hour reefy
the five hour refeed especially that's
purely psychological you're going to get
a little refilling a muscle glycogen it
allows you to go out to eat and have
something out on your diet it's not
going to do anything hormonal like no
doubt by the time you get to 24 hours
same basic they all have the same
psychological benefits if they're done a
little more frequently they will help
help to reverse the metabolic
adaptations and I think that's the
hardest thing to get across
the hard heads how we tend to all think
of dieting as well if I'm behind if I
need to lose fat I need to diet harder
and one of the odd things that the
leaner you get the more often you need
to go off your diet and this is
completely continent contradictory no
make no mistake some people get they're
doing this and that's part of the
problem
some women's systems are very robust
there's a huge individual variation and
how much any given person's metabolism
slows down like it can be fivefold right
even in some of those you know the
Minnesota study which you might have
talked about that that old study that
comes up even at the very end of that
the decrease in meta in resting
metabolic rate that adaptive component
was anywhere from about 50 calories a
day to 500 like it's just enormous
and I think part of the problem is that
all competitions select for the people
that succeed right the people who get to
stage or the people who get to stage and
that seems like kind of a circular
argument but by definition they were the
ones that got regardless of what they
did they may have physiological
advantages that they're not aware of
there's an unfortunately on non talked
about drug issue in the physique
community right if you take a little
clown a little thyroid a little winstrol
you know if we're about any of this
stuff and I think that's a real problem
that Naturals run into you don't hear
about the people that don't make it
because they don't make it you don't
hear about the people that crack
psychologically because all they're
doing is dieting harder and harder her
for nothing and I think that can often
it's very difficult getting people that
will go well the winners did it this way
yeah but so did most of the losers and
95% of people never made the stage so
let's worry about them or about making
it better not to mention this stuff can
all do permanent physical damage to
women and that's not hyperbole when
women loses her woman loses her
menstrual cycle she will start losing
bone density and this can be
irreversible great he looks great on
stage and later in life he may have
increased your risk of osteoporosis and
like this is not a joke this is not this
is really a problematic issue anyway
back to your question so yes absolutely
they're physiological
benefits in the sense that it reverses
these hormonal adaptations right leptin
is gone down it's told the brain to
decrease thyroid output decrease
luteinizing hormone and follicular
stimulating hormone right that's the
menstrual cycle of players that the
players in metro cycle function the drop
in nose is what causes the menstrual
cycle to to eventually stop working it
reverses that one day every one day too
infrequently doesn't get it done one day
every few days probably does get it done
two days every less frequently will also
get it done but outside of any
psychological benefits the physiological
event benefits are absolutely huge one
thing we didn't talk about what about
the water weight thing we don't want to
have time to get into it there is
there's a big stress-related water
retention thing that occurs due to
cortisol cortisol goes up when you diet
it goes up when you over exercise it
goes up when you're psychologically
wound a little tight and you can see
these women online all the time typing
in all caps about why not like you can
you can hear the tension and their
cortisol levels start higher to begin
with they found women that have lost
their menstrual cycle who aren't dieting
or over exercising they have mental
themselves and do a loss of estrus like
like this is how profound psychological
stress can be dieting contest dieting is
very psychologically stressful and that
mentality tends to go with that heart
like that psychology goes with the heart
so they get stressed cortisol starts to
cause water attention the scale stops
moving the body cop measurement stop
moving and their mind is I need to
double down and work harder if you
increase carbs and calories to
maintenance we even take a day off
cortisol will drop to normal and I know
you've seen this because everybody has
when you get them to do it even if
they've been stalled for weeks they get
the magic woosh phenomenon and they wake
up three pounds lighter and look and
tighter yeah then they want to go right
back to crazy dieting like it's really
it's really hard to get them past that
but when you do they realize that
there's a more effective less
problematic way to diet so I think
there's absolutely physiological
that's outside of the potential
psychological ones right yeah and while
we're on the topic I have heard you
speak about that quite a bit in the
sense that water retention can mask fat
loss so yes the woman might actually or
the Memphis man for that matter but
typically more often women might
actually be losing fat but they have
retained all this water due to the
stress and cortisol as you mentioned and
that it actually masks it what at least
makes it look a lot slower than it is
yes yeah I conceived got a woman she
might maybe she's losing two pounds of
fat a month if she's doing really really
well and if she's holding three pounds
of water the scale is not moving and it
can really and and again my experience
is that's when they're like I need to
add another hour of cardio I need to cut
my carbs even harder and that just
there's also individual variance here
and I think that's part of why there are
physique female physique competitors
they do two hours a day they cut their
calories like crazy no problem they come
right into shape some women's bodies
just are more robust they don't release
as much cortisol there's a feedback loop
where right so the adrenal gland
releases cortisol that should go to the
hypothalamus and block further cortisol
release or on a typical feedback loop in
some women it operates really well and
another women it doesn't and there's
variants here so that woman who
psychologically stressed who probably
overreact to things in the first place
maybe doesn't calm down well after them
is dieting hard who's training hard
whose body is not shutting off cortisol
in the way it should
she's gonna keep getting more and more
and more and more and I've seen it again
those women find they're just like you
know what screw this they take three or
three days off and boom it all comes in
yeah sometimes it just happens of its
own accord but refeeds I find you're a
way to almost kind of trigger that and
I'll talk about some specific ways to to
both identify the water retention issue
and sort of how to deal with it
right um one of the things that I do
find puzzling about that though is just
that some some women will say they'll
they'll see the water retention gain but
then it'll just turn into a stall so
yeah and you can reduce calories so
let's say they're on 1,500 calories and
at the start of the diet they lose I
don't know four pounds the first month
or something like that three or four
pounds lighter
and then things stall so you reduce
calories 1300 that's why right and then
things stall and then things just remain
stalled for some of these women in their
bodies fight them so hard that if it if
it was just water retention then you
would still you would still see the
scale come down it would just be so slow
unless unless the de braids of water
retention matched the rate of weight
loss they make no mistake I think I
think I've been occasionally
misrepresented like there's no doubt
that this is not the only cause of
stalls men make no the metabolic
adaptation which for anything we're
going to come to shortly that is
absolutely real and some women's some
people's bodies fight back objectively
harder than others
women's bodies tend to fight back more
than men and it's just even if it's any
bring calories down by 200 and if their
body decides to drop metabolic rate or
energy expenditure by another 100
calories well your deficit is just tiny
and and sometimes in this case this
brings us to what is the best thing to
do is that diet break right and this was
again something that it wasn't new in
the sense that people at you but I think
I kind of formalized it in that flexible
dieting book and this is a two-week
period that really brings us calories to
maintenance or lease estimated
maintenance I usually bring it down a
little bit just because to just to be
safe and it provides a psychological
break to dieting it provides it's
certainly a physiological break to
dieting because you're you know in all
the hormones leptin will come up to at
least normal ER levels because you're no
longer dieting you can allows you to
train a little bit harder so if you've
lost any muscle or performance but it
helps to sort of offset a lot of those
metabolic adaptations because those are
happening because you're in a calorie
deficit it's actually a really
interesting paper you may have seen it
that it was military recruits put
through what they they politely called a
multi stressor environment which was
basically two hours of sleep
damn near no calories and like eight
hours of intense training a day plus I
mean this was like Army Ranger training
or SEAL training or whatever and like
the men lost almost all of their body
fat they were like 4% testosterone was
at castrate levels
cortisol was off the map tyroid was in
the toilet like everything they looked
like dieting contest body blockers I was
going to say one week of maintenance
calories they brought calories back up
to even even while maintaining that
insane training load and that insane
stressful environment bringing calories
to maintenance reverse the hormonal
adaptations for at least many of them so
that's really all it takes that allows
you to kind of stabilize get everything
at least somewhat normalized for that
next block of training this also means
that you got to start that much earlier
because you may be all you may be diaper
aching depending on a number of factors
initially it might be a rage ten weeks
as you get leaner it might have to
happen slightly more frequently so again
this is why a beginner may need to start
six months out to take into account all
of this the diet adjustments the refeeds
and I realize that this all seems very
counterintuitive but as much easier on
the body it's much easier
psychologically less performance loss it
helps to offset a lot of the hormonal
and negative changes that occur so that
you just don't see those big those big
long stalls that get so frustrating
right and then after the diet break do
you go back to the calories you were on
before the diet break or do you drop
them a little bit lower um a really good
question actually
you could probably probably either way
you know that the unfortunate reality is
you will never reset and metabolism to
the pre dial evel's you know at best
you'll be kind of normalized for your
new body weight and the system will
start to adapt again pretty quickly so
you'll probably need to go fairly back
to a fairly similar calorie level but
since good because here's sort of
conceptually what's happening when you
you know when you talk about dieting I
see you've got your total energy
expenditure and I know the the people
listening of you the audio can't see
this right that and your maintenance
calories right so those lines are even
right you bring your create a deficit
increase activity decrease food so now
there's this difference that's going to
be offset by fat loss over time your
energy expenditure goes down that's
going to decrease the deficit fat loss
slows conceivably it you come into
battle
that's right you're you're at a new
maintenance and this is why we keep
adjusting things you increase activity
you decrease food intake you know people
do it at different frequencies people
with experience they might adjust week
to week to week not by much you know
experienced competitors now okay I need
to drop 50 calories out this week to
keep it moving or increase add 10
minutes of cardio or whatever it is and
eventually you reach this point where
it's just you can't go any lower this is
another issue women deal with a guy
who's 180 has a lot more food to work
with right he can reduce his calories
without starving to death
a woman who weighs a hundred and twenty
even at maintenance she's doesn't have a
lot of food to work with by the time
she's been dieting hard and she's at a
thousand calories a day which is not an
unrealistic level or even 1200 she
doesn't have a lot of food to work with
you you know I know the term is poverty
macros and what do you do now okay
you're at a thousand calories you're
stole what the hell do you do go to 800
like there's a limit to how far you can
go or how much aerobic activity you can
do so recut of help resetting the system
with the diet break should allow you at
least for a little while to work with
more rep because again you just can't go
lower lower lower this is actually
another reason to start earlier you can
start with a smaller deficit right again
a woman's it's 2,000 calories if you
jump straight to 1500 when her body
starts to slow metabolism where do you
go well I'll go 1,200
okay now where do you go like you get
into trouble a lot faster yeah if you've
only got a short diet certain strength
power athletes looking to make weight
that could be effective but if you're
looking to drop from 24 to 10 percent
body fat the either you can start the
longer progress you can get unless
you've got a body that really hates you
okay so on that note um I've dealt with
some people while I'm sure you have to
who it seems no matter what they do and
no matter how hard you you drop them or
how low you drop them they just can't
get to this a 6 6 or lower percent body
fat for men or 12 or lower for women
that they need to to get to to go on
stage
um is there any last resort thing you
can do like I feel like with these
people they could go on zero calories
and they would just start losing muscle
and die before they got to that body fat
yeah I mean that's and that's the thing
like again you could just got this
enormous variance peope some people just
for whatever reason everything crashes
and craters and and their bodies just
fight them back and I don't know I guess
you know you just maybe do something
like you know protein sparing modify
quite fast
hey calories as low as possible it's
really a good question
yeah yeah I actually used protocol very
similar to yours that you you have lied
in mind in that your book on that with
with quite a bit of success mind you but
I do think I can work but it definitely
should be seen as sort of like a last
resort and then I guess just from a
practical coaching standpoint when you
have people who are just hit with it
both ways from a genetic standpoint um I
guess I mean like do you do you have to
kindly tell them to maybe put your focus
on a different goal like maybe building
muscle or looking your best or what have
you
yeah I mean that you know this is this
is the reality of all sports I mean
there's there's a genetic component that
simply can't be ignored I mean yeah
realistically you know I suppose
everyone could technically diet down to
the limits low body fat but at what
expense you know it we've known there's
variants some people lose muscle really
easily and other and usually gain it
very slowly like there seems to be a
very much direct correlation with that
and I'm sure it's hormonal like I'm sure
people you know if you get got a male
that has lower levels of testosterone to
begin with and he may have elevated
cortisol for whatever reason he's not
gonna put on muscle easily so if you try
to bulk him up quickly he just gets fat
then when you take fat off the muscle
just goes away because there's already
low testosterone levels fall even
further right you get a guy that's got a
nice 900,000 in testosterone to begin
with he'll put muscle on like a freak
and even if his even if his testosterone
drops by half he's still in the average
range so like you just can't eliminate
aspect of it and some people just drop
muscle like crazy and I won't know if
it's you know they need a different
refeed protocol or need to pick up a
different sport it's a really good
question it may just be you know sighs
you have to accept your limitations and
things which sucks but that is the
reality of it because I don't I don't if
it's genetic there's just really not
there's just not a whole lot you can do
yeah um until gene doping becomes more
popular I suppose yeah exactly exactly
so while I want to quickly get into the
training differences between men and
women and then move on to the metabolic
damage sort of stuff
sure um so two things that I've heard is
that women can tolerate more training
volume and that they tend to do better
with more reps primarily because they
tend to convert more of their muscle
fibers to type 1 fibers do you think
there's any truth to that and what are
your thoughts on the weight training
differences between men and women yeah
the answer is kind of yes and no from a
physiological standpoint yeah if you
were to take a woman's muscle put a
man's muscle under microscope they would
look identical women typically do have
less total muscle mass it's distributed
a little bit differently too women tend
a little bit more on their lower body a
little bit less than their upper body
there's some indication that they have
slightly more type 1 fibers but it's
it's never enormous it's like maybe 5%
when they do find it at all they seem to
show some different neuromuscular
control you know as far as the more
volume a lot of it depends right there's
there there's some stuff that women can
typically do more repetitions at any
given intensity compared to a man and
that's kind of contextually true if
you're looking at very high intensities
like 80% and higher 80 you know which is
about 8 reps and above the difference
tends to really go away certainly it's
not much by the time you get to say 65%
difference a woman might be able to do
like 30 repetitions compared to a man
who might you know grind out 15 like the
difference is almost like it's pretty
it's small or negligible here and then
it just gets an
and there's a couple reasons for that it
also depends on upper body versus lower
body style of lifting women like women
are more elastic in their lower body
meaning they use more a sort of
connective tissue elastic recoil this
kind of makes sense it's an efficiency
thing right so they're really you know
they tend to be really effective at that
once maximal strength requirements can
start get higher they are no longer as
as reactive and that's why a lot of this
difference tends to go away so one of
the early studies I think by a Keenan
was depth jumping right women will get a
larger percentage rebound than men until
the height gets so high that it requires
more maximal strength men may be more
elastic in the upper it kind of depends
so if you're working with women and
working at lower intensities absolutely
they can have a more volume and part of
that is that they generate less
metabolic stress like they've done
interval studies and women generate less
lactic acid they recover faster between
intervals they may recover faster
between workouts again the same
researcher that's looked at this did two
really interesting comparative studies
men versus women one was 20 sets of
maximum singles which is insane on every
level
but whatever like this is its European
this is the kind of crazy stunt I do
so it's 20 sets of 20 sets of 100%
magnetics and there was no difference in
recovery between men and women it was
all the same they did another study it
was ten sets of ten at 70 percent and
when it did recover more quickly so it's
very much an intensity thing if you
follow Olympic lifting at all there's
been a lot of talk there that Olympic
lifting Chinese Olympic lifting coaches
have found that women can go heavier
more frequently can handle more volume
and they recover faster Olympic lifting
is an explosive sport though and it's
typically you know it's a significantly
lower percent of one rep net it's also
very it's explosive it's very elastic
it's very bouncy part of it is women
lift lighter weights they general rights
smaller power outputs on a bike running
speeds that's part of why they generate
less fatigue simply because the four
isn't there at lower intensities their
muscles actions like when you do a high
high intensity contraction it tends to
close off blood flow right so
metabolites accumulate get lots of
lactate lots acidosis whatever's causing
the burning and it hurts like hell and
women because they don't generate as
high forces don't get that but only at
the lower intensities so yeah if you're
working heavy and again Erick and I've
discussed this a lot he's worked in LA
and has powerlifting coach and
bodybuilding because yeah for power
lifting heavy low rep Atisha --nz he's
not seeing a big difference if you're
looking at women working in the ten to
fifteen repetitions range yeah
absolutely they're just not generating
the same amount of teague the question
then becomes how much my experience is
women part of it is if you look at a lot
of women training in the gym they're
working what we might call sub intensity
loads they love voi especially for lower
body women love training loads
men hate training legs and I think a
part part of it is that women are
typically much weaker in their upper
body they don't have as much muscle mass
they're just not as good at it right a
woman who can bench 85 is doing damn
well but she can probably squat like
hell or you know women now that you know
Glu Glu bridges they can glue bridge til
the cows come home because they've got
more muscle there you've eliminated a
lot of limiting factors when women do
high rep leg training it doesn't they
don't suffer as much so med gravitate
towards upper body training because
they're good at it and it's fun and it
impresses their buddies and women
gravity because women want to have
better legs so I think I do think most
women do far too much volume but a lot
of it is really sub sub sub maximal when
you get women working in more of you
know closer to like a 12 or 15 RM where
they're pushing themselves yeah they can
handle more volume how much I don't know
how much of a different it is in the
Sprint studies it's like maybe 20% more
you know good Sprint coaches found this
that their female sprinters could handle
about 20% more height high speed
repetitions but there's the top speed
isn't as high so it's just not as
physically stressful so so the answer is
it depends
heavy low rep work
not a huge difference if you're doing a
higher repetition work
I think women will recover faster during
the workout so you can put even shorter
rest intervals which they like because
women do not like sitting around doing
nothing they don't feel like they're
getting a workout they'll probably
recover or their makan or account more
quickly between workouts and I think I
would be willing to argue that for women
more so than men
a higher frequency of training each body
part will probably even be a more better
I think it'll actually I think I think
there are men they can get away with
training a body part once a week but
they can just hammer the hell out of it
I think for women I pry make a decent
argument that that type of training will
be even will be relatively less
effective for them that training a given
muscle group a little bit more
frequently because they do recover
faster there's no doubt about it
right there's actually some just really
quickly and this is there's actually
some interesting information they've
done like five or six studies now and
again this is that hormonal cycle effect
right estrogen actually helps with
muscular remodeling women recover that
are during training during usually
during the first two weeks and I'll talk
about come back that really quickly
they've actually found that if you
cluster more of a women's training in
the follicular cycle those first two
weeks in the luteal cycle they make
better games so one study it was like I
think they did 14 workouts a week a
month a year a month sorry 14 workouts a
month so they either did ten in the
follicular cycle they trained five days
a week and then they did a total of four
in the luteal cycle into each week or
they did all ten in the luteal cycle and
four in the follicular cycle or they
spread them out across the Mon the
follicular cycle group that follicular
cycle focused training not only made
better gains in strength better gains in
muscle mass than luteal phase focused
but the spread training too so you can
almost set up a training scenario where
putting more of their relatively more of
their training during that cycle they're
going to make better games for a number
of reasons not the least of which is
progesterone blocks the antigen receptor
what little testosterone a woman has
can't send as good of a signal during
during the luteal phase
even that gets and I mentioned earlier
there could be performance differences
in women now for bodybuilding it's not
big of a deal right if you're working 12
to 15 reps I don't care whether your
strength if your strength is down 10%
one week now it's a little bit harder
but you know what you can get through it
and I think a big part of the reason
researchers say there's no difference
they're typically testing aerobic
training endurance training is also
maximal right I don't care if again if
you're down five ten percent it doesn't
matter you can grind the workout at if
you're doing a heavy 5s or heavy triples
and your strength is down 10% your
previous 3rm is it now your 1rm that's
an enormous difference and that can
happen to some women
so bodybuilding training the performance
changes across the cycle not as big of a
deal for if you're looking at at high
performance stuff and even the Chinese
Olympic lifting coaches they do sync
that up a little bit with the menstrual
cycle there's other issues that people
frequently that are more anatomical
biomechanical women frequently have
wider hips than that you typically have
weaker glutes their knees tend to break
in and break it on squats and light
presses their upper bodies they tend to
they maybe have more hypermobile
shoulders they don't have the muscle
mass a lot of women they can always
squat pretty well some women don't have
the strength when they begin to bench
press the bar like there's a lot of
issues because their upper body is
weaker right even with the squatter a
deadlift their legs can move the world
and their upper bodies may not be able
to shoulder the load or keep a good
position they need meny and I know some
coaches read about this online doing
relatively more upper back work so that
they can handle the low loads during the
compound exercises actually think a big
part of the reason that Brett Contreras
is glute bridges work so well
irrespective anything else it allows
women to hammer their glutes without the
issues that may limit squatting or rdls
or deadlift it takes the upper body out
of the equation which is not a bad thing
don't just hear me but I think a big
part of that lets them go heavy on an
exercise they enjoy none of the normal
limitations that might hold them back
from going heavy there's just there's
also with the menstrual cycle women can
lose their coordination during the
menstral week that this one trainee I
had what is maze when she started
bleeding she could hit PRS in the
Olympic looks like overnight but during
that week she couldn't power clean she
can do anything
relative anything beyond machine
training at 60% women are more likely
they're greater risk for injury because
of that coordination there can be
changes in ligament laxity like there's
all this stuff that ties in with it more
for performance athletes than
bodybuilders per se but there are
considerations some of it may even be
psychologically a woman who may just not
be ready you know in the mood to train
hard that week if she's feeling low or
depressed that may not be a good week to
hammer her so there there are a lot of
issues but from a physiological
standpoint to get to your question yes
ish there are certain specific cases
where women absolutely can have a more
line and have more endurance there are
other cases where I think the
differences tend to to balance out to
some degree as a coach how do you go
about managing that like you just asked
them for that information or do you just
ball pressure based on their weight or
what do you do in terms of what do you
mean oh I mean like you ask them where
they are in their cycle or how do you
keep track of the nation as a coach
because like yeah a lot of it is you
know you just need to kind of start
paying attention o most women like I
said menstruation is the easy time point
they will always know when the cycle
starts even if the rest of it isn't
quite as clear so that's one that's kind
of where you start and you just need to
sort of keep track of what's going on
you know you can ask them about things
like mood and energy I have a girl I'm
working with now we can always tell when
she's about to hit PMS because her
warmups she feels terrible like what she
could do easily the week before is just
exhausting and you can you know what
women tend to know when PMS is hitting
their their mood changes they do tend to
act very differently those in-between
weeks there's less variability but PMS
is usually the worst week early
follicular phase is very frequently the
strongest but a lot of is just tracking
is keeping you know at you can get
rating
is the load you use lamech significantly
harder this week at a given number of
repetitions with this trainee that that
had the PMF like it was weird I just
kind of wasn't paying attention when you
used to work with guys this doesn't it's
like what what's wrong with you today
just lift the way like what is wrong and
then it finally dawned on me that's like
okay this is what's in a suicide I was
able in once I had the pattern I was
able to adjust I was able to adjust it
week to week to week and it's like okay
follicular you're strong we're gonna go
for big big big waves next week not so
much moderate heavy and your strength
power athlete PMS makes a great deal
owed week anyway you need one every
floor whatever cycle you're working on
so you can sort of functionally program
that into you know in we can schedule
the program I mean but again there's so
much individual some women don't care
they won't notice that at all especially
if they may last Ostrom levels that'll
just blunt all this out right um do you
think that I just sort of had an idea
then do you think that there would be
any value in timing the the diet break
or the refeed around this phase so that
you know if they're the strongest in the
follicular phase and their appetite is
the highest in the luteal phase given
the diet break in the luteal phase then
they have all the glycogen for the
follicular phase well no absolutely no
that's no that's absolutely I think and
and that's actually I included that sort
of idea in the book uh you know one idea
that I think I've never seen discussed
and this came out of a paper that was
talking about this right women typically
have of the least hung green a
follicular phase point if you're a woman
starting a diet and you start in the
luteal phase you are setting yourself up
for family or you are going to restrict
calories at the time where you're the
hungriest and the craziest so yeah
absolute it was like starting the diet
in the follicular phase to get a couple
weeks of good you know goodnight and
thence whatever or you know good couple
weeks of success mate so no that makes
absolutely perfect sense and I think one
of the cycles I came up with is exactly
that was you know the last three or four
days of PMS when women already feel
terrible in her
anything and hungry anyway that's a
really good time to put in you know a
reap you feed get that glycogen refilled
so that they can kill it in the
follicular phase and then readjust
training you know into the luteal phase
and you can change some things around to
take advantage of that
like in premise with that slight bump in
energy expenditure the luteal phase
should be a great time to diet the
problem is it's not always the easiest
thing to do when you're craving you know
that's but even that that's a great
place to fit in if it fits your macros
yeah what did women typically crave that
little bit of sugar and fat and there's
even if part of its cultural allowing a
woman to have that piece of chocolate so
she doesn't completely go off the rails
if you can get them convinced that
that's not going to ruin their diet
that's a really good time to kind of
factor that sort of strategy in or
whatever so no that's absolutely that's
exactly what you should be done but
again you know again a lot of this goes
away we went on birth control this can
all basically go away because you're not
dealing with any of these major changes
but yeah the one with typical menstrual
cycle that makes absolute sense but
you're gonna have to track a couple of
months to really see how our individual
pattern and that's also a good way you
can track what her body weight changes
are going to be when she's at
maintenance when you're training her
normally so you can see when she's
spiking when she's not so that you know
during the diet kind of what to expect
as it's funny even women who know that
the scale doesn't matter even women who
know better they still go crazy it
doesn't doesn't matter it just drives
them nuts when this stuff goes off the
rail yeah when their body what spikes so
so the average woman's got a chance yeah
yeah yeah so I'm gonna move on from that
because that's yeah that's a lot of
women's stuffs and I think we pretty
much covered everything one thing one
thing I was going to say though that I
just thought of was oftentimes like more
often than it probably should by chance
when I start a woman on a diet they
there will be a lag period and that
could have to do with the fact that it
just lines up with that luteal phase or
what have you and there it'll be like a
couple of weeks where there's just it's
I know that you're in a deficit but yeah
yeah there's still a lag and I just had
purge them like just stick with it for
another two weeks and I promise you if
yeah it's it's weird I mean I used to
see that especially with beginners
beginners are kind of a different
equation someone who's been training for
a while and I used to see that all the
time years ago it's like you knew they
were doing everything right and nothing
for four weeks and it was like overnight
I think some of that is just the rate of
change is fairly small in terms of get a
team up in the beginner but yeah there
is this weird lack and something else
you may have noticed I discussed this
with Eric I swear when you're coming out
of a maintenance or gaining phase the
first two weeks of your diet you'll look
worse like it's the wheat and and he
said but he describes as the skinny fat
phase yeah but it's I think what's
happening is like your muscles are a
little bit deflated from depleting
muscle glycogen and carbohydrates so you
just like for two weeks you look worse
it's kind of like when you come out of a
diet and start refill plain for two
weeks you just look better and you look
you swear to God your wiener and it
works in Reverse and it's really really
mess with your head yeah yeah I call it
the flat and fat stage yeah yeah I'm in
it but it is it's really frustrating
because you're just like and that's you
know you're like I'm doing everything
right I'm cut watching my calories I'm
doing my aerobics and I'm lifting
weights um and nothing actually going
back to this is a question you asked you
know something else to change this is an
issue with physique athletes but but
with the general female I think what I
see the most the dietary choices and the
exercise choices they make are appalling
women there's a gender difference men
like protein and fat women typically
like carbs and fat when they go to the
gym where do women have the cardio deck
where do men had the weight room and I
think and it's funny you see this all
the time you see women online on
Facebook you know like you know what ice
powers doing the cardio the the hamster
wheel grind and as soon as I what do
they do they start lifting weights they
start eating more protein and the magic
happens it's it's like it's and I think
I think at least part of the reason men
are frequently more successful than
women men are inherently drawn to doing
some of the right fit Thanks
they already want to eat all the protein
and they go to the weight room one in
one way that I talked about in the book
right the aerobic metabolism is very
strange and they women don't burn a lot
of muscle glycogen they mobile they burn
create a percentage of fat but less of
it is for body fat etc etc men by
depleting muscle glycogen during
exercise burn more fat the rest of the
day well what is the implication of that
deplete muscle glycogen and women and
this will enhance whole body fat burn
and I think there's part of the reason
women when they start doing a little bit
of interval training start doing some
weight training and they deplete muscle
glycogen especially if they moderate
their carbs when they raise protein
suddenly they are turning themselves
into and I hate to use this phrase but
it's actually appropriate they turn
themselves into a fat-burning machine
and I think they actually end up
shifting their entire metabolism to that
is something that is almost similar to
men's in the sense of using a greater
portion of fat for fuel all the time and
I think that's really you know honestly
if the general public get out say this
for men to like you know somebody asked
me the two key factors to any diet
sufficient protein resistance training I
could almost not give a damn about the
rest of it those are the two things that
are just non-negotiable and I think
that's where a lot of women more in the
general public physique athletes do a
lot of this right in women in the
general public don't do either of those
things and I think that's part of why
they're unsuccessful and while we're on
the topic of cardio and women yeah is
there a you have a preference for a high
intensity interval training or
steady-state Oh both have their place
you know what one issue you get into
that cortisol release issue and cortisol
does go up more with high it you know
the higher the intensity it can have
benefits as far as reducing muscle
glycogen it's kind of a matter of degree
is of course too much low intensity work
will raise cortisol just fine depends on
the deficit you know like I said women
do frequently have they do have to do
more than men and like I said smaller
women the end of the diet you can when I
bring food and take down so much well if
you need to create a further deficit
what do you do but a lot of it to avoid
the problems is to bring it up
this is the other big mistake I see
women making okay time to die it our
card cardio a day and the horrible
hormonal system gets wrecked within five
to seven days like it can literally shut
down that quickly and so yeah like I
think both are beneficial you know
people got way too involved in high
intensity training i diss the intervals
and now we're swinging back to kind of a
happy medium um you know I've read some
stubborn fat protocols to kind of help
get over the the resistant lower body
fat that uses intervals it just it had
women are more sensitive to all this
stuff if they try to combine two too big
of deficit too much cardio too much
high-intensity interval training they
tend to break I think even so the men I
mean everybody tends to crack but
women's bodies just respond very
negatively to that so yes
and again like said depletes muscle
glycogen that's good but if they're
already training legs heavy a couple
times a week it just has to be
synchronized to be effective do you
think one could make the case that given
that women have generally prior work
capacities at lower intensities that
they might be better suited for
steady-state than say high-intensity or
yeah I think I've seen that argument
made is that women are probably
relatively more you know they are
they're more enduring getting a lay off
topic in most in most performance sports
women are about 10 percent behind them
and again most of that's muscle mass
that really explains most of it but
there are coupled in there a couple
exceptions is one of them is in ultra
ultra endurance sports anything passed
about fifty kilometers women actually
perform better than them and it's
because they use more fat for fuel so
they don't bunk they're more reactive so
they don't get as much muscle fatigue
that they don't do as much muscle damage
like I think in a very real way women's
bodies are probably more optimized for
that it's just too much of it in the
face of too few calories does tend to
wreck warmer levels so it has to be a
happy medium it's and I wrote about this
I read about this before you use a big
deficit a lot of cardio but not both the
same time again it's worth of a diet you
have a choice there's something has to
keep the deficit going it just it needs
to happen grab
you have to give the body the brakes
every once in a while a lot of people
turn low intensity cardio into very
middle to high intensity endurance
athletes of disparate years you end up
working at a fairly high level and it's
just too much for the system to handle
like low intensity needs to remain low
intensity which is pretty much like
piss-ass it's it's less and it it
doesn't burn a lot of calories but it's
just to avoid over stressing an already
stressed system right so yeah I think
there is something to that okay thanks
so much Lila that was really
comprehensive of women's stuff so let's
let's go on
go to the head back