[Applause]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
my name is Ethan spli I'm 43 years old
I'm an actor today I weighed 263 the
heaviest I ever weighed on a scale was
536 on a big shipping scale because
doctors didn't have scale then they
might now that could weigh me I was 5 I
went to visit my grandparents in Vermont
and they weighed me on a scale and that
was the first time I had ever even
thought oh there's something with my
weight I remember being in elementary
school and the little kids at in
preschool every time I'd walk by them
would would be like in awe at my size
and talk openly because they're like
unfiltered little kids
I remember in school and I left school
at 14 but I remember the feeling of not
having a girlfriend or not being able to
get a girlfriend that weighed on me and
then I started acting and the weight was
actually kind of a benefit because I was
like I had kind of encapsulated that
role if there was a young fat guy
character I was close to the top of the
list for a time I mean you get fed so
much on a movie set it's insane I think
the only people that it actually works
for coracle er like the grips who are
constantly carrying heavy equipment from
place to place and burning a shitload of
calories but for an actor if I just have
to stand there and say something and I'm
otherwise sitting it doesn't work out
calorically
so I would eat at work but I normally
get food and eat it alone in my trailer
I wasn't eating in front of people I
felt guilty about eating like I guess
some part of me knew that my weight was
due to me eating either the wrong foods
or too much foods or not eating right
and so I would eat kind of privately and
I had met this girl who was just a
normal down-to-earth girl I really cared
about her and I started to see that the
things she wanted in her life we're not
going to be I wasn't gonna be able to
accomplish them in the way she wanted to
she likes to go on hikes and she liked
to go to the beach and these were things
that I was not super comfortable doing
and if we had to go uphill at all and I
mean like one or two percent that's kind
of like out for me or it was in thinking
about how I could improve that
relationship and make sure that it was
really long-term the biggest thing was
getting healthy
I have done opti fast which I don't know
if it exists anymore maybe it's slimfast
something like that I've done Atkins
I've done zone I've done South Beach
I've done fifth for life I've done body
for life I've done the Beverly Hills
diet the Hollywood diet the cayenne
pepper diet there's some other fantastic
I've done the blood type diet I have
done paleo I've done kedo I was of the
school of thought that it was foods
fault there was some aspect and hewed
that was doing it if I blame food or
some aspect of food then it's a more
confronting thing I found dr. Mike's
Israel tells TED talk the scientific
landscape of healthy eating and I
watched it I think I watched it four
times in a row and I was like he is
saying stuff that is contradictory to
the past 18 years of my dieting for 18
years of dieting it has always been
something about the food that has been
the problem and what he's saying is it
is not the food that is a problem and I
was like what the fuck is this and I
decided I'm gonna try this thing I'm
gonna fucking sit down I'm gonna figure
out how many calories my body size would
burn normally I'm gonna figure out what
a slight deficit is and then I'm gonna
program it for what he's talking about
and then it was a steady progression
down now it hasn't just gone down it
fluctuates a little bit which I've had
to get cool with because I only want to
see it go down and I have to like kind
of mantra my way through that with
science people who've done a ton of
diets
I would I would stop looking to blame
food if that's what you're doing
in these 40 55 pounds I've done two
maintenance periods and this way that
I'm doing it having maintenance periods
to like adjust is super key like in the
middle of the program because you're
setting yourself up for some end period
where you're like I've already done that
four or five times I know what that is
versus fucking white-knuckle diet to a
point in like now what do you do I
haven't done this and now this is just
for the rest of my life I think the way
it's worked in there do you really get a
sense of what maintenance is how
beneficial it is and I have and it's
been great I go to the gym and lift
weights with this one goal of retaining
all the muscle I have and I enjoy having
that goal and I have a fat loss bowl and
I enjoy having that goal I enjoy seeing
it get closer and closer I actually
believe that I need goals and if if I
have no Bowl then I'm not producing to
my highest of the highest that I'm
capable of producing the goal now is fat
loss and I've already got a goal
ready for when I hit that goal which
will be muscle building
[Music]