there likely is no body fat that is
worst or best for hypertrophy or for
strength there's a pretty wide range at
which you can bulk or lose weight and
still optimize your opportunity and
strengthent patients the body fat at
which you bulk doesn't really matter so
what does matter one thing that matters
is your aesthetic preference different
people prefer different looks most
people want to be pretty lean there's a
certain body fat percentage that's
usually most conducive to that usually
for men below 15 a second one that not
many people consider is the lifestyle
that comes with getting to that body fat
and secondly staying at that like that
the sacrifices that come with losing
that weight aren't necessarily fun and
oftentimes aren't actually worth a
trade-offs you know when you're lean
there's a few things that happen so you
get a bit more body this module and a
variety of other things happen the third
one would be Health considerations the
healthiest body fat is likely not as low
as you think the most recent analyzes
show that likely between about 10 and 25
body fat you're in pretty good health as
long as you're with it but pretty broad
healthy range you're doing pretty well
so in the end to determine your optimal
body fat percentage you kind of need to
take these considerations into account