most people fail their diets and the 99
of the Reason by the way where people
most people fail their diets because
they get hungry for tasty food
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's topic
is to ask a question and answer it of
course why are diet Cravings so intense
we're going to take a deep dive deep
dive real deep dive
back to biology class
and I know you slept through bio or just
stared at that one girl in your biology
class the whole time applied bio
observational I suppose you learn
nothing I didn't have any friends
I paid attention I studied really hard
at night so don't worry I'll break this
down for you it will cost you
Lamborghinis
um but I like Lamborghinis and you like
to click on ads yes
but click on some ads damn it and uh
let's get to learning so here's the
thing from biology class
every component of your body and brain
has an evolutionary ancestral history
and some components of your brain
and body but we're done talking about
the body now
some components of your brain have a
much more recent evolutionary history
than others some have evolved to their
current functions much more recently and
some have been around a very very very
long time
and
some of them that have evolved more
recently
are usually not as powerful and don't
affect your behaviors nearly as
powerfully as the ones that evolved a
long time ago
actually affect your behaviors
so
why the hell am I talking about this
the drive to eat food
when hungry or really the hunger drive
and the food seeking Behavior it results
in is one of the oldest neural drives in
the entire Animal Kingdom for animals
that have nervous systems
so this is an ancestral Drive the drive
to essentially import macromolecules
from the environment which is really
what scaled up Hunger is
is up there with
temperature seeking like animals know
when it's too cold or hot because it's
unlikely that you're going to leave your
cat
outside in Las Vegas and 110 degrees and
he's not going to try to find a cooler
place if he doesn't your cat is broken
and he's going to go up to hang out and
Cat haven't got the video guy do cats go
to heaven
all dogs do we know at least that and
that's empirically validated so another
one Is acidity regulating optimal
acidity is another huge Drive injury
avoidance reproduction Etc basic
unbelievably High tier low tier
depending on how you think about drives
that get you to do what you have to do
to survive these are super deep they're
super integrated into every other part
of your nervous system
and this affects your mind like crazy
what's on your mind is a secretion in
some sense of your brain it's a product
if your brain is like a laptop a
computer system your mind is like the
software that runs on it and the thing
is is these ancestral drives to begin to
seek food when you get hungry especially
tasty food they affect you in a major
major major way
now if you just have these ancestral
drives you would be like wow much more
like your dog
your dog will not execute a
well-organized hypertrophy based program
for himself he will not execute a diet
for himself wolf is not going to resist
a whole lot of treats unless you're
there like doing the whole thing where
you start with the treat and then you
move away 15 feet you say okay go and if
your dog is smart he eats it then if
your dog is
our dog Gwen who is a Old English
Bulldog they can't teach her anything
because she's really stupid but adorable
in any case
pretty much all dogs won't have the
ability to say you know I want to eat
this bowl of kibble
but I really have been gaining a bit
extra weight
I'm I'm gonna look ahead
and imagine a future self that's leaner
sexier
for dogs and I'm gonna eat half this
bowl of kibble and then half later today
I'm not gonna eat two whole bowls of
kibble today just one your dog doesn't
do that your dog has an unbelievably
rudimentary forward-seeing mechanism and
barely that at all but what do you have
you're human so you're unique among the
animals that you have a well-developed
mechanism by which you know in some of
these structures have been located in
the prefrontal cortex for example
Christine tiny and
these structures and these functions
allow you to see ahead plan and restrict
your Cravings or say you know what you
basically allows you to drink your
Cravings like like that I know I know
that I'm hungry but I have a plan and a
goal so I won't eat just what I want
but the mechanisms that allow you to do
that that forward planning Forward
Thinking mechanism
in ancestral time of evolution how long
it's been How Deeply integrated it is
into the rest of your mind and brain is
like a sliver it's you know cheese at
charitably
10 million years old maybe a little
older than that depending on how you cut
off which primates are impressively
Forward Thinking which are not
me I I have yet to see a chimpanzee who
is going to restrict their own food
intake on purpose they can do forward
planning like oh I'm Gonna Knock
something off a tree but not much
further than that
so
your ability to restrict yourself from
these unbelievable powerful ancestral
desires is like you're talking about 10
million versus hundreds of millions of
years old it's not even close it's not
even close which is a big deal
and that sets up the Battle of your
Primal drives like the drive to eat
tasty food versus your intellect which
can tell you uh hold on that's not a
part of what I want to do
it's not a great idea
you could say now hold on a sec
we know what we should be eating
and we know when to not eat and we know
how to diet and lose fat we know to do
that
so it's not you know the Cravings yeah
whatever but like when we know something
like it's good we're there
but
that system that allows us to know stuff
is super recent and actually it's not
just system based the system inside your
brain that allows for rational
predictive plan thought to occur means a
lot of well sort of large language model
training basically to use a current
parlance we know a lot about diet and
training and how to restrict your eating
and all that stuff not because we're
born with it but because it's culturally
Acquired and many people don't even have
that a lot of people don't really know
what to eat when to lose fat most people
intuitively develop an understanding
through observation that if they eat
less food they become less fat and eat
um you know more food they become fat
but even that's not super clear in all
individuals
we had a ton of brain Evolution to allow
us to accept this knowledge in a ton of
cultural Insight most of which came
really in the last 100 years that allows
us to understand diet nutrition so uh
it's
you think sometimes that the reason you
eat three meals a day is because you
decided like oh yeah like three meals a
day that's a good idea but the reality
is that almost all of us naturally
without a very a very well thought out
plan eat because we're hungry right it
is by no means clear that most animals
most mammals uh know intellectually that
they have to have food
in fact it's probably true
that most animals don't know anything
intellectually they are very complex
input output systems that don't have an
explanatory framework ability in their
minds so they can't actually sit down
and think and plan out what the
universal around them looks like and
move it around and think okay I should
eat at this time this time this time
right they they don't have that they
don't have a concept of meals they don't
have a concept of food they just know
that when they smell food or seafood or
their tummy starts rumbling they feel
like they need to go get some food and
the thing is we think we're very
different from the animals and we are
but we're also super similar so your
reason that you eat food is like 97 you
get hungry or you smell tasty stuff
versus maybe three percent like oh yeah
intellectually I know that eating is a
good idea right one thing one easy way
to see this is if you take and give
people drugs that shut down their hunger
drives they just don't really eat much
and they'll pass out and stuff like that
because they'll forget to eat the people
who are on methamphetamine for example
they don't eat for 36 hours straight
they think well wouldn't they have a
better trip if they ate a bit of food
and had more energy yes but when they
don't feel like it that animistic
response that instinct instinctual
response food is not even on their mind
and they might even intellectually think
oh I should eat no I don't feel like it
that's how powerful these feelings are
right
hunger and cravings
are not this extra thing that's annoying
to deal with the diet hunger and
Cravings are the Baseline system that's
there it's the old system it's the
powerful system it's the system that for
99 out of 100 people on this earth right
now is the thing telling them what to
eat and when
and that one percent three percent
whatever it is that's the prefrontal
cortex powered so to speak a bit of a
murky concept there but that's that
forward-thinking planning ability that
humans have and it's super new and TBH
it is a revolution
in the evolution of life is nothing like
it has ever existed before it is what
gives birth to all of technology and
that next evolution of of how life works
on Earth but but it's very very weak in
any given human compared to those
ancestral drives right
when we think about it this way
we come to an understanding that I
promise we'll get back to exercise
science sports science stuff in a sec
we get to an understanding
that
there is going to be a Clash
between the hunger cravings instinctual
part of your mind
and the pre-planned I should be eating
what the RP diet coach app tells me to
eat part of your mind
there's one system telling you it has a
very explicit goal to keep you exactly
whatever weight you're at roughly and or
to just really
eat tasty food until you feel full
that's its goal and anything that
violates this goal you have to expect
that it's going to run in to some really
really really big problems this idea
that we're super logical and super
rational like the fucking what's that
Star Trek shit
not the Borg although I guess they were
irrational as well not Klingon Scott you
watch a lot of Star Trek
you don't watch a lot of Star Trek you
had friends growing up
you were a cool person
yo you had sex with people
unusual for a Star Trek fan just kidding
folks
um
good God the fuck am I blanking on this
not the Klingons not the romulans Spock
is a fucking
Vulcan God damn it
stupid make believe nonsense anyway we
are not the Vulcans we have a tiny
ability to exert some reason and some
logic and some restraint
and in a comfortable homeostatic
environment it's pretty powerful because
there's no other Drive really pushing
and pulling at it but if you get really
thirsty you are now in a sense a slave
to your thirst drive you will do crazy
fucking shit to get some water if you're
hungry you will do crazy fucking shit to
get some water how many of you guys have
driven like
taking a two-hour road trip in the
middle of the day because one of your
girls hit you up and she's like sex and
you're like yes drop everything Drive
have sex what the hell that's like four
hours of like well you know sex takes 30
seconds or roughly four hours of time
wasted
to do what you're not even trying to
reproduce the drives are super super
powerful right and we have to expect
that the hunger and Cravings Drive is
going to be super powerful we have to
plan for it and actually we have to know
that the evidence for how powerful it is
is that most people fail their diets and
the people that don't fail their diets
that actually get down to the weight
that they wanted and then 99 of the
Reason by the way what people most
people fail their diets is because they
get hungry for tasty food just like the
ancestral part of the brain is telling
them to do
muscle growth
is never going to be the same
it's not a mystery all I shouldn't you
see about access to resources food
deserts that's all been flayed in and
out it holds basically no water
people fail to lose weight in a diet
because food tastes too goddamn good
when you get hungry
period
there's a few other cursory reasons and
enabling factors there that's really
just it
and if they succeed at losing weight
most of them regain it within several
weeks or months because that drive it's
not logical is ultra Ultra powerful
that's something we have to have to
realize
because
our drive to eat
our hunger and Cravings are so powerful
and primal
we have to give it a crapload of respect
and before we engage in the dietary
process we have to contextualize what
that respect really means and prepare
so that we give ourselves the best
chance
right you don't want to do this thing
where it's like hey like let's go take
over the Death Star sweet two people and
you know two phaser guns we should be
able to do it like you do know what the
Death Star is
there is there are like I don't know
several million people that man it and
are all combat trained the thing is a
fucking giant laser it's a military base
you don't just go in there with a few
blasters unless you Luke Skywalker and
his crew
um Scott the video guy are we in talaya
back in the day did she get out Vote or
down vote up vote even with the buns
with the hair
are we letting that hair down like just
let it all out or we will be doing it
with the hair up
both work
once with the hair up and then when
later when she wakes up again with the
hair down
oh yeah Jabba outfit I actually went um
Dr James Hoffman from RP went as Jabba
one Halloween and I went with him as
Slave Leia
good luck finding those pictures online
yeesh
in any case you don't come up against an
insanely powerful enemy and just think
ah this is going to be easy you respect
the shit out of the enemy and try to
give yourself the best chances it
doesn't mean you say oh this is you know
no problem
it's a problem and there are a few ways
which we can prepare for that prop first
expecting hunger and Cravings to be a
core predictable feature of dieting
versus being shocked by them if you
coach individuals or if you've done this
yourself before you'll get this thing
where a lot of people actually do this
they'll go
oh man like so I started a diet right a
couple weeks in like I'm like really
hungry is that normal bitch yes it's
fucking normal the fuck were you
thinking no I don't mean to yell just
kidding but you guys know what I'm
saying like if we understand that this
conceptual framework of a super powerful
super ancestral deep drive to eat when
you're hungry eat when you're losing any
weight eat more food than you need to
regain your weight if that's a given in
our ability to control it is very small
when the hunger cravings show up it's
almost like being surprised like hey we
tried to walk into the Death Star like
just park our ship in the front port and
like people with guns came out strange
it's like they were expecting us come on
right so number one expect hunger and
cravings and expect to be them to be a
big deal so when you get hunger cravings
for the first time you go okay here we
go here we go right we planned for the
Death Star Stormtroopers to start
shooting at us when we were in this
building or whatever part of the Death
Star and just the same way we totally
planned hunger and crazies were gonna be
a big deal absolutely
second
we want to try to develop ways in which
to diet that minimize and help us
control hunger and Cravings versus
trying to look for a diet method that
eliminates hunger and Cravings
altogether and you'll see ads for this
kind of shit stupid fucking assholes
like liver king or whatever the fuck you
know I'm saying I don't call him by his
government name what's his government
name Brian Johnson or some shit like
that can you Google that real quick
I'm about to you're about to be my that
guy who's on Joe Rogan's show that
Google stuff
Brian Johnson motherfucker I call you by
your government name
fuck you lying ass motherfucker anyway
guys like that will say shit like oh
yeah like if you eat fucking whatever
liver fucking raw eggs you can just diet
and have no Cravings bullshit bullshit
looking for a diet that doesn't give you
hunger and Cravings but will lose you a
notable amount of fat and weight and let
you keep it off will come standard with
hunger and Cravings but
based on how you execute a specific kind
of diet you can reduce the hunger and
craving substantially the idea that
you're gonna make them go away is insane
that's like someone telling you hey like
you know you can actually get to a place
where you can do 36 hours without water
never feel thirsty okay
next you're going to tell me I can walk
into a supermarket and not get horny
supermarket
my parole officer said don't talk about
that
it was a big misunderstanding I thought
I was in a strip club it was a very
large strip club Vegas
next Point number three we have to
prepare for this battle with hunger and
cravings
right so what we have to do is try to
develop
understand and deploy anti-hunger and
anti-craving strategies as much as
possible and at RP if you just type in
anti-hunger Dr Mike or something into
YouTube we have like three or four
videos on the ship and one big ass video
on how to control hunger while dining
control contextualize not eliminate
never make that claim
there's more on that to say with
pharmacology eventually we can eliminate
it to the extent that you ever want to
you probably just want to reduce it but
we have to understand that we're going
into a big ass War so to speak we're
going to need weapons we're gonna need
strategies it's like again I'll just
keep the Death Star
takeover analogy Death Star infiltration
analogy it's uh you know it's like
saying hey look what's the plan with the
Death Star how are we getting in there
they're like yeah yeah we'll just go
let's go in and weighing it there's got
to be a reactor we can shoot with a
phaser and the whole thing blows up like
don't you want to do some research on
what that shit looks like where the
defense is heaviest where it's lightest
Etc how you can sneak in just the same
way with a diet you have to come
prepared with as many anti-hunger
strategies as possible
number four
just like in an infiltration Mission if
you stay in the danger zone for long
enough you will get the Swarm on you
fucking Stormtroopers from every single
fucking hallway and since
you know the Death Star is
three-dimensional motherfuckers like six
hallways and shit's coming from up and
down everywhere
so you got to get in and out and you
have a certain time zone a certain time
frame
just the same way
if you are dieting to lose fat you have
to understand that the longer you diet
and the more extreme the magnitude of
the weight loss is during that time the
more profound these Cravings will be
like if they have you know a claimed
some Stormtroopers and they're like I
think there's people like running around
the halls they don't they're not with us
they'll be like yeah send a squad right
but if it's confirmed that they toasted
the squad and they're still advancing
you get a battalion set next or some
shit they start locking the floors down
just the same way if you lose 10 pounds
your body's like whoa whoa whoa whoa
hunger cravings get in there fix that
shit
but if hunger crazy comes back a bit
we're still losing weight like oh
motherfucker you want to play that shit
double double the effort and then in
week 17 of your diet you're looking at
your fingernails you're like these look
pretty good to eat just swallow and
consume maybe I could eat my own fingers
too shit gets crazy and you have to know
that so before you plan a 24-week fat
loss phase or before you step on the
scale of 300 pounds and be like yeah
I'll just die at one continuous phase
down to 200 pounds you have to realize
take small goals break them up take
breaks do not get overly ambitious
because you have to know that diets have
to stop short of a failure point and
here's the other big sub point of this
every diet for every person has a fail
point
maybe not every some Monk in India
can just willfully diet himself
into death just just food everywhere
he's doing this day after day drinking
water and eventually he sits there and
just dies of fucking anorexia
that is an impossibility for almost
everyone which means at some point you
will fucking snap and you will eat
everything you'll be like holy shit
right you have to understand that that
failure point is somewhere for everyone
don't walk into it
don't walk into it stop well short of it
and then that leads us to the next point
understanding that once you stop your
diet your hunger and Cravings still
there to try to pull you back up to your
old weight
they're gonna try to get there right
it's um a sort of decent analogy here
it's like you get into the Death Star
and you put your phaser at the main
reactor and boom it starts to shut down
like auto destruct in 30 irreversible
and construct
it's like the Stormtroopers that ran up
to you and are running up to you right
now after you did that you're like hey
fellas I won the reactor's gone the
whole thing's gonna blow up they're not
gonna be like oh yeah hey good job it's
like a video game see ya they're gonna
be like motherfucker and they're still
gonna try to kill you you're still in
there so when your leanest point of a
diet
you're in a fucking bad place so know
this don't have a plan of well I'm just
gonna get to 190 pounds from 220 and
then I'm gonna stop the diet and just
live like a normal person bullshit
because if you live like a normal person
what did we learn earlier in this
presentation I don't mean to be pedantic
about that that normal people do well
they eat mostly according to hunger and
Cravings just watch any normal person
what they do like when people go to
Olive Garden they try to order off the
menu they're like What's Nutrition a
good idea what they're like what I feel
like right now five menu items boom boom
boom boom all the way it's back up
after a diet plan for maintenance phase
that's like two-thirds as long as the
diet was in which you slowly reintroduce
more food
and slowly reintroduce junk food or
cheat meals so that that known not a
powerful hunger and craving system
doesn't pull you back up expect that it
will try really really hard and that's a
huge Revelation because for years and
years and years
come and diet wisdom and knowledge in
our industry
was focused on how to make the best
diets that get you from here to here
but now there's a change where we
realized this is tough
maintaining after is very tough also so
know that the hunger cravings won't just
go away like oh you won we're good just
stay 190 forever that's not going to
happen
and
Point number six is if you're a coach
and many of you who who listen to this
channel are
or watch the channel
yes
I'm waving my pretend hair around
what kind of hair I mean do you guys
ever dream about having just like
flowing locks
just long hair
rich and free
when I'm rich in the financial sense
maybe I should buy hair therapy I'll do
that right after this video next video I
promise I'm gonna have long flowing
Rockstar locks in any case many of you
guys are coaches
you need to know this stuff and you do
you have to try to get to your clients
to understand it
to tell them hey look like this fat loss
plan to lose 15 pounds it looks great
let's get it done but I want you to know
Mr Mrs client
this can get rough
it could get really rough
because there are tons of mechanisms in
your brain to try to get you to get the
fuck off this diet and get onto some
pizza
physically onto a pizza I'm a big enough
Pizza yeah sounds fun slip on a
pepperoni soon Pizza Hut
expect them sorry get them to expect
that it's going to be tough both on the
fat loss side and the maintenance side
and then they'll be much better prepared
just like you
so if you want to learn about
anti-hunger mechanisms how to eat how to
train how to organize your sleep and
your work etc supplements to take that
can make hunger more manageable make a
more successful diet we've got tons of
videos we've got tons of books at RP we
have a whole certification coaching
course that really buries that shit for
you so there's lots of good stuff to get
your learn going on
and just respect your hunger and
Cravings they have a deep ancestral
evolutionary place they're the thing
that keep all the animals and humans
alive if you somehow like magic wand zap
the Earth and every animal lost its
hunger instinct
all the animals would die within several
weeks or months the fat animals would
die in several months and uh gee whiz
almost all human beings would die as
well
um certainly all unattended children
would die and uh that's how powerful
those things are so we need a hunger and
creating signaling mechanism
but ours is sensitive because we evolved
in a time of sporadic starvation and so
when you have tasty food around your
body wants to eat it and when you lose
weight it your body is your brain's
ancestral evolutionary mechanism they'll
know that oh it's the 21st century and
fitness is a hobby we're all so rich
that being fat is a problem I don't know
any of that shit so understand where
that side of you is coming from and
respect the living shit out of it don't
pretend you're some willpower generating
you know cyborg could be sweet one day
for sure use your willpower use your
intelligence but respect the shit out of
hunger cravings because they're the real
deal anyone who tells you oh I got this
diet that eliminates them completely
just powder your hand and slap them
right in the face and before they have a
chance to react even if the reaction is
my word you powder the back side of that
shit and go bam not hard just enough to
let them know you've had it with them
and lastly
like comment if you want if you want to
get them get them comments subscribe hit
that subscribe button people say things
on other YouTube channels about a
notification Bell should I be saying
that Scott to video guy
it's got the video guy says uh you know
we don't want to bother you with bells
going off RP hit the notification Bell
if you really insist that you want to
hear what we have to say we do put out
really regular content though so like 12
Eastern Time on most days of the week
there will be an RP video of some sort
and if you want more extra nerd stuff
even nerdier than this consider joining
our members area it's like five bucks
and it gets you wow geez like one or two
more videos a week and um if you're
really super nerd and you want a support
Community to discuss crap like this and
also get like a ton of coaching Insight
video analysis huge Forum we've got the
team Forum Forum so give that a shot all
that's in the description by the way so
click on stuff buy things it pains me to
not physically be in a Lamborghini right
now and you can help by paying for
products that I get the money and then I
buy my Butler's buy the lambo and I look
at it in my garage of thirty thousand
total cars and it's nice it's nice
I'll see you guys next time