[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at how to perform
the lat pull down with perfect technique
while correcting common errors when it
comes to execution now before we jump
into the biomechanics let's quickly
consider the pull down versus the
pull-up i think some people put pull-ups
on a bit of a pedestal well if i was
forced to pick a pull-up or a pull-down
i'd pick the pull-up for reasons i
outlined in my pull-up technique tuesday
video i think both movements can have
their place in a complete training
program i like to think of the pull-up
as a main heavy movement geared more
toward progressive overload in the say
five to ten rep zone whereas the pull
down functions better as a mind muscle
connection type movement although you
certainly should aim to overload when
possible the goal is to really focus on
feeling the muscles of the back contract
appropriately a concept that's gained
attention and empirical support in the
scientific literature in recent years
also if you're not able to do a
bodyweight pull-up pull-downs certainly
can help build some bass strength but i
think you're better off doing assisted
pull-ups as they're going to have more
strength carry over doing a pull down to
help build pull-up strength would be
kind of like doing push-ups to build
bench press strength yeah push-ups are
great for the pecs mind-muscle
connection but they aren't going to blow
up your bench press like simply bench
pressing will so with a standard
overhand grip lat pull down we're
training several biomechanical actions
at once the main action involved is
shoulder adduction where the lats along
with the teres major and minor muscles
contract to bring the arms down to the
side because it's impossible to pull the
bar straight down there will be some
degree of shoulder extension occurring
as well mainly handled by the lats and
the long head of the triceps and the
biceps and brachialis muscles are going
to take care of the elbow flexion
component where the elbow is forced to
bend in order to bring the weight down
now while you can move a decent amount
of weight with the lat pull down
especially the more you lean back i
think that when loaded too heavily the
lower back and momentum will simply
start to take over which can then reduce
overload on the actual lats so in my
experience using more moderate weight
somewhere in the 8-12 rep zone tends to
be the sweet spot as i discussed in my
video on back width versus back
thickness you can use different grips
here to slightly emphasize different
regions of the back but in general i
tend to prefer the double overhand
medium grip brought to the front of the
neck since this option tends to provide
the best combination of strength and
biceps and lat activation so let's cover
this variation first so first you want
to make sure the knee pads are adjusted
to the right height before sitting down
if you have to go on your toes for your
knees to brace against the pads you
could be losing some stability and your
butt is going to try to lift up on every
rep so if you can't keep your heels
planted while having your knees secure
lay down a couple of 10 or 25 pound
plates to elevate your feet you want to
grab the bar with a roughly 1.5 times
shoulder width grip many trainees find a
thumbless or suicide grip to be much
better at improving the mind muscle
connection with the lats and on the pull
down this really isn't a safety concern
unlike on the bench press where if the
bar slips you're gonna get crushed
underneath it with the bar on your hands
take a seat and brace your knees against
the pads with your heels on the ground
or on the plates and before initiating
the first rep put your upper back into
the thoracic extension by lifting your
chest up while some people prefer to
have a flat upper back so they can pull
straight down i think an extended upper
back is going to create a more secure
and powerful lifting position begin the
first rep by depressing your scapulae or
tucking your shoulder blades down as you
pull your elbows in toward your sides at
about a 10 to 15 degree angle when
viewed from the top so think about
pulling your elbows down and in rather
than just pulling with your hands by
using your arms at the bottom of the
pull the bar should make light contact
with the top of your sternum on your
upper chest and from this point you can
reverse the motion by actively resisting
the negative as you feel your lats
stretch on the way up once you reach
full elbow extension lift your chest up
depress your shoulder blades again and
start another rep so how much should you
lean back on the lat pull down some
folks insist you need to be perfectly
upright while others suggest that since
you can move more weight with more lean
back that's what you should do my
opinion is somewhere in the middle i
think a moderate degree of lean back is
acceptable if it makes the lift feel
more natural to you especially if it
also allows you to overload better and
as a general rule even if you lean back
a bit the cable should still travel in a
pretty straight line when viewed from
the side now as an advanced technique
i'm actually cool with using moderate
momentum or cheating on the positive to
help get the weight down as long as you
control the negative on the way up this
might seem like a bit of a bro technique
but it's actually a pretty reasonable
way to eccentrically overload the lats
when done properly granted many people
take this to the extreme and just lose
complete control essentially turning the
pull down into an inverted row and then
just letting the weight fall on the
negative which is something i'd never
recommend now of course other grips such
as the neutral grip pull down can also
be used and because this grip is going
to emphasize shoulder extension many
trainees just feel their lats working
better here that isn't necessarily my
favorite option because you'll already
most likely be training plenty of
extension with any rowing in your
program but it's still a solid option
and the same principles apply to the
supinated grip except to avoid wrist
pain i generally recommend gripping the
bar closer at about one times shoulder
width if you're trying to get your
biceps a little more involved this might
be a more reasonable grip variation to
use as well so i would say the most
common error that i see with the pull
down is using too much body english
apart from using the cheap pull down as
a specific modality for eccentric
overloading i think that as a more mind
muscle connection based exercise your
position should be more or less stable
throughout the movement as you focus on
feeling your lats contract as hard as
possible rather than just yanking the
weight with your arms lower back and
traps another common error when using
the medium overhand grip is not
adducting the shoulder enough in other
words many people will pull their elbows
down to the front too much emphasizing
shoulder extension rather than pulling
the elbows more out to the side viewed
from the top your elbows shouldn't be
coming forward by 45 degrees or so your
elbows should only be coming forward by
about 10 to 15 degrees as you do the
pull down now another very common error
when doing the underhand supinated pull
down is to pull with the biceps too much
even though biomechanical reasoning does
suggest that the biceps will engage more
on this lift you still want to think of
it as a back movement merely using your
arms as connectors while focusing on
driving your elbows down more like you
would in a pullover now if you're unable
to do lat pull-downs flat pull-ins can
be a nice alternative which only require
a simple cable setup however i tend to
reserve these more for a warm-up or
pre-activation type movement and then of
course the pull-up is a great exercise
that trains much of the same musculature
and i think that if you want to maximize
your overall back development you should
probably be including some kind of
pull-up and some kind of horizontal row
in your routine and if you guys are
looking for a complete routine to make
all this stuff more actionable i
recommend checking out my back
hypertrophy program this is actually one
of my most popular body parts
specialization programs hitting the back
three days per week through a
combination of different exercises and
advanced training techniques so if
you're interested in checking it out you
can go to jeffnipper.com and i'll have
that as the first link in the
description box down below uh thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave the video a thumbs up if you
enjoyed it subscribe if you haven't
already and i'll see you guys all here
in the next video
[Music]
all right let's go
okay ready yep
gloves on
[Music]