if you want the biggest legs you can get
I would buy Olympic weightlifting shoes
there's a bunch of different options you
don't even have to buy the super
expensive ones and I would even consider
going to the Internet it's this big
place in your computer and you go to a
company called versal lifts Versa lifts
are these awesome little heal supports
that you can even put into your regular
shoes but if you put them into your
weightlifting shoes what ends up
happening is it creates a crapload more
ankle Mobility for you if you're doing
an exercise like the belt squat you can
stay more upright and have your knees
come way over your toes at the bottom
notice that is using a Preposterous
seemingly maximum amount of load you
might have to use half of that and you
go Ultra deep the degree of quad
flection you look at it right now the
knee angle there's 80 maybe 75 degrees
or something you know when like even the
bottom of your calf is touching your
glute that's what we want and if we can
get that we have to use less load and we
get more quad stimulus and that bigger
stretch multiplies that even even more