hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization today's topic is how does
alcohol affect your recovery oh boy you
friggin can't swear early in the YouTube
video apparently the algorithm alky's in
here
sober up pay attention
put your earphones in
take your hands off the steering wheel
or park your car don't drive
here we go it turns out that alcohol has
upsides and downsides for Recovery
upsides of alcohol for Recovery now I'm
listening what are they first
alcohol can let you relax more which is
a big deal
people who have like a few drinks on
some evenings after work and really less
than wind down that's a fucking huge
deal
number two alcohol can let you be more
social and it has been shown time and
time again that social interaction is
like damn near a Panacea to a shitload
of conditions including generalized
recovery if you get to spend some social
time and great situations with great
people it's a huge effect on your
recovery which is also a big deal if you
can be social without alcohol
your boy needs no drugs to be social or
fucking butterfly
shut up Mike what's that I'm talking to
800 other people
then you're good but if alcohol really
helps you get out of your shell and chat
it all up and have fun hey that's
definitely a benefit
number three alcohol can increase your
appetite you guys know when you have two
drinks at the restaurant before
appetizers come and they're like what do
you want you're like oh I got a I got a
fucking list
bitch and she's like what the fuck and
you're like I'm I've been drinking I
didn't mean to hurt you uh you start
crying at the restaurant they kick you
out no wait wait wait that's not what I
want to happen you're like oh my God
thank you for asking and you order half
the menu because some people get them
munchies when they're drinking I don't
mean drinking a fucking gallon them
throwing up all the munchies I mean
drinking a couple drinks and then like
getting a little hungry and eating a lot
if you have recovery problems because
you're never eating enough
maybe a couple drinks gets you eating
hey that might be at the very least some
fraction of benefit
next
alcohol can carb load you if you have a
like five or six beers and they're like
not the light beers the full-on beers
that can load up carbs wives and then
the next day in the gym if you slept
well at least let's say you stopped
drinking early you had a good night's
sleep you can come in get the pump of
your life because you're so carb loaded
we have to nod that that is a thing
and number five
a lot of people have an experience of
alcohol work eases them into sleep
and sleep is so potent for the recovery
process it is kind of like the king of
the whole recovery Court
who's the queen oh yeah the queen is
like just relaxation
and and the and the jack is like
um you know
personal time to de-stress he was like
man shut up anyway
sleep is a big deal and if alcohol helps
you sleep a little bit get you to sleep
we have to count that on the positive
call
amazing so the recommendation here just
to review is drink as much as you can
and you'll recover see you next time
just kidding you're still with us right
thank God Scott's video God how many
people think we're like Great Click
alcohol
yeah right
I'll hang on your every
limb
bad news
alcohol has some downsides as well to
recovery hopefully nobody
put the YouTube phone down after this
responsible for tons of alcohol related
maladies
six downsides at least that I can think
of first
alcohol is a poison you guys know that
it actively poisons you in a high
concentration poisons you a lot and that
fucks up your recovery to basic
biochemical level
that
number two alcohol directly and Via
hormonal Pathways interferes with muscle
growth and repair
number three is it disrupts a bunch of
other hormones that are good for
recovery
bad
number four is alcohol dehydrates you
which is a big No-No for Recovery bad
can be mitigated with drinking you know
a ton of fluids outside of actually uh
boozing but at the very least is
annoying
number five even if alcohol helps you
get you to sleep especially if you drink
quite a bit three or four drinks or more
you can notably and predictably disrupt
the Sleep Quality of the sleep that
follows and often you end up waking up
earlier and you're like I feel really
stressed and I'm awake
so if alcohol helps get you to sleep
and more alcohol still helps get you to
sleep sometimes against your own will
passing out
there is a chance that that has a net
benefit
but as you drink more and more alcohol
the net benefit gets crushed and
reversed and now it's in that negative a
net cost because yes it still gets you
to sleep but the Sleep duration is
shorter and especially the quality of
the sleep is so much lower that uh you
know gee whiz yes you're sleeping but
you're not recovering right right you've
ever seen someone in the New York City
you know next to one of the clubs it's
four in the morning and they're like
passed out sitting up like right by the
club like that and their mouth is open
there's shit coming out and say hey dead
no that guy's alive
barely kind of like he's got a clubbing
shirt on still and you wouldn't walk by
that scene and be like
recovery it's gonna be so ready for his
next workout like he's sleeping on
cement slab upright
it's gonna be in all kinds of pain
tomorrow and that's not good sleep
that's his body being like hey let's
shut it down so we can not die that's
your computer on sleep mode it's not
making any updates
Point number six
alcohol in some situations can make you
do dumb shit that hurts recovery all
kinds of things seem like good ideas if
you're drunk even things like let's
dance the night away okay there's not a
lot of really jacked people and serious
athletes to dance the night away because
dance the night away it's kind of its
own sport a sport by the way which I am
globally ranked at look me up
I'm uh Scott how many times have I won
the ballroom dancing World Championships
at this point Scott's laughing because
he stopped Counting it just got old
er a while I want a challenge
yeah yeah yeah that's the hot dog guy
right yeah yeah
and and I still do it at home but I
don't even go out anymore I don't even
show off anymore
so what are the implications here
alcohol can be good for your recovery if
you don't drink it
or if just one or a few drinks
gets you to do more of the good stuff
and gets you more of the benefits like
if it relaxes you it doesn't hurt your
sleep it helps you eat a little bit more
helps you socialize then hey gravy enjoy
but you're you gotta be honest about it
you got to see like and it's not that
hard like after you drink for a week
like let's say every other night a
couple drinks see how that week went as
far as recovery it's not fucking rocket
science you'll be like yeah I felt great
yeah
keep going next week you don't drink and
you're like I don't know I feel all
afraid or frazzled a little stressed
from work and ever kind of relax it was
hard to get to sleep fuck that one or
two drinks a night amazing whatever
but if you're like you know had a few
more drinks or wanted to drinks tonight
doesn't do it for you you can be honest
with yourself yeah of course that was
not helpful and I shouldn't do it or I
shouldn't potentially do it but
understand that it comes at a recovery
downside recovery is not everything
sometimes you have to have some fun but
you just know what you're getting
yourself into
and lastly alcohol is bad for recovery
if you drink a lot a lot like getting
drunk all the time is not good for
Recovery in almost anyone
but also just one or a few drinks if it
doesn't get you the upsides like it does
for some people and it gives you most of
the downsides
um then just don't drink uh because it's
just way more downsides I'm sorry you
can still drink if you get you some
other upsides they didn't list here but
um certainly for Recovery I just
wouldn't recommend it so quick personal
insight
I really did try through my 20s
and now through my 30s I've tried a few
times to really get into drinking I know
that sounds crazy but I think the
opposite of alcoholism uh genetically so
I'm like I don't like people are like oh
try this beer it's so good I'm like it
it smells like something went rotten I
hate the fucking taste of it I hate the
smell it's off beer wine I've never had
an alcohol drink which I actually
enjoyed
unless it was Jungle Juice that one time
when I was 22 years old I had four cups
of it and I turned to my friend who was
the who's putting on the party and I was
like hey hey Abby how many uh drink
equivalents would you say is in each cup
of this that I just had she's like yeah
like two and a half and I was like per
cup she was like aha there's a gosh did
that in 20 minutes
just had 10 drinks in 20 minutes
I drink three times a year
needless to say
there were times where I would just
teleport to places it was like oh I'm in
a new place who am I talking to in one
point I was talking to this one girl I
knew from high school and she was saying
things her mouth was moving but what I
was hearing was like
and I was like well I don't understand
language anymore unbelievable so maybe
it's not good for me to have alcohol
that I think tastes good in any case
when I have a couple of drinks
especially recently
um I just like uh I think I've reached a
point where I'm about as sociable as
anyone can be like I just don't have
social anxiety anymore I don't remember
last time I did back when I was younger
I had a ton when I was in college I
drink every now and again and it would
really help me socialize nowadays I'm
like just a fucking Chatty Cathy and
I'll just like go meet random people on
the street no problem and so when I
drink alcohol it doesn't make me any
more social or any more apt to have fun
I just feel sick right away I got a
headache after like two drinks I start
urinating everything out of my body I'm
like this is just annoying and I also
get like a little bit more combative and
like kind of like Comfort
confrontational outwardly but in my own
head I'm like someone says something I'd
normally like oh that's silly you know
my own head someone said something and I
had like three drinks and I'm like
that's fucking stupid and I'm like and
oh yeah this is not for me right so am I
really Russian Jesus Christ was I
adopted or some shit how did this happen
so for me I don't drink alcohol almost
ever because it's just a roll of the
dice of just not Landing in the right
fucking spots
if alcohol works for you in moderation
in a way that can promote recovery
amazing if alcohol means you have a ton
of fun but it hurts your recovery just
understand the margins you're making
trade-offs at and work from their
logically if you want to hear more nerd
stuff like this more into the weeds then
give our members area a try it's five
bucks a month and you get extra videos
every month and we have 18 full-rom
Forum links in the description where you
can ask me a bunch of questions and I
reply to them in video chat with a huge
community of members you can assess your
physique progress we can give you
feedback on your Technique if you post a
for example a video of your deadlift we
can show you how to do your Dallas
better and work with us week to week
everyone in the form is super friendly
and kind everyone is there to help
everyone's really smart except for me I
usually just learn from them and try to
not sound stupid
doesn't always work anyway guys thank
you so much and we'll see you next time