[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is Michelle here for
Renaissance period ization chapter 10 of
the Renaissance diet book designing your
own diet all these chapters and finally
we get to some practical relevant info
well it turns out most of the book is
mostly for the very curious minds who
want to understand the why of dieting
not just the how right chapter 10 really
gets to the how it's like 50 pages long
it's incredibly extensive I'm just gonna
do a real rough summary of what's going
on here
turns out there's not a ton of
recommendations of this video cuz if you
really want to know how to design your
own diet you got to read that chapter
link is in the description so basically
how does this chapter look well first it
teaches you how to set your own calories
to the needs based on tables and
equations not super hard then no
surprise you move up the pyramid you set
your macros to your needs but if you
want a review of the macros chapter 3
has a macro discussion in it you can go
see that video if that's curious to you
then you can go get the book you have
much more detail on how to set macros
very very fine toothcomb then of course
you use a sort of a trade-off of need
you know what optimality or exactly how
your meals are supposed to be structured
and convenience sort of somewhere
between there to set your meal timing
schedule right and it really has to be
emphasized you've got to split the
difference between the two a lot of
times a lot of convenient timings are
pretty close to optimal anyway so just
make sure that you're not trying to eat
meals with these weird specific times
that are just like exactly perfect you
know within an hour here hour there
probably doesn't matter much convenience
really trumps it why because of
adherence right if you're gonna have a
super inconvenient plan you'll just
never follow it to begin with now you
got you're pretty well along the way you
got calories you got macros and you have
meal timing and of course you'll have by
this point macros per meal which is
really really good but you can't eat
macros or they don't sell macros at the
store you got to find healthy
ingredients you can use for your diet
and really the key there is the ones
that you can regularly make have regular
access to and
have ready replacement options so not
only do you want to design your diet if
you follow it perfectly from all your
meals cooked at home but if you got out
like a 7-eleven by your work you got to
kind of explore and figure out okay if I
didn't bring a launcher if I had to work
late what could i buy at the 7-eleven to
make sure I'm still kicking my meals
pretty decently doesn't have to be
perfect good enough you want to consider
supplements some are worth the money
some are not you know creatine is so
cheap you might as well take it whey
proteins are really convenient really
good for workout stuff but you know some
of the other ones might might be or
might not be up your alley depending on
our trade-offs you want to make good
hydration habits a good start for
hydration really it's just a drink like
12 to 24 ounces of fluid like water or a
diet coke or something and just drink
that with each meal and all of a sudden
you're fairly well hydrated and if
you're thirsty outside right you just
drink an additional fluid for that and
here's the thing folks without making
this tube sales pitchy okay if you feel
overwhelmed and diet designed even if
you understood the theory pretty well or
you have no time for the theory and
somebody just sent you this video and
I've checked this out you can have help
with your diet designed right you can
let experts handle it what are some ways
that can happen well you can consider
diet coaching right there's experts at
Rp and a ton of other great companies
that do an awesome job guiding you with
your diet they write you the whole thing
they check up on you they update it for
you amazing amazing stuff right and
there's tons of really good folks out
there make sure the folks that are
coaching you are evidence-based
practitioners not folks to just you know
learned on Instagram or something now
you can try the Instagram folks there's
a lot of good people out there I don't
know it's kind of like rolling the dice
so make sure they respect science have a
lot of practical experience as well for
your best shop or you could try digital
products we have a few right there's
templates right there's other digital
means there's apps and if you use these
things they can potentially help you
design a diet if all you have to do is
follow it right you can even take it to
the next level where you can hire meal
delivery service that literally makes
all your meals for you you just have to
eat them when they show up to the door
everything is in your corner it's
not super expensive it's not super out
of the way if you want to build your own
diet amazing this book chapter will be
awesome for you because it has tons of
detailed instructions if you're not
super insured and building your own diet
you want to help with that the book and
the links in the description here are
gonna guide you to ways to help you with
your diet design so you can do the work
and get the results folks see you next
time for chapter 11 bankruptcy just
kidding chapter 11 will be in an actual
diet topic
[Music]