hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization your weekly tip this week
is the do's and don'ts of napping that's
right taking naps there are do's and
don'ts i thought you just go to sleep
well here's the deal first
ask a question why should we nap and the
answer is you shouldn't map you don't
have to nap there's not like oh man i'm
i'm not mapping i'm not napping this is
a problem i need to be napping as an
elite athlete or trying to be an elite
athlete nonsense if you don't nap you
never nap if you get a full nights of
restful sleep you're totally good to go
however if it helps you recover in a
total of a 48 hour two day period then
napping
is something you can try to do hold on a
second 48 hours why not 24. we'll talk
about that in the point after this next
month so let's get through the do's
what are the dues of napping if you nap
you don't have to if you don't want to
set an alarm best recommendations here
for 25 minutes or so
do not snooze that thing when you wake
up a really easy tip for that is turn up
the volume on your cell phone and put it
outside of arm's reach so when it like
hits you got to physically get up out of
bed to go turn it off for most people if
you're not a child as soon as you turn
it off and you get out of bed you're
kind of like
i guess i'm up like you could have a
choice to go back to sleep but the
ability to roll over and half asleep go
snooze it's too tempting so i would
leave that shit off if it's a problem
for you
next when you nap put away all
distractions get the room dark get
comfortable to the extent that you're
able to
ideally i wouldn't use your night
sleeping bed i would just leave the
couch or some kind of comfy chair
because your night sleeping bed should
be kind of a ritualistic place you only
use for night sleep that sounds weird if
it's not a problem for you if you can
sleep anywhere no problem okay you
probably don't also need naps then but
we want to leave the bed as something we
have a ritual for before we go to sleep
so the only thing your brain associates
with the bed is nightly sleep and you
stay the fuck away from if you have
sleeping problems right
and if you're really really tired you
need a whole jolt of energy you need
like a marathon the rest of the day
taking a a swig of an energy drink like
half an energy drink
and and then like you're really tired or
about fall asleep half an energy drink
set the alarm put it down and go to
sleep as you wake up 25 minutes later
the efficacy curve of the stimulants is
rising and you're going to wake up and
be like
like vegeta's first ascension that kind
of shit so that's actually an
interesting thing you think like well if
i take an energy drink i'll never fall
asleep it doesn't hit you right away it
takes 15 minutes at least in most cases
to really feel it and by then you're in
a nap 20 minutes it's more of a natural
wake up
here are the don'ts and here's where the
48 hour thing comes back in
do not
in most cases okay i know your
motherfuckers are going to get in the
comments and be like i cannot xyz all
the don'ts don't apply to me like holy
fucking shit somebody please shake this
man's hand presidential medal of freedom
for that person jk put your shit in the
comments i love you guys but on a
serious note here are the don'ts for
most people that want to know the
information don't sleep until you're
tired okay sorry sleep until you're not
tired if you go and take a nap like look
if you just came back from a long trip
or something like that or you just
finished a huge project for work or for
school and you like look at your bed and
you're like i don't have any
responsibilities for the next two days
and then it's all easy stuff in the next
week after fucking just collapse who
gives a shit but if you're using maps in
a planned way part of your work your
recreational activities your
actual training management if you want
to use naps as a regular part of your
life don't sleep until you're not tired
because what you're gonna do nine times
out of ten you sleep for like four and a
half hours wake up at 5 30 pm like a
fucking zombie
weird mood you have no idea what time it
is your brain barely works and then
you're up until 6am the next day looking
at reddit shit you don't even want to
see that'll fuck you up it'll throw
everything off so i would say stick to
that 20 minutes thing now
if you do need to sleep for over 30
minutes i would time it to an amount
that includes the average amount of time
it takes you to fall asleep plus an
entire
solid fraction of a rem cycle so
50 minutes so rem cycles are generally
the whole sleep cycle is like an hour
and a half 90 minutes right but half of
a sleep cycle is actually a decent thing
you may experience if you're a light
sleeper
waking up after about 20 minutes like
there's this time where you're like very
light sleeper and if you wake up then
around 25 minutes you actually feel
pretty good very shortly after right
after 45 minutes like 50 minutes after
you put your head down to sleep you can
get a bit of a jolt and you're not in
that weird funky half dream phase you
either try to wake up from a nap or from
sleep at the wrong time in your rub
cycle and you're just like
you like look at your cell phone and
you're like what the fuck does time even
mean and if you got a chance to go back
to sleep you would just zonk out for
like another nine hours that's it's
fucked up waking up during those times
of sleep cycle try to avoid it so 50
minute naps are okay because it's 45 and
then plus five to fall asleep 95 minute
nap and then you know
three hours and five minutes or two
whole rem cycles that's a hell of a nap
but at least after that nap
you will wake up energized and
clear-headed more likely rather than
just a total fucking zombie like like if
you're flying somewhere for work or for
school or for business and you have like
a 36 hour day ahead of you because of
time changes yeah like a three hour nap
might be a fucking real solid thing that
takes you to the rest of the day no
problem at all
another don't do not begin napping later
than about 4 pm in most cases because
you'll really fuck up your nightly sleep
like if you your body has like a sleep
counter thing you like that science shit
you come here for the science i know
this and if you get too much sleep too
late like it doesn't matter how quantum
quote tired you thought you were going
to be it's going to be like 11 p.m and
you're going to be like this in front of
her tv like oh my god i have all these
thoughts and ideas and you won't be
asleep until 4am and then you got to
wake up at 6 to go train your morning
clients and then what the fuck do you do
so i would say
if you're tired and it's past 4 p.m it's
time for a little mini half espresso a
little bit of black coffee whatever you
do to get your jolts up finish the rest
of the day in your delirium and then
just go to sleep nice and early that
night
another thing not to do is continue to
use naps if they regularly mess with
your sleep schedule
and that means they might help you in
the first 24-hour period but the sleep
schedule is so fucked that the next day
you like either wake up really late or
you can't fall asleep that next night
after
so if that consistently the 48 hour
schedule is messed up by the inclusion
of too many naps stop doing it a lot of
people when they nap they're kind of
just shooting themselves on the foot
like when they don't nap and they get
good night of sleep they're productive
everything feels great their brains are
on fire and they have great days they
fall asleep at 11 pm or whatever no
problem they start napping
then they start falling asleep at 2 a.m
it fucks up the next day 48 hour thing
etc etc etc and that's just no fucking
good so if you know napping's no good
for you you might have to like push it
away like some people push alcohol and
i'm not talking about like alcoholic
type stuff i'm just talking about like
when i drink i yell at people and i get
rowdy and i end up flashing people my
genitals or titties in public it's fun
it's nothing illegal flashing your
titties is probably legal washing your
genitals as a male can get you into some
shit um but like you're just like i'm no
fun on alcohol so i'll just smoke wheat
with my friends or whatever you know
what i mean i'll have three drinks
instead of ten i know ten's fun but
every time it goes the wrong way same
with snaps like when you want a nap and
you're looking at your bed or your couch
like this would be so good
but i know long term it doesn't work for
me it's like cheating on your diet like
is the ice cream cone gonna taste great
hell yeah do you guys know how many
clowns at zoos that have sell the ice
cream i've choked for ice cream cones
tons but i always regret it because the
clown's probably a good person or was
anyway um and then you know the ice
cream is great when you're eating it but
then like you fuck up your diet and it's
not good for your long-term results some
people with napping it's just not
something they even be able to fit in
with all the to do's in this video
lastly
don't use naps to regularly supplement
shitty night's sleep in most cases
because a lot of times you can fix your
nightly sleep and we have other videos
in this very series of weekly tips about
how to get a good night's sleep it's
something that's super important at the
end of the day maps are a supplement to
that and they're not a one-to-one
they're not a fix uh it's kind of like
not being metabolically healthy and
being on tons of pills like biotech is
sweet the pills can help keep you alive
and make your quality of life way better
but if you have a pretty easy chance to
lose a bunch of weight start eating
better and start being fit and healthy
like that shit will knock out half the
pills out of your pill cabinet and it's
a qualitatively better way to be same
thing with naps if you can fix your
sleep stuff and get good night's sleep
and then you don't need naps you're
really winning at life now if you're
using naps to fix a broken sleep
schedule that can't be fixed because
you've tried and you're just a weird
sleeper hey that's you doing what you
got to do it's totally fine but if there
are easy things you can do to fix your
sleep at night and you're just not doing
it and you're like fucking i'll just
take a nap then you're just like a
freshman in college you don't have your
shit together freshman in college if
you're watching this video don't get
upset i love each and every single one
of you as if you were my very own
children and on that incredibly creepy
note i'll see you guys next time