yes the World Health Organization they
classified aspartame one of the main
ingredients in diet soda as carcinogenic
Class 2 carcinogen the World Health
Organization occasionally makes mistakes
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization can you drink soda and
still be healthy no way wait really way
let's find out how
everybody knows soda's bad for your
health Grandma knows it Great Grandma
knows it shit great great grandma when
she was on the Oregon Trail she knew
soda was bad
but it's only bad if you do like four
things
here are the four things here's how to
make soda bad free
one is you drink regular soda not diet
soda diet soda is generally quite
neutral to your health
regular soda has a crapload of sugar in
it and it's maybe not ideal in most
circumstances
but even that's not bad by itself you
have to do Point number two as well if
you want to make soda bad for you and
you have to drink enough of it to turn
you hypercaloric that's not some kind of
weird chemical state where your blood
boils or something
just means you're getting in more
calories than you're burning so if
you're drinking 10 regular Cokes a day
and that's a crapload of extra sugar and
extra calories and you still eat your
normal diet you'll start eating way more
calories or drinking in this case then
you're burning and you'll start to add
body fat over the long term that will
degrade your health for sure
if you're already in an unhealthy body
fat percentage and unhealthy weight and
you drink enough soda to prevent weight
loss then you're not making yourself
less healthy but you are keeping
yourself less healthy so bad move
Point number three is you drink soda
while also eating very poorly when we
look at people who drink soda most of
them are less healthy than people that
don't but when we look at the data a
little bit more closely we realize a lot
of those people it's not maybe the soda
by itself that's doing all the health
maladies it's the fact that they also
eat like total crap
I haven't seen a whole lot of people
have you know a sandwich and a Coca-Cola
and it's a regular healthy sandwich and
then that's it
seen a lot of people do a Diet Coke or
just water a sandwich and two apples
that's a healthy lunch but when I see
someone have a Coca-Cola or a Sprite
regular with their lunch oftentimes
their lunch is like a few Twinkies or
two burritos or three double
cheeseburgers and then you're like I see
the soda is just a part of your world
where you eat like junk all the time
that's really the big problem
and lastly if your dentist hates you
because soda's doing not good things to
your teeth then it's bad for you and
that's no way to go I I think dentists
hate us all I actually have to go get
some shit done my teeth later today I'm
not dreading it because I enjoy the calm
but I think I'm also a serial killer or
something people say they hate the
dentist I think it's great that they
clean our teeth but they always have bad
news they're like Hey listen and they
judge you morally every single time
they're like
how's your flossing and you're like oh
God uh
as good as any other
flossing get right mister don't don't
call me mister you're strapped to a
chair you're like oh my God I can't move
a typical dentist office visit
so
how can you drink soda and still be
healthy can those be done together
well yes in four specific ways first
just drink all or mostly diet soda
drinking diet soda has essentially zero
impacts on your health it's more or less
an inert neutral substance
and yes the World Health Organization
one of their cancer branches recently
published a thing where they classified
aspartame one of the main ingredients in
diet soda as carcinogenic Class 2
carcinogen the thing is going out into
the Sun as a class one carcinogen
drinking hot beverages is class two and
they made this recommendation totally in
the absence of dose
yes if you have 1 000 theoretical cans
of Diet Coke per day you could get some
cancer but at 20 or less you're an order
of magnitude away from the amount of
coke that could potentially cause any
kind of problems so within even up to 20
Diet Cokes a day for the rest of your
life your probability of developing
cancer is as close to zero as statistics
can detect so no diet soda is not
actually bad for you and yes the World
Health Organization occasionally makes
mistakes they're pretty good normally
but we all get it wrong every now and
again
I've got a ton of other videos about
this so feel free to give them a Google
anything about my last name or a
Renaissance critization and diet soda
tons of information
second
if you drink regular soda just drink it
in moderation you don't have to have 50
cans of it that way you don't gain
weight from it or you don't maintain an
unhealthy weight
if your weight is already unhealthy and
very high I probably wouldn't feel those
calories with regular soda but if you're
a normal active person of a healthy
weight and like you're taking a flight
somewhere and you order a regular Coke
and you drink it on the flight nobody's
dying no it's not going to screw up your
gut microbiome or some crazy make
believe bullshit you're going to be
totally fine so moderation it's totally
cool to have soda if you're active if
you mostly eat healthy and you're of a
healthy weight and that's really Point
number three previewed if you're eating
well and you're active and you don't
take a ton of junk food with your soda
diet soda in any amount or even a can or
bottle here of regular soda is just not
a big deal
so does no less unhealthy for you or no
more unhealthy rather than ice cream or
Popsicles or something like that but you
have some ice cream every now and again
because you know like hey every now and
again you have ice cream as long as not
all of your meals or ice cream is not
you're as long as you're not a fat
Buffalo looking person then it's totally
cool I scream in moderation is fine and
so is even regular soda in moderation if
you don't like moderation diet soda you
can drink well gee up to 20 cans a day
no problem
and lastly talk with your dentist
because they may give you a sensible
average cut off for how much soda you
can drink in a day because you could say
look 20 cans and he looks at your teeth
and he's like nah that ain't it you're
not okay
what about six he's like yeah like five
or six cans a day on most days I think
you're totally good to go because
dentists do understand that they're
supposed to care for your teeth but they
also understand because they're also
human I think
that you are a human being and you live
life they're not going to say like zero
coffee zero soda zero sugar zero
everything they could say that but they
know you're not going to listen and also
fuck that that's a shitty life to live
what they can tell you is say look you
know five cans of soda a day you're
totally good I think that'll be just
fine if it's worth a trade-off to you
it's totally fine anything north of that
it could you know specifically with the
teeth genetics that you have sir it
could go south for you quite quickly so
if they tell you that your dad just
understands there's a context in which
you can drink soda then you're totally
good to go it won't destroy your health
you'll be happy and to most importantly
of all
you're going to support the profits of
the Pepsi and Coca-Cola corporations
which are American institutions
God Bless America see you guys next time