welcome everyone to Episode one of my
new treading series I don't actually
have a name for it yet maybe you guys
can help me come up with something in
the comments below but I'm just
finishing up my breakfast here now I
wanted to say that I'm officially
starting my cut this is basically a cut
just for summer I'm not any like
competition or anything in particular
but as I was finishing this up I
basically realized that I don't really
have any groceries ready yet today so
I'm gonna go wake reshawna right now and
we're gonna head over them to the
grocery store and get some more macro
friendly foods because I am gonna be
tracking my macros on this cut the oh by
the way where Sean does live with us
when we're here in Florida so see if
he's awake you up you know get some
groceries and then this is our room over
here
Steph is in editing a video right now so
she's been super busy it better be worth
it this is a casual 10k so this is what
a body that has eaten 10,000 calories
casually looks like a few days later
pretty crazy so yeah Steph did this like
cheat day in Germany with her friend and
she just casually ended up eating 10,000
calories which is insane because I
couldn't do it by like force feeding but
anyway yeah I'll leave a link to it in
the description box and I forgot to
mention my morning supplements so I'll
have my multivitamin from pee science
and also have two of these omega-3 fish
oil capsules and that's it so I'm gonna
finish this and then I guess where Sean
is getting ready and we're gonna head
over to the grocery store so check in
with you guys over there Jay cool just
dropped his new album I think it was
yesterday what do you think this guy
claims to be the number one stand that's
crazy
I think it's really good we're gonna
check him with you guys over at Walmart
probably to check what we actually have
at home before came here gonna be some
duplicates for sure I can never have too
many bananas even one cut man
I'll pick up a couple of green ones just
in case we already have this is exciting
I'm so stoked to be cutting again
been like intuitively eating on my boat
in the last I don't know how long man
like at least probably probably a year
maybe one little mini cut in there but
we'll be which a year so this is super
rather I shouldn't even be legal
so my goal on this cut is to have at
least two to three servings of fruit a
day and two and three servings of sight
each day as a priority I prefer frozen
vegetables
a little easier to cook my
even though I'm cutting I feel like my
carbs will still be pretty high so I
like to have some of this juice
this is my favorite Asian medley got
broccoli baby corn baby carrots
7:3
also I'm still working on this just
reminded me about that vegan gains video
I'm still working on getting a podcast
together with in my opinion an actual
expert on vegan diet down it's just been
a scheduling issue because it's
publishing a book right now but we're
hoping to do it this April we're hoping
to do it in May so you can be on the
hook-up
I haven't ever forgotten about it it's
just a matter of schedule yes
so when cutting I dropped 50
a little bit of extra calcium and
vitamin T here
I just find that the Trop 50 so it's
like watered down by 50% but to me it
just tastes so much better and it's only
50 calories and it wants me to go for me
let's see what rashon goes for this is
the Roshanara shredding diet oh yeah oh
no it's good I might get a couple of
those actually so guys were Sean's
actually leaving in two days three days
three days and he's gonna be gone for a
month
so we're gonna have to kind of do
everything by distance but he's about to
hit 1000 subscribers on YouTube so you
guys aren't subscribed to him there I
put his youtube link in the description
box I'll put it up here in the cards go
over to check it out let's get him to
1000 subscribers for my mans he actually
makes some really really awesome videos
and I make people appearances in them so
let's get them up to two forefingers so
guys this is basically the grocery haul
here not too too much because I'm new to
cutting and I kind of want to figure out
you know where exactly am I like meals
are gonna land and what I'm going to do
kind of freestyling it off the start but
this is a I think a pretty good good
starting place for me what's the plan
for today man
get it get it work get a lift in yeah
I'll take you guys back to the house
[Music]
gotta get used to using MyFitnessPal
again because it has been forever so I'm
gonna blogging here just gonna update
all my goals and then I've got a start
start tracking stuff again that's gonna
be interesting
goal weight is gonna be one let's say
164 and we go I'll lose 1.5 per week for
now I'll just kind of sit next to it
maybe alright guys welcome to the
four-minute diet basically I'm gonna try
to go through my whole diet plan in four
minutes for you guys obviously I won't
be able to cover absolutely everything
and rashon is gonna let me know when
every minute goes by to keep me on track
okay so first things first my macros I'm
going to be tracking macros but I'm
gonna do it on a semi intuitive basis so
it's gonna be fairly flexible that
doesn't just mean flexible in terms of
my food sources but also in how I'm
tracking so I'm gonna basically set
myself up with a caloric target which is
gonna be 2,400 calories per day for me I
give myself about a hundred calorie
buffer on either end of that for now so
somewhere between 2300 and 2500 calories
per day and then I'm also gonna have a
protein target so for protein it's gonna
be 0.8 grams per pound of body weight um
so for me that comes out to about 150
grams of protein then for fats that's
gonna be 20 percent of my total caloric
intake so 20 percent of 2,400 divided by
9
that's gonna give me 50 to 60 grams of
fat per day and then I'll just fill in
the rest with carbs whatever that may be
the main two things I'm focusing on is
my protein and my total caloric intake
try to keep fats you know usually below
70 or 80 grams but I'm not too worried
about hitting this target I see this
more as a minimum for fat intake rather
than like a hard target to hit dead-on
and the same thing goes for carbs so I'm
very flexible with these but these this
is what I'm hitting as a minimum for
protein and somewhere in the range of
2,300 to 25
hundred for calories when figuring out
your caloric intake which is what drives
everything they're a bunch of
calculators online you can figure it out
in my experience really it's a simple
way is body weight times 10 to 12 most
people will be losing weight on this or
this if you have a really fast
metabolism sometimes it can be as high
as body weight times 14
but generally that'll get you in the
right ballpark and then ultimately what
you have to do is a guess in check so
you'll have to track your weight first
thing in the morning on an empty stomach
get the average of that weight over your
first week then get the average of your
weigh-ins over the second week and
figure out if your weight maintained
then that means almost by definition you
probably have found your maintenance
calories if you lost weight you know
you're in a deficit things are probably
good if you're losing at the rate you
want to which I'll get to and if you
gain then that means you're you're still
in a surplus so you need to pull the
calories back more so this is ultimately
going to be very individual but this
should get you in the right ballpark and
then if you do a guess and check based
on average weigh-ins for a week or two
or sometimes maybe three then you'll
figure out exactly you know where you
need to be to be losing for me I like to
set that up by a percentage per week of
body total body weight so for me that's
1 to 1.5 percent of body weight per week
so for me that comes out to 1.8 to two
point seven pounds per week so I'll just
round that up to be around this one down
so for me it'll be about 1.5 to 3 pounds
per week now admittedly
3 is a little faster than I'd like to
lose so the way that I say this is that
at the beginning of the diet so this is
the beginning I'll probably lose a
little bit more quickly because I'll
lose some water weight and that sort of
thing
towards the middle in the end I'll
probably be somewhere in the range of 1
to 1.5 pounds per week but generally you
don't want to exceed 1.5 percent of body
weight per week even though you can in
some circumstances I think it sets you
up as to be more likely to see
performance detriments in the gym maybe
lose strength a little more quickly
maybe run into some nutrient
deficiencies if your diet is impaired
regulated and also you might be at a
greater risk of losing muscle so this is
this one is what I consider to be the
high end right here this is a pretty
conservative quote low end in terms of a
percent of deficit so how much do you
slash from your maintenance calories
I'm usually somewhere in the range of 15
to 20 percent of my maintenance it's
important to note that this is not your
current calories so if I'm currently
eating 3500 calories I wouldn't just get
15 to 20 percent of that and then say oh
now and then a 15 to 20 percent deficit
because 3500 calories for me would
actually be a surplus she need to figure
out what your maintenance calories are
and then go in a 15 to 20 percent
deficit from there so how do you get
your maintenance calories well again it
ultimately will come back to guess and
check you need to figure out roughly
what you can maintain your body weight
on but for most people as a very
ballpark average body weight times 16 it
was usually pretty good will probably
get you pretty much in the ballpark for
your maintenance and then from there
once you get this number
you can plug that in set yourself up on
a 15 to 20 percent deficit and then that
should have you losing something like 1
to 1.5 percent of your body weight per
week these are just like very rough
figures they're gonna be you know highly
individual depending on your specific
goals but this is basically how I've set
it up for myself so as for my goal
I'm currently 180 pounds ish I actually
lost like 3 pounds while in Germany we
were travelling but I'll just consider
that a head start but let's say I'm
starting at 180 pounds I'd like to
eventually get to 160 to 165 so that's
gonna be my end spot previously I
figured out that that's where I have a
pretty good balance of still maintaining
some semblance of fullness while also
being relatively lean so for me going
off these figures that basically means
I'm gonna be cutting for 8 to 10 weeks
so by I would say maybe July I should be
pretty good and ready to go and then
once I actually get to this place I find
that at first I look pretty flat but
after I start to refeed and eat up
again not a dirty bear mode bulk style
but more of a lean bulk style so put
myself in a moderate surplus and as my
weight starts to creep back up a little
bit I started to look much fuller and
then that's when I look my best so
probably when I'm back up in the like
165 maybe 166 range but fit and that's
gonna be my ultimate goal and I'll
probably be there by around August let's
say so that's my plan hopefully that
makes some sense I think I did probably
go over 4 minutes so let's change it to
2
let's change it to 6 minutes diet and
that's everything yeah hopefully that
helped in later videos I'll probably go
into more detail about like micros you
know I said that in the thing in the
grocery store cardio and my training and
also I am still planning to do the
fundamentals series so if the whiteboard
nice and clean for that that's gonna be
coming out this month where Sean and I
are going to film that now in a couple
days so it's gonna be part two training
and if you guys are interested in one of
those basics you can learn about that in
that video so that's it that's it for
this one
we're gonna go grab a pre-workout meal
I'll show you guys that and then we're
gonna go for a workout
got my number two over here show you
what I got basically I just got a small
deli meat sandwich with some oven
roasted turkey meat on there some
cheddar cheese and a bit of mixed greens
of spinach and lettuce or whatever it is
raspberries and this is the frozen mixed
mixed veggies that I picked out the
Asian medley and then this is the trop
fifty orange juice so I'll put the
macros for this meal up on the screen
I'm gonna eat this and I think this may
be our pre-workout meal I don't have to
check the stuff and see what her plan is
for the gym but we'll eat this one and
then I'll check in with you guys after
that pre-workout meal I just got a scoop
of protein so this is a blend of casein
and whey and then also a banana just a
light light meal before the gym and then
I've got prolific pre-workout I'm gonna
have to scoop it that you can sift that
on the way they're gonna do
[Music]
you
[Applause]
yes
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
okay so guys we just got back from the
gym and I'm gonna be very creative and
go for another scoop of protein
this is so weird like this is the first
time I felt that like hungry feeling in
my stomach in many months it's exciting
I'm actually like just so excited to be
cutting it feels like I have a new goal
and like training with Alberto you guys
would have seen that video and just like
watching some of his stuff has me
feeling so motivated I guess I have a
new goal get lean again see what my
physique looks like and then make
improvements from there so I would
technically call this a mini cut even
though it's it's it's right in between
or like full-blown fat loss phase and
just like a mini cut phase but I'm just
playing it by ear I'm not gonna you know
get super super ultra shredded but I
want to get to a point where I'm
somewhere in that middle zone where if I
wanted to start a contest prep I could
but I'm thinking after this when I
assess for my physique is and then
probably enter that like lean bulk zone
kind of like I was talking but anyway
we're gonna add one scoop of peanut
butter life protein as the post-workout
and then I think I'm gonna get some like
ground turkey rice some sort of meal
like that and that'll be probably my
second last meal before bed so this is a
little trick not that it really matters
but I like to weigh out my meat when
it's cooked so I'm gonna weigh out just
100 grand
konna grams of ground turkey but I'm
gonna track it as a hundred and thirty
grams because in my many years of
dieting I figured out that it's roughly
a 1 of 1.3 ratio so when you cook it
basically the ratio comes out to be so
that when you track it in my fitness pal
after you put it in at one point you put
in his 130 grams it'll be the same as if
it was 100 grams Ross
I'm just gonna do half a serving of this
porcelain business 30 grams of that
roughly 2 tablespoons of salsa now just
like basically mix all that up there we
go
so that'll be like me post-workout meal
the worst I know you're serious when you
take note of the trash the scanning you
ever done that oh yeah
alright so instead of let's just say
this is a hundred grams or I'm gonna
change it to 1 gram right
so I actually weighed out a hundred
grams but I'll put it in as 130 grams
just because it loses weight as you cook
it so you want to account for that and
that's what I found to be the most
accurate between cooking like all meats
chicken turkey pretty much everything at
ratio of 1.3 is usually pretty good ok
so guys here we are it is now the end of
the night I just put everything into
MyFitnessPal and I'm at around 2,100
calories so I've got about 300 calories
left so I decided I'm gonna have another
bag these veggies just the whole bag
which is 240 calories and I fill in the
rest with a little bit more ground beef
or ground turkey I mean so I'm gonna get
this ready now I'm gonna eat that and
then I'm gonna call it a night I'll put
the final macros up here on the screen I
hope you guys like the video I'm gonna
be doing a few more like this so if you
did like it let me know if there's
anything you'd like to hear me talk
about or go into a little bit more
detail with regard to my own training
and diet in a future episode just let me
know and yeah I'll see you guys in the
next episode