hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization should you let your
Technique slip a little bit at the end
of a set to get a few more stimulative
reps let's break this down and I'm not
really sure what the answer is and I
don't write these slides Scott the video
guy does he's the real brains behind
this operation I'm just here reading off
a script like I can barely
read so people will say things like you
know sometimes you got to let your
Technique slip for a few extra reps at
the end is this true well let's step
back a little bit to try to figure this
out the way I see it there is a three
tier hierarchy like a Proto pyramid a
zigurat or
whatever in hypertrophy training with
the Baseline layer being the most
important the second layer being the
second most and the top layer being the
least important but the sort of cherry
on
top to
me inside of a single
set of hypertrophy train training
there's the following three- tier
hierarchy first the very bottom most
important Bedrock layer is
technique because your Technique is the
plan for how you're going to execute
each rep and because you plan to execute
each rep in a certain way ostensibly
hopefully in reality that plan should be
how to get the most out of each rep the
highest quality per rep execution to get
the most stimulus possible and the least
fatigue possible that's what a good
technique is just how your reps look
that's the
Foundation the second most important
thing you can attend to in a set is
relative effort how hard are you
pushing technique is the guidance
trajectory of where you shoot your
rocket and relative effort is how much
rocket power you boost behind it
obviously if you're fighting a war if
you flip your rocket trajectory to your
own forces uh it's bad news either way
but if you have the rocket trajectory go
into the bad guys area Enough Rocket
Fuel is definitely important so rir is
definitely important but it sits on a
baseline of
technique third is the Mind muscle
connection things like how much tension
are you feeling and where how much pump
how much
burn and it mostly tells you if the
technique you picked in Number One your
original technique is spoton or if it
could be better and because as you move
in a certain way in a skull crusher if
you're thinking okay in my muscle
connection I definitely feel my triceps
more if I come back this way a little
bit with the bar before going back up
then yes actually this mind muscle
connection and enhancing it grooves my
technique into an even better position
for more stimulus and less fatigue so in
that sense the Mind muscle connection
just
reinforces and perfects the technique
that you're doing from rep one rep two 3
four Etc all the way through the
increasing relative effort of the
set so coming back to the question why
would you let your Technique which is
your number one priority slip if you say
well it's to get more reps let me get
this straight you're saying that the
tradeoff of the first priority number
one most important thing your Technique
is worth more of the second priority
which is reps and Reserve R relative
effort that doesn't make any sense
technique's the most important thing it
makes sure every rep is high quality if
you expand the number of reps you're
doing by degrading the quality of the
Reps the question could be asked of why
don't you just keep doing high quality
reps there is no good answer to that
question by the way now what if you
say I'm all right fine fine I'm getting
more her burn at a pump my mind muscle
connection is improving if I let's say
my technique Goes to Hell well hold on a
sec technique's the number one most
important thing and you're saying rank
three priority at the very top of that
pyramid out classes everything below it
what
that's nonsense countless Studies have
shown that the Mind muscle connection
isn't Ultra super important to training
especially for beginners and
intermediates technique core technique
is way more important than if you get a
pump or burn or tension or any of that
stuff so two ideas based on this one if
your Technique slips assuming your
Technique was designed to give you the
best stimulus to fatigue ratio possible
which it should be
if your Technique slips that means your
stimulus to fatigue ratio starts to
decline which means the correct answer
of if in a set your Technique starts to
slip should you do a couple more reps of
slip technique the answer is no the
answer is pause my reps or drop sets and
then continue doing that set so for
example you wanted 12 reps you got 10
and you're like oh sh I cheat up these
next two nope put the curl bar down
wiggle out a sec and then hit the other
two to with perfect technique that means
all the reps are high quality and you
got two extra reps just CU you took a
little break you weren't good enough to
keep going the technique slipped would
have increased your fatigue and
decreased your stimulus per rep every
rep is
quality bad Tech is not in the
menu number two if you have to alter
your Technique to maximize the Mind
muscle connection what you have really
discovered is the technique you assumed
was the best is not the best in your
next set you should start that maximized
mind muscle connection technique first
if you tell yourself normally I go all
the way and lock out my dumbbells and
come all the way back down
but in one of these sets towards the end
I did what I felt was better for my mind
muscle connection bigger pump tension
stretch in the pecs and actually got my
dumbbells up to just where I start to
feel a little heavy towards the top and
then I come back down really focusing on
a bottom and partial well the research
confirms this now that in some cases at
least bottom end partials are more
effective for hypertrophy than even full
range of motion stuff with like needless
lockouts training a chest night triceps
why lock it out that's good reasons you
want to make sure you're tracking
properly whatever but if you can track
well and still just hit the bottom
portion for that deep stretch maybe it's
the better answer now what that means is
now on dumbbell presses because you
discovered that enhancing the Mind
muscle connection gives you a different
technique that in the next set should be
your new different technique that you
now do for all of the dumbbell presses
in the rest of that exercise and the
session and week and month and year
because you've actually just discovered
a superior technique a lot of people say
like yeah man like when I start to fudge
my technique I actually feel it more
well then you should be doing that to
begin with and that should be your good
technique your best technique is
something you want to find and focus on
it no matter what everything else layers
on top of it everything begins with good
technique what you call good technique
can change over time as your mind muscle
connection and your awareness of how
joints are affected
changes what is the best technique
changes over time but before a single
set begins you should know exactly what
technique you're shooting for it is the
thing that doesn't waver and if you want
to push closer to failure toughen up and
do it with good technique and if you
want to go beyond failure take the
weight stack drop it from 110 pounds to
80 pounds crank a few more reps that's
beyond failure or stop for a few seconds
and go again that's beyond failure too
with my reps cheating your way into
altering technique just to get a few
more reps is something that is not well
thought through it is not a good idea
that's all I have folks consider doing
our members area the link is in the
description extra bonus videos one to
two videos at least every single week
that are awesome that you will not catch
on the main channel it's for money I
know but it's not that much money and
also we have the RP hypertrophy app it's
got technique videos R prescriptions
it's got the whole thing it's my
favorite app ever to train with and I
built it so I train with it all the time
Link in the description thanks for
tuning in questions comments concerns
see you guys next
time