hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video topic is
about the importance of time in your
Fitness Pursuits we've established
through some earlier videos that if you
factor out genetics and potentially drug
use the most critical part of your
success and fitness really milking out
everything your genes have to offer you
and getting to the body that you could
have had the most important factor is
doing the basics right caloric Surplus
enough protein proper training proper
intensity that was all covered in an
earlier
presentation and you can no doubt Google
it anytime you like but the thing we
didn't talk about and I want to talk
about now is the influence of the time
variable because once you apply the
basics you'll get results but impressive
results take time generally not days
sometimes not even weeks but more like
months and years so if you look at
someone in really good shape and you
think to yourself geez how did they get
that I want that something you have to
prepare yourself for intellectually and
potentially emotionally is to understand
that they may have taken a long time I
get asked relatively often when I'm at a
Chipotle or something how long I've been
Lifting for and sometimes you can tell
the person asking wants the answer to be
less so when I say 23 years A lot of
times they get oh oh all right what do
you do chicken or steak I think they
wanted to know like one or two years so
they could be like holy shit I can just
get really really jacked in one or two
years that's just not how it
works for being jacked that
is some things in Fitness you can
accomplish more quickly so let's talk
about them really quick first you can
get a lot leaner losing 10% of your body
weight in months three or four months no
problem if your goal is to get leaner
and you have all the muscle that you'd
want you can get there pretty quick if
it's just 10% of your body weight a
weight if it's 15 20 25% of your body
weight away you have to do sequential
fat loss phases with maintenance phases
that are just as long in between that is
now a years long process multiple
years easy fat loss quick fat loss you
can
do long-term fat loss takes a long
time long-term muscle gain takes even
long
reaching your full genetic potential or
very close to it with how much muscle
you can carry takes at least 5 to 10
years of consistent training in most
cases so when you're making goals for
yourself you have to make sure you stay
realistic if your goal is to just get in
quick fat loss phase by spring break hey
shit no problem if your goal is to add a
substantial amount of muscle to your
frame don't be like yeah I got three
four months of training I I I really
should be able to fill out my business
suits that's not how it's going to work
that takes
years remember that when you make your
goals remember that when you're dealing
with your
motivation sometimes you can gain five
pounds of muscle a year and be like holy
fucking shit I really just worked a
whole year for five pounds of muscle and
the next thought can be like uh or what
am I doing wrong and I want to tell you
right now that you shouldn't have those
thoughts morally you can have any
thoughts you like but after you have
those thoughts you should have the
following thoughts of which a minute
takes this long for almost everyone and
I should have known this is how long the
process takes you wouldn't get into an
airplane to go fly somewhere and as soon
as you get into your seat you know let's
say you're the one of the first half of
the people to get on the plane you don't
expect that the plane will take off in
roughly 30 seconds you don't turn off
your phone and you go come on fuck where
the hell that would be an insane thing
to do because you know as soon as you
sit down your your seat realistically in
many cases you're waiting another Chi
whiz at least 20 minutes in many cases
30 or 40 minutes until takeoff actually
occurs you're prepared for that idea
it's not controversial to you or anyone
else but if you're gaining very slowly
and it's taking you a few years to get
very muscular like you had planned don't
be surprised that is exactly what
everyone said that was knowledgeable was
going to happen and now you're
knowledgeable too so there's no reason
to be surprised and no reason to be
demotivated
a good other reason not to be
demotivated is that once you get a
certain level of Fitness even if you SLO
off for a while you can get your Fitness
back the old stuff you had relatively
easy but getting there initially takes a
ton of time so if you trained for five
years
straight got pretty jacked quit training
for a year it's going to take you
another year or less probably like 6
months to get just as jacked as you had
ever been after five consistent years of
training training but that first 5 years
is how long it's going to take to get
you to that new level and there's no way
around it in most cases so your best
weapons to prepare yourself for your
fitness journey
realistically are to have a sustainable
long-term process in place it's not
going to be a world where you lift
weights for three months and then you're
Arnold Schwarzenegger so you better plug
it in for the Long Haul and lastly and
unbelievably importantly you want to
make sure that you
enjoy the process of lifting of eating
of doing CrossFit of whatever it is
you're doing because if you enjoy it
it's amazing and eventually that amazing
thing yields great results but if you
don't enjoy it it sucks and you'll
probably won't make it long enough and
you'll quit before it ever yields great
results if you can't hang in there
because something is not
enjoyable most people quit try to enjoy
it try to make it sustain able plan it
out you'll have a great time you'll put
in the time and time pays huge dividends
if you are consistent we'll talk about
consistency next
time