hey guys dr. Marquez Michelle here a
renaissance period ization University
and on to lecture three for the
introduction to sport actually science
course the Applied subfields taking
theory to practice we're gonna talk
about the major applied subfields the
specific applied subfields and then a
category of classes courses called
recommendations and guides so the major
applied subfields are level 4 in the rpu
curriculum and they're based in the
major basic subfields insofar as they
assume you know the basic majors Wow
that is you've taken those courses at
the very least had them at other
institutions what that means is they're
going to be using advanced terminology
from those basic courses readily and not
explaining it either because that
advanced terminology is explained in
earlier courses so huge recommendation
for level 4 is to have level 3 completed
right and you can't really cherry-pick
level 3 because in level 4 those major
applied subfield courses anyone applied
subfield may combine multiple major
basic courses or actually all of them
right so it's really important to have
that that basics base before you get
into the applied so when you get into
level 4 what level 4 really does is it
bridges the gap from kind of basic
knowledge of understanding mechanisms
and processes to applicable knowledge
that lets you actually train people
right programs create diets etc it's
really that first big transition and
because it's that first big transition
it's the first time we have this
recognizable like oh that would be very
good to know kind of filled with names
that are like oh that thing actually
even that name sounds like I'm gonna be
learning some stuff like sports
nutrition oh okay oh that's clearly
applicable seemingly you know you don't
you know theoretical nutrition is a very
different thing than sports nutrition
which almost kind of betrays an
application parameter in and of itself
and that's very much true so there are
five subfields that men and thus five
courses that compose this category we
got Sport and Exercise nutrition basics
right we have and the reason the so
called basics is guess that it's applied
but we'll see later that Sport and
Exercise Nutrition branches out into a
bunch of different kinds of courses
depending on the application we have
sport psychology which has an emphasis
on performance and sport and we have
exercise psychology which has an
emphasis on adherence and health we have
Sport and Exercise injury as a course
and that talks about how to just
basically safe practices to prevent
injury the mechanisms of injury how to
treat injury and how to rehabilitate
injury time to care for and then how to
rehabilitate it and then the fifth
course is the training principles
themselves so using a lot of sport
physiology knowledge and some
biomechanical knowledge and a bunch of
knowledge from motor behavior this
course of the training principles is
generated in them and that is a guide to
principles like specificity like
overload like variation like fatigue
management talking about those
principles later on as you can probably
guess we'll have more advanced courses
that in the higher categories that we'll
use the training principles and no
longer have to describe what they are
but we'll apply them to various
different sports but here it's a little
bit too early for that it's going to be
the training principles as a very much
been applied idea okay this is obviously
where training principles clearly to be
applied but here it's going to be just
the fundamental training principles in a
very general sense so that once you know
the training principles you'll be ready
to apply them in whatever sport or in
whatever situation you
have to which are going to be courses
that will be covered later once you know
these courses then you're ready for
level 5 subjects and those are specific
applied subfields right so there's the
major applied subfields and then after
you get the majors which we recommend
you get all or almost all of them then
you're ready for level 5 when you hit
level 5 the specific applied subfields
by this point you almost certainly
should know or will know the
foundational concepts and how to think
scientifically and you understand both
the basic and applied general sciences
that underpin Sport and Exercise Science
you're very well-rounded Sport and
Exercise Science student right maybe in
this case it would be kind of like a
junior or a senior in an undergraduate
program by this point once you're in
that position you're ready to explore
the specific subfields that actually
have much more direct application
because we've got all the basics and the
generalities down each one of the
courses in level 5 and specific applied
subfields zooms in on a very narrow
topic right so for an example is
nutrition for muscle gain that has a
level 5 course if you take that course
just by itself you're not gonna learn
almost anything about nutrition for fat
loss strange right you're not gonna
learn anything about nutrition for sport
performance you're going to learn
nutrition only the subcategory so we got
foundational courses physiology we got
physiology first we intro first then you
have physiology and Anatomy and
introduction to thinking like a
scientist then you go up to sport
physiology you'll need to know that in a
couple of other topics and then from
sport physiology or sport exercise
physiology you'll have to go into sport
nutrition generally and then once you're
done with basic sport nutrition now you
can go okay the part of sport nutrition
that was focused on how to gain muscle
gets expanded into its own level
course and that is the only concept that
is covered in the course now bad news
for a level 5 course if you take that
course nutrition for muscle gain you're
going to learn very quickly that it
teaches you almost no basic nutrition if
you don't know what carbs fats proteins
are if you don't know how their
digestive process you're gonna learn
pretty much nothing may be wholly
disappointed at very least if you don't
know those things already very confused
the good news is about that level 5
course is it can start to answer
questions with incredible specificity if
your goal is to gain muscle and you want
the nutritional backing to do that that
is exactly the course that's gonna
answer all of those very specific
questions in in order to be able to fit
that many specific question in the
course we have to make sure we learn all
the generalities that underpin them
right beforehand
remember those infinite whys from one of
the lectures we had before if someone
doesn't have a basic backing you tell
them a factor but why but why but how
but why you should already be able to
justify all of that by yourself and then
we're simply giving you an ability to
apply this stuff and now it's all I see
now all of muscle gain is covered every
little tiny my new detail we have time
for it because we don't have to redress
the basics all the time
and of course that means if these
courses are based in knowledge from many
others in one to four right another
really good example is the course
athlete monitoring there's a course in
level 5 called athlete monitoring how to
take in athletes measure various things
about them to see if they're too
fatigued or if they're properly
overloaded or if they're progressing
well and ultra variables based on those
monitoring indices it literally that
course is based in every single level
for course a short of except maybe
exercise psychology and why because the
sports psychology is what applies to
athletes every single other course
exercise psychology all the way to our
sports psychology etc training
principles everything every single one
of those is based in a level 4 course so
at this point it's one of those
situations where when you take level
five courses expect them to be based in
almost the entire backbone curriculum
that's how much you have to know to take
those and really get the most out of now
do you have to take all the courses
through level 4 yes because most low
five courses are based in almost every
level for course but do you have to take
every level 5 course to get to level 6
No
level 5 is the first time in which you
start to really kind of branch out so
for example if you are studying to be a
psychologist you take general psychology
you take bio psychology you take some
neuroscience courses and different kinds
of psychologists eventually in their
advanced education their equivalent of a
level 5 some want to work with children
so they'll take a bunch of child
psychology classes if you instead prefer
to focus on psychopathology and maybe
work alongside psychiatrists at a mental
institution you don't have to have this
incredible expertise at working with
children because almost all if not all
of your population is going to be adults
just the same way child psychologists
don't necessarily have to have a huge
backbone they have to have some backbone
understanding but they don't have to
have a really intense specialization in
psychopathology because they don't work
with institutionalized people probably
at all which it's one of those things
that if you are an aspiring athletic
trainer you want to help people deal
with injuries etc can you know some
should you know basic nutrition
absolutely and you will levels one
through four but do you have to know
exactly how people apply their nutrition
to build muscle maybe not so if you're
interested in athletic training you can
branch out into more of the courses that
talk about
injury recovery management psychology
etc maybe not some of the advanced
nutrition courses or tactical
preparation courses or something like
that so you can take the courses in
level five that interest you or carry
over into your training or coaching best
now you can take them all right it's
gonna take some time because there's
like oh I don't know 15 in there and
we'll probably be adding more if you
want to be a truly consummate SES
professional to be completely honest
with you at the time of this lecture I
haven't taken all those courses myself
there are some stuff in injury
management that we're gonna have that I
have never see
we hire somebody else to deliver the
lecture I know enough about the basic
concepts to spot some real good BS but
other than that it's not my specialty so
do you have to take all of them no if
you want to take all of them and if you
learn them deeply not just to say you
did it are you gonna be at a huge
advantage as far as expertise level
absolutely it's going to be something
really really awesome lastly we have
level 6 in the rpu curriculum and level
6 is kind of termed a shorthand kind of
recommendations and guides so the
recommendations and guides if they're
still courses and we're gonna call them
that but they're now more like something
you'd see at a college that would be a
seminar course where a seminar of course
is something that's not usually offered
all the time and it's a course in which
new discoveries updated methods of
understanding or very very specific
situations and settings are discussed to
prepare people for very specific
real-world problems so these courses at
level six are very specific to certain
problems certain situations certain job
types or certain populations all of them
or almost all of them are derivative of
more general level five courses or are
combinations of level five courses so
what is it that they do well generally
speaking they prepare you for direct
action as a practitioner right that
means that after you take a level six
course assuming you do well will it
understand it assuming you have the
pedigree to take it having taken all the
necessary courses below or most of them
then level six courses are going to have
very little theoretical background
discussion they're gonna have almost all
recommendations this is what you should
do in this situation here is what you
should do in this situation if the
following thing does not work here is
how you measure to get the outcome that
actually occurred and here is the option
for doing other things based on the
following things they're very much
practitioner oriented what to actually
do there as a plot
as it gets which means you don't get a
lot of theoretical knowledge but you
should have that from all the courses
beforehand in the lower levels this
content the level six is the kind of
content you would typically see
individuals cover in YouTube videos like
designing a program to Train power
lifters for example so you would see a
YouTube video about that but there has
to be a lot of explanation of theory and
the more explanation of theory there is
there less specific people can get but
the cool thing about our PU and our
versions of these courses is we're
making the assumption you've already
consumed all of the information from the
courses pertinent requirements below
those courses assuming that you've
already consumed that information these
courses will go into a really high depth
and are a lot of technical detail using
a lot of technical terms these basically
are like application courses for the
very educated the advantage there is
that there's a ton of amazing content
and amazing knowledge that you can apply
or write that very next moment the
drawback is if you're new to export
exercise science these are high level
courses they're gonna make very little
sense if you're not familiar with the
terms ways of thinking and the basic
subfields a lot of times these courses
are so applied and so specific the best
individuals practicing what they're
teaching are going to be individuals
that we don't even employ it at
Renaissance period ization so a lot of
times we're going to be having guest
speakers come in and do various talks in
their exact specialty areas and as new
applications of sport exercise science
are uncovered we are going to be able to
offer you much more frequent additions
of new courses for example three or four
years ago maybe even up to two years ago
the gut microbiome wasn't really
something that was either researcher
discussed there was really no course at
any university offering anything on the
gut microbiome except for maybe PhD
level study
nowadays there's much more so an example
of an application course like this a
level
six course is a seminar on the gut
microbiome in nutrition and health so
how does your gut bacteria influence
nutrition and in that thus influences
your health notice how many
prerequisites you have to have for that
you definitely have to understand basic
physiology definitely have to understand
sport physiology have to understand
nutrition for health and then on top of
that assumption then we get to taking
the microbiome and throwing that in
there throwing that on top so that
course is going to be taught in such a
way that assumes you know nutrition for
health already very well in all we're
gonna talk about there are the
differences and that's gonna be an
invited guest likely someone from our PU
but put possibly not and and there's a
ton of other courses potentially just
life so a good example of kind of the
prototypically sort of exemplary level
six course is a course called tactical
nutrition and recovery right what is
what is technical nutrition and recovery
well so tactical means Special Forces
military police fire in those sorts of
professionals individuals that are
moving around the world like athletes
but are in fact doing very serious jobs
off often in life-or-death sort of
circumstances so their physical
performance has to be spot-on for much
more important reasons in sport and
usually their activities are not nearly
as well controlled and they're their
training structure their schedule of
when they have to be ready or prepared
isn't that nearly a set in stone you
don't know when the wildfires are gonna
start springing up you might have a
general idea of the season but you don't
know is it today or tomorrow's and in a
week or in a month as a Special
Operations military
soldier you almost never know when
you're gonna get deployed somewhere
because you get special ops they call
you when you're needed it might be
tomorrow it might be right now what
might be tomorrow night it might be in
three weeks
can you really peak for something like
that well no and how much does your
nutrition and recovery affect your
ability to perform your tasks all quite
a bit but the thing is we can't tell you
to eat perfectly or have perfect
recovery because you're going to be put
into very imperfect
situations so that course is going to
combine nutrition for sport performance
it's going to combine that with recovery
basics and strategies and it's gonna
take that intersection and focus only
where the tactical applications actually
are in that's quite a complicated course
so what is gonna have to happen is
you're gonna have to in order to really
make the most sense that course you're
gonna have to know sport performance
nutrition and you're gonna have to know
recovery basics and strategies and
you'll probably have to know quite a bit
about tactical applications perhaps
about the training and certainly about
there the kinds of work that they do so
that all of that advice makes sense and
where you get to get right into the
nitty-gritty of giving real actionable
advice with just minor justifications of
why that advice is being given so to
think about these level six courses is
that the what of these level six courses
the actual recommendations so long as
the terms are understood which 5050 some
of the terms will be understood some not
the what can be understood by an
intelligent layperson someone who hasn't
had the basics of Exercise Science they
might say okay recommendations to eat
here not eat their sleep in the
following ways train like this okay that
makes sense it's the English language
after all but the how and the why of why
those things make sense and how they're
going to be changing if certain
variables change those are going to be
incredibly mysterious until and unless
you've had all five levels below so
those level six courses if you want to
take them without a one through five or
a one through four at least backing you
can just to get the sheer information
out of the recommendations but if you
want to truly understand the
recommendations which you almost
certainly should if you're going to
program them from other for others or
for yourself because remember principles
are much more important than specific
guidelines because specific guidelines
are just derived from principles and as
the situation changes we can't predict
and of course all of the exact
situations you have to know the
principles to make the changes yourself
so huge recommendation get those first
four levels in a couple other pertinent
courses from level 5
then advance the level six for your
record that's it for this lecture next
time another short lecture about how to
use RP you to its fullest capacity to
make sure you get the most out of this
opportunity to again thank you so much
we'll see you for lecture 4
[Music]