do you suck at knowing whether you're
truly working close to failure and what
can you do about
[Music]
that doter pack here here bringing you
real medicine real medical advice
disclaimer not medical advice as a real
doctor on how you can fix real problems
not your health and your disease and
whatever they're spraying nowadays above
us in the skies before we jump right
into this let me tell you what inspire
me to do this so first of all from a
science standpoint and feel free to
check my in-depth article over at
Stronger by science Link in the
description below I and my good friend
and lover Milo wolf have had the honor
to be part of an explor at meta analysis
looked at exactly that are most people
good at predicting repetition is in
reserve that meta analysis plus three
more studies that were published after
the fact essentially all found pretty
much the same thing in general and
that's in both trained and untrained
individuals most people are off by about
one rep and overall opting for sets that
are below 12 reps is a good way to
actually ensure that your ability to
predict repetitions in reserve is solid
additionally making your guesses later
in a set is also a way to improve your
accuracy however from my experience as a
coach and I have worked with hundreds of
individuals over the past years I do see
that although in the literature where
they take individuals and they tell them
look you need to estimate repetitions in
reserve and know how close your at
failure at different time points in
those studies and in those settings
people are relatively accurate at
knowing how close they are to failure
however but for a lot of individual and
a lot of clients that I've worked with
of all training statuses I have seen
many people being notoriously bad at
actually gauging proximity to failure
and you may say how do you know well
when it comes to the literature on
coaches observing people's ability to
predict repetitions in reserve the
results are pretty much similar to what
we see when we look at trainees coaches
are imperfect in their ability to gauge
proximity to failure by getting one
repetition but what I've done and what I
usually do with many clients when I see
them do a particular set of an exercise
and they're supposed to be very close to
failure and in my eyes I think that they
have five or 10 more repetitions in
certain cases what we do is we take the
same load to failure next time and
essentially compare the difference in
reps and in many cases I end up being
right so I've seen people be off with
their predictions to an extent where
they're leaving five to eight reps in
reserve when in reality they're supposed
to leave one to three reps in reserve so
if you're finding it particularly hard
to know whether you're actually training
close to failure there are a few things
that you can do in order to make sure
that you're actually training to failure
the first thing aside from just taking
everything to failure is selecting
exercises that don't make you feel a
pawn of systemic fatigue and just
general comfort for example I've seen a
lot of people misjudge their RP horribly
on things like
rdls sometimes just conventional
deadlifts so I I've literally seen many
clients do rdls for example and they'll
say yep here's my RDL set and you look
at the set and you can clearly see that
that the bar speed hasn't changed um
first rep and last rep look very very
similar and this was supposed to be a
set um where the last rep should ideally
have looked like a last rep on an RP 8
to n set meaning okay this looks very
hard he had another one or two reps if
that in the
tank you'd rather spend your valuable
time in the gym doing something that is
actually effective and when it comes to
muscle growth and hypertrophy sure
you're going to be super flexible with
things no need to overthink it no need
to do the fanciest exercise with the
fanciest equipment but but what's
non-negotiable is your proximity to
failure you need to be close to failure
to see solid hypertrophy so if you need
to take a step back and select other
exercises be honest with yourself stop
forcing the rdl's or the whatever and
off to an exercise that is more
appropriate for you where you can
confidently gauge failure it push a few
sets to actual failure and use those
sets in order to calibrate your rep
range and your load selection if you're
working on an auto regulated plan where
you're not prescribed a specific load or
you're doing your own programming taking
the last set of uh one of those
exercises to actual failure can give you
valuable information as far as the load
selection for your next session it's
important to use video feedback or the
feedback of your coach actually know
that you're training close to failure
because from a hypertrophy standpoint
that's a non-negotiable variable from a
strength standpoint you can be much more
flexible with how close to failure you
are but at the same time
if you are a powerlifter and you are
heading into a meat and your proximity
to failure calculations your RP your R
values are completely off that can mess
up one your estimated one red maximum
strength can also mess up your
projections for the meat your openers
and so on and so forth and that goes
also for people that overestimate their
ability so if you're somebody who is
legitimately bad at least based on the
feedback of your coach Coes or your own
visual feedback from video footage that
you have recorded taking a few sets to
failure and actually confirming whether
you're good or bad at predicting
repetitions in reserve is an easy
practical way that you can literally do
at any given point in your training
cycle to sort of start calibrating
things lastly if you're adjust your
average individual who's not training
with extremely high volumes and you are
just looking for an easy way to train
for hypertrophy and general
strength taking all sets to failure or
the majority of your sets to failure is
not a bad idea there may be a bit more
fatigue associated with that but at the
end of the day you can leave the gym
knowing for sure that you've maximized
muscle growth and avoid falling in the
Trap where you leave your intensity of
effort unchecked and on five to six
exercises of the 12 exercises that you
perform you are actually much further
away from fade than you need to be in
order to get the adaptations that you
want to get another simple trick that I
like to do sometimes to keep myself in
check is to randomly go okay let's do 10
more even though I feel like I have five
more and I'll just really push myself
and see whether I'm actually able to go
above what I'm predicting I have in
terms of repetitions in reserve and then
that allows me to sort of calibrate my
ability to gauge proximity to failure
because your mental state your mood your
tiredness all those things can push you
towards the co- side of things where
you're feeling a bit tired this is you
know you're doing your tricep push Downs
you're starting to burn a bit you
intentionally slightly slow down that
last rep but at that point if you're
like Eh this is probably close to
failure tell yourself okay 10 more and
just go for it if you get 10 more you
know that you are probably slacking and
that's it for today ladies ladies and
gentlemen don't forget to like subscribe
hit the notification Bell Dr pack code
10% off R rasco apparel you know the
deal we are sponsored athletes 75
Bugattis outside each one one of one and
my ad.com register your interest our app
will be on the loose in the next
few leaving that undefined so I don't
come into anything but soon most
versatile and actually smartest trading
up out
no templates no BS actually the best
thing after one to one coaching coming
to an app store near you peace
[Music]