anytime someone says activation exercise
it's uh not always but mostly code for I
never went to school for the
shit hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization let's talk
about the most common Hollywood training
mistakes that I don't want you to make
because the Hollywood people they have
lots of money and fame but what do you
have except for White Walls and no one
to love you no way I'm talking about
myself again in any case here's the
thing we've done uh a bunch of videos
and reviews of various Hollywood
celebrity training and some of it really
good and much of it is really really
terrible Let's Zone in on what kind of
commonalities that I've noticed and
probably you have as well with what is
it that makes these
sessions so goddamn terrible not always
but sometimes and again as always I mean
nothing but karmic love to all the
trainers and celebrities involved um we
all fuck up every now and again and um
sure as shit I don't do everything
perfectly so I'm sure there's someone
doing a video on me right now about how
terrible my fashion sense is uh just
kidding no one does videos about me
because I'm irrelevant ready three two
one I have 11 mistakes that I have
noticed Hollywood trainers make with
their clients the first is excessively
long
warm-ups warming up is not complicated
you do a set of 12 you rest you do a set
of eight you rest you do a set of four
the weights get heavy every time then
you do your first work set second work
set third work set Etc and you're into
your program you can do a little bit of
cardio stair climber step mill uh
treadmill for maybe five minutes before
maybe even less and then you're totally
good to go any more warming up than that
is like something's wrong with you
medically and you need to be with a
physical therapist before you enter a
personal training Situation Number Two
Mobility work to Nowhere a lot of these
folks that train Hollywood celebrities
talk about mo mobility all the time
Mobility is just your ability to exert
strength in various positions of
flexibility flexibility multiplied by
strength equals Mobility I don't know
what the fuck this has to do with
looking like
Batman I'm sure the trainers don't know
either if you're in the gym to get
results to be stronger and cooler just
do full range of motion lifting
especially accentuating that deep
stretch you'll get all the mobility you
need for almost everything in life and
then some over focus on Mobility is
great for people that need Mobility like
gymnasts and yep that's about it next
number three activation exercises that
are different from the working exercises
you'll see people do a plank to activate
their core for squats and then do
squats first of all as a PhD in sport
Science I know I'm waving the flag of
accomplishment it's fucking icky but
bear with me I'm not entirely sure what
an activation exercise does and I'm not
just saying that for fous comedic effect
I actually don't know and I am a little
factious because I know what it can't be
and that rules out anything that it can
be anytime someone says activation
exercise it's a not always but mostly
code for I never went to school for this
shit because if you bring that shit to a
rigorous University setting where they
teach you formal Sport Science they're
going to be like what the fuck does that
mean come up on the board and draw us a
diagram when you fail to do that because
it's a makeb belief term that means
nothing people will make fun of you
quietly and you'll notice sit the fuck
down that's how my first year of
Hogwarts went anyway activation
exercises I'm not really sure what it is
they do we call those warm-ups in sport
Science they can do really well the best
warm-up activation exercise for the
exercise is the exercise done with
lighter weights it allows you to work on
the same techniques you're going to be
doing the same cadences the same
positions activating the same identical
muscles in the same
patterns so just do that I'm not sold on
the activation shit if you can't tell
number four unstable movements what is
the enhancement effect you get of doing
a squat on a bosu ball versus on the
ground I'll tell you that effect
something like half of your fastest
twitch most growth prone motor units
simply never turn on because when your
body assesses through its nervous system
that the situation is too unstable it
won't allow you to do full force
movements it's a safety thing if you try
to jump up as high as you can on a huge
sheet of ice will fall on your ass and
fucking crack crack your hip open your
body kind of knows that through its
evolutionary wisdom and it just won't
let you do it so if it senses
instability you actually can't jump high
which means you can't activate your leg
musculature a lot which means for
hypertrophy purposes which require you
activating the fuck out of every last
little bit of your muscle there's just a
lot left on the table unstable moves
through study after study after study do
not allow High motor unit recruitment
full muscle activation and thus are
inferior for every kind of result you
can think of but for I really want to
get good at squatting on a bosu ball
which last I checked has diddly dick to
do with fucking
anything next number five mixing in
corrective and posture exercises with
stimulative exercises guys pretty much
the only reason Hollywood celebs go to
trainer is so they can look a certain
way for the role I don't give a fuck
what Batman's Mobility is I want them to
have Batman pecs and Batman arms so that
he can make me feel Batman safe and
Batman hug me and you a totally straight
way I don't want to smell his chest
maybe it's some After Shave and I don't
know maybe that smells good to
me in any case Again Sports Science PhD
fa factious coming in corrective I'm not
entirely sure what that means don't
worry most of the people advocating for
it don't know either posture I'm not so
sure there's a Dependable set of
exercises that can improve posture and
the best dpts will tell you the same
thing so first of all it's nothing to do
with anything and second of all it's not
even we're not even so sure any of this
is having an effect number
six they avoid very often the hardcore
compound Basics that slab fucking pounds
of beef they worked for Great Grandma
worked for Grandma Mom did it why the
fuck aren't you doing it for example
they'll take something and replace it
with a fancier looking version that is
less
stimulative you will rarely see
celebrity trainers program stiff leged
deadlift for their clients with a
barbell just like Grandma used to do big
fucking hanging hamstrings you're see
Grandma that fucking you know portrait
on your on your mom's desk you're like
damn Grandma had some fucking hamstring
sweep what the fuck and your mom's like
yeah she was fucking stiff like a dead
lifing 4.95 for reps fucking with
chewing tobacco in her mouth fucking
grandma Great Depression type of shit
what do we see people using with
celebrity clients single leg kettlebell
deadlifts yeah it's a fine movement but
I thought celebrities were busy and
needed to get in shape fast we got to
use that real shit folks if you want to
be jacked don't do the shit they do do
hardcore shit next number seven you just
don't have a very high effort relative
effort per relative effort is the
technical scientific term that Dr Brad
shonfeld uses among others to indicate
proximity to failure generally how hard
are you trying in any set relative to a
hard you could try phrasing it that way
you immediately see once you've seen
enough celebrity training videos like
they're kind of just going through the
motions you're going to go through the
motions you're going to get not so great
results and you're going to get some but
you're not going to get the best results
try fucking try here's the thing a lot
of celebrity trainers they don't want to
push their Hollywood actors they want to
get them hurt which is totally
understandable but getting hurt is not a
matter of usually going closer to
failure it's more of a matter of are you
warming them up properly are they in
generally good physical condition do
they have good technique and are you not
using excessively heavy weights to put
it another way if you put a celebrity's
20 rep max on the bar they're almost
certainly not going to get hurt what
they're going to get is pain the pain of
getting closer to failure as lactic acid
builds that's going to hurt them in not
an injury way but in hurts their um it's
offends their sensibilities and they
might not come back to train with you
cuz they want a pussy foot around and
just get in decent shape for the next
role they're going to hire someone else
I totally get that but since you're not
a soft ass Hollywood celebrity most of
them are actually really good people and
hard as fuck but the ones we review a
lot of times it's just not their best
work so fucking try people try you're
not going to get galado Do's Body by
fucking doing send in reps so I've never
actually seen Galo gal good okay finally
some some corrected me it's G Gadot
right because she's Israeli or whatever
fucking hot as fuck um Israeli girls
what's up I'm married JK the fuck out of
here but alternate universe what up um I
know like uh Scott how many Hebrew words
do I know Shalom which means hello maybe
goodbye and also like peace uh and a
shal which means three and Ken which
means yes L which means no and man you
guys when I went to Hebrew school back
when I was like seven I had such fucking
insane add I don't know what the fuck
was going on that's all I remember I
know a couple prayers in any case Gal
Gadot don't be upset at me you're the
shit but um folks train hard God damn it
that's all I'm saying number eight low
per muscle per week frequency I see
female celebrities hitting their pecs
once a week girl your pecs are going to
heal two days later what the fuck are
the other five days for not getting big
pecs that's for damn sure and the last
few days your pecs might even recede in
size a little bit you're missing out a
ton of opportunity if you're serious
about aery training two to four days a
week per muscle every week that's how
you fucking get the best results don't
train your biceps once a week train them
at least twice maybe three times maybe
even four times whatever you can recover
from that's what you do once a week if
you're a huge Pro bodybuilder maybe it
takes you that long to
recover Scott what's that one girl's
name Brie Larson girl it doesn't take
you a week to recover from the shit
number nine
there seems to be almost no emphasis on
tracking what they're doing and
progressing them through it I didn't see
anyone write anything down I didn't see
anyone use the RP hypertrophy app link
in description in order to make sure
that what they're doing today is a
little bit harder next time is a little
bit harder next time it's a little bit
harder next time and then D Lo no one's
wrri anything down it just seems random
and it is random I've seen a ton of
trainers coach their clients like that
it's not optimal practice I mean these
are fucking Hollywood people they need
to be in shape it's a huge matter of
money of how good shape they're in of
how much the movie has an impact you
would think these people track some of
them I'm sure do some of them are great
but but a lot of them just fucking just
don't do it and that's just not being
very sciency and very effective number
10 a lot of them confuse strength work
and work capacity work for actual body
composition which is to say hypertrophy
training you're going to have uh you
know some of these trainers train their
their celebrity clients and they say
well like we're working on strength here
core strength why are you fucking
kidding me who cares you guys ever seen
a celebrity in the movies and you're
like H yeah I wish he was Stronger how
do you know everything's a fucking prop
it's just appearance and if you want to
train for appearance you got to train
like that don't go doing tons of
strength work thinking it's going to
somehow magically enhance your
appearance don't go doing work capacity
works or a lot of the stuff I've seen is
I get two kettle bells and just walk
around the gym with the shit oh work on
a work capacity work capacity for what
in sports science work capacity is never
just said by itself it's work capacity
for something that matters what matters
if you can fucking hold a bunch of
kettle bells and walk around the gym you
getting ready for fucking travel with
your suitcases nonsense of the highest
order you in the gym to focus on a
certain thing you train that thing don't
worry about all the other shit you don't
have to be a fucking jack of all trades
master of none and lastly using fads
that were clearly debunked fucking
Generations ago for example lots of
celebrities are using the vibration
platform you stand on there it goes up
and down you think things are happening
and they're not the vibration platform
is amazing for acute flexib ability
enhancement if you stretch while on a
vibration platform it's almost as good
as stretching while you're high as fuck
you're just way more flexible how it's
the nervous system that's the answer
what other benefits does it give
you no way yeah none at all so fucking
stop using it it also costs a trillion
dollars why the fuck is it still being
used I know the answer celebrities they
need to feel like shit is working and
then you get all the advanced science
you put them on the vibration plate you
put them on the fucking bosu ball you
lie about them about some core workor
bullshit ease up on the training
cryochamber after they're like oh man my
trainer is amazing because they have no
idea how the fuck they're categorizing
the trainer
whatsoever tldr taking all of this anger
and frustration I have talking to my
psychologist about
it coming back to you guys and trying to
sum it all up pick effective movements
that stimulate the muscles that you want
to grow or
preserve progress with them slow slowly
in
strength over weeks training each muscle
two to four times per
week you're going to get some fucking
results fancier lifting usually gets you
neutral or Worse results not better
results most Hollywood trainers are
babying their clients you're not a
fucking baby you're hard as Nails GO
train hard as fuck every Monday we
release a training video you can get an
inspiration from there how hard these
guys go whether or not you download the
hypertrophy app link in description
below get in the gym and fucking make
some
noise Hollywood motherfuckers fuck up
out of here see you guys next
time training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same