hey folks dr mike isratel here for
renaissance periodization
i got my uh
joey sat mary's lion's den gym t-shirt
on
go check out uh joey santa murray's
channel sat strength i think it's called
in any case
new series
hopefully will go on for a long time
weekly tips weekly tips these are going
to be really short videos that just uh
clue you in onto a little bit of
something i thought i could share that
you guys could get something out of and
a lot of these aren't super complete
thoughts they're not systematic like
most the other videos we have on there
but if you want systematic good god
check out all our playlists and you'll
have enough enough to uh to keep you
uh you know
engaged because you're so lonely and
nobody loves you and you don't have
anyone to talk to which is why i make
these so
today's tip is
something i say to folks
if i'm training them in person
to really help them focus the exercise
on as much hypertrophy yield as possible
and that is
focus stricter slower deeper
let's break those down one by one
so when i say focus
i mean i want them to focus during the
lift
on the strong contraction of the muscle
the target muscle not the other muscles
detecting that tension pulling the
muscle apart feeling that burn sometimes
in the target muscle and the stretch of
the target muscle especially when it has
been taken out to its end ranges of
motion
if you focus on the muscle
it helps you do the next thing better
which is to keep your technique stricter
and this is a tip i often give when
people get a little bit tired let's say
they're doing hack squats and they're
halfway through the set
they might still be focused on the
muscle but a lot of times their
technical execution starts to wane
because let's be honest technical
execution under a lot of pressure and
tension and metabolite burn is hard so
when we say stricter we are really mean
improving the execution of your
technique like less swinging thus
cheating
less bouncing and less using unneeded
muscles
good thing is
these two
focus and strictness feed back into each
other if you're focused on the target
muscle
you can make sure that if your
strictness it goes sort of to hell
you'll actually detect that there's less
of a focus on the muscle increasing your
focus can be done but if you're like how
do i increase focus without just kind of
thinking about it if you are stricter
with the exercise it actually helps you
focus more so both feet in on each other
and that's a very very good thing
another thing to help
is slower i don't mean on the ascent but
generally many exercises can be very
helped if you slow down the eccentric
just a little bit so instead of on curls
coming down like this get up on the curl
and then come down
take two or three seconds and then come
up
slowing down a lot of times lets you
focus on the muscle more and it lets you
absorb all that eccentric damage and all
that lengthening tension that has been
shown scientifically to cause lots of
muscle growth and again it's a super big
tip when you're really getting into the
tail end of doing curls you just kind of
you guys are thinking like i just want
to get these done i don't want to be
here anymore i don't need curling let me
just
do these and go away all right you're
like yeah i gotta racked the curl by
just throwing it at grandma over in the
corner of the gym so if you tell
yourself slower then you really milk out
all of the stimulus for each rep you may
not get as many reps but who cares all
the reps are high quality they're
actually less likely to get you hurt and
you're there for a reason you're doing a
really really good job
lastly is deeper a lot of times we have
an inclination again because we want to
avoid pain
to cut the range of motion short on a
variety of things but it's been shown
that stretch under tension causes an
extra amount of hypertrophy that you may
not be able to expect with just regular
tension applied in the mid-range's
motion so if you apply tension your
bicep like this it might not cause as
much growth as applying tension when
it's down here same thing for the pecs
glutes quads triceps so
these tips all come together when i'm
coaching someone on let's say a leg
press right let's say focus on your
quads
stretch your technique heels down knees
out and make sure your knees aren't
wobbling control the weight on the way
down notice this to control the weight
how do you help with that slower go
slower to make sure your technique is
better you slower on the way down all of
a sudden oh shit i'm feeling everything
and then you know the pain really starts
to kick in and the fear and then that's
when i say deeper now go deeper and
deeper and deeper still and all of a
sudden their knees come super far back
quads are getting torn to fucking shreds
they lock out and we recycle these tips
these are some cues that can really help
you try applying a few of them and
you'll notice in most cases that if you
bring the effort and you apply these
cues you're going to get more out of
your training plan and simple folks
i'm dr mike see you next week for
another one of these