so they've done multiple studies
recently on which part of the range of
motion grows more muscle they've had
studies that have taken the top half of
a range of motion here to here they've
had studies compare that to a full range
of motion and then even comparing to
bottom half and typically full range of
motion beats top half by a mile as far
as how much muscle you grow per unit
time per set and in most examinations
the bottom end partials like going all
the way from calves touching your ass to
90Â° and back down in this exercise then
it's seems that you grow even more
muscle than with a full range motion
which is very very interesting this top
end partial this ain't it man does
it grow muscle yes does it grow it as
efficiently and effectively as possible
no