what's up guys so sort of a uh just a
quick mindset video for you here uh yes
obviously
um proper planning is important if you
do have a certain goal in mind uh doing
your research and uh forming an
intelligent plan of action that's going
to increase your chances that you'll
actually succeed at it and it's also
going to increase your motivation
because you're going to feel more
certain of the outcome beforehand
however this is only useful up to a very
certain point if you find yourself
constantly over planning and over
analyzing things without actually taking
concrete action then you really need to
step back and take a look at what's
actually happening there you might think
that this constant planning is moving
you forward and that it's you being
productive you know I just need to uh
figure out this one thing and then I'll
be ready or I just need to read a few
more articles or watch a few more videos
and then I'll be ready uh the conditions
aren't quite right yet but they will be
in a few weeks or a few months and then
I can start
again you think that this is
productivity you think that all this
planning is necessary but in reality
that mechanism of uh over analyzing that
mechanism that's happening in your mind
is actually there to do the opposite
it's actually just an expression of uh
your fear and your anxiety and your
uncertainty about whatever it is that
you're trying to do and it's actually
there to prevent you to prevent you from
taking action again uh over analysis and
over planning without action that's
literally just fear and if there's
something that you've wanted to do or
that you've been planning to do for
months or for years but you haven't
actually done anything yet that really
just shows how well that fear mechanism
really works and uh uh I've had this in
in my own life in certain areas where I
thought that all my planning and all my
analyzing was helping me move forward
until I really just honestly looked at
myself in the mirror and realize advised
oh you're actually just too afraid and
you're literally creating all of this in
order to uh to have an excuse not to do
it so stop waiting for the perfect plan
it doesn't exist and as soon as you
start taking action new information is
going to come at you anyway and that new
information is going to change your plan
and you're going to have to adapt uh you
can't prepare for everything and once
you get started things probably aren't
going to go the way that you envision
them and again you'll have to change and
adapt your plan anyway
so uh just make a good plan a good plan
is good enough and once you have that
good plan in place action excuse me
action from there is literally the only
thing uh you know no more thinking no
more analyzing that's just an obstacle
that you're creating to stop yourself
from pulling the trigger I think it was
George Patton George Patton Pattinson I
think it was George Patton uh who said
that a good plan violently executed
today is Far and Away better than a
perfect plan executed tomorrow so
whatever that thing is that you're after
just go and do it because every moment
that you spend continuing to analyze and
plan that's just reinforcing that
pattern and it's making it even more
difficult for you to start the uh the
conditions will never be perfect and the
only way to overcome that fear that you
have about the thing uh is to just do
the thing you're afraid of there's no
other way so you already know what to do
so just go do it thanks for watching
guys and I'll talk to you again next
time
dreams yesterday you said tomorrow so
just do it make your dreams come true
just do it