consider avoiding ultra high friction
machines if you have a machine that
moves really smooth and one that's kind
of creaky maybe use the smooth one a
little counterintuitive because the
creakiness is like wow this machine is
hard yeah hard on the concentric but how
is it on The Eccentric like if you had
to be honest you're like it's a little
easier on The Eccentric because I can
ride out the friction like that's not
what you want second is use well-oiled
machines so like if you have a machine
that's by Design not high friction but
it's well oiled and then you want to get
it a lot of times there's two Smith
machines at a gym one of them is moving
super easy and the other one is like
9000 years old no one's ever dripped any
oil in it it's like barely creaking
around don't use that one use the one
that's low friction this is a bit of a
jump but maybe consider using more free
weights if you tend to notice this in
your training if you prefer and if it's
possible when you use free weights you
probably have more eccentric loading
essentially close to zero friction and
maybe you can benefit more set for set
rep rep muscle growth wise