oh I was gonna I was actually gonna
mention this anyway so this is this is
the morning breakfast this is my bulking
breakfast three eggs hash browns or
tater tots whatever you want to call
them it's just like a multigrain toast a
slice of turkey bacon and then Kiwi most
of you guys have probably seen my Q V
science explained video by now two days
ago I had d'esprit contact me
Zess for you like the producer of these
Kiwis yes so they basically gave me a
column we talked for like a half an hour
about like Kiwis and the research that
they're doing and stuff which is really
cool and they basically told me that the
video was shared all through the company
all the way up to like their lead
marketing manager and CEO and they
showed it at one of their international
or annual marketing conventions or
something like on the screen so posess
pries gonna like send me some of their
some gold Kiwis which you can't get here
in BC and I love those - they're like
the non furry kind yeah that I did not
expect it to like reach that far but
apparently it did and then they contact
me said they loved the video yeah it's
super cool it might turn out real quick
this is my voiceover mic so this is the
mic I used to record a science explained
videos I get a few questions about it so
it's a Hale PR 40 mic and then I just
use this Scarlett USB interface to kind
of hook it up through USB to my macbook
pro and I also hit 400,000 subscribers
last night or this morning this is one
who quickly said thank you guys I'm
waiting for five hundred thousand that's
gonna be the next big milestone for me
but yeah I really appreciate all the
continued support on the channel and
with everything that I'm doing it's been
really crazy to me over the last year I
just want to give you guys a quick
update on how everything is going with
me I don't really have the time in the
science explain videos to give you guys
sort of like a detailed update on my own
goals so that's what I'm gonna do here
now yeah I weighed in this morning
169 I think was 169 point 2 pounds I
forget the exact number but it was like
18 to 19 percent body fat as you guys
know if you
my other vlogs this scale that I'm using
the body analyzer scale tends to rate my
body fat percentage a little bit higher
than what I think the true value is um
so my body fat percentage has been
slowly kind of creeping up as my body
weight creeps up which is normal if
you're accepting of the bulking
mentality where you're going to be
adding some weight to drive performance
in the gym and drive further gains and
muscle mass you have to be willing to
accept some fat gain in the process so
this was actually a new scale the body
analyzer people were kind enough to send
one to me here in Kelowna because I
forgot my other one in Jacksonville and
you guys have been watching will know
that this is a scale that I really
endorse it's really good because it not
only measures your body weight it also
measures your body fat percentage bone
density muscle mass and water mass and
you can program up to eight users on it
I had to reprogram myself on there this
morning so I'm the only one user on it
right now but Stephanie also uses that
scale so if you're interested in getting
a new scale that's really reliable
really sturdy stable and quite precise
with its measurements may not be the
most accurate like in comparison to a
DEXA or hydrostatic weighing or
something like that but it is very
consistent so you guys can check out the
60 percent link in the description if
you're interested in a new scale thing
I'm gonna put the camera down basically
my plan for the next six months or so is
to run a semi lean bulk and have you
trained for like 11 years now I don't
think that there's a whole lot of new
tissue that I can lay down without
gaining a pretty significant amount of
fat as well and a channel that I've been
really loving is alpha Destiny's I know
a lot of my subscribers are also
subscribed to him I really like his
overall view on this like bulking thing
and his whole naturally enhanced
philosophy as far as I understand it
basically encouraged his guys to accept
a certain amount of fat gain so that you
can look bigger in your clothes so like
his whole thing is that
you kind of look enhanced while being
natural whereas what I've always heard
being in the natural bodybuilding
community is that it's kind of the
opposite
like we accept this let's come to beat
up the Ned Flanders syndrome where you
don't look like you lift in clothes but
then when you take your shirt off
because you're really mean
you can look really muscular when you're
posing but the problem with that and
this is something I have realized for I
don't know as long as I've been involved
in natural bodybuilding is that when you
do wear clothes or if you're not posing
or not under good lighting you just
don't look very big and so I think he
encourages guys to accept the fatty and
that goes along with it even says uni
can disguise it with growing a little
bit of facial hair growing some body
hair and that gives you kind of like
more of a sharper look than that like
smooth baby fat that I look I'm excited
to put it into practice myself I've
actually been in touch with Alex from
that channel and we're planning to do a
video call so as for me specifically
I've already noticed pretty huge
performance improvements in the gym as a
result of this one month bulk and it
feels really really good I even feel
like my lower back is is improving as a
result of it from this point forward I'm
gonna slow it down a little bit and into
gain one to two pounds per month for the
next six months so sometime around
February March maybe April of 2018 I'm
gonna look to be somewhere in the high
one 70s maybe as high as 180 even though
you can't force muscle to grow you can
really improve your performance in the
gym even if it just means adding fat to
your to your body to make you a heavier
mass so that you can move more weight in
the gym I think that that is a viable
strategy to
improve your muscularity once you cut
down again I'm gonna set a top end cap
of 20 percent on this scale maybe like
15 to 16 percent body fat
according to index or something like
that but honestly the numbers are pretty
arbitrary it's just a point for me to
sort of kappa dota and say okay once I
hit that 20 percent body fat
mark then I'll either maintain my body
weight and focus on progression in the
gym or a very slowly sort of Milton my
body weight up while maintaining that
body fat percentage I have become less
and less enamored with the idea of
trying to maintain like the single digit
or very low body fat percentage around
for naturalism for one you don't look as
big walking around and your performance
isn't as good in the gym as it could be
I don't think you're really maxing out
your muscular progress and I also
personally prefer a slightly bulkier
look it's good when you have your shirt
off and you're flexing and you're under
good lighting when you relieve but when
you're just out walking around or you
have like a dress shirt on or something
like that being heavier does make you
look like you lift more so when I do cut
down again I would like to be bigger
more muscular especially in the trap
neck upper back area so that's the full
update on me and my goals my friend
where Sean is on his way over he's
actually been doing a lot of work on
this channel behind the scenes he filmed
my last two science explained videos and
I saw a bunch of really positive
comments on it about the filming they've
already using a new camera and I'm
actually not I'm using my sony alpha
6500 but rashon just has really good
hands with the camera he's really
talented and he's gonna probably help me
out with producing some vlog content if
he's dropping up now and we're actually
going to shoot a few hoops when I was in
Florida I think he saw me hooping there
and he was like when you get back in
kelowna
we need to go for a game of one-on-one
we're gonna treat that as kind of like
our warm-up before the gym and then
we're gonna go hit an upper body workout
so I think my friend Pat you guys
probably saw him in the last video the
overtraining video and I think I'm gonna
get rashon to do an edit the new issue
of mass was actually released today I
will show you guys really quick
what this issue this month's issue looks
like so mass monthly applications and
strength sport the topics this month are
really juicy to just read this one is
heavy lifting necessary for muscle
growth and strength gains this was
really interesting it's a new systematic
review and meta-analysis I think it
included it's something like twenty one
studies on the topic of whether low load
so say a less than sixty percent of your
one rep max or high load so in the study
they classify that as greater than sixty
percent of your one rep max is better
for strength and isometric strength
which didn't interest me too much and
hypertrophy by which interested me a lot
the results weren't too surprising in
order to get stronger you have to lift
heavy however for hypertrophy there was
no significant difference as long as
you're taking sets pretty close to or to
failure all motor units are being
activated and you can maximize
hypertrophy both low loads and high
loads are effective what makes most
sense from practical programming
perspective is to use more moderate
loads so say in the six or eight 15 rep
range that will allow you to do a lot of
volume if you try to do a lot of volume
with heavy loads there's so much more
likely to burn out get injured feel
really fatigued and just not be able to
do it because you have to do so many set
sets of say a one wrapper to rep max or
something so the really heavy loads you
shouldn't be the primary focus and the
really low loads the really high reps I
don't think should be the primary focus
either can be like a really painful
unnecessarily painful way to Train if we
just assume that it's volume mashed you
know would you prefer to do let's just
say five sets of eight or five sets of
25 the five sets of 82 sounds a lot
better to me provided they're both taken
to failure and roughly volume matched
you can get very similar hypertrophy
between those two approaches the bulk of
your training should come
more moderate rep range so say like 3/4
of your work I think it is a good idea
to include some of the higher rep and
some of the lower rep work however it
certainly doesn't seem to be mandatory
my recommendation is to use a variety of
rep ranges since we know variety is
important from a programming perspective
to keep things novel and moving forward
and I think that there is some merit to
including some pure strength work from a
periodization perspective if you're
getting stronger and we know you need to
use heavier loads to get stronger than
in future blocks down the road so in
your later training when you're using
those say 6 to 12 rep loads that are
gonna be heavier which means more
overload on the muscle and ultimately
more growth I'm still agnostic as to
whether metabolic stress is a primary
factor driving hypertrophy I think at
the very least it gives you a really
good pump which can make training fun
and it is a way to sort of cram in a lot
of an extra volume fairly easily now
once I've got the information of mass
linked in the description box below and
where Sean just said he is on his way up
so I'm introduced you guys to him when
he gets here and I'm gonna go shoot some
hoops yeah is that is that his like
series are you gonna do an edit for me
tonight I had a guy do that he makes the
thumbnail he takes the thumb yeah oh
yeah that's such a YouTube thing yeah I
didn't actually like for full credit
though a guy reached out to me on
snapchat and was like let me make your
overtraining science explained Simon I
think his name was Brandon William
yeah shared the William he made the last
overtraining thumbnail I have been
recruiting the help of like some other
people to help me pump out some more
content so if it were Sean he's been
doing like a bunch of filming for the
channel and go go have a game
[Music]
you need to film because I'm against it
was rainy earlier I don't know if you
saw that yeah but it looks like it's
dried up out there now so we could play
we should be able to play outside
so how are we gonna do this are we gonna
be like do some kind of transition to
the court or which is startling you know
we should do you should grab a
basketball and put it to the thing and
then pull it away at the court nice oh
that's a good idea
Hector can you go get the basketball all
right you do it yeah let's do it all
right so guys we're at the basketball
court excuse me if there's a bit of wind
I don't know I just picked up like as
soon as we got here but we're gonna do
super first hit-or-miss
Oh
[Music]
night
[Music]
my god loser
you got nice shot man so guys I can't
actually dunk but I had to get you to
click the videos no but I grabbed the
rim you guys we just finished up at the
ball court let me give a shout outs for
Sean for taking me to school and for
helping me out with some of the cool
cinematic shots kind of things so we're
just gonna head back to the apartment
grab some pre-workout and then we're
gonna go hit some upper body so check in
with you guys back upstairs
we're gonna watch Pats intro to his prep
series he's 5 for Sean did the Edit for
about new series his winter shredding
you can call this writing
it's called the redemption or the
redemption his bounce back you know why
she took a
play this hell fire me up for the
workout baby I'm high
one year ago I literally left everything
I had a contest for that thing this is
super high quality man you know all
these seconds if I transitioned into the
TV and we were in that gym
give me a second I'm trying to select
the appropriate weapon huh why sure you
sniffing instincts I love round you know
they connected oh my tummy I can't go
there heavy so I stopped raining lesson
for cousins and startup repair from
McKenna got nothing to lose I'm ollie
rockin the edge don't Farley enough for
the life some apologize I don't
understand are you for real it's
this is grabble your people waiting okay
how long it's gonna take
washing away afraid that first you say
don't come a miss you don't get it
twisted
I'm not real number boy you were gonna
write on my headless keeping my distance
checking the list
[Music]
don't
you thought it was over I know you
thought