all right what is going on guys so in
this video i'm going to be reacting to
my old diet from 10 years ago so the
other day i was cleaning out this old
filing cabinet over here and i
discovered this notebook so this
contains my first ever bodybuilding
diets the one i want to go through is
this one from
exactly a decade ago i'll just put a
posing clip up here of what i looked
like when i was preparing for this show
and i'll put a little side by side from
my latest posing update from just about
a week ago for comparison's sake um so i
will say i think i look pretty good here
in 2010 but just because a diet worked
doesn't mean it's the most effective or
efficient way to go about getting lean
or getting muscular maybe i could have
gotten even better results if i had set
this diet up a better way or maybe i
could have gotten the same results
without having to suffer quite as much
and i think after i go through
everything in detail i'll do a final
diet rating out of 10 so you guys can
stay tuned for that all right so other
than the comic sans ms font i'd say the
first thing we'll notice here is that
this is in fact a meal plan i would eat
exactly these meals at exactly these
times every day with no exceptions it's
interesting because back then i actually
didn't even know or care what the macros
or the calories were i thought that
there was something special about these
foods eaten at these times that would
get me shredded whereas now i think if i
was to redo a contest prep diet the
first thing i would do is figure out
what the calories and the macros are but
i was curious so i did before recording
here just tally up the macros of this
diet so i'll put them up here on the
screen for you guys now what stands out
to me with these macros first is just
how high the protein is eating 265 grams
of protein is just overkill to say the
least and the fats here are particularly
concerning only 13
of calories are coming from fats i like
to set fats at a minimum of at least 15
to 20 percent of total calories and the
reason for that is lower fat intakes
have been associated with reductions in
testosterone which is obviously not good
for overall health but also not good for
retaining muscle generally i'm somewhere
in the like 40 to 60 gram range on a
contest prep diet as for the carbs and
calories i would say the carbs could be
a little bit higher but this might just
be a necessary evil of getting shredded
that isn't something i'd broadly
recommend but if you want to get
shredded that might just be something
that you have to do and i would say the
goal when setting up your calories is to
keep them as high as you can while still
losing at the appropriate rate so you
want to be losing about one percent of
body weight per week while keeping
calories as high as possible but like i
said at a certain point you're just
going to have to increase that deficit
as your metabolism adapts all right so i
already mentioned that this is in fact a
meal plan meaning it's not a flexible
dieting setup but i do think that this
diet would be strengthened just by
adding a bit of flexibility so for
example if i wanted to sub out you know
the oatmeal in meal one i could easily
replace that with a slice of toast and
that wouldn't affect my progress in any
way and adding flexibility like this to
the diet is going to help in two ways
first of all it's going to make the diet
more enjoyable you're not being confined
to only these foods as long as the diet
lasts and secondly i think it's better
from a nutritional perspective because
you're less likely to run into nutrient
deficiencies if you have a variety of
foods that you're swapping in and out
from day to day and i would say overall
the main thing that i find with meal
plans is that people tend to only stick
to the diet as long as they can stick to
the meal plan so unless you plan on
staying on the meal plan forever what
are you going to do once you come off it
and so i would say to start by
calculating the macros calculating the
calories so then you know how to adjust
your nutrition once the the diet is over
all right so let's quickly go through
this meal by meal so the first meal here
you'll see eaten at 7am after 30 minutes
of cardio on an empty stomach so at the
time i wrote this meal plan i obviously
thought there was something special
about fasted cardio when it comes to fat
loss i don't think that's true anymore
research shows that even though you do
burn more fat when doing cardio fasted
whatever substrate you burn more of
during the cardio session itself you'll
burn less of over the next 24 hours and
the latest systematic review that we
have on this has pretty much written
this off as a myth so i think you should
just do cardio whenever it best fits
your schedule or when you feel like you
have the best energy and if that happens
to be first thing in the morning on an
empty stomach then that's totally fine
but there's nothing particularly special
about doing it at this time of day all
right so overall there's a pretty
standard bodybuilding breakfast you've
got egg whites oatmeal and i would
probably get rid of the whey protein
powder that's a bit more protein
overkill there and i would probably
replace that with a piece of fruit like
a banana or an apple or something the
whole flax seeds here i find this really
interesting because i totally forgot
that i used to do this but i used to
take a tablespoon of whole flax seeds
and just pound that back with my protein
shake but i think i used to think that
there was something special about flax
seeds that they had this unique fat
burning power or whatever that's
definitely not true but i also can't
hate on flax seeds because they are
extremely nutritious they're a great
source of omega-3s high in fiber just an
overall nutritious food however the
thing is if you're eating whole flax
seeds the shell that surrounds the seed
itself isn't easily digested so if
you're going to eat them whole you want
to make sure that you're really grinding
the seed down or you can just buy them
ground to begin with now if i'm being
honest i would probably replace these
flax seeds with a different fat source
at this point so i could replace it with
like say a whole egg or some avocado
even some nuts or a nut butter or
something like that you know you could
leave the flax seeds in once or twice a
week but you could easily rotate those
food sources in and out okay so the next
meal here we've got a scoop of whey
protein and 100 grams of broccoli really
jeff broccoli and whey protein what's
wrong with that so 10 a.m was when my
lecture would start i was in university
at the time i was so stubborn that i
wouldn't eat this meal at like 9 57 it
would have to be exactly at 10 am so the
professor would get up and start
lecturing i would take out the protein
shake shake that up like glug and then i
would start chomping down on the raw
broccoli in retrospect i think there's
nothing necessarily wrong with this meal
it just doesn't need to be eaten at
exactly that time i would probably
replace the broccoli with like a low
calorie fruit something like a peach a
palm or a pear or even a kiwi just make
the meal more enjoyable and you could
add some nuts or something like some
salted almonds to this meal to make it a
little bit more well-rounded okay so
after that we've got two meals of pretty
much just chicken and broccoli there's
some fish oil in there i think i'm gonna
save the supplement stuff for another
video so i have my full supplements
sheet here as well it's a doozy so if
you guys would like to see me cover that
i can do that i've got nothing against
the fish oil caps i think they fit in
there decently well the main issue i
have with this is the pre-workout meal
other than the fibrous carbs from the
broccoli there's no carb source here
that can be used to fuel training i
think this is the biggest violation so
far other than the comic sans font this
is the worst part of the diet so far if
you look you'll see in meal 5 i've got
180 grams of sweet potato so what i
would do is just take that sweet potato
and either cut it in half and put equal
amounts of carbs in the pre and
post-workout meals or just take all of
it and lump it in the pre-workout meal
because in my opinion the pre-workout
meal is the most important meal of the
day because ultimately training is
what's going to get the anabolic
machinery going and help you preserve or
build muscle while dieting and the fact
that i only ate chicken and broccoli
just isn't a good choice and also i
would probably just get rid of that
broccoli altogether because that can
give you kind of bloating or gas or just
general discomfort during training which
is not ideal for performance either and
there's no need to have a fibrous
vegetable like that before training all
right so after that it looks like i
would have a scoop of whey protein again
now i think this is totally redundant
the best evidence that we have on
periworkout nutrition says that the
anabolic window around training is
probably about four to five hours in
length so if i ate my pre-workout meal
at five p.m and then i've got my next
whole food meal scheduled for 7 30 the
amino acids from the pre-workout meal
from the chicken breast are still going
to be in my bloodstream so to throw some
more amino acids at the bloodstream
right after the workout is pretty futile
i would say to just wait until that
post-workout whole food meal and that'll
have all the bases covered when it comes
to post-workout nutrition so when it
comes to that post-workout meal this is
probably my favorite meal of the day i
think this is a good well-rounded meal i
like the two cups of mixed veggies so
it's not just broccoli i've got some
peppers i used to have some yellow
peppers red peppers and green peppers
onions and mushrooms and then the
tilapia is a fine choice it's a very
lean fish it's interesting because at
the time everyone thought tilapia was
like a special bodybuilding food like it
somehow had these properties that would
allow it to really thin out your skin or
really dry you out that's just
bodybuilding folklore there's no truth
to that um so you could easily replace
that tilapia with any other fish or
really any protein source for that
matter i would probably replace it with
salmon just because i think the healthy
fats from the salmon would kind of
negate the supplementation of fish oils
you wouldn't have to eat that every day
but it is a more appetizing fish in my
opinion as well okay and then the last
meal i also quite like so i like the
casein protein powder i think a slow
digesting protein source before going to
bed is a good idea i would probably
replace it with cottage cheese just
because the cottage cheese is gonna have
more naturally occurring nutrients and
will probably be more satiating because
you actually get to eat it with a spoon
and i like cottage cheese so it's more
appetizing than just pounding back
another shake i don't know if i would
include the tuna here i hate tuna i
probably thought it was a special food
back then i probably would take some
carbs from breakfast and put them in the
pre-bed meal just because i find i can
sleep better at night if i have some
carbs in the pre-bed meal and there's no
reason not to have carbs before you go
to bed i used to think that if i eat
carbs before bed they'd just be
instantly stored as fat but that's a
complete myth i did another whole video
on that if you'd like to check it out
overall i would say i would give this
diet a light to decent four out of ten i
do think it got some things right so it
gets points for including a lot of
vegetables it's got enough protein it's
got too much protein but i think it's
better to have at least a sufficient
intake than an insufficient intake so
we'll give it like half a point for that
i also like the fact that it's not
criminally low on carbs or calories i've
seen a lot worse on contest prep diets
and it doesn't completely cut carbs
which a lot of contest prep diets do um
so i get some points for those things
but it also loses some points so it
loses a couple points for not being
nearly flexible enough so it's too rigid
when it comes to the actual food choices
and the timing of those foods i think
it's way too low on fat i'd add at least
another 10 to 15 grams of fat per day i
really am not a fan of the suboptimal
pre-workout nutrition with no carbs and
the broccoli there not so much a fan of
the fasted cardio it's not really a bad
thing it's just again not necessary i
definitely like to see some more fruit
so there's no fruit in this diet
probably because i thought sugar would
be instantly stored as fat but that's
definitely not true and i'd like to see
more variety in general so i'd like to
see some beans some legumes some nuts
and maybe some other grains like some
breads or cereals or what have you i
think that would just make the diet much
more nutritionally complete and i think
i'm going to leave it at that for this
one if you guys would like to see my
thoughts on all my supplements list i'll
put it up here just comment down below
and let me know if there's enough people
interested i'll do another video like
this on that um also i'll put a button
over here to my ultimate guide to body
recomposition that lays out my full
stance on nutrition calculating macros
supplements sleep everything in there is
covered in so much more detail than what
i've ever done on the channel so if
you'd like to check that out hit up the
button over here i'll also link it down
below don't forget to leave me a thumbs
up if you enjoyed the video subscribe if
you haven't already and i'll see you
guys all here in the next one
[Music]
genius
genius
tilapia this is perfect this is great
what's wrong with that