[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm going to
show you a chocolate banana protein
pudding I love when I can knock out some
protein in something sweet so I've
started playing around a lot with the
silken tofu and I know that they get a
pretty bad rap and a lot of people think
that they're gross but if you mix in the
right flavorings and seasonings with
them it adds this amazing creaminess to
puddings and desserts of that nature so
I'm gonna show you one today and we're
gonna start by caramelizing a banana in
a skillet with some coconut oil just
gonna slice this up I'm gonna add
coconut oil I'm just gonna add in my
bananas so bananas are already obviously
naturally sweet and this sauteing
process is gonna bring out even more of
that sweetness gonna flip these guys
over that color that yellow color and
then this brown right here that you're
starting to see that is flavor all right
so we our food processor here I'm gonna
add two bricks of the silken tofu
there's no prep involved it's not like
tofu that you're gonna saute you don't
have to press out the liquid any of the
liquid you don't have to do anything
special to it right out of the box and
into here and this is a firm silken tofu
so the kind of God is just shelf-stable
and I'm gonna add in a teaspoon of
banana flavoring so this is like a
banana flavor emulsion if you guys have
my cookbooks follow me you'll see that I
cook with our bake with us a lot so a
flavor emulsion is something that is
intended for cold products so you can
use it in ice creams frozen yogurts that
you make at home milk shakes and
smoothies and it's a super super super
concentrated flavoring macro free it's a
liquid this is some
dark chocolate cocoa powder and then
some unsweetened chocolate almond milk
so you see this obviously you would not
want to eat that
right it looks really weird and
someone's gonna say what the heck is
that or they're gonna know that it's
tofu so if you just keep processing that
you will not see that time to add our
star ingredient these beautiful sauteed
bananas now I'm just gonna kind of pulse
it in I mean it's definitely going to
kind of liquefy in there you saw a house
how oh it smells so good how soft it was
when I put it in but because we worked
so hard on those bananas I kind of still
want some chunks of those you can feel
in your mouth and get that taste so I
I'm happy with that here you go guys
chocolate banana protein pudding give it
a try it is so good
[Music]