so a lot of times people will say well
aren't 20-minute workouts effective yeah
if you do many of them throughout the
week sure if you have really low ball
fitness goals but I would say yeah get
in there in 45 minutes or an hour and a
half is a really good answer for many
people if you do much longer than that
the only question I have for you is do
you still have a lot ofing energy to
keep going and if the answer is like
dude I my up after 2 hours and
15 minutes hey slow clap these are all
averages apparently it works for you
amazing but ask yourself like am I
really doing the kind of work it's like
um you see a guy talking to a girl at
the club five drinks in my man's kicking
it you know you ever see someone lay
down some game you're kind of like in
the booth next to him and you're like
 hit it she's like oh my God
that's you in the gym after an hour
right after 2 and a half hours you're
like that guy laying down game after 15
drinks and you're like you know I'm like
big on YouTube and she's like look man
I'm going to leave with my girlfriend's
You're great and you're it's Kelsey
she's like it was Karen she walks off
you're just watching it from the perer
you're like that guy should have stopped
 drinks ago you know that's 2
hours and 30 minutes in the gym guy just
quit while you're ahead come back next
time