[Music]
all right good morning everyone it is
Thursday April the 12th and we are in
Cologne Germany
I was actually my first time ever in
Germany and stuffs first time in German
- she's on the floor and we are here for
the phoebo Expo so apparently this is
one of the biggest Expos in all of
Europe and we're really excited about
that and we're here with GE science
again
just wanted to pick up the camera do a
little bit of vlogging today I have been
working on this creatine science
explained video I'm wanting it to be one
of my better more creative videos so I'm
really taking my time with it it's gonna
upload that one but that's gonna be a
probably in a few days but first we're
gonna go get some breakfast over here
let's see what they have to offer
downstairs at the hotel and I'll check
in with you guys in a little bit
all right so guys the breakfast here is
actually sweet so here's what I got
got an omelet with some mushroom cheese
and some ham I think it is a syrup
drenched sausage some other meat a
little bit of bacon and three of these
little pancakes I guess you'd call these
pancakes Ben I don't know I was a maple
it was written in German so I didn't I
didn't hurt his Val Val is a fellow
Canadian and PE science athlete and they
were here with four Shawn and Ben we're
gonna eat this and then we're gonna head
over to the expo so this is where the
expo is right over here and our hotel is
just right there so we're very close
apparently today is just open to the
vendors now it's not open to the public
so we're not expecting it to be two
crazies probably not quite like that
Arnold or anything like that
but yeah I'm looking forward to just
seeing I've heard it's absolutely
enormous so I don't have to see what
you're up
pretty huge is very clean this is so
huge there's like so much open space
compared to everyday American or
Canadian experiment
it's really interesting
yeah this is good that looks
moderately scary looks like one of those
like arcade dance generation things and
this one has focused all on different
types of gym equipment pretty sweet and
I don't know if you can appreciate just
how big this whole area is so this looks
like kind of like a police type machine
where your body moves as you do a row
your body moves that's pretty cool
true fitness enthusiast right here
[Applause]
look at this move
the best macros of eversince Oh
Germany's straight-up has the best
protein nurse I don't know if it's just
Germany you could be Europe but like way
more macro friendly way higher protein
than what we have in Canada in the
States for sure anyway so guys we're
back from the expo you may notice an
upgrade in quality back on the a7 r3
over here because it's hooked up with
Sean and we're actually gonna go for a
workout right now but I have to say that
was the craziest Expo I've ever been to
it is absolutely massive Steph was
saying it reminds her of like a bio tech
like what I used to do poster
presentations at actual like scientific
conferences there'd be a biotech hall
and just like the clean aesthetic like
the business professional kind of
component of it it looks very similar to
that like the booths are like buildings
and it's not only like a supplement Expo
so it's not like the Arnold where it's
all just supplement booths here you have
like gym equipment you have like things
at a gym so like there was a booth for
like gym lockers and like turnstiles and
all kinds of stuff and it was all very
sleek and modern so it was actually
really cool to see but right now we're
actually gonna go I'm gonna hit a full
body workout at a gym here in Cologne
that has some pretty cool machines I
think you guys are really gonna like and
I'm excited to try it out at just fit at
just fit so yeah I actually forgot it
like all my supplements at home but I
managed to steal a few packets of
prolific whoo cotton candy and raspberry
lemonade these are both really good but
I think I like the the raspberry
lemonade better I'm at one of these
all right let's see if I can do this
[Music]
[Music]
so guys we're here it just fit him these
are the machines I was telling you about
Lucas is a trainer at this gym so he was
nice enough to let me use the equipment
and he's going to teach me basically how
to use these because I've never seen
anything quite like it before yeah let's
check it out
okay we have the content freak and
eccentric so you have the movement
pushing and coming back you will feel
the tension so just they're kind of like
specific to your body so you kind of
program them in but Lucas is just gonna
give me his band for today and it'll
just be as if they kind of have the same
measurement form over oh I'm getting
there so from my understanding that it's
designed to be a circuit style training
so I'm actually doing upper body today
just because when I'm on the road I find
my frequency can't be quite as high due
to the travel days so I tend to go more
of like an upper lower or full body flip
so yeah we're gonna do a bunch of these
machines here try these out and then I'm
gonna do some deadlifts after to finish
off we're gonna start off with the bicep
was a bicep you see this is a bone oh
wow yeah yeah the parameters here you
have two parameters here this is for the
speed and this is for the yeah the the
range
so you should keep the speed in the
middle of the Greenline yeah I like to
make a steady steady movement eccentric
yeah I'm gonna describe this after it
it's the most interesting feeling yeah
it's something new for the muscles it's
so different basically the way this
feels is you have kind of a normal
resistance on the way up yeah
but then the machine will almost pull
you down yeah it's like you know it
accelerates on the eccentric so it makes
it it makes it much harder it's not like
just lowering under under gravity it
actually almost pulls you forward so you
have to resist it so much more on the
eccentric yeah it's very cool my initial
impression is that like the resistance
curve is is very very different and it's
it's timed so it's not that you're going
for like a certain number of reps you
just go until the time is up yeah I
think the only issue is that the range
of motion was too short just because
it's programmed for a taller guy right
now so he's going to try to grab a key
for a short
they don't feel like the keys and
machines that I've used before so I
don't think they're pressurized it
almost feels electronic if that makes
sense like it feels like there's like
gears in there
or something like that I don't know
exactly what it is but pretty
interesting yeah
with you know a little heavier yeah
good more yeah so Lucas is gonna do this
said I'm gonna show you what it looks
like on the screen here so the goal is
you want this to stay in the green zone
and that means that you're not going too
fast on the eccentric or the content
trick so if it starts to get into the
red it means that you're going too fast
if it's over here and if it goes over
here it means you're starting to go too
slow it might be the other way around
but the idea is just to have it in the
green and then this little graph here
shows your range of motion so if you're
stopping before it gets to the green it
means you're not going quite far enough
on the way down or quite far enough on
the way up what I kind of taught me was
that with my legs I found it so much
harder to stay in that green zone
because oh I guess that means that maybe
in my regular training maybe I don't
quite control my with my legs quite as
much as I would with my chest because
with the chest I found it pretty easy
bhante was hard enough it could be a bit
harder okay
beautiful
it's funny because it just cuts out yeah
I know what you do this so we're gonna
do one more circuit of everything I
think the main two things that I've
taken away from this is that one my best
control I think was on the chest press
and I think the lat pulldown I could
stay right in the middle with with good
control the whole way through
with the ad machine I think some of the
leg machines I struggled a little bit
more to keep that control on the
eccentric so if maybe my regular
training
I'd probably benefit from controlling
the eccentric a little bit more it was
probably get that feedback you know and
then the other thing was it's just a
very different pattern resistance than
I'm used to so it was really cool if you
ever had the opportunity to check
machines out I would recommend it yeah
it's very very different to go to
addition I think to the regular training
yes a lot of people only doing this yeah
and recommend that yeah yeah absolutely
I would recommend it adding so exactly
what you said yeah it's good to make a
new challenge for the muscle yeah a new
challenge and it gives you some feedback
- yeah so guys today I am due to do some
deadlifts I'm more or less at the end of
my first technique focused power power
building block you guys have been
following along I am trying to get back
more into the powerlifting side of
things
my ultimate goal is to hit a 405 pound
bench press and just get back up to
squatting and dead lifting some decent
weight I did have a lower back injury so
I'm still working my way back up with
the weight basically all I've been doing
with my deadlift is just three sets of
five once a week and I'm just slowly
bringing the weight up so last time I
dead lifted which was a little more than
a week ago I did 275 for three sets of
five so today I'm gonna work up to 275
see how that feels
basically judging from there I'll
determine how much weight I'm going to
use that's some like foam
boom that's here so it's not like an
ideal deadlifting platform or anything
but we'll make it work I pull sumo so
it's a wide stance so I find if I don't
warm up properly adjust my adductors get
a little bit tight in my glutes too so
one of them up
[Music]
so yeah I like to strap in for any of my
like working sense just because I don't
like to use the alternate grip or have
to rely on that yeah you're strapping
ah
[Music]
[Music]
my sumo deadlift her my deadlift in
general was always like my weakest lift
my all-time PR is 550 pounds at 162
pounds body weight
I'm not even anywhere near that now and
I do tend to do an alternate grip just
because my grip is stronger that way and
I find a hook grip kills my thumbs
but in training I've been using straps a
lot just because like I said I am
recovering from that injury and I don't
want to potentially exacerbate any
imbalances I think that might have been
part of the issue before so I was trying
to go you know keep it as safe as
possible the straps in the belt keep it
double overhand and just slowly progress
up so that's all really light actually
so I'm gonna add five pounds each side
for set number two I'll see how that
feels and probably add another 5 pounds
each side for the final set
soon I'll be back to 315
[Music]
super-lightweight it feels great but
that's where I want to be right now like
in the past if I try to get too
headstrong and increase it too quickly
I just fine that's an easy way to set
myself back and as long as I'm
progressing and making my way up
I'm happy you're like I feel like at
this rate I would say in a few months
I'll probably be back up somewhere
around 405 which will be awesome I'll be
really happy with that and I'll just be
slowly pieces from there based on how in
recovery so rashon was talking some
smack thank you he said he's never dead
lifted before so you know pull 225 right
now deep breaths
keep your lower back neutral poets your
people close your legs in your glutes
easy there you go now that's pretty good
was that actually a first deadlift
I've dealt like 130 bucks just to see if
I threw the form that's good but I've
never like done it four reps or like
anyway you should start doing it in like
I think it would help that's good that
was good for him by the way yeah what
was really good so when I come in new
gyms I travel I like to check out the
different pieces of equipment so gonna
finish off with some back because that
circuit I feel like it was cool and that
it was unique but I don't feel like I
really got enough volume in so I'm gonna
kind of freestyle a few movements here
so I'm gonna do this here pull down and
I'm gonna do one of these rows over here
probably it's almost like a pull in is
what I mimics so with a lat pull down
because the bar goes in front of you
you're basically forced to bring it down
to the front which means you have to
almost lean back a little bit
which isn't necessarily a bad thing but
this allows you to almost exclusively
work the last because you're right in
that mid frontal point here you just can
go straight down
[Music]
man that's a cool machine
it feels like a really wide grip cable
row almost so you really feel in the
rear delts in the mid traps nice feel I
like it smooth that's a wrap for the
workout we go get some clothes workout
food back at the hotel check with you
guys back over there we're gonna come in
here and just pick up a few things to
bring back to the hotel it's our first
German grocery store experience I mostly
just want some like meat something I can
like snack on that's like high protein
because it is a little bit tougher to
get my daily protein in here something
high protein straight to the chippy
[Music]
probably good I just like to have
something with some calories that I can
eat that I can eat later at night oh
that's nice that's the perfect ripeness
you never see that came through thank
you babe
some chicken chips I've never seen that
before in my life a lot of protein in
here pretty sure have you ever heard of
this protein chicken chips I wonder if
it's like jerky or something I don't
know is si what I think it says 20 grams
of protein per 25 grand I try this out
guys were back at the hotel here at the
buffet same deal as breakfast I'm
basically gonna pick out your stuff and
they have a lot of like bodybuilder
friendly food options over there so I'm
gonna go get I'm assuming it's the same
thing as we had here last night so it's
like chicken rice some potato fries
burgers all that so I'm gonna go eat up
because basically here we're getting
like two solid meals a day and then
everything else we just kind of like
fill it in with a random snack foods
more or less so got to eat up at these
two opportunities otherwise calories are
not that bad for today see I'll show you
guys what we get this is just plate
number one this is all I think I'm going
to show you this probably two chicken
breasts actually here I've got the
second one covered in rice some potato
wedges some steamed vegetables so
there's broccoli corn cauliflower
got a bunch of red pepper actually I
think red pepper is one of the more
underrated vegetables super high in
vitamin C a really nutritious vegetable
even in my opinion I think better than
green it's always a good idea to get a
variety of flavors but red pepper is one
of those ones people sleep on some other
green stuff some bread and then I'm
gonna go back for round two probably get
some more like fruit
I'm gonna go ahead and end the vlog here
I would say thank you guys for watching
and I'm gonna see you guys in the next
one I'm doing another Germany vlog on
the channel as you can stay tuned for
that check in with you guys then