mechanistically the processes the
pathways that supplements activate don't
have the throughput and the magnitude of
causative power to make such changes the
only thing the creatine monohydrate
pathway does is it boosts your
performance by like this much because no
ability as a pathway to do anything more
than that here's a similar analogy this
is again a stupid bullshit myth
unrelated humans only use 10 of their
brain and if they used a hundred they
could levitate and fly and like move
shit with their minds you have a fucking
gravity generator in your head is there
like organs we just didn't see the human
body can alter space time that's just
not possible now can you if you used
more of your brain Better Could you like
run a little bit faster maybe jump a
little higher or think a little quicker
be a little bit more socially apt okay I
can believe that well fuck you're not
gonna have eye lasers coming out of your
shit because show me the organ that
makes a laser do you guys know how much
energy throughput it takes to fucking
fire a laser by the way doesn't it burn
your eyes coming out