listen to me this is arnold not my
kisratell and i'm going to help you make
noob gains or at least understand them
now
folks was that the worst arnold
impression you've ever heard or close
second
let us know in the comments but for now
noob gaines explained holy crap this is
going to be a busy busy video so take
out your old
pencil and paper and start jotting down
notes especially if you're listening to
this podcast style driving through
traffic
p.s just thought of this we don't have a
podcast version of this but i think some
people just throw on youtube and put it
through their speakers i know i do
all right noob gains what are they well
they're beginner gains and if you didn't
know that you really are a noob oh my
god
self-fulfilling prophecy seven things we
have to cover that's a lot of things and
that's ten fingers noting the fact that
i can't count
first what are they and what are the
mechanisms behind them
second what can you expect as far as new
gains are concerned
third when do they come to an end people
talk about like oh i got my new gains
and i'm done like okay well how long is
that
do they hang around if you stop training
or change your training up big time
did you by dieting and as well as
training for the first xyz months of
your training career a lot of people do
a fat loss diet and train and they get
worried that they missed out on their
noob gains because they never gained any
weight during that time we'll find out
is it your whole body that's getting new
gains or can a muscle you've never
trained get super crazy new gains if you
start training it even if you've been
training all the other muscles of your
body for g years
and lastly the very sad very tier is
what if i never got my noob gains
everyone's talking about new games where
are mine uh we'll try to help you out
we'll put up a
one of those milk carton lost photos of
your gains new gains if you see them
give them a snack they come for food and
then trap them call me new gains i'll
show up and i'll get you
all right what are the mechanisms well
really definitions mechanisms new gains
are gains just made early in your
training generally speaking the first um
six months to a year of course less than
six months uh generally six months to a
year of uh beginning pretty dedicated
training
we'll get into a little bit later what
that exactly means but it's like you
know geez at least three or four times a
week you're training with weights and on
sleep and nutrition you're at least not
doing something completely insane so
that's pretty dedicated and
in the first three months you get a huge
increase in strength and a really good
increase in muscle mass but the increase
in strength is really disproportionate
to how much muscle you're putting on i
mean you can like double your lifts but
only put on five pounds of muscle how
the hell does that work that much
muscles and physically move that much
weight well a lot of it is uh
neurological upgrades and um they work
super super well and a lot of people
think oh my god i'm just going to keep
getting stronger like this
alas fate is unkind in this case but
it's really really cool now after the
first three months generally months
three to twelve your neurological gains
are not as fast anymore a lot of that
has to do with a relative settling of
your technique so we'll talk about
neurological gains and there's like 10
different mechanisms of how they happen
but one of the ones that's very
overlooked and probably one of the most
powerful explanatory ones
is that
when you learn how to do a technique you
really suck at it you're really bad at
coordinating your muscles to do a
specific thing you guys ever see someone
like try to deadlift for the first time
you're like oh i never had any idea you
could try to use your delts to deadlift
what are you doing they'll grab the bar
and do this um as your technique gets
better and better you essentially learn
how to become wildly more efficient with
your use of muscle and the nervous
system it takes care more of that and
that's how that happens now once three
to twelve it doesn't happen nearly as
much your technique tends to flatten out
a little bit at least and
muscle growth still continues at a very
very rapid pace during that time so a
larger fraction of the gains you
experience amongst three to twelve in
strength for example will be explained
by muscle
then were explained by muscle in the
first few months which is a lot of
neurological gains
now
here is where the speculation begins
what can you expect from noob gains a
lot of you won't be watching this video
having never trained but if you are hey
look you got a whole road map of
disappointment and sorrow but for those
of you who have been through this maybe
you can sort of put a lens to your
experiences and then let me know if i'm
be asking you or not so it's very tough
to find hard data they don't do
long-term tracking like this in almost
any study so a lot of this is going to
be highly speculative and there's a huge
variance okay
there's in almost every biological trait
there's an average it's roughly normally
distributed bell curve around that
average and that means a lot of people
don't fit the average like if i told an
alien average male height in the united
states is five foot ten they show up and
see your boy and they're like how come
you're exactly five foot six and a half
doctor mike and oh my god how did you
know my name oh i'm youtube famous
that's right um and also correct on the
height but i'm sorry to disappoint you
there's tons of people that aren't 510
you know and on some days i even feel
like i'm 6'3 and i think that's what's
important how you feel inside
same thing with muscle growth some
people
will get into training and just blow up
some people get really good results and
other people get results that are like
crickets mostly and they're like what am
i doing something wrong we'll get to
that the answer is maybe you're doing
something wrong but maybe not huge
variance
sorry females to do you like this do you
real dirty here for all the numbers
coming up it's all for males
um because youtube's primarily male
audience and males just generally care
more than females because females
probably a bit more rational and don't
put all of their marbles into muscle
growth
like i have but in any case if you want
to decipher the math you just multiply
uh everything you see for males by
roughly a half to two-thirds okay by
multiply by 0.5 or by 0.66 and you'll
get a pretty decent estimate now here's
the deal my best guess
is that in the first year of training
the average person puts on somewhere
between 5 and 15 pounds of muscle that
doesn't mean weight and body weight that
means pounds of muscle some of that's
going to be fat reduction some is going
to be muscle gain and actual weight gain
and i'll put the average of right around
10. this is like a terrible wild guess
so please feel free to lambast me in the
comments and say i'm just a derelict con
artist make belief i'm i'm probably all
those things so that is actually my best
honest god guess
now a lot of factors determine that
factor number one is super important is
genetics okay so you feel me when ronnie
coleman started training is unlikely he
put on only 10 pounds of muscle in his
first year jay cutler claims to have put
on 50 pounds of muscle in his first year
of training and uh i believe him i
actually do believe him because he ended
up being jay cutler so anyone who has
seen jay cutler in person in his prime
would be remiss to say oh that's
bullshit like i don't know i've seen him
i'm like i can believe it that muscle
had to come on at some time right and
his genetics were clearly unreal another
one is are you eating at least at
maintenance and preferably a slight
surplus because how much muscle you
could put on is a really really um
altered by how much you're eating
especially if you don't start out pretty
fat if you start out pretty fat and you
eat even at a deficit you can put on a
ton of muscle because your fat sort of
acts as a calorie reserve um if you're
pretty lean or just regular like harry
potter type motherfucker when you're
starting out then you know if you don't
eat a lot where the hell is that muscle
supposed to come from you can't gain
your weight starting at 130 to 145 it's
physically impossible if you're not
putting down the food you will gain some
muscle and lose some fat you're not
going to be the most shredded man alive
you guys going to cost you a little bit
so if you don't eat the numbers don't
add up nearly as much
if you're sleep in recovery or total dog
shit you won't get the same results
sleep and recovery are super important
and lastly is frequency of number of
total times you train per week which is
kind of our little mini metric of how
much total work and volume are you doing
like how much is the training stimulus
because a lot of times people will ask a
question of you know how much are noob
gains how much muscle can i gain and
there are a bunch of sub questions you
can ask that person back to get more
clarity for them so the answer is better
and one of them is like well like you
know noob to what and they're like well
you're training i'm training how much
and they're like oh like you know like
usual like what the fuck is usual if you
train three days a week you'll get some
good results if you train two days a
week like whole body workout monday
thursday you'll get great results they
won't be the same as the three days and
four days you get even better results my
personal opinion is that for folks in
the beginner stage or really super super
novice first year it really doesn't pay
to go above five days per week
because you'll get roughly the same
gains from five to six six days is
something people more advanced tend to
benefit from much more
but the burnout risk from five days or
more per week is actually pretty high
i've seen tons of beginners start they
get super psyched first month i love it
i'm on youtube watching dr mike i'm
amped i'm gonna train seven days a week
and then three months later they're like
fuck this i'm done with training it's
awful i hate it i used to have a life i
don't anymore so i would recommend
beginners um
two times a week per day is sorry sorry
two times two times a week per day what
the hell am i saying two days of
training per week is fine but i say
three four or five is great and if you
don't know which one to shoot at just
shoot at three or four okay
that's my best advice there so so that
being said if you're in the three or
four range these numbers apply to you
pretty well if you're in the five range
for sure they apply if you're training
just twice a week
yeah you're new for sure but you're
really milking it slow and if you add in
three or four days later then you're
going to get a real big bump again and
sort of do the noob gains all over again
now
a question a lot of times people ask is
when do noob gains come to an end you
know because they're noob games and at
some point you're not a noob when are
you not a noob well they never really
come to an end the curve just flattens
out a little bit how much does the
flatten out good news i have some
answers um again they're my shitty
guests wild hypotheticals
but they're based on a lot of experience
i've seen a lot of people i've seen a
lot of young boys start lifting and
they're so excited and we're all in the
same gym and
oh and my parole officer is going to
want to hear about this but in any case
i've seen a lot of folks go through this
i've gone through it myself i've coached
a ton of people i've run this whole big
company rp you might have heard about it
and so we have a lot of access to data
and just sort of impressions so these
you know like you know it could be wrong
but maybe isn't terribly wrong um
so year one we'll get an average of 10
pounds of muscle for the average young
male that's relatively healthy
years two and three respectively
combined so year two and year three
you're looking at probably another ten
pounds total on average now that means
if you have me genetics or you don't
sleep a whole lot or you haven't been
eating super well maybe be close to like
five or even less pounds over those two
years that's two and a half pounds per
year and for other folks maybe 15 or
more pounds because some people they
train for a year like damn jim you look
big and then they train for two more
years and like holy shit dude are you
just noob gaining this entire time and
some people absolutely have that
response
so
after about three years of dedicated
training year one two and three are
completed
you on average would have gained a total
of i would say oh you know maybe 20
pounds of muscle by then which is a lot
right and it sounds like a ton when you
think about it you're like well that's
too much but then another way to think
about it is you started at 130 pounds
and now you're like a super lean 150.
with the dedicated approach three years
of hard training like
a lot of people can do that some people
do way more than that some people don't
do as much right but that's where we are
in my assessment
at years four five and six okay so the
the three years after years one two and
three
i think most people gain about one to
five pounds of muscle per year during
that time
which is basically i think a real pretty
pretty good result would be to gain ten
total pounds of muscle in year four five
and six combined
okay
so if you're adding this up at home
after six years of dedicated hard
training no major fuck ups good eating
good sleep etc an average young healthy
male
may be able to eke out about 30 pounds
of muscle in six years that's really
good okay that'll work now if you are on
the low decent decent low
nothing to wave your flag about end of
genetics or dedication or lifestyle you
missed a few months here and there your
genetics aren't that great you sleep
like crap then maybe you're looking at
15 pounds of muscle in six years not bad
not bad it definitely will change your
appearance especially if you lost some
fat along the way now here's the real
cool part if you have um high average
pretty pretty far towards the high end
genetics dedication lifestyle like
you're built for this and you kind of
took it really seriously um
within six years of training you may be
in for like 45 pounds of muscle which is
damp i mean that is
wow that it looks makes the physique
look different makes the physique look
really different so
that's kind of how i see the curves uh
after that first year to give you sort
of the landscape on noob games now
another super common question is do the
noob gains hang around or do they come
back faster because you guys have i'm
sure heard of muscle memory when you've
been jacked before it's easier to get it
back and that's all super true so bad
news first
the gains that you make hang around more
robustly the longer you keep them around
which means that if you train somewhere
between three months to a year which i
bet if we ran the stats most people
trained for that long and any one spur
because most people after january 1st
they start doing this and then they get
a decent shape and they go on spring
break and they never come back you guys
know a lot of people never come back
mexico aruba is it the pirates what's
going on there but on a serious note
they come back from mexico aruba and
they're like they go to gym a couple
more times and they're done so a lot of
people actually don't train for longer
than three months to a year constantly
and the unfortunate news for them is if
they come back later
after having uh you know trained for
three months to a year and then maybe
waited a year they're essentially
working from scratch okay so they lost
probably almost all their muscle and
it's gonna be
a little easier to get it back than you
got the first time but not much right
if you train hard for like three years
and then you quit for a year pretty much
all of your gains will come back in most
cases within six months to a year of
training holy crap that's right you
don't need to do another three years of
hard training the ship comes back faster
and here's the really great news
if you've trained hard for six plus
years and you take up to a whole year
off
you can probably get all of your gains
back within one year and that's kind of
like when people do those transformation
pictures and you don't read the fine
print and the guy's like looks like dog
shit in the first one in a second when
you're like what the fuck this is eight
months this guy grew like 50 pounds of
muscle a lot of times the fine print is
like jim here had a real rough time over
the last year and he quit training and
his wife left him and even the dog
doesn't look at him the same but then he
you know got a cat instead a new wife
and kicked the dog out with the old wife
and now he's back to training again and
voila eight months later with our super
patented super pro series program
creatine
bcaa
formula i'm no good at this selling
supplements business
he gained 45 pounds of muscle it turns
out he was already jacked and then he
quit for a while and he got back to it
and that legit works super super well
um as long as so it was a year to get
back to basically where you used to be
as long as you're under 40 years old or
so and healthy if you're over 40 you can
still make great gains and get a ton
back but you're in the aging process now
which means you probably won't get back
to where you used to be nearly as fast
or maybe like a little bit slower in
your 40s quite a bit slower in your 50s
in your 60s you may never get back to
how jack used to be et cetera et cetera
so that is what it is
now
another question super super common did
i diet my way out of my noob gains uh
because people do this and they get
really upset about it after they start
training they start dieting right away
because some personal trainer at the gym
is like you need to start dieting you're
fat
and you're also a piece of shit
unrelated to you being fat it's cool
that you're fat you're just not a good
person you're like well less really true
about me how did he know personal
trainers know things so
if that's the case and let's say you did
it like you started 200 pounds and you
started weight training and you ended
the year at like 150 but you had never
trained and then you were trained for a
year
gee whiz you lost 50 pounds does that
mean you missed out on all your new
games did you gain any muscle turns out
the answer is kind of 50 50.
so
often unless you died like absolutely
crazy or something like that you'll
still gain like half the muscle you had
coming so if you're gonna gain 10 pounds
in one year you might gain five which is
still plenty of muscle right uh and five
pounds of muscle gain while losing like
50 pounds of fat and because unreal
visual change like you're like oh my god
that's a totally different purse right
and in addition to that you've laid down
a foundation of future growth through a
bunch of mechanisms there's actually a
concept called preparatory hypertrophy
good luck googling that one
and um
there is a big rebound initiated because
you've dieted super hard so your body is
real sensitive to growth and nutrient
absorption and now you're weight
training super consistently and as soon
as you pull back and go to a maintenance
diet or hopefully a slight surplus
muscle growth
comes and comes and comes and comes and
a lot of times yes i'm coming all the
time i had to throw that in there how
could i miss that one so
there's an oral joke by the way from one
of his movies i swear to god i'm not
like sexual derelict i take that back my
lawyers will probably disagree on that
last part so in any case
you end up gaining almost all that new
gains back
as soon as you sort of pull the cork off
your diet and start slowly messing up so
your noob gains didn't go anywhere they
were just delayed so instead of getting
10 pounds of muscle in a year because
you die to the first year you get five
but then the next
from year to year
in six months you can gain all or almost
all that five pounds maybe you lose a
half a pound or something there
and you still get 10 pounds of muscle a
year one and a half the thing is the
alternate universe you who never did the
diet they're just like six months ahead
of you in muscle gain but doesn't mean
you fundamentally missed something it's
not like new gains are like this thing
that if you diet through it's just like
this clock and as soon as your year
gains run out you're like cinderella
scott was that cinderella
did the whole midnight thing with the
pumpkin
it was yeah i remember the shoe and only
the shoe for some reason why would you
wear a crystal shoe that's nonsense
so
uh you basically it's not something that
times out it's always there for you and
if you die through it it comes back when
you stop dieting now there's here's
thing if you never stop dieting like you
got to 150 and you're just never going
to get bigger than 150 pounds no
your new gains will always be waiting
for you when you want but you're not
going to collect on them and that's kind
of your problem right
next noob gains question
is it
all muscles that experience new gains or
is it per muscle
right so let's say you've trained upper
body for three years and you've
neglected your legs like a terrible
person i might add and now you're like
okay i've seen way too many you know uh
squat everyday videos i need to start
training my legs this is bullshit i'm
missing out on all the fun and do you
have noob leg gains for the first year
the answer is absolutely yes
your legs will blow up now there are
some caveats to that if you're already
really big and really jacked
let's say your whole body's jacked but
you really haven't paid attention to
your biceps much you're like a strong
man competitor or something or a power
lifter and now you're transitioning to
bodybuilding
will your biceps grow super fast like
they would for a noob almost except they
have to compete with the systemic
fatigue and the nutrient demands of all
your other gigantic muscles that are
still busy growing themselves or at
least maintaining their abilities so
uh the gain rate overall may not be as
impressive but it's still way more
impressive than like what you would
expect for someone who's been lifting
weights for eight years so mostly for
the most part that effect is local so if
you have never trained your forearm
flexors and
if you straps your whole career or
something if you start training them and
you know how to train them you've been
on the
unnamable websites in the adult side of
the internet if you start doing that
yeah your forms will kind of grow like
you're a noob and same for your calf
same for your hamstrings for your legs
etc which is great news because if you
want to bring up a body part or muscle
group that you really didn't focus on
you know there's no need for like a
fatalist attitude of like dude i've
already been training for eight years it
gets pointless there's no way my biceps
are going to grow
did you really ever try growing your
biceps i don't know i've done rows and
pull-ups and stuff like trust me you
start training your biceps you'll get
really really good results and that's
just the fact of the matter
all right
last point of the day
what if i never got my new gains i've
been lifting for two years and never got
my new gains am i fucked to use a
scientific term
maybe your genetics could just be meh
and remember exactly 50
of all people
have below average genetics in any
measurable trait so
you could i could be you but hold on
maybe not maybe your genetics are fine
but they're tailored less towards a lot
of starting growth and then a flat line
some people have genetics that likely
allow them to grow slow but for a longer
time and maybe they can get really
really jacked if they just keep it up
that could be you that could be you so
don't rule it out and sometimes people
really get some shit really wrong and if
they fix it it opens up a wellspring of
games like fuck me of course like if
your idea of leg pressing is like eighth
reps which is like many people
as soon as someone teaches you full
range of motion squats and leg presses
and lunges you may be like oh uh
turns out i don't have problems growing
my quads i've just been a total dumbass
and have been training super wrong
sometimes if you fix your intensity like
you literally just had no idea what hard
training really was finally got a
training partner that started yelling at
you saying various curse words in front
of you um making fun of you in front of
other members of the gym and you're like
i hate this guy his worst training
partner ever you go hard and all of a
sudden you're getting great gains turns
out you were like six reps in reserve
your whole
whole first year of training and then
someone's like hey guess what you're
going close to failure now and they
could you can multiply your gains
technique as mentioned before could just
be radically altered frequency of
training um a lot of females experience
this females tend to have muscles that
recover quite quickly if females train
legs once a week that's the equivalent
of the average male training legs like
every week and a half or two weeks
that's like frat bros do fat bro stay
calm no offense fraternity i know you
guys prefer that uh if that's the case
they'd get like you know some growth but
not a ton and like no one would ever do
that i say at least once a week right
well for females they're a lot of times
tiny and their muscles are tiny they
recover really fast so they do the
average bro split they train legs once a
week and they may not gain uh very
impressive gains at all and then they go
to a two time a week leg split or a
three time leg split and they just blow
up like crazy because they're not
spending half the week just maintaining
their gains and the other half losing a
little bit they're now actually growing
muscle the entire time so um this can
happen
however
the ultimate way to figure this out is
do your best to do
your due diligence watch all of our
videos so they monetize and your boy
gets a lamborghini that's the most
important thing you can do in your life
and once you're doing things pretty damn
well i would say a real good
college try
is three years of decent effort good
nutrition good training
and see how your gains are especially uh
in your last year
and see based on how your gains have
been and how far you've come and how
much you've enjoyed the journey and how
difficult it is uh to see if you want to
keep going or if you want to pick a new
hobby or just go to maintenance and pick
another hobby to fill up the time uh or
even if it's just like well i'm gonna
train one more year and see because i
like some of the stuff going on even
though i'm not totally geeked about it
so if you haven't gotten your new gains
or just super underwhelming make sure
you've done all the stuff pretty well
and if you haven't given another year of
doing it super well really try to figure
out if it's the intensity problem
frequency problem technique etc
i will say this and this is kind of a
more realistic down note to finish this
video on if you didn't if you've done
stuff pretty damn well
and you look at people on instagram that
you're following like pro bodybuilders
you're like he's training wrong he's an
idiot that's stupid and you're not
getting a ton of gains training for a
few years pretty damn right and eating
and trying to gain weight uh yeah it's
probably genetics and you're probably
not ever really going to be super super
jacked and you know what most of the
best people in the world are not super
jacked and nobody cares
so
hugh hefner look him up was never jacked
got laid a few times so i've heard only
in theory for me folks i've certainly
blabbed enough
see you next week for a related video oh
boy what's it gonna be exciting see then
you