hey folks Dr Mike here for rosom
periodization and I implore you to stop
doing clickbait
training what is it that I
mean by that well it all starts and ends
with Hollywood as is per usual I've
recently been doing a lot of Hollywood
workout reviews maybe you've seen a few
of them they're
hilarious and the trainers there mostly
seem to do weird stuff like a lot of
unbalanced
training a lot of needless unilateral
work like we're going to do one dumbb
press at a time with one arm okay you
got two fucking arms why don't you do
two at a
time a lot of complex circuits like
you're GNA do this and then this and
then this and then lift here and then
run over here and do these cable things
like okay it's a lot of running
around a lot of jumping and bounding
versus just lifting like you get the
female clients they get in Hollywood and
you got to jump up on a box and then
raise one leg and then jump off the box
and pick up a
dumbbell hold on a second AR lifting
weights here what is it that we're
trying to do in the gym I think that
gets lost and in reality we're only
trying to do one thing in the gym is get
results and almost everyone in the gym
Hollywood people train almost all those
people for sure are trying to gain
muscle or lose fat in particular parts
of their body period what drives those
best results if that's what you want
barbells dumbbells and machines lifted
in relatively stable ways
deep ranges of motion for big stretches
with
pauses exercises that Target actual
muscles like you want a Hollywood actor
that get in big shoulders you're not
going to do some kind of snatch jump
throw thing you're going to do lateral
raises or upright rows you pick the
exercise to Target the muscle that you
want to get bigger that's how training
works and all of that in a structured
way that adapts progressively with the
client needs over time you started
squatting 100 pound for five reps at the
end of several months preparing for a
Hollywood roll maybe you're squatting
130 PB for sets of eight that's progress
that's what we should be aiming for the
basics in a tailored customized way to
what the athlete actually needs to what
the client actually needs to what the
actor actually needs and then you thread
that out over time to make it more
challenging that is the best training
and how it works and yes I do have a PhD
in this wave your flag Mike I am
waving so why do folks fall for it by Mr
PhD how come all these Hollywood
celebrity trainers are doing all this
well nonsense with their
clients first why do people fall for it
generally in social media because
celebrity trainers do it they see JLo's
workout and they go I'm gonna do that
give me a bunch of stair steppers to
step down and up
onto a lot of these trainers that do
this stuff they do it because they want
to seem like they have something special
and novel if you come into my training
studio and I just have you barbell squat
you're like fucking really everyone does
this I think but if I have you barbell
squat off one leg having a fucking your
hand here with a live rooster on it it's
novel it's special it's new this this is
the thing I think I'm paying you for
right this is where the results come
from that's how people
feel and a lot of times trainers do this
kind of stuff because they want to
entertain their clients they want to
keep things fun one of the guys was
honest enough on the workout review
where he was like yeah like a lot of
clients that come in they they wanted
keep things fun and one of the clients
actually at one point some was one
Hollywood guy was like yeah like I hate
training so anything that makes more fun
is
great there's something to that I'll say
that in a bit but that's why they do it
is because it's fun it's quirky it's new
it's different it's novel and a lot of
the people that are consuming this
content and a lot of people that train
like this they just don't know any
better they don't watch RP videos like
you do they don't know anything about
sport or exercise science they're just
think oh like the famous trainer does
this or a famous celebrity does this it
must work there is a better approach fun
is totally great fun in the gym is
amazing but fun has to be hemmed in
confined to the things that drive
results the best because at the end of
the day if you wanted to have pure fun
you'd go to the club you'd go to the
lounge you'd go to the pool you'd go to
the beach you wouldn't go to the fucking
gym the gym is the last place in the
world is sharp weird shiny weights and
clangy and noise and everyone's sweaty
that's that a fun place well the sweaty
part's pretty fun that the club has that
too you go to the gym because you're
there to get results and you don't want
to mess with the results part which when
you get to the gym whatever it is you do
has to be served with a hot steaming
plate of hard work on barbells dumbbells
and machines progressing you from tough
to tougher over time if you can do that
you're going to get amazing results you
can have fun doing it but don't genison
the
effect just to get the fun and by the
way we have the RP hypertrophy app which
guides you through all of these phases
helps you choose all the exercises
choose your muscle groups programs the
weights for you after the first week in
which you pick them to make sure you're
being challenged appropriately and that
app will push you because results is
number one because all that app Money
directly flows to my Butlers who go and
buy my fleet of am Lamborghinis and
maintain it it makes me happy as well
Link in the description if you want to
learn more advanced sciency stuff on
exactly what training should look like
to be effective our members area is
something you might want to look into
the app is for sale right in the
description and if you have a problem
with anything I'm saying GE was can't we
just all get along I'm kidding come talk
some shit on the comments I'll see you
guys there
peace