we don't lie on this channel we don't
talk about bullshit scams that we
promote we just talk about real regular
shit that takes a while it's tough but
it fucking work so anyone who's telling
you something else we probably lying to
you hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance
periodization and today I'm going to
talk to you about the dos and don'ts of
New Year's resolution dieting practices
and there are quite a few don'ts but
luckily a few do so those of you new to
the channel I am Dr Mike gel I'm a
professor of sport and exercise science
competitive bodybuilder competitive
Brazilian jitu Grappler and this channel
is really all about teaching you guys
how to train how to diet how to recover
so you can be your physical best the
mental stuff I don't anything about that
that's all up to you in any case today's
topic diet don'ts we're going to do
don'ts but then I'm going to follow them
up with the opposite of what to do we've
got a
few this is not a comprehensive list
it's not an inclusive list but it's
going to hit a couple of the big topics
and you're going to see folks around you
and maybe you and past New Year's
resolutions committing and having
committed some of these same well zigs
when you should have
zagged first
don't feel the need to start your diet
exactly on January 1 I don't know what
it is but Jan one or Jan two everybody's
run into the healthy aisle of the
grocery store it's the new week new day
new year even the reality is just start
in January if you insist on New Year's
res solutioning start when it's
convenient you know first week back you
might have a lot of school stuff going
on you might have a lot of work stuff
going on I mean I'm a professor and also
have a job I have both right so first
week of January there a lot of stuff
going on just eat
normal whatever then after a week or two
or three when everything kind of settles
down or you're back from the holidays
throwing the the gunk off you can focus
more diligently on on doing it right so
don't feel like you need to rush at all
next don't give yourself a very
aggressive diet goal a lot of people get
that that energy man they get that like
worst shape I've ever been after the
holidays which look real talk that could
be a thing and then they have this
psychological little switch in their
mind they goes well how bad of shape
I've gotten and boy I better do
something radical right it's if you're
on a you know let's say you're on some
kind of bicycle rocket power downhill
machine
if you're going really too fast people
are like pull the brake shoot you got to
pull the shoot you can't just use the
brace it's got to be something big huge
parachute comes out pops you off the
bike but then you don't go off the cliff
and die people get that same mentality
when they're talking about like oh man
I'm in real bad shape over the holidays
would I get in there and diet oh my God
I'm gonna do a crazy diet I'm gonna lose
all this
weight crazy diets almost always set
people up for failure because they are
too difficult to continue to do this
just
reality do
instead start with an easy to moderate
goal that you can knock out of the park
but will still make an impact I would
say something like 10 to 12 weeks of
dieting with a goal of 5 to 8% body
weight loss during that time that's not
crazy amount that's like a pound or half
a pound or pound and a half every week
for 10 or 12 weeks almost anyone can
sustain that is it GNA make you look
like a completely different person no is
it gonna make like a leaner healthier
version of you yes
later in the year when you want to do
another diet you can do that again and
then again and then again and over the
long term you can get in great shape so
there's no such thing as I'm just going
to really go hard and get all these
results next don't change all of your
eating habits at once guys think about
it let's say you have a family member
that wants to do a New Year's resolution
so you're going to send them this video
to be like don't do all this wrong stuff
what do folks like that typically do
they're I'm St to eat healthy what does
that mean remember we got to do this for
a sport science analysis there are
layers to this there's a change to
calories there's a change to the kind of
food they're eating there's a change to
the number of meals they're eating
there's a change to the structure of
each meal there is a change to the
amount of time between meals there's a
change to which meal is bigger and
smaller there's a change to the specific
food groups eaten in specific meals and
so on Down the Line there are 50
variables to think about that are all of
dieting that's a lot lot of stuff man
and each one is a habit change remember
only with habits can you sustainably
make the kind of changes that help you
in the long term and what do we also
know about habits habits like smoking
for example are ingrained systems of
behavior and it is because they
ingrained that it allows you to easily
continue to do them with almost no
effort nobody has to remind themselves
to to go out and have a smoke you know
maybe you don't uh uh that that has a
chemical component Doom scrolling
scrolling through Reddit for no reason
with fuck fuck fuck getting pissed
nobody reminds you that you do it
automatically because it's ingrained but
precisely because it's ingrained it's
kind of autonomous that means that
changing it is difficult you have to
train pull yourself out of doing wrong
habits meal number meal timing meal size
meal composition total calories blah
blah blah that is including sorry where
you go to buy your food which aisle or
even which store which restaurants you
used to go to but you go to different
ones now the healthier ones all these
are habits one habit is hard to change
would you think about 50 habits what are
you crazy sometimes people are crazy
which is why a huge fraction of all of
us in this beautiful world of ours this
week will have started a new diet and an
enormous fraction will fail one of the
reasons they fail is just trying to
change way too much stuff out of the bat
my recommendation instead to do another
thing start with two or three big
changes and just keep it there for the
whole rest of the diet about 12 weeks
once you're good with them and can
maintain you stop losing weight after 12
weeks you eat a little bit more food let
your body cool down you have two to
three ingrained habits that you can lean
on that you do automatically the next
time you want to do a diet they're there
for you and then you can ingrain a
couple more habits so in your first
experience here hopefully you try to do
this kind of correctly more correctly
than not being factious
um this New Year's resolution what you
can die what you can try to do is do
something like okay habit one I'm going
to be mostly healthy foods right lean
meats veggies fruits whole grains
healthy fats that's habit one anything
that touches my body or most things are
going to be healthy easy to do habit two
I'm going to try to load a bit bit more
protein than usual with each meal
because I'm also lifting weights blah
blah blah using the RP hypertrophy up
link in description in any case if you
just do two things eat mostly healthy
foods and eat more protein you will
automatically if you're quite out of
shape you're going to lose tons of fat
you're going to gain tons of muscle
amazing things are going to happen shit
let's add a third habit into there eat a
little bit until a little bit less than
usual so that you get full but never
over stuffed or you feel yourself
getting full and a meal stop so here we
got three things mostly healthy foods
higher protein than usual in each meal
or anytime you can and eat until you're
full but not over full those three
habits alone and that's a lot of habits
bro you do all the opposite shit of that
now three habits is a big deal since
someone's like I to get a job all right
breing up with your girlfriend okay and
then quit smoking now marijuana
cigarettes and you're like oh God damn
it I like Chelsea but there's no way I'm
giving up Mary Jane it's a lot three is
still a lot and it's going to make a big
impact do two or three habits and if
those work amazing you can always do
more later don't try to change it all at
the same
time next don't cut out entire food
groups oh I don't need carbs anymore I
don't need vegetables anymore Meats
that's not for me now there's one good
reason to cut out meats and that's if
you're an ethical vegan which is an
awesome morally Superior position to be
in God bless you but most of the other
reasons you're kind of stupid and don't
add up unless your doctor told you to
cut up meat or something and then
they're probably also wrong but I
digress don't worry about cutting things
out eat more in a balance just eat more
healthy stuff and less unhealthy stuff
notice it didn't say entirely if you're
out Friday night two weeks into your
diet and your wife's like do you want to
have like an ice cream cone yes yes is
it going to throw you off your plan you
know what does throw off your plan
taking the ice cream cone using it as a
chaser for opening a dimensional portal
in which already pre-prepared and
unwrapped Taco Bell treats come right
into your mouth that will throw you off
your plant don't go crazy eating
everything else but a snack here a
little BS here and there think of
pretzels no big deal don't cut out whole
food groups just increase eating the
healthy stuff decrease the unhealthy and
it's you're well on your
way next do not cut out extra stuff that
has nothing to do with actual results
and may hurt your ability to be
consistent if you cut it out what am I
talking about things like gum chewing
gum diet soda coffee in the RP clients
group on Facebook which is where a lot
of the folks that download our apps and
digital products and have coaches they
go to to Talk Amongst each other you can
join in have have some
fun we used to get more of these
questions we still get a lot of we used
to get a ton of questions of start a
diet and people be like can I have gum
can I have diet soda can I have coffee
can I have tea and as Sports scientists
who we all are at RP we us confused like
of course the things that have no
calories and they're Pleasant to consume
and the part of your day no downsides
only upsides enjoy and we were wondering
why people do that but then we realized
a lot of other diets aren't diets
specifically tailored to get you in
shape they're diets to do that but also
to give you a bit of a psychological
transformation some Spartan make hard
shit hard of myself bu bullshit like
some Jocko willing type shit except
you're not an AV SE and you don't wake
up at 4:30 in the morning you don't
actually work out hard so not like Joo
at all but I want to be in spirit like
jao but if I could just not chew gum I
can feel more like you
know a Navy SEAL that's how it works
look if you're getting way too much into
gum chewing or coffee drinking or soda
and you want to cut out or cut down dope
but don't think that has to come with
your diet CU like you'll be in the
office third week of your diet crushing
it you walk in cup of black coffee and
someone's like see that coffee cup in
your hand like yes Jim what of it and
he's like well I thought on a diet best
thing to do at that point is just splash
coffee into J motherfucker fuck out of
my way Jim's got a fucking eth degree
burn on his
face you just come up you fucking scream
I'll kill you and he's okay okay okay
okay good and I go do some fucking
faxing or whatever the shit people do in
offices clearly I was not cut out to
work in office this a true story I'm
saying except I was Jim I'm never going
to tell someone I drink coffee ever
again real talk we do not endorse
violence on this channel so when people
say hey I thought you weren't drinking
coffee be like no coffee is totally cool
because it has no calories and it gives
me a little bit of energy and what are
they going to say like oh isn't it bad
because they're like chemicals like yep
everything is chemical Bob including you
literally so save the Spartan stuff for
when you want to do Spartan stuff
dieting is hard enough as it is stick to
what works you want to chew gum drink
coffee drink diet soda fucking have at
it next don't very similar Point retool
your schedule completely to make it
Ultra difficult and Spartan again stuff
like waking up at 6:00 a.m. or earlier
going to bed at 900 P p.m. or some
people like watch one too many hubman
videos total respect huberman's a
fucking pimp lot a lot of true shit some
people take that shit too far and
they're like oh I got to go go to bed
when the Sun goes down what the what we
up here in Michigan Scott what's did
December something right now Scott would
be wait waking up at 10:00 a.m. and
going to bed at 300 p.m. that was the
case right so sometimes people
think the thing that's going to make me
good at dieting is an underg of insane
rigidity and it it is that is so true if
you have a third party enforcing the
rigidity so if you go to Military
Academy they'll help you get in shape
because they're there on that ass yeah
you will be waking up early which also
is good for you and you will be making
your beted every time which is good for
you the United States Marines going to
hook you up but there's a drill sergeant
yelling at you every fucking second that
you're awake and he damn well should be
do you have one of those around at your
regular house where you live or you're
starting a diet Challenge on January
10th no so if you make a ton of stuff
harder and you have the diet the amount
of total psychological stress from every
angle multiplies what does it do with
your chance of success diminishes can
you have crazy stress with insanely good
outcomes yes if you have an insanely
collaborative support network that
pushes you like the United States
Marines so unless you live in the bear
it's probably a good idea to start with
some shit you can definitely do and then
if you feel were real tough next year
next month next something add a little
bit more in but I think some people they
want to get in shape and they attach all
this other crazy needless stuff like I'm
gonna run every day no more this and
that oh and I got on a third one next
one so sorry the do one on here is do
just start with basic two or three
things you can change your diet start a
diet plan download the RP diet coach app
and just do what it says that's it your
sleep that if you want to improve it a
little and it's easier for you just a
gentle reminder for you to go to bed at
10 instead of 1:00 a.m. totally but if
you're like listen I'm living a whole
new different life it's probably not
going to work for you there's a chance
you can just Ascend to the next level
one in 100 99 and 100 there's a chance
that you just fall off two or three
weeks later like almost everyone
else next again very related
don't necessarily pair diet changes
because remember this is all about diet
to other lifestyle changes for example
watch too much TV you got to cut that
out you jacking off to porn too much I
know you right there you that's right
don't you space bar away from the shit I
know you you got to cut that shit out
too relationships you got to get better
about relationship you don't call the
friends you need to call enough you hang
out with that asshole too much because
he sells you weed it's all wrong dating
you got to get out there man you're not
gonna be till you're 28 years old you're
not gonna meet anyone get out there and
start dating that's something to do in
January too so you got a diet you don't
watch TV anymore you don't watch porn
anymore which is good because you're
dating put you out there relationship
trying to hang out with people no more
Doom scrolling you throw away your phone
difficult to date now but well either
way you're happier
somehow people do that stuff where they
just try to change their lives
completely and do everything right one
fucking day and they that's the ethos
that's the myth of of New Year's
resolution next year next year the
aliens came to Earth and you told them
when our calendar year starts BOS
interesting arbitrary point because it's
arbitrary yes it reflects the position
around the Sun where the Earth is and
the tilt but like why is that Jan one
why can't we make Jan one in like three
months we could no one would b a fucking
eye it's the same shit
Australians for them Jan one is like
happy happy holiday season where
everything's warm and the oceans are
beautiful that doesn't fucking look like
our Jan one up here in the north doesn't
fucking matter so it's arbitrary to
begin with why would you overload
yourself with a total life
transformation outside of reality shows
where most people fail that anyway the
shit just doesn't work for you often the
way you get good at stuff this is a
general Point by the way is to do
something a little bit challenging
that's within your ability and get it
done and feel proud and successful take
a break rest do something a little bit
harder which is now again within your
all of ability because you're better at
stuff you continue that upward Trend
doing only what challenges you but not
breaks you down and eventually you
become as good at anything as you're
ever going to get there's not a point
which this works in Reverse where like
you know what I'm going to start from
the back to the front I'm GNA do the
hardest shit I've ever done in my entire
life vomit blood and then somehow L
Ascend to be a San God Vegeta from
Dragon Ball Z can do that let me know if
you're Vegeta so I never accidentally
insult
you don't think that this diet that
you're going to do now is going to fix
everything it's going to be great but
it's not a one-hot deal to fix your life
some people think like dating
relationships promotions at work when I
lose this 15 pounds of fat fat tittied
supermodel and her friends not for sex
they're just friends because I need
friends I don't have any of those and
then um
and then my my boss I guess I sexual
favor for I don't know I'm getting
promoted too somehow no he's like me
mick how are you pretty good boss yeah
looking trip I see well thanks so much
boss here's a promotion hey Ranson yeah
you're fired amazing you just got that
guy's job unfortunately it's not the
1930s anymore oh if it only was Scott
what do you think your career would be
during the Great
Depression unemploy loyed yeah
starving is that a career oh I'm damn
good at it
though so diets are great it's going to
be great but it's not a One-Shot fix to
fix your whole life don't think that it
will be feel free to think that it will
be if you want to be disappointed
probably not going to be the case next
don't don't forget to plan for
maintenance guys when you lose all that
weight your body wants to just gain it
back that's how it works you have to
plan for a period of several months
after your diet where you still diligent
about eating mostly healthy foods you
still watch your body weight pretty
regularly you watch your physical
activity and adjust to make sure you can
actually roughly maintain your body
weight for a few months after a few
months all the hormonal factors brain
factors Etc that try to pull you back up
to your old body weight they cool off
they don't cool down completely but they
really cool off so it's easier and you
can go more or less back to normal still
mostly healthy food still lots of
physical activity and then you're Gucci
but those first few weeks and few months
you got to have a plan for that because
if your plan is like well once I'm 15
pounds lower I'll just be lower forever
two months after that you're going to be
like hey I'm up 20 pounds that happens
to almost everyone guys I know you might
have heard this before on other channels
other Instagrams and shit like oh same
old shit yo we'd all stop talking about
it if wasn't fucking happening every day
you know what I mean imagine it's 1944
and you pick up the paper like ah
another article about the war yeah the
fucking war is still on God damn it when
Hitler decides to kill himself this will
all be over well then the Japanese but
anyway I take
rest people all the time diet with no
end in sight sometimes they crash and
burn sometimes they have a date where
they stop they have no idea what they're
going to do after you got to have
fucking plan for maintenance it's a
really good thing next don't think this
is the last diet that you will ever need
one and done for the new you new year
new me guys so step back now I'm being
sarcastic as fuck lean in with me new
year new me the fuck Fu really 41 years
of your life you were one person and
then one fucking New Year's resolution
three months later people like
unbelievable you someone else I haven't
even shown you my full power now from
Dragon Ball Z maybe if you went the
hyperbolic Time Chamber or some shit
that would work but in reality you live
in an apartment in New Jersey nobody
coming there Mr Popo's not around
so this may not be the last D you ever
need because first you don't need it you
want it which is awesome go get it but
do a good job learn some skills no
grandiose moves where you try to lose
all of your 40 pounds of fat lose 5 to
8% cool it off maintain and then lose
another four to 7% you do a couple
cycles of that yes it will take a few
years you will get Real Results that
last and tldr if you don't want Real
Results that
last we run the channel for people that
do we ain't got nothing for you we don't
lie on this channel we don't talk about
bullshit scams that we promote we just
just talk about real regular shift that
takes a while it's tough but it'll
fucking work so anyone who's telling you
something else would they probably Li to
so all of our competitors Scott who are
competitors got none we're fucking at A
League of Our Own that's right really
Scott and I live in a dark basement and
barely speak to each other outside of
when the camera is recording one more
left tying it all in don't make this New
Year's resolution diet a life or death
struggle this is not your only chance to
improve yourself it's just not people
have this like state of emergency when
they're like oh New Year I got to do
something about it like most of them
don't and they're around the fucking
next year you got plenty of
time it's arbitrary timing things that
are going to work well they're going to
take a little while they're going to be
requiring patience and they're going to
require an internal Locust of control
doesn't matter what fucking date it is
your boy's at the gym for two reasons
one I want to do my best and no one else
tells me to do it internal locus of
control two is that I have nowhere else
to be and no friends and no one to talk
to me or make me feel better when I'm
sad with the weights make me feel worse
but no longer sad just in pain speaking
of
pain last point to wrap up main points
here for beginners intermediates and
advanced folks if you're a
beginner ease in aim to lose 5 to 8% of
your body weight over 10 to 12 weeks in
starting sometime in January or
so nothing crazy have a maintenance plan
for after we've got tons of playlists at
RP about maintenance
eating if you're an intermediate
integrate the knowledge you have already
from the times you've dieted before
there's no need reason to reinvent the
wheel you know what worked for you this
isn't your first diet do what worked
best modify or avoid what worked worst
iterate learn get in better shape
continue on it won't be your first diet
of your life won't be your last diet of
even this
year for the
advanced very short main points Advanced
lifters are almost by definition
self-directed it does not matter what
time of the year it is you got plans for
your own shit so new New Year's
resolution situation should be related
to your
plans and on that somber
note the basement becomes dark again
Scott are no longer uh Scott and I are
no longer on speaking
terms what what can you say to a man
with perfect hair when God damned you to
be
bald you can only say I'm jealous so
many
times I'm jealous see you next
time