oh we got gain stimulated but we need to
turn that off cuz we don't want to get
too jacked so we use a reliable method
to reduce muscle growth which is cooling
the muscle down after exercise isn't
that nice I'm not kidding at all
cryotherapy in multiple independent
peer-reviewed studies has caused
reductions in muscle growth what it does
do is it reduces inflammation so if
you're a competitive athlete that
doesn't care about muscle growth like an
Olympic sprinter in their last week
before the Olympics and they feel a
little too tight and sore they can get
the cryo it can reduce that so they can
run their best race ever win the gold
and not give a that that race
didn't stimulate a little bit more
muscle growth than normal or the races
before didn't if you're actually working
out to try to get jacked muscles the
amount of cry therapy you should be
doing approximately as science
understands it today is zero and better
if it's negative which means not only do
you do zero but you tell your friends to
do zero as well Pay It Forward folks