[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike user tell here for
Renaissance period ization continuing a
grand tour of the Renaissance diet 2.0
book which is linked in the description
chapter 8 hunger management so it's
called hunger management you think maybe
if it's a diet book it would just be
called hunger reduction but we'll get to
that in just a bit so why is hunger a
big deal here's the get to that - in
just a bit part hunger can be a real big
problem when you're trying to lose fat
and you have to eat less and less food
throughout the course of the diet now
that's pretty obvious we'll get to all
that in just a second so slightly less
obvious part is for the much smaller
minority of folks who are gaining weight
intentionally eating mostly healthy and
performance enhancing foods which means
not a ton of junk food and are trying to
get more muscle the thing is if you eat
a lot for a while your hunger actually
becomes an impediment because it's so
low and so small you kind of have to
start stuffing yourself and that can be
really hard
now of course clearly if we can reduce
hunger when we're dieting to lose fat
that's also a huge benefit that's why
this chapter is called hunger management
because their strategies in it to both
increase your hunger if you need to
pound more food so to speak to get in
the calories to get bigger or if you're
trying to get smaller
there are definitely strategies in there
to make your hunger less of a thing so
that you can continue to diet lose fat
get the results so on and so forth so
particularly for the fat loss side why
is hunger such a big deal number one is
adherence it's a vast majority of people
that have trouble with diets at one
point or another some of that trouble is
gonna be hunger related right diets are
hard cuz you don't get to eat what you
want and a lot of times because they
make you hungry and if you're hungry at
some point you're just gonna slip up so
to speak and cheat so to speak and go
over on calories and some people you
know will go over on calories that a
sheer board on it's a little bit less of
a defensible thing it's like geez can't
you just commit to it okay fine
when you start to get hungry it's real
hard to stick to a diet because there's
a sort of guttural ancestral response
not sort of it really is ancestral
pushing you to try to consume as much
food as is needed to get your body
weight back in the normal range what
your body thinks is well you used to
weigh all the time
so if you're trying to make a change for
the better and lose some fat hunger
kicks in the lower you go and body fat
and the more weight you lose from what
your body's used to over the last
several months or years the more hunger
gets turned up bigger the problem is
there's a thing let's say that you will
yourself through it and you don't really
reduce your hunger you just kind of deal
with it so adherence is not a problem
first of all you know 3 cheers for you
that's a good thing however the battle
isn't over you could say well if I can
just will power through it I don't need
anti-hunger strategies you can still
benefit from here's how the amount of
willpower that it takes to deal with
hunger right you're hungry you're pissed
and you've got to just are whatever I'm
just gonna do this it causes stress
stress will make you lose muscle it'll
hormonal II make fat loss more difficult
it'll make your training less productive
and let you train less heart and so on
and so forth stress is real bad it's
also really bad for your health but even
just to perform some body composition
signs of stress is bad in almost every
single way you could measure not acute
stress from exercise and hard training
chronic stress and you will have chronic
stress if you're hungry all the time so
that's a bad deal next one is sleep if
you're hungry some of you folks may very
well who remember these times dieting
you're so hungry that you'd have trouble
sleeping or you wake up in the middle of
the night super starving you want to eat
food but you can't soon as you get
hungry enough your sleep quality and
quantity may be impacted and sleep is
huge - the fat burning process so maybe
if we were found ways to reduce our
hunger when we needed to and potentially
increase it when we need to we could
deal with a lot of these problems and
dieting will be that much better well
let's get to the point here what are the
ways in which we can modulate hunger
quick grant or all the explanations in
deep insight are in the book which is
linked in the description so first
strategy is calorie density we're going
to use the example here and this
video of strategies that reduce hunger
if you want strategies that expand
hunger those are found in the book as
well calorie density if you eat salad
that is the size of a huge bowl it's not
very calorie dense let's say it has a
thousand calories in it you eat it and
it fills you up like crazy because it's
a ton of food with you know certain
decent out of calories and you'll just
be full and just not hungry at all and
probably four hours an hour zero oh my
god is it's difficult to eat this much
food on the other hand if you have a
shake some fries on a cheeseburger that
thousand calories that's just probably
the cheeseburger alone right it goes in
super quick and all of a sudden you're
like I couldn't eat more right or a
couple hours later learn definitely more
so if you focus on more calorie dense
foods which tend to be the less
processed kind especially green veggies
fruits and whole grains for your carbs
if you focus on those more you can
actually get more bang for the buck
hunger wise being full wise next up is
the satiety index or a concept called
FPR h food palatability reward
hypothesis it's a really really awesome
idea and basically what it says and this
is a little bit intellectual but bear
with me if you eat lots of tasty foods
you want to eat more tasty foods right
so if it's a basically summed up in that
slogan for the chips commercials back in
the 90s you can't eat just one man it
really is tough to eat just one potato
chip
why because you get the one potato chip
it hits every single taste bud it's
amazing right chips taste good and you
want another one right the question is
how many chips can you eat until you get
full it's a certain number for everyone
it's a pretty high number you can get
through a whole bag of Eli loops right
and that's thousands of calories right
there
what about like just broccoli florets
how many of those can you ever some what
a friend gives you a block with broccoli
fryer on all our guys is so delicious I
just can't stop eating them not really
right much lower chance of that so
here's the thing as you go through a
diet you're gonna want to
these tasty super high-calorie foods
that are gonna want you to eat more food
having half a cheeseburger is like an
exercise in torture right all you want
is the other half and then three or four
other halves after that but if you eat
food that's not disgusting but just not
amazing as the diet gets really gnarling
you get really hungry it's a good idea
and it actually works if you have some
you know oatmeal some chicken and some
broccoli you know you're gonna eat it
because you're hungry and then you're
gonna be done and people are gonna kid
you just want more of that and you're
starving you're like not really right
but if you eat like a quarter of a
cheeseburger and half of a shake and two
fries which is a calorie equivalent to
like a good plate of chicken and oatmeal
you're gonna just want way more of that
so that's gonna be the feedback loop
turns out foods are ranked by how much
they fill you up or how much hungrier
they make you the satiety index it's
available online it's available in a
book so give that a shot next one is
protein intake super simple the more
protein you eat in your diet the less
hunger you experience so as you get
deeper into a diet you can consider
increasing your protein intake in the
context of keeping your calories in
check so just add protein you got to
subtract fat and low carbs but it's
usually worth the trade-off to a point
timing bias this is really simple gonna
give one example there's others in the
book if you're really not a morning
person you don't really like to eat a
lot in the morning and you're on a fat
loss diet so you don't get to eat and
everything everything you want what's
the point of waking up and stuffing
yourself with oats and turkey bacon and
eggs you hate eating breakfast right oh
my god this is like work only to take
those calories use them for breakfast
which is totally fine and then in the
evening you have like a little protein
shake and you're starving your brains
off because you usually like to eat more
in the evening so if you happen to be a
morning person just eat a little less in
the morning maybe start the morning with
a protein shake save most of your food
for the evening that way you get a same
number of calories for today identical
weight loss almost exactly the same body
composition changes in performance
except you just eat when you're hungry I
stand everything fits super well
super simple idea fiber the more fiber
you eat the less hunger you are which is
why eating a diet high in veggies fruits
and whole grains great idea
when you're dining to lose fat liquid
calories in a books discussion about how
to get a ton of calories when you're
trying to gain weight liquid calories
are a huge weapon in the sense that you
take them in super easily they don't
make you feel super full and you're
pretty hungry shortly thereafter now if
that's a good strategy to gain weight to
make hunger higher or potentially not
depress it as much boy is that really
bad strategy for fat loss right so if
you're on a diet you're losing a lot of
fat you're cutting your calories a lot
maybe lower how many shakes you have
through the day maybe for drinking
juices and sodas replace those
carbohydrates and the juice with food
like instead of drinking a glass of
orange juice but you can drink just like
Layla wasn't even there eat an orange
instead hack for a regular glass of
orange juice that's like 2 or 3 oranges
2 or 3 every 3 oranges in a row - I'm
just tired of chewing this stuff they're
gonna be full for a long time so as you
get deeper into a diet for fat loss
make sure you have less liquid calories
coming in in more solid food calories
another cool trick very related is if
you sit down at a dinner table and this
is good for folks who are going out to
eat and maybe don't have an exact that
macro plan but even if they do during a
diet what you do is you sit down and
you're about to have some food and
you're like I really don't want to
overdo it
drink one tall glass of water or diet
coke or something a lot of fluid right
away and what you do is actually expand
the stomach and all of a sudden your
stomachs ache yeah I guess we're not as
hungry as we thought and then if you eat
a little bit more slowly or you wait
some minutes after drinking the fluid
there's a delay effect - which helps you
not overeat a ton on the other hand if
you're trying to gain weight as soon as
the food arrives
don't waste your precious time drinking
non-caloric liquid so instead of that
you want a sip an orange juice with the
meal and you want to eat not super fast
that you choke or something but get to
it there's your stomach after 20 30 40
minutes your gastrointestinal tract is
like hey I think we're getting kind of
full do you can outpace that a little
bit you can stuff yourself and gain a
lot of calories opposite is true for
your fat loss dieting so one thing you
don't want to do is
when you sit down to eat a meal not have
any liquids and rush to eat the food if
you're trying to lose fat and you're
trying to get the most anti hunger bang
for the bucket of every meal drink a
good deal of fluid before you start and
especially slow down your eating just a
bit I think things will work out a
little bit better for you
last but not least stimulants really do
work so if you're a caffeine user and
you like to coffee so on and so forth
diet cokes if you have a few more of
them throughout the day and they usually
depress appetite careful though cuz you
don't want to use them too close to
sleep time interfere with sleep all
sorts of bad things happen here's the
deal what are you gonna do as far as
using these strategies do you just as
soon as you start a fat loss diet do you
just use every single one of these and
you're like okay anti-hunger all the way
like I'm eating food that's not that
tasty it's no liquid meals check every
box absolutely not because when you just
start a diet your hunger is not that
crazy so what you want to do instead is
when you start a diet and you're not
hungry all is well keep eating
relatively normally healthy balanced so
on and so forth as you start to notice
that hunger is becoming a problem start
interjecting a couple of these
strategies to some extent not all-out
right so maybe like reduce some of your
liquid calories and maybe eat a little
bit more protein and maybe time your
food a little bit more to when you're
hungry and not to when you're not and
the hunger will sort of go away and then
as the die keeps going to come back a
little stronger then use more and more
these strategies this is what we call
climbing or going down the hedonic
staircase right you don't ever want food
to become SuperDuper pleasurable and
desirable when you're on a fat loss diet
right because then you'll just overeat
and it'll be a real real bad deal on the
other hand when you're trying to gain
weight you don't ever want food to be so
sure like that you just stop you know
like I'm done I can't eat anymore right
so you want to make sure that food
pleasure is relatively even as you get
hungry or use anti-hunger strategies and
foods that pleasure stays more or less
even and as you try to gain weight on
purpose use more pro hunger strategies
as hunger tries to drop off use those
strategies if you want more details that
in the book chapter 8 folks i'll see you
next time for chapter 9
[Music]