people just say it they say that she's
bad and they usually don't even know why
it's just like lame or whatever and
they're like uh the Smith machine it's
not hardcore enough
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and on today's episode of
BS don't worry I get to swearing later
is the idea the BS idea that the Smith
machine is no good it's no good most of
this comes from quote unquote hardcore
Bros who uh they don't know why they say
it but they say stuff like the Smith
machine is
ghastly it's just ghastly darling they
say another word it also starts with a g
which as of the 20 whatever the fuck
Year we're not allowed to say and
understandably to a certain extent in
any case jokes and jokes people but I
digress number two
that was Point number one people just
say it they say this when she is bad and
they usually don't even know why it's
just like lame or whatever and they're
like uh the Smith machine it's not
hardcore enough but that's not really a
reason that's just another word placing
them
to substitute what would be an
explanation
now if they were trying to explain
themselves and they actually knew things
they would say maybe something like this
a couple of things maybe three one is
some good reason to believe that
when you have a frictionless environment
roughly so with a free barbell movement
for example you get the full eccentric
load and an even concentric load so
eccentric to concentric ratio is the
same same load same Force production
requirement and thus you get the full
power of a loaded eccentric if you have
a Smith machine especially one that's a
little bit Rusty and old
on the way down the rusty old shit
actually decreases how much weight you
have to lift because the weight rides
the rust
and friction on the way down means you
don't have to impart as much force on
The Eccentric and on the way up you
actually have to fight the friction
which means The Eccentric Force
requirement drops the concentric lifts
the amount of total weight you have to
use matches the Concentra because if
you're concentrically going to do 10
reps well you can't use more than that
the load has to drop and thus The
Eccentric load drops the concentrics As
Good As It Ever Was maybe better The
Eccentric drops and that eccentric
lowering is probably more growth
inducing on average than the concentric
were at least as good and you're missing
some of it the eccentric growth is super
important and on a Smith machine you
probably get less of it by some margin
than with free weights so technically
speaking theoretically you could see a
potential reduction in set for set
weight from weight matched growth Maybe
in addition another critique is that a
Smith machine for athletes or for people
interested in real world strength
wrestlers people who like lift up like
movers or something people who are
trying to lift their groceries and stuff
the lack of free motion means not as
much involvement of stability and that
means a lower transfer to real world
strength the legitimate legitimate
critique absolutely and then lastly the
lack of free motion means that if you
use it wrong it can really screw up your
joints if you put your feet too far back
or too far forward in a Smith machine
squat you can really fuck up your back
or really fuck up your knees
as you lose a degree of Freedom with how
the bar moves and then like it just puts
your back and knees into a shitty
position a position that is almost
impossible to get into in a regular
squat that's free weight because if your
knees feel weird just shift your hips
back and now it takes the stress off the
knees if the back feels weird you'll
shift your weight forward and the knees
take the load so you get an even
distribution of load you can't really
aggravate stuff nearly as easily but on
a Smith machine your bottom is locked
top is locked and you could really get
into a situation where you expose your
joints in a not nice way and you might
not even know you're doing it until
three weeks later you're like
fucking elbows hurt this sucks so if
you're using the smith machine wrong you
might not know about it it takes a lot
of insight to be able to use it properly
it's probably not going to hurt your
joints but it really really can in a way
that free weight auto corrects
number three
here's the real deal so yes there are
critiques against the Smith machine but
here's the point number three if you use
the Smith machine right if you use it
correctly it's a fine variation and in
fact a great tool because it's like 10
exercises in one you can do rows on it
you can do deadlifts you can do inverted
rows you can do pull-ups you can do flat
press incline press skull crusher
upright row holy crap it's a lot of
exercises in one it's a great tool that
you can use and what do I mean by write
how do you use the Smith machine
correctly that means adjusting your
positioning if your joints feel
uncomfortable or weird or if they have
pain if you're doing Smith machine close
grip bench you're like ow
ow ow slide up or down the fucking bench
and be like okay that feels better
because with the barbell everything
autocorrects anyway so it feels weird on
one you can always move the bar in your
own hands with a Smith machine that bar
only goes up and down it doesn't do shit
else so it's up to you to get the right
settings if you can do that it doesn't
take a ton of insight if you don't know
how to properly position yourself look
at some YouTube videos get on the team
full ROM Forum we'll critique your
Technique and Link down below I had to
say it uh or just find someone
knowledgeable and ask them to look at
your Technique and you can work out in a
Smith machine in a totally safe Ultra
effective way without having to throw
out the baby with the bath water
when people say the Smith machine sucks
adding no context or Nuance I get the
same face that Arnold did when he rolled
down that hill in the Martian landscape
and fucking Total Recall which is a
legendary movie
I really hope he did the voice acting
for that because that was a fucking
legendary disagree with me think the
Smith machine is terrible and I'm evil
see you in the comments below