hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and getting the basics
right
in your training and in your diet is
responsible for the vast proportion of
your gains
the rest of it mostly just comes down to
your genetics
so if that's really the case what does
it mean to get the basics right it's
nice to say that term the basics I gotta
get a feeling about it barbells and
handlebar mustaches and lifters from the
50s I don't know what the hell I'm
saying what are the basics how do you
know you're doing the right stuff to
nearly guarantee most of your results
will be unlocked well don't worry we
have a
three-point list
in training
the basics means the following things
first
your Technique is at least targeting the
muscle that you want you're getting a
pump and a burn and tension of the
target muscle and the technique doesn't
erect your joints to where you can't do
the same exercise two weeks in a row
because you're too beat up anything
within that is good now there's always
the better and better technique but at
least technique that stimulus Target
muscle and doesn't wreck the joints now
you may have gone to the average gym and
seen maybe about 25 percent of people
not even check those two boxes you'll
watch a lady doing something with a
cable and you're like exactly what
muscle does she think that's working who
knows you'd watch somebody deadlift with
the most crooked you've ever seen
you're like that guy's never going to be
back at the gym because he's going to be
living at the hospital from now on so
make sure you get those two right
better technique is better but at least
make sure you're hitting the target
muscle and not just having instant
injury results
next your relative effort has to be high
which means you have to be pushing the
bar or the cable or the dumbbell to
where it slows down in your sets
regularly if you can do a set of ten
same Pace put it down walk off you're
not training hard enough you are not
hitting the basics but if you get even
one rep into that oh that grind Zone
you're good to go
you're going to be getting a lot of
results and a big fraction of the
results you've got coming to you anyway
with genetics and some of the other
variables
if you intend on continuing to make
things challenging as you get stronger
the amount of weight and or reps
required to get you to grind will go up
so this automatically takes care of
progression as long as you're training
with a high relative effort getting into
that grind zone for your working sets on
average progression takes care of itself
next is volume very simple at least two
to three sets per muscle group per
session and frequency is at least two
sessions per week two to four sessions
per week and three to ten sets per
muscle group per session give you just
about the optimum results per any muscle
group that you want to train so if you
want to get really big legs and you tell
me your relative effort is high your
Technique is decent
you train your legs with anywhere
between three and ten working sets per
muscle let's say your quads get four
working sets per session anywhere
between two and four sessions a week
you're going to be gaining a lot of leg
size and anything I can tell you on top
of that will just be details they can
only help you a lot in specific contexts
but mostly they'll only help a little
which is why getting the basics is so
important they actually do such
a holistic job in making sure you get
really close to your Optimum results
next what does it mean to have a
basically good diet that will get you
most of the results you got coming to
you
three to six high protein meals per day
non-negotiable
when you're trying to gain you're eating
in a calorie Surplus and thus gaining
when you're trying to lose fat you're
eating in a calorie deficit and thus
losing fat and most of your eating is in
healthy foods which is to say
lean meats veggies fruits whole grains
and healthy fats if you're not eating
total junk food all the time and one
meal a day with no protein you're well
on your way if you're doing just these
Basics any finer details to your diet
are going to be details and only a small
percentage of your gains will be
explained by them
Point number three is on recovery
how do you make sure you get the basics
of good recovery well there's really not
that many things first you get enough
sleep seven to nine hours on average but
enough to feel rested
lower psychological stress environment
just try not to be in a divorce 24 7.
lower physical stress environment if you
want to get really jacked legs don't
also be a marathon runner
and lastly proper deloading take an easy
week when you get tired and can't hit
PRS anymore active rests at least once a
year go away from Fitness altogether for
two weeks and just chill
and other fatigue management features
that are really basic like taking an off
day here and there are really good in
just about as much complexity as you
need to get most of your gains
the take home here from this entire chat
is that if you just do a good job with
these Basics as listed in this
presentation you'll get most of the
gains over time that your genetics allow
minutia
specific technique specific
periodization schemes make a minute
difference in some special circumstances
when they're really limiting factor
really screwing them up they make big
differences but that's not usually the
case usually they make small differences
if you compete if you're really trying
to milk it out it fitnesses your career
or really enveloping hobby Hey listen
get the minutia if you like just be
prepared for them to give you very small
dividends but if you're not into the
minutia and you just do these Basics
you're going to get excellent excellent
results without having to over worry
about all these crazy details
if you do like to worry about crazy
details stop worrying and join our
members situation here on YouTube the
members area of the channel you get
extra videos and not videos that will
appear on the regular channel the extra
extra bonus bonus they're not any better
they're just different they're nerdier
and more technical because so are you
and if you really want that next level
you really really Fitness is a big deal
to you and you want all the help you get
help with coaching help with plans help
with peel inspecting your plans for you
help with people looking at your videos
of your Technique and really making it
better come join us I'm a team full ROM
Forum I'll be in there myself answering
weekly live questions
all of those links are below see you in
the comments section like subscribe and
I'll see you next time