welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
many sets do you need to optimize
hypertrophy there's somewhat been a
Resurgence of hit training with its
proponents believing lower sets could be
superior however others standby the
believe higher sets are the path to
maximal gains in this video we'll be
critically breaking down the overall
scientific research on how many sets may
be needed to build muscle effectively
before diving in know that we'll be
exploring how many sets per week you may
want to be performing per muscle so if
you perform three sets of squats on
Monday three sets on the leg press on
Wednesday and three sets on the leg
extension on Friday that's nine weekly
sets for the quads in all the studies
each set is repetitions performed at
least three reps away from failure which
as detailed in the previous video is
virtually ideal for hypertrophy warm-up
sets are not included in these weekly
set counts let's dive
[Music]
in this meta analysis published in 2017
combined the results of all the studies
at that time finding performing nine or
more weekly sets per muscle produced
greater muscle gains than fewer than
nine sets the researchers also split the
numbers like this indicating that 10 or
more weekly sets per muscle produced
greater gains than 5 to9 and fewer than
five weekly sets per muscle it may be
worth emphasizing although higher sets
built more muscle the lower num still
produced respectable gains there are two
considerations to this meta analysis the
majority of studies involved untrained
subjects and did not involve more than
12 weekly sets this raises the question
what about trained individuals
performing more than 12 weekly sets per
muscle a 2022 meta analysis helps us out
based on available data they were able
to compare how
intrainstitutional difference in gains
between moderate and higher volumes but
for the triceps higher volumes did
produce Superior growth at face value
these results indicate between 12 to 20
weekly sets may be sufficient to
maximize biceps and cord growth in
trained individuals while more than 20
weekly sets may be needed for the
triceps however I believe there's an
important limitation to this meta
analysis the researchers combin studies
using shorter and longer rest durations
between sets which might not TR truly be
appropriate why longer rest might make
each set more effective for building
muscle meaning fewer sets are needed to
optimize gains illustrating this concept
this paper found when performing three
sets on the leg press quad hypertrophy
was better when resting for 3 minutes
between sets compared to one however
performing five sets with one minute of
rest produce similar quad hypertrophy to
the three sets with 3 minutes of rest
therefore sh rest appear to make each
set less effective perhaps meaning a
higher number of sets may be required to
to optimize gains indeed when analyzing
the studies using short rest intervals
they all find more sets produced more
growth up to quite high 30 to 45 weekly
sets per muscle it's worth noting all
three studies had subjects divide these
sets across three days per week we need
to mention both compound and isolation
exercises contributed to these sets that
is one set on the bench press was
treated as one set for the triceps in
the same way that one set on triceps
push Downs would likewise one set on the
row was treated as one set for the
biceps in the same way that one set on
CS
would the show Ando study actually just
had compound exercises for the biceps
and triceps while for the other two
studies in blue are the weekly set
numbers from isolation exercises for the
biceps and triceps moving forward to
studies that have used longer rests
between sets as longer rest may make
each set more effective we may
hypothesize that higher sets aren't
necessarily needed indeed all three
studies find growth was optimized in the
12 to 18 weekly set per muscle range
with no clear benefit to more it's worth
noting all three studies had subjects
divide these sets mainly across two days
per week again this data counts both
compound and isolation movements here
are the set numbers in blue if we just
counted isolation sets for the triceps
and
[Music]
biceps before discussing individual
differences let's sum up some of what
we've covered with additional key points
if you're using short rest between sets
very high set numbers May optimize gains
but the sustainability and practicality
of this long-term is questionable all
three studies mention that all subjects
perform their sets to momentary muscular
failure and I know there are some people
who are skeptical of this truthfully I
don't know if all subjects did this and
it could have varied across subjects
what I do know is that in practice
training with the necessary proximity to
failure is much more challenging when
using short rest with a high number of
sets especially with lower body AC
exercises the cardio challenge May mask
and impair your ability to get close
enough to True failure furthermore I
would like to bring up this study it had
trained individuals train the biceps and
triceps with quite High volumes 28
weekly sets for each muscle from
isolation exercises and 46 weekly sets
if we included the compound exercises
short rests were also used one group
actually stretched between sets of the
first and final exercises in a session
while the second group rested normally
here are some GR depicting how each
individual grew their arm muscles in
both groups there were some cases of
people growing well but there were a
number of cases of people experiencing
very little gains including cases of
some people decreasing their size
potentially due to excessive muscle
damage this study didn't have any other
groups performing different set numbers
but I bring it up to demonstrate not
everyone experiences positive gains from
very high sets and short rests moving on
we know in studies using longer rest
between sets there's no clear benefit to
more than 18 weekly sets per muscle and
even 12 weekly sets were sufficient for
Quad gains in one study however we've
just been speaking about the average
results from the studies but luckily
some of them provide individual data
here's how each individual in each group
in the show andf study group which was
one of the papers finding more average
growth from more sets with short rests
between sets some trained individuals
still saw respectable hypertrophy with
the lowest set numbers in fact some
subjects in the lowest number groups saw
similar or more gains to others in the
higher set groups here's how each
individual in each group grew in the
heel grave study which was one of the
papers finding biceps hypertrophy was
best with 18 weekly sets when longer
rests were used again some trained
individuals still saw respectable
hypertrophy with the lowest set numbers
with some subjects in the lowest set
group growing similar or more versus the
highest set groups now this data does
not necessarily prove these subjects
grow best from lowest set numbers
because if if these subjects were in the
highest set groups they could have grown
even more fortunately though some clever
studied designs can tell us if some
people grow more from lower set numbers
or vice
versa three studies provide Insight this
recent study by Van vossel was actually
analyzed in our last video it had 21
untrained men perform 6 to eight weekly
sets per muscle with one side of their
body but 9 to 12 weekly sets per muscle
with their other side of their body
average Squad hamstrings biceps and
triceps growth was Superior with the 9
to 12 weekly sets and actually the large
bulk of individuals aligned with the
average seeing more growth from the 9 to
12 weekly sets there were only a few
cases of similar gains between both and
even fewer cases of better gains with
the 6 to8 weekly sets however another
study by Damas had 19 untrained men
performed 6 to9 weekly sets for the
quads with one leg and 15 weekly sets
for the quads with the other leg the
results of this study were a little more
mixed around 32% of subjects grew better
with the 15 weekly sets another 32%
better with the 6 to9 weekly sets while
the remaining 36% experienced similar Hy
pery between both finally a Norwegian
study had 34 untrained individuals
perform six weekly sets for the quads
with one leg and another leg performed
18 weekly sets for the quads 13
individuals saw a clear benefit from
their 18 weekly sets while three
individuals saw a clear benefit from the
six weekly sets the rest saw fairly
similar hypertrophy between both
collectively considering this data some
degree of individual differences appears
to exist certain individuals may not
always see additional benefits the
highest set numbers there are some
caveats with this data firstly the van
vossel and Damas papers also involved
different training frequencies secondly
all three studies involved untrained
individuals but I'm unaware of any
strong reason to believe this concept
wouldn't extend to trained individuals
it's currently not clear why some may
grow more more from lower or higher sets
and there's no established method you
can use to know what you may respond
best to at least yet I would just keep
this information at the back of your
mind if you're really struggling to make
progress with your current program you
could try lower or higher sets depending
on your preference and
perception speaking of progress tracking
your own training progress over the long
term can be very useful our high quality
partner the alpha progression app can
save you time by automatically
generating graphs that track your
progression with all areas of your
program which could help you understand
what may work best for you some of you
might also find it confusing and
challenging to create a training program
and I'm glad to say that app has a
seriously impressive custom workout
generator that can tailor an
evidence-based program to your precise
desires and needs in less than 1 minute
there are more than a quadrillion input
combinations on which your plan is based
with a touch of a few buttons you can
customize things further like changing
set numbers there's also a huge exercise
dat database with concise text and video
instructions on each try everything out
free for 2 weeks with a link in the
comments and description and if you like
it and decide to go beyond the link
gives you 20% off a subscription the app
is truly top tier with a review speaking
to
this in summary we saw this 2017 meta
analysis finding that nine or more
weekly sets per muscle led to Greater
gains than fewer sets the majority of
the day dat behind this was conducted on
untrained individuals and did not exceed
12 weekly sets and I do think 9 to 12
weekly sets per muscle is a solid
recommendation for beginners with
trained individuals assuming longer rest
between sets are used the current data
indicates there's no clear benefit to
performing more than 18 weekly sets per
muscle and even 12 weekly sets were
sufficient for Quad gains in one study
all of these are averages which are
solid General guidelines however there
is some data pointing towards individual
differ differences some people may grow
more with higher or lower sets as a
result if these average values don't
work for you one tool in your toolbox is
to try reducing or increasing sets
depending on your preference and
perception finally you may be wondering
about gradually adding sets across weeks
a recent study has examined this and
it's caused quite a stir across social
media mainly as it involved the highest
set numbers reported in the literature
to date in the next video at the house
of hypertrophy we'll be deciphering this
paper and its potential takeaways