Alexa Play That's that by MF
Doom shuffling that's that in similar
songs on Amazon music already woke SP a
joke barely spoke rely smok start at
folks that probably provoked mirror
broke here here morning morning here's
the ultimate gains and just in general
Life Hack That is guaranteed to work and
make you better in whatever Endeavor uh
you choose to become better at the art
of
placeboing the placebo effect is
essentially the effect of something
working just because you believe it will
work even though it may not work in
studies we often see a placebo group
being used in order to test whether a
supplement or substance or a specific
treatment actually works essentially
giving one group the actual supplement
and then the other group a placebo but
telling them that it's indeed the real
the real thing what we often see in
those studies is that even though the
placebo group is not actually consuming
the ingredient or the substance or the
whatever that they think they're
consuming simply because they think and
believe that that substance is what
they're consuming and it will work they
often experience some of the benefits of
said substance now I'm using the word
Placebo as an adjective here this is
something that me and my Social Circle
your network is your netw worth and
that's why my netw worth is in the minus
but hey ho I digress we use the term
plus seing as an adjective now here's
how the art of placeboing works you take
something that you know will probably
work but you repeatedly tell yourself
that it will do wonders for you as
simple as that that is the art of
placeboing that could be an exercise a
supplement a specific type of food a
walk a hug literally anything let's have
a look at some real life examples let's
see how you could potentially Placebo
and exercise like the squat it's winter
time you want to get bigger legs you've
prioritized Squat and you really want to
see your squat go up read all the squad
is the king of exercises articles you
can find be slightly less critical when
you see things like it will boost your
testosterone or increase your growth
hormone sure that may not be true but
all you care about is thinking that the
squad is the best thing that has ever
happened to your leg gains by far just
keep telling that every time you're
about to Squad phrases like slabs of
muscle Mass Builder are going to be the
only things that come to your mind when
you think about the squad not whether it
is the optimal exercise you already know
it's a solid exercise so you're not
doing something that won't result in the
gates but you will focus all your
attention on that particular exercise
being an absolute GameChanger for your
gains and that's how you'll treat it
every time you finish a squat workout
just imagine yourself entering some form
of growth capsule and absolutely
experiencing and reaping all the
benefits of squatting watch Tom Platt's
videos where he talks about how great
squats are is he right maybe maybe not
but all you care about at this moment is
placeboing the exercise that you've
selected for your leg training the same
goes for any other exercise it could
have been a hack Squad it could have
been a CCE Squad a dumbbell a deficit
dumbbell bu Bulgarian split Squad
literally whatever just Placebo find
something that has some solid evidence
behind it and then Placebo the hell out
of it another example could be a food
like let's say lowfat chocolate milk
read all the articles that talk about
how great chocolate milk is post workout
think of milk protein great protein
Source one of the best protein sources
out there dairy and health outcomes um
fast digesting carbs that are found in
chocolate milk low fat easy to drink
easy to
digest protein synthesis just bombard
your head with a bunch of words every
time you consume your post workout
chocolate milk pretend like it's the
best thing that you could do for your
gains and just imagine yourself actually
getting a ton of benefits simply from
consuming chocolate milk versus just
treating it as another post-workout meal
have your chocolate milk post-workout
pre-bed whatever you like just imagine
yourself growing simply because you had
chocolate milk the future of gains
tastes like chocolate and that's tried
and tested Supply not tried and test I'm
going to take it a step further now we
know that squats are a solid quad
exercise uh especially because it
adheres to all the basic principles of
building muscle we know that chocolate
and more specifically lowfat chocolate
milk as a post-workout drink is a great
option because fast digesting carbs a
really complete protein source and
relatively refreshing also hydrate you
etc etc but you could take the art of
placeboing a step further you can
literally Placebo cuddling to your
boyfriend girlfriend husband side piece
whatever you could Placebo even that
hormones recovery lower stress read any
article that talks about how cuddling or
hugging a person that you love can
actually help you feel better and
recover better and then every time you
actually hug your partner do it not
because you love them because you don't
cuz you're a lone wolf and you have two
wolves inside you I'm not sure why you
have two wolves inside you get that
checked by an actual doctor so by
physician but anyways I digress
hug them for their recovery benefits
every time you're there cuddling at
night force yourself to think that
you're getting more out of that hug than
just affection and love cuz at the end
of the day who cares about those things
bigger biceps over affection or whatever
else I said on any day when placeboing
thinks it is important to put your
critical thinking to the side for a
second I'm not saying go ahead and
Placebo the latest beer supplement by
Greg do said that is proven to not work
but just focus on just the positives and
the Articles or the source of
information that are really hyping the
one thing that you want to Placebo for
example with the hugs I clicked on an
article that said could a hug a day keep
the doctor away the answer may be a
resounding yes besides helping you feel
close and connected to people you care
about it turns out that hugs can bring a
host of health benefits to your body and
mind believe it or not a warm embrace
might even help you avoid getting sick
this winter that's all I needed to read
I don't care about the citations I don't
want to read the signs I'm not going to
read further than that I'm not going to
do a systematic review on the effects of
hugging on muscle growth and strength
however I am going to call my 3 a.m. hug
booty call and be like Get over I need a
hug
hug hug your way to 20 in arms hug your
way to a 300 deadlift every time you hug
somebody just imagine the hormones just
blasting through your body stress going
down and the best recovery environment
being created and that's it folks this
is the art of placeboing Whenever you
set up your new workout routine or
whenever you're eating your favorite
Whole Foods just tell yourself that
whatever you're doing at that moment is
really making a massive impact to your
gains whether it is the lengthened
partials that you're doing in training
or this amazing postor code meal that
contains you know vegetables fruits lean
proteins carbs and a bunch of other
stuff just tell yourself hey I'm really
really going to be making Gams because
of that one thing that I'm doing right
now become a certified placeo Master by
clicking the link in my bio which is
essentially a paypal.me link send me
money and I will send you your official
certification which is essentially the
confirmation email sent by PayPal itself
telling you that that you've sent me
money use that and just tell people hey
I'm certified they're not going to check
anyways so since I became a placebo
Master back in 2013 a certified Placebo
Master Supply not a certified Placebo
Master things and making gains
specifically have become a piece of cake
which I placeo as well cake fats fats
testosterone cake calories calories
anabolic environment calorie Surplus
muscle growth and therefore cake is the
equivalent to Peds thank you for
watching don't forget to like subscribe
hit the notification icon and just
placeable the hell out of whatever
you're doing don't be a fool don't miss
out on Gams and I'll catch you guys on
the next
one