mini cutting or losing a lot of fat very
quickly in about a month has become very
popular however I think it's not such a
good idea let's break down the
signs welcome back soon to beat Dr my
wolf back in the wolf coaching
headquarters and today we're talking
about mini cutting let me briefly break
down for you what mini cutting really is
before we go into why it may not be
optimal mini cutting is a period of
typically 4 to 8 weeks of a relatively
aggressive calor defic it that leads to
you losing on average about 1% of body
weight per week so let's say you weigh
150 lb on average per week you would be
losing 1 and 1/2 lb for a total of over
4 to 8 weeks 6 to 12 lb that's a lot of
weight loss over the course of 4 to 8
weeks and this is exactly where the
problem arises on principle if you could
mini cut and only lose fat that would be
sweet but the issue is whenever you're
cutting you're creating an unfavorable
environment for muscle growth and in
fact if it's unfavorable enough you
might even be losing muscle well what
does the science say about how fast you
can cut without losing muscle if we do
cut and we lose some fat but we lose a
bunch of muscle alongside it that might
not really be what you wanted after all
my assumption is that you're losing
weight in order to lose fat
predominantly so let's break it down the
best resource we have is a metanalysis
and meta regression by Murphy and
colleagues looking at the effect of
calorie surpluses or deficits alongside
lifting weights on muscle mass gain
depending on your analysis you're
looking at they included up to 50
studies within this met analysis what
did they find well the fastest people
could lose weight without also losing
muscle mass or lean body mass was about
a deficit of 500 calories per day for
context a pound of fat contains about
3,500 calories of energy so if you
wanted to lose one pound of fat per week
that would put you right around a 500
calorie daily deficit so from the
results of this study you might go away
thinking the fastest I can lose weight
without also losing muscle mass is about
a pound of body weight per week which if
you remember the figures I mentioned
earlier about 1% of body weight per week
that's substantially slower than 1% of
body weight per week as is often done
with mini cutting and well you would be
right the only case in which a pound a
week would also be around 1% of body
weight per week would be if you weighed
around 100 lb I can safely say that for
most of us we weigh substantially more
than this and so we need to think about
do we want to cut this fast or do we
potentially want to slow it down a
little bit to discuss exactly how fast
you can lose weight and why mini cutting
might not be ideal let me give a few
caveats to this 500 calorie per day
deficit rule first of all it is likely
dependent on your body weight if you're
a huge individual who weighs say 300 lb
while being relatively lean there's a
good chance you can get away with more
than a 500 calor deficit per day and
still retain muscle mass this is going
to be especially true if you're somewhat
higher in body fat equally how fast you
can lose fat without gaining muscle very
much depends on the conditions in place
for for muscle gain if for example you
have great genetics you're on steroids
you're new to lifting and you have a
really effective training program in
place with plenty of protein there's a
very good chance that you can have a
larger deficit than 500 calories per day
and still retain muscle mass perfectly
well however on the flip side if you're
working full-time you're highly stressed
your sleep is rough you have relatively
poor genetics even losing a pound a week
might cause you to lose some muscle mass
so one minor caveat of these findings is
that the people within these studies may
not have been training as optimally As
You Are and therefore you could
potentially be losing weight a little
bit faster on account of having better
conditions for muscle retention on
account of having a better training
program in place in the first couple
weeks of a deficit or of a cut you will
typically see a reduction in body weight
larger than we'd expect from just
deficit on account of reduced muscle
glycogen which binds with water on
account of lower food weight on account
of lower fiber weight on account of
lower sodium and all of these things can
cause the first few weeks of weight loss
to make you shed a lot more weight than
you would expect and so if in the the
first couple weeks of losing weight you
lose more weight than say half a% a week
do not worry the final caveat I want to
give to the 500 calorie deficit rule or
whatever you want to call it is you can
regain muscle relatively easily there's
this phenomenon called muscle memory
which if you want to see me speak about
leave a comment down below and I'll make
a video about it but essentially muscle
memory dictates that you can regain lost
muscle a lot more easily than you gain
that muscle in the first place and so
even if you do lose some muscle for
example a mini cutting or cutting above
a certain rate you may simply be able to
regain it pretty easily after you go
back into a surplus for example so that
is great news if you're just cutting to
look a little bit better for summer or
if you just want to lose some weight for
health because all that means is that
once you're done cutting even if lost
muscle mass you can just go back into a
surplus and regain that lost muscle
however if you're competing in say a
physique sport like bodybuilding or if
you're competing in a strength sport
like powerlifting you likely want to
keep that muscle around by the deadline
of your cut if for example you're
cutting for a show or if you're cutting
in preparation for palting meat where
you want to make a certain weight class
in those conditions muscle loss is not
acceptable and so we do want to keep
muscle loss to a minimum what this means
is if you're just recreationally cutting
you can cut a little bit faster if
you're okay with losing muscle if you're
cutting for a competition generally
you'll want to cut a little bit slower
to minimize a risk of losing muscle but
this begs an important question how do
you tell that you're losing muscle to
begin with let's say you're cutting
already you're cutting at a reasonable
pace how do you know well there's about
three things I want you to know number
one is looking at performance within the
gym usually you'll notice a slight drop
off in your performance when you first
start cutting however past this point
assuming you're not undergoing a drastic
body transformation where you're losing
a bunch of weight typically performance
changes should be relatively minimal
secondly if you have access to a really
good measurement method like for example
a DEX a scan or an MRI these can be used
you just have to keep in mind that
they're not going to be perfectly
accurate it finally the really important
thing is if you've set up things
properly an effective training program a
relatively reasonable deficit not too
excessive you kind of just have to trust
that you've set things up properly to
begin with now that we've discussed the
evidence let me give you some takeaways
first of all slow and steady seems to
win the race Min Cuts probably aren't
the best idea because of this if you're
losing much more than about half a
perent to maybe 75% of body weight per
week on average there's a good chance
that you're risking muscle L within the
first couple weeks of starting a cut
More Than This is acceptable however
after that probably not advisable if
you're going to lose weight at a rate of
about 5% of body weight per week or 75%
of body weight per week that typically
will correspond to about a 4 to 700
calorie deficit the exact amount that
you're putting yourself in a deficit
should be dependent on your body size on
your conditions for muscle retention and
other stuff anyways that's the video if
you like the video with the swaging new
background
please consider liking commenting and
subscribing and I'll will see you guys
my subscribers in our next one peace