oh and they have T-shirts on it says
baby don't hurt
me what
is baby don't
[Music]
hurt hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of sport and ex science at
Leman College I'm also the co-founder of
RP and the co-creator of the RP
hypertophy app I think I'm uh a little
bit qualified to talk about people who
train but there's levels to this and on
the upper tier Super Crust level is Mr
Micha Hearn also known as Mr Micha Tren
I don't really know why that would be
the case Mr Micha o Hearn claims to be
drug-free we'll see if I have anything
later to say about that but I think he's
like a thousand years old and looks the
same as when he did in the 80s which to
me makes no damn sense so I want to know
what is this elixir of Life he's
drinking or injecting what is this
Fountain of Youth he's bathing in is it
his exercise choice and technique
let's find out at this stage of my life
and career the vampire stage
motherfucker like 90 years old out of
here I've been doing movies and so an
actor Scott have you seen Michael Hearn
in any movies they sure hav't maybe he
was an extra or a backup guy or some
jack dude in the back you never can tell
the focus is to still give him that
physique that won the universe but then
on top of that give them that physique
that still is healthy healthy
Mike you're a shade of red like me
nobody healthy out here up out of
here and is appealing to the masses
everything I do is so I can do this in
10 years yo I really want to hear the
shit cuz yeah he's been around for a
while and he doesn't really age
conventionally or at all so let's see if
it has to do with his
exercises I love a fucking Gladiator me
music for the shit mother you doing
behind the neck pull Downs of 70 lbs a
nobody GL no Gladiators around shit
behind the neck pull Downs are totally
fine as long as you're not experiencing
really debilitating sharp pain in your
shoulders or something like that you're
good to go and it looks kind of scary
but if you work up to it over time
gradually it can be a totally effective
exercise that is a different thing than
asking if it's a really good stimulus to
fatigue ratio for you it may or may not
be but if if Michael Hearn says it's
good well at least it was probably good
in the 80s too back when he was the same
age
[Music]
all right the the the pull Downs were
good I I think he did that kind of just
to warm up and loosen the joints which
is totally cool and now he's in a what I
assume is his first exercise and that's
the what I call the double dildo rope
and this is just kind of another way of
doing pull Downs I can tell you that
you're probably not doing a lot of
weight with regard to your ability if
two things are in evidence for someone
as experienced as strong as Michael he
one he is not in a bench that can push
back against the load he's not buckled
in so if I tried to do this with loads
that are meaningful to me I would just
pull myself up halfway and pull the bar
halfway and I'll be like oh kind of
stuck in the middle here so I don't
think he's using a lot of uh Force here
this is it better be really High Reps
that's the first thing that comes to
mind the second thing is unless he has a
very prodigious grip that kind of grip
right there is going to be your limiting
factor nine times out of 10 and not your
muscle ability to pull so because he's
not using vers grips for example or
straps worst case I don't I don't know
if he's working very hard let let's find
out if we get any kind of reps closer to
failure just ascertain if maybe he's
he's pushing
himself I don't know what the maybe it
was a warm-up that's what I tell myself
may it was a warm-up so this is one of
those fun little exercises that I got
from Francis Bena Francis benato is is a
God uh kind of the the classic physique
man look at his posing oh beautiful now
if you're my biological son ifb Pro
Jared feather you say like yeah whatever
like that's not impressive I can do that
and that's say Jared says things like
that all the time I don't know if he's
right maybe yeah we're doing Smith
machines today Smith
machines I assume those are squats or
presses I have no idea let's find out um
we did do a warmup on the incline prior
to this but we're not counting holy shit
listen legit is legit a 405
warmup which look pretty hard to me is
very impressive I don't know if you
would call it a warm-up but nonetheless
nobody out there just doing four plates
on incline that's fucking dope so mad
mad respect for this kind of just
natural strength is just rare know drug
free truly drug free lifetime drug free
strength that very few people have Mr
Michael Hern is one of them now on Smith
machine two things come here we got
these pins all set up at a location to
where I cannot touch my chest yes okay
this is just flat out the bad idea
unless you have debilitating joint pain
or unable to touch your chest for that
reason not touching your chest at the
bottom takes away that last few inches
when you know are critically important
of super tension underst stretch and
when you stretch your packs or any other
muscle out under an incredible amount of
load which you have in your hands when
you're Smith pressing that actually
conveys a hugely disproportionate amount
of muscle growth versus like if you did
the range from here to here or in the
middle that bottom big deep stretch is
the most important so delimiting that
outside of injury concerns or you have
shoulders that are fucked up can't go
any lower is just a really bad idea it's
the opposite of a good idea but let's
find out maybe there's some
rationalization here almost like a floor
bench which the FL plus sucks it's a
fucking shitty exercise for hypertrophy
uh it's totally good for assistance and
powerlifting moves but I don't know if
that's what he's doing I'm always safe
but today I got to be overly safe uh
because I'm water depleted so that's
even tougher when you're when you're
training at this stage most people which
I agree with don't train heavy that last
week before the show yes Mich oarn most
people are correct not a good idea to
train water to plead it heavy because
your muscles are drier and they're
literally more brittle and can tear more
easily so good idea to lighten up and
hit some High Reps in that last week but
let's see what he has to say about why
he still goes heavy I'm on stage
tomorrow typically when you go on stage
tomorrow you do not train hard for the
last several days before that what's he
on stage for anyway Scott does he
compete in bodybuilding or some shit
like that wasn't aware of this in a
natural Federation I'm
sure training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same so you set up good set up good
there you go down down slow slow take it
down yeah so like um front squats to a
box are Preposterous that doesn't
convert to Olympic weightlifting which
is one of the number one reasons you
would use the front squat so
weightlifters don't do this um also the
front squat allows you to stay very
upright all the way down to the bottom
and flare your knees out which is the
perfect invitation to actually go low
and again when you go low and get a huge
stretch on your glutes and on your quads
that's actually where you grow the most
muscle so by setting up the bench at the
bottom you're actually literally taking
away the part of the rang of motion
that's the most hypertrophic that
conveys the most gains but the good news
is your dumbass gets to sit on a fucking
box like a
pussy not I'd have to go all the way
down and take even more weight off the
bar that's nice you get to feel nice
which is
important the elbow is not really moving
yeah and because it's Hammer curl you're
focused more on a strong wrist really
okay I thought hammer curls were for all
the other fore flexors that were not
your bicep because by taking your bicep
and putting it into insufficiency you
get the other muscles worked what do I
know I just do this for a living uh the
wrist thing I don't know is that I I I
didn't think hammer curls were targeting
the wrist specifically but uh I would
just kind of label this as the kind of
Fitness advice that just confuses people
more than it helps them like I swear to
God I'll have a guy my Instagram
tomorrow be like Dr Mike I heard hammer
curls are for the wrists and I'm just
going to be like oh yes hold on a
sec
that's it goodbye Mike It's hammer curls
so it's got to be a strong this is the
portion we're working
now fuck so strengthen got to come from
the
wrist strong keep the elbow still so
this is the
movement trying to be
nice it's really hard I would say that
was a sequence of words that a GPT could
say um have all of the logical structure
a sentence but upon examination actually
make no sense at all it's a variety of
false poorly couched claims that are
either not in evidence or do not follow
yeah it's great Michael hearn's exactly
the kind of guy in the gym you would
over hear saying some shit like that you
oh shit about the wrist write it down
try it doesn't work the next day you're
not any closer to being M oarn damn it I
need more tips dude that guy's hair is
sweet and it's the ultimate California
guy cuz he's got like backwards hat on
and a bunch of hair he's like
freeing surf lessons broh it's like a
really Venice Beach type of person I
don't know who that guy is but he sure
he sure is living the
dream hey look he's leg pressing
[Music]
wrong okay now toes all the way in
oh okay now Focus here uh bring these is
Clos you
can back
up hey mik guess
what in theory the part of the Quad that
actually receives the biggest stimulus
when you point your toes in is the
outside of the Quad not the inside so
you are finger banging his knee for no
reason at all that's actually the wrong
cue that being said multiple lines of
research have been conducted into
whether or not foot positions make any
any kind of significant difference at
least in the first 12 to 16 weeks of a
program on which parts of your muscles
grow and the reality is that it's
minimally detectable and often just not
detectable does that mean you shouldn't
do this well no you can and you might
get some tiny bit of growth in various
parts of your quads than others I will
say you're almost always best served
doing two things one is doing the
movements in a way that feel great can
let you load them a lot and they'll
train your overall quads overall Bice
steps overall whatever you want without
having to do weird angles
secondly you got to think about how
things are affecting your joints and
your probability of injuring if you get
used to doing leg presses like this
they're totally fine and you may feel qu
quite quite good about how you do them
no chronic pain nothing of that nature
however there's a probability that if
well you're learning this on the fly
with 5 different plates on each side you
point your toes that far in your knees
might not be too big a fans of that and
you could get hurt so I would say
anything you do that's radically
different than the norm with very light
weights practice for a long time slowly
move up and make sure it's rational and
Justified for example if with this
method he's able to get 10 repetitions
but with conventional toes out a little
bit he's able to get 20 repetitions is
the marginal theoretical hypothetical
effect on his outer quads really
worthwhile to reduce your training
volume and intensity so much I think the
answer is almost always know which is
why I think in most cases small angles
and tricks and tips and turn this turn
that to hit slightly different parts of
the muscle are usually not worthwhile
does that mean it's not worthwhile in
this case no it could be worthwhile but
Coler me as skeptical as that man's hair
is luscious and long and free in the
wind back in the 990s he was like a guy
who made custom BMX bikes for some of
the most famous Riders and he if you had
to put it on a scale the amount of
marijuana he smoked since then is is is
in the like planetary scales like
roughly the circum Conference of Mars
and weed um Scott did I miss anything
how often does he go surfing he surfs
every day um and too probably van lifee
he's absolutely like he's on his
Instagram he has like Hawaii and La as
his things and a little airplane emoji
the absolutely
100% if you're liking how this is going
we have an extended uncensored version
in our members area please feel free to
subscribe to that and that'll be nice oo
a belt
squat oh
folks here's how to Belt squat
improperly you sit as far back as you
can to take as much stress off your
quads as possible and transfer to your
glutes it's uh not a bad glute exercise
in this case but unfortunately it would
be much better if you went deeper
because it puts a bigger stretch on the
glutes and the quads so the best way to
do the these barbell or sorry these uh
belt squats is to stay as upright as you
can specifically taking your knees and
pushing them across and in front of your
toes as far as possible so long as your
heel are still on the ground and then
descending all the way down super deep
and ideally holding that bottom position
that bench that he's squatting to makes
this a very partial movement and it
makes it marginally less effective for
muscle growth so this I would not
[Music]
recommend that sucked now again this is
going to you can see this all that
tricep all that muscle and then
strengthen the elbows
again I don't know what to say about
this if Michael Hearn touched me like
that on my arm the prolonged scratch of
the examination of another man I would
do one of two things get in his face
nevering touch me like that again or get
in his face to see like dude you want to
just make out we could get out of here
we could do it here I don't give a fuck
um also when a tricep extension is being
done and it's quite clearly to anyone
over the age of six that triceps must be
involved it's a bit strange to be
pointed that out like you see these
triceps working like no shit
motherfucker they work every time you do
this in any capacity anytime you bend
your elbow and you try to extend it it's
your triceps working I don't know he
said some bullshit about like makes the
elbow stronger sure all lifting with
bending the elbow will do that this
exercise is not particularly special
this exercise isn't great because as the
dumbbells touch it limits your ability
to stretch your triceps further I would
like to see this gentleman do the
exercise behind his shoulders to really
put that crazy stretch on the triceps um
it is practicing for uh for college as I
like to call call it there going to be a
room full of Frat Boys soon sooner or
later and you might find yourself on
your knees and well Frat Boys need to be
relieved don't they you have two hands
why not use them that's what I
say anyway let's see what else uh what
what other fre there is oh and they have
T-shirts on it says baby don't hurt
me
what don't hurt
me don't hurt
me no more
baby don't hurt
me don't hurt
me so I know you get hyped up and stuff
and you and a lot of people do this when
you hear like 10 is this not true that
you start going faster instead of
keeping the form the
one yeah people Rush their
reps true you could do 20 but it's
partials and it's about the the
straining of the connected tissue what
isn't it all lifting about that also if
you could do 20 why aren't you with good
technique you should be post pushing
close to failure that's how gains
happen nonsense so that makes sense you
guys right no no not not even close
let's try again cuz he's not keeping
tension on it it's the rubber band that
kind of gets let go and then pulled let
go and pulled so I'm trying to create
that
fine so it is Michael Hearn so it looks
like Michael Hearn is just kind of
moving uh moving the weights around a
little bit uh good technique decently
some of it uh not so great could do a
lot of things I tell most folks they can
improve upon as control the Ecentric and
a bit of a strictness with technique and
a super super crazy stretch at the
deepest parts of the range of motion
those would all be good things for Mr
Michael Hearn to focus on then again who
the might have tell him what to do he's
uh 8,000 years old and has never aged a
day so I'm trying to get on his fucking
protocol but honestly I think with
Michael Hearn the reason he maintains
his youthfulness so well is a dedication
to a drug-free lifestyle having done
zero steroids ever um and the microt
trend nickname it's just mean uh this
really has uh found out that this the
the secret to longevity is um it's doing
what they told you to do in the ' 80s
just say no to drugs and um Mike's my
man so for this video I give him a grade
of 7 out of 10 not bad that's see that's
passing work and uh I think that with
making a couple of Corrections and
actually training hard or trying a
little bit just kidding am I I don't
know that he could uh he could get his
scores up with some uh improved
technique and harder training to gez N9
out of 10 no problem and then when he
realizes that he's now rated by me as 9
out of 10 the sheer overwhelming
abundance of joy that will descend upon
him having been approved of by some
no-name fake doctor on YouTube with
lifting weights who has a giant steroid
head will no doubt be uh just totally
disproportionate to anything he's ever
felt he could even just pass out from
Elation upon recognizing this maximum
Lifetime Achievement folks in your own
achievements I wish you the best and
we'll see
you next time all right folks that's it
for today if you guys like this video
YouTube thinks you're going to like this
one and uh yeah YouTube knows things
they've got algor
[Music]
[Music]
RMS