hey folks Dr Mike here for out of sound
securitization and today's BS video is
about how to learn to burn fat for fuel
like that but with that
let's get into it
the claim generally sounds something
like this when you go low carb
your body learns to burn fat is fueled
brother they always say brother why do
they say that it sounds sweet
but there's a problem
yes it's definitely true that you can
learn to burn fat for fuel in high
intensity exercise
the problem is by the design of the
system in your body that burns anything
for fuel fat is not the ideal fuel
source for high intensity exercise and
you know what is the great evil the eye
of Sauron itself carbs I just had a
vision the eye of Sauron from Lord of
the Rings is like a Cheerio science
finds your ass you're on a low carb diet
you know what I'm saying and that shit
goes zap and you're like you like crawl
over to the ice cream and someone's like
no Frodo don't stop going keto Sam was
Sam wise doesn't help him right because
what did he bring like a bunch of like
laminous bread or whatever motherfucker
are we trying to get jacked out here and
get keto'd up all carb diet you know the
Orcs had it right and they might have
meat in any case here's the thing
anything faster than a very slow jog
relies predominantly on carbohydrate for
fuel
so when people say you want to learn you
know to burn fat as fuel they usually
specifically refer to really intense
exercise and that's just not a great
idea
can you learn to do it yes your body
actually does get a little bit better
burning faster fuel even in high
intensity exercise if you expose it to
uh you know whatever protein kept equal
higher fat lower carb diet especially if
it's almost zero carbs yes absolutely
your body gets better at it but the
analogy there is like you absolutely can
redesign a race car modify a race car to
burn like 87 gasoline normal ass
gasoline or petrol if you're from the
rest of the world uh
and it will run with regular gasoline
and it won't Gunk up the engine
but it'll run shittier because racing
fuel is better because it's optimized to
make you go faster that's why the fuck
it's racing fuel so if you're eating
lots of fats and very low carbs to try
to get your body to get really good at
Burning fats for fuel you are
redesigning your race car to burn
regular gasoline and losing races all
the fucking time
now
what if we're talking about fat loss
it turns out that if you reduce any
kinds of calories you burn about the
same amount of total calories off
and unless you're reducing protein don't
do that that's stupid so whether you're
using carbs or fat
you are burning almost exclusively body
fat if you weight train and have a
decent lock-in on your diet multiple
high protein feedings per day regular
weight training a calorie deficit of
either carbs or fats Burns predominantly
fats plain and simple and you don't have
to eat exclusively fats it does not
enhance your ability to burn fat
and another thing is your body is a fat
burning machine and exercise cool but
exercise burns a very small fraction of
your total calories per day and gets you
not so lean most of your calories per
day are burned in just normal activities
and a huge fraction during sleep
you're not even exercising then so you
don't have to turn into a fat burning
machine you just have to create a small
daily deficit keep your physical
activity in check eat plenty of protein
lift weights and it doesn't really
matter if most the rest of your calories
come from Mostly carbs mostly fats or
anywhere in between you burn pretty much
the same amount of fat and get the same
level of lean period except if you do it
with more carbs and fewer fats you
generally tend to keep more of your
muscle on your body have better training
and feel better for most people some
people love low carb diet no judgment
but a certainly very difficult to say
listen go low carb teach your body to
burn fat you'll have better results
because you straight up won't in most
cases
so yes you can adapt to burn fat easier
during exercise
but that's not a net positive adaptation
unless you regularly have to compete on
low carbohydrates
which is nonsense because in competition
they let you bring any kind of food you
want with you if you want on a bike for
example or an ultra run
and at the end of the day eating low
carb as a high performer when you have
access to carbs and could be an even
better performer
is
it's got the video that I can read it
normal times on
bullshit
and stop running around and run over to
the gym and lift weights nine nine and
you can look at the big chest and you go
through up to the endurance athlete at
the beach and it's going to be like oh
hello sir you've got big packs a new
shout out and you put your put your you
kick the sand over in his face and then
his girlfriend she's laying down you
remind me of someone I think a famous
actor an action star Arnold you're like
yes it's me and then she's your
girlfriend and then she's like we don't
spend enough time together why don't we
watch movies with me let's watch The
Notebook and then you realize you don't
even want a girlfriend
all right
see you later
hasta la vista baby