supersets are the single most
underutilized trading technique but not
the same muscle group super sets but
rather something called non-overlapping
supersets the evidence doesn't really
support the usage of same Mouse group
supersets Beyond just doing traditional
straight sets we do have a growing body
of evidence supporting the use of
non-overlapping supersets the first
study when performing a set of light
curls with four other leg extensions
generally they were able to do more reps
with the same weight in other words
their performance improved importantly
the greatest performance Improvement was
seen when doing their light extensions
immediately after their leg curls or 30
to 60 seconds afterwards so if you want
to see a performance benefit this might
be a rough ballpark to shoot for the
second study had participants supersed
bench pressing and Rowing while resting
two minutes between each set the
non-overlapping superset group actually
saw greater volume across the whole
session meaning they were able to lift
either more weight and or for more
repetitions across the session so
supersetting antagonist Motions like a
row in a bench seem to actually enhance
performance across the session although
greater fatigue was noted by the authors
in the study