hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization I have a list in front of
me of all of the details and perks and
bonuses and super awesome things about
the upcoming new year sale so let me
just get right to reading them so you
can get to listening to this and going
to buy stuff here's the thing it's
running from December 28th to January
8th so plenty of time to buy next the RP
diet coach app is going to be in a bonus
subscription price for 89.99 annual
subscription that's 15 a month
and then 89.99 annual it's a huge
savings give that some thought next
templates and ebooks are going to be
something like 30 off but a few of the
special items will be up to 80 off so
please do check that out wanna run
coaching which we almost never discount
we really discount it once or twice a
year is 10 off that's a huge deal get
one of our extra PhD coaches to take you
all the way through a diet or training
process with a big discount and lastly
apparel is 15 off folks get to the RP
website as soon as you can buy as much
stuff as you can because Lamborghinis
simply do not by themselves see you guys
next time
hey folks it's me Dr Mike and welcome
back to another episode of hypertrophy
myths
today's myth is alternating press and
hold and as usual for these myths videos
we're going to talk about what the myth
is the actually good things that uh it
can convey and advantages it can give
you some of the bad stuff which is
clearly the mythical part and then some
take homes real talk to let you know
which way to go afterwards because we
don't just want to beat up on a concept
and right okay see you we want to beat
up on it and say okay this is what we
learned and here's how to make your
better training even better still so the
myth here is people do this thing with
dumbbells and I'm sure you've seen it
before they take two dumbbells out they
press the dumbbells off their chest and
they sit there and they will
press with one arm until some number of
reps is achieved hold it and then they
will press the other with the other arm
and then when they finish their rack
both dumbbells and so those wait hold on
a second what's the myth like that
clearly happens the myth is that this is
a good idea okay
well hold on a second we have to cut it
some slack what kind of slack can we cut
it now to be honest with you guys when I
had this topic come up and I we decided
to make this video I go through and I
have a template because you know the
myth The Good The Bad and The Real Talk
and I sat here and thought about how
this could be good for a little bit of
time maybe more time than usual and I
still came up with almost nothing what
did I come up with well it builds an
interesting and cool looking skill it's
kind of funky and neat to be able to
like isometrically hold something and
then press something else that's kind of
neat
um and it might transfer well to some
activity that occurs like that it um I
did think about this for a little bit
and nothing came up I'm not that smart
though and I've been around the world
and seen a whole lot of sports
so maybe there's something that you do
in parkour or some shit that does
exactly that nothing comes to mind I'm
sure maybe some of you guys can
hypothesize in the comments below uh and
then
the other thing is
maybe it's cool to bring up just like
one pack or one Delta one tricep because
one arm is isometric that doesn't cause
a lot of hypertrophy the arm that you're
moving actually grows
and um
you can use the thing is if you said
okay I have a dumbbell and I have a
bench
and I want to train one arm only with
presses you can't just take one dumbbell
out of the rack because as soon as you
press it you'll fall over so by having
this dumbbell in your hand
even an extension if you like it allows
you an auto balancing so for that it can
work well later you will see why other
other many
very many better ways to do this so what
is the bat number one is the alternate
arm gets as the French say and since I
studied in France for many years
culinary expert I will use some French
today if you need to turn on Google
translate I'll wait
all right early tired as the other arm
becomes a little tired so you start out
with your right arm and you do 10 reps
okay the entire time that you're doing
that you are isometrically holding a
weight here and that tires out the
tricep frontal and chest
and so when you're done pressing 10 reps
with the one arm you move on to this arm
and you may get something like five or
six reps unless this arm was 20 or ir
and then you can do both
there is a way that if you start with
your dominant arm
sorry your non-dominant arm you start
with your weaker arm you can get them to
balance out more but you need to have a
hell of an asymmetry for like 45 seconds
of isometric fatigue to equal reps and
the quality of those reps after you've
tired your systemic abilities out here
then you have to hold this out and do
this none of the arms are really getting
a good workout and especially that
second arm
so
there's not a whole lot of anabolic
stimulus that comes from isometrics
especially locked out isometrics like if
it was mid-range isometric your muscles
would have to work harder but still like
loading the joints and the stability
function of the muscles and your nervous
system for paying attention to that
there's just not a lot of growth that
comes from that and not a lot of
strength and just God damn it not a lot
of anything it kind of sucks
the next question is what the hell is
the benefit of this versus just a
two-arm press like normal
and the answer is not much if any now it
is really true that there is something
called a bilateral deficit when you
produce force with both sides of your
body technically speaking it is in at
least some cases you can produce more
Force per half side if you don't work
with the other half so like you can
single leg press often more then you can
two leg press uh times two or divided by
two so if you can double leg press let's
say 500 pounds typically you can single
leg press maybe like 300 pounds so that
doesn't add up because it should be 250
but because you're not using one leg
your nervous system and your focus can
be more on the other leg and you can
actually push more with that side
um however this tends to happen almost
exclusively in highly stable scenarios
the way they demonstrate this in the
Laboratories they literally tie you to a
fucking single leg leg extension machine
and then you do a single leg where the
whole machine is holding you in place
and you can really just grind into one
leg
in this scenario it almost certainly
wouldn't happen and what ends up
happening is depressing with the one arm
you probably won't get any more reps
with that one arm versus pressing with
two arms except getting double the
benefit in half the fucking time so in
this case it probably doesn't do
anything anyway and it's not a great
idea
and you could say okay but there may be
a situation in which if I really like
this exercise I've been practicing for a
while I really can uh get it to be
stable and I can grind a couple more
reps out with each side sweet that'll
only be in the first set because then
you'll get so tired holding them it
won't happen in the second third and
fourth sets after but even if that's the
case if we're training for hypertrophy
and muscle size
then why would we want marginally more
forced production anything in the 5 to
30 rep range in the concomitant Force
you have to generate to get those kinds
of reps is already roughly equivalent
for hypertrophy anyway so if it can
produce a little bit more Force like why
don't we just produce a little bit less
force and two more wraps there's just no
good reason I can think of that you
would do such a thing and if you say
well no hold on but what if we're
training for strength well if you're
trained for strength then you want a
super stable situation so this is
completely rolled out for strength to
begin with so it's like a bad for
strength for sure and then we're like
but what about hypertrophy then it's bad
for that too so it doesn't make a ton of
sense now here's the thing there are
better alternatives to doing this and
that's sort of critique number three
first of all you can just take the
dumbbell
and leave it on your chest for the
non-moving arm it'll rest on your chest
provide the same counter balancing and
you can fucking crank this one out
without having to fucking be tired
holding the other dumbbell out for no
goddamn good reason and then when you
switch you put this dumbbell down and
then you go with the other arm it's
weird it's wacky it's still probably
stupid but at least it's better than
holding it out at extension I'll tell
you later why I think people do the
holdout of extension but it doesn't make
a whole lot of sense
there are many better Alternatives if
you do insist on training unilaterally
for your packs or triceps and shoulders
which is maybe a fine idea yeah I will
say for those of you curious and at some
point we should make a video about this
a unilateral training in general is
insanely overrated for hypertrophy and
strength it has some uses in uh sport
performance and carryover but it's just
it's much more a parlor trick than
anything that is useful
it has its uses I'm not insulting it but
it's not this magical thing that
everyone needs to be doing and I'm sure
if you YouTube right now everyone needs
to be doing unilateral training you got
150 fucking videos by people who are
mostly wrong
if you do insist on unilateral training
there are good reasons to do it there
are like a trillion better ways to do
this one of them may be the best is a
Hammer Strength press machine any of the
Hammer Strength presses you can load the
same weight on both sides you take one
handle and you grab it but you don't
push it out you just grab it so that it
stabilizes you and then with the other
handle you do as many as it fucking
presses as you want then because you
wasted almost no energy holding that
handle because it was just static and
you're not even lifting the weight it's
still on the fucking support you can
grab this and then do this
problem solved you don't have to do this
weird dumbbell nonsense for no reason
whatsoever
uh it's tough this is a tough one
because I'm trying to cut it so much
slack and it's no slack coming out
what is the number one reason that
people do this exercise my gentle
hypothesis
is that is dumb shit they learn in high
school football man that's just what
they do in football because you gotta
hold fucking lamb and back and you gotta
punch your way through whatever stupid
shit that people justify to themselves
it's way too much specificity and way
too little overload it's not something
you should do in the weight room the way
you make better football players is you
get them to take their bench press and
increase it by however many percent as
possible and then they just the rest is
football technique and handled in the
actual uh on the football field training
with offensive line coaches and stuff
like that and all you need football
players to be generally strong and
generally explosive you don't need to do
one arm at a time crazy fucking bullshit
another thing the reason why people do
it is it looks cool and it's maybe a
little fun to balance it's definitely
not boring you know you should only do
so many demo press in the geometry like
I need a little change and sometimes
people change to this
and um you know gives you attention at
the gym there's always some like Jack
dude who played football at a relatively
high level it comes to the gym and he
takes the 90s and he presses them both
and you're like all right then he just
goes like this and someone's like dude
he's doing that with one arm holy shit
and just not thinking it through so
there's definitely that but I will say
this
if you want to be jacked
you do shit that works
you don't do shit that looks cool but
clearly just doesn't make any fucking
sense I will say
if you can rationalize this if you can
steal man the one arm at a time dumbbell
press while you hold the other arm in
extension
please do so in the comments and I don't
mean that facetiously I mean seriously
like I want to know about them I want to
hear about it I want to hear what you
have to say
um and if you say some cool shit I'll
I'll holler and I'll give you props and
if you say some stupid shit I probably
won't say anything at all it'll just be
or I'll say dumb shit every now and
again maybe this video is stupid maybe
there's a magical reason I didn't think
of
if that's the case hit me up in other
words buy shit link subscribe bio Tick
Tock box wipe whatever people say I'll
see you guys next time