hey what's up everyone so I figured in
this video I would take you guys through
my most recent upper-body workout so
yeah that means I am no longer following
the bro split that I outlined in the
last video I'm now following a upper
lower split so it goes upper lower rest
or optional rest upper or lower rest and
then repeat the cycle I'm not going to
get into the details of the split yet
because honestly I haven't really
started it I just kind of was
intuitively training over the holidays
and I did actually take four or five
days off from training all together and
so this is just my first workout back in
the gym this was actually on Boxing Day
so yeah you guys would have just seen
that I like to kick off my workouts with
some lat poley ins I find that this is
just a good way for me to really
establish a good mind-muscle connection
with my lat
before getting into the main compound
movement and in this case which was a
row and you'll see that I was doing the
movement with the underhand grip which
sort of allows me to target the lots a
little more through shoulder extension
and yeah so with the with the rows on
this day we did I think it was three
sets of ten to fifteen reps and we
worked up as high as 205 pounds and I
would also wasn't using straps on this
day just because I forgot to bring them
so I had to lighten the load just a
little bit because of that and then
you're seeing here a drop set so we
stripped it back to 135 and then I think
I banged out another ten or twelve reps
again so coupled with the the lat pull
ins beforehand this was a pretty good
way to get a good lat pump to kick off a
workout
and so moving on with the same theme of
a sort of focused workout next we moved
on to lat pull-downs and you'll see what
I'm doing here at the beginning this is
kind of just something that I like to do
before I do pull downs just to really
kind of get a stretch in the muscle and
I sort of just think of it as something
like something like what you'll see
NBA players do when they shoot free
throws it's just kind of like a little
routine that gets them into what they're
about to do and mentally prepares them
for the set so yeah that's just one of
the little things that I like to do and
I guess now would be a good time to talk
a little bit about my new training split
so I won't go into too much detail but
basically I mean if you saw my video on
bro splits you probably took away the
message that research shows that
training frequency probably does have an
effect on a per trophy independent of
the amount of weekly volume that you're
able to handle so even if you match
weekly training volume there still seems
to be some effect of frequency on
hypertrophy and so training a given
muscle group two or three times a week
is probably better than hitting it only
once a week but then I also say that I
think that variety and novelty can be
extremely important when it comes to
things like motivation and enjoyment and
then those things can play into to
effort and people tend to push
themselves harder when they're they're
doing something that's fresh and fun and
that they enjoy so what I've done here
is set myself up with blocks of training
where I'm focusing on really getting a
good pump feeling the muscles work that
I want to work giving myself the
opportunity to really hit my arms hard
on an arm day and just take advantage of
that increased enjoyment that you get
out of a bro split and then after
running that for a couple of months what
I'm doing now is switching to a higher
frequency training program where I'm
able to reap the benefits of increasing
frequency and if you've seen that video
you'll see that I do think that the
novelty factor we're in the studies that
show a an effect of frequency on
hypertrophy they tend to be running bro
splits from baseline and it may just be
the fact that the training program is
novel and so I wanted to take advantage
of that novelty factor as well with this
this new training program and allow my
body to adapt a sort of a new a new
stressor in the increasing frequency and
yeah things are going great so far
so after the back work I did a little
bit of shoulder mobility work that you
would have seen there and then we jumped
into dumbbell shoulder press so I'll
usually switch between the seated
dumbbell shoulder press and standing
over a head press with the barbell OHP
and what I worked up to on this day was
the 90 pound dumbbells and I think I did
that for two or three sets of 10 so then
after that it was on to our primary
chest horizontal pressing movement for
the day and in this case it was feet up
benchpress with a flat back so this was
actually something I haven't done in
quite a while
but the important things to notice here
that the load is quite a bit lighter
because obviously without the arch and
completely obliterating any leg drive
I'm obviously not gonna be able to move
the same loads as I would with my feet
planted and with an arch back which
allows for you know a higher contact
point and shortened range of motion and
just a more efficient bear path so what
I'm doing here to really target the pecs
is you'll notice that I'm not really
tucking my elbows I'm flaring them out
I'm keeping constant tension on the bar
or trying to anyway whereas when I would
normally pause sometimes I would allow
everything to kind of come slack and
then drive through my heels and press
the bar upward here I'm focusing on
keeping constant tension with the pauses
and pressing straight up and down as
pose to up and back like I would it with
a powerlifting style benchpress and yeah
these were actually a great feel
perhaps the dumbbells would allow for a
little bit greater range of motion but I
do have bench press goals for myself so
I wanted to kind of stay specific to
that movement and I think what I ended
up working up to was 205 for three sets
of ten and then we moved on to the PEC
deck so this was an idea that I got from
Josh Vogel who I was lucky enough to
have on my podcast I guess a couple
weeks ago now and he shared with me the
idea of putting a foam roller behind
your back when you do dumbbell flyes or
PEC deck and basically this just allows
for greater range of motion and that you
can sort of retract your shoulder blades
around the foam roller or in his case
he's lucky enough to have access to ben
pakulski equipment where they just have
like a really narrow bench so that you
can yeah I could just get a little more
range of motion under the movement and
yeah I thought that was a great feel so
if you haven't tried that out put a foam
roller there I would recommend going
light because yeah your shoulder might
be in a little bit of a compromised
position if you're not used to going
that far back with the fly's but once
you get the hang of the movement I found
it to be a really good way to get a
really good pump and then after that we
did the lean away lateral raises I just
find that this is a way I can really
feel my side delts a little bit more and
it can take away some of the rotator
cuff work that comes into play at the
bottom portion of the lateral raise
movement and I do those behind my back
mostly because that allows me to kind of
stay in that mid frontal plane and like
I said just really target those side
delts after that it was on to easy
barrel curls super setted with bent over
reverse dumbbell flyes to hit the rear
delts so for the easy barrel curls or
the standing ez bar curls I was doing
sets of 10 to
12 and probably leaving about one rep in
the tank there and then going over and
doing sets of 15 to 20 on the reverse
dumbbell flyes for rear delts and I just
superset these for the sake of time and
for the fact that you know I didn't want
the rear delts to get kind of tacked on
at the end I did want to give them
priority so I put them ahead of triceps
and super cited them with the the bicep
curls just so I wasn't in the gym all
night kind of thing and then we finished
out the day with some overhead tricep
extensions with the rope and I think we
did four sets of 10 to 15 with these and
this is just a great exercise to kind of
preferentially target the long head of
the triceps so not the horseshoe-shaped
part or the part that you see in the
side tricep more so but the kind of
inside part that really adds the sort of
beefiness to the arms in a front double
bicep and say for example so yeah I love
this exercise so this is the first
physique update I guess I've done in a
couple of months so this is coming to
you after Christmas Day in Turkey and
all that stuff so yeah I guess we could
say this would be a peak peak bulk look
and I haven't been tracking calories for
the last two months and I do plan on
doing that starting the new year and the
reason for that is just because I really
want to ensure that I am getting enough
protein in that I'm not overeating and
that I'm eating as much as I can
while staying on track with my weight
goals so just as a quick update I did
gain 20 pounds since my contest so I
competed at 150 and now I'm sitting at
around 170 didn't take me very long for
that weight to go on I just kind of ate
until I got to my setpoint which seems
to be here around 170 and then I just
held tight there and the binging sort of
just stopped naturally once I got to
that weight and at this point I just
kind of eat intuitively so I
until I feel full and I don't need
anymore and as I've said in previous
videos I sort of just put a protein
constraint on myself where I try to eat
some protein bolus of you know 30 grams
or so every 4 to 6 hours so guys that's
going to conclude this video commentary
I hope that you enjoy the footage and I
hope that you enjoy this axle-back from
the gym and I've got a post-workout
needle on the griddle here so we've got
turkey bacon for sausages some scrambled
eggs so in here is 2 2 whole eggs and
about 300 grams of egg whites and Robin
and I are gonna split that and I figured
I'd quickly show you some of the things
I got for Christmas the only thing I
really asked for for Christmas is
usually books supplements and clothes so
this is my massive stack of books well
that one's that one's Robin's I got that
Mindy Kaling book for Robin and the rest
of them are either on philosophy or
psychology or business for the most part
so that's the kind of stuff that I
usually like to read I'm gonna try to
get through two books a month yeah 4 or
5 months I should be able to get through
those and Robin got me this lovely book
as a gay gift so yeah I won't be reading
that one my brother got me a new mini
tabletop tripod so this thing is pretty
handy for filming at the gym muscular
development magazine they have a very
good research sections they have this
section where they review general
speaking pretty recent research and they
just give kind of like little blurbs on
it the interesting thing is though that
you know you'll see this section where
they review the research and then on the
very next page you have you know all
this nonsense about test boosters and
fat burners and stuff so for someone who
isn't familiar it might be might be
difficult to be able to filter through
that but yeah if you know where to look
there's always good stuff in MD so I got
a bunch of clothes
show it all to you guys but some will
ooh lemon compression pants some
Lululemon sweatpants fetus sweatpants
you t-shirt and then I have these black
shorts that I was wearing tonight with
the compression these these kind of like
Knossos socks from forever 21 and one of
these shakers so I haven't actually used
one of these before but I've seen a lot
of the other youtubers use it so you
pronounce that boom or oh and then my
stocking oh this is Robyn stocking he's
mine some socks need more hair stuff
more I don't know what this is hair
volumizer I've literally never used that
but her fave spray from Johnny B I like
the Johnny B line of products oh and
some hair stuff this is my probably one
of my favorite bars it's kind of just
like nougat with gumdrops in it and this
bottle openers pretty much covers all
the stuff that I got for Christmas and
guys that is going to conclude this vlog
so thank you very much for watching and
if you enjoyed this video please do me a
favor and hit the like button down below
and subscribe to the channel if you
haven't already and as always thank you
guys very much for watching I'll see you
in the next one
you