how do you find your maintenance intake
on a fat loss phase it might have been
like eight weeks since you last actually
ate at maintenance is that maintenance
number still the right one because
you've lost a lot of weight physically
you're smaller so you require fewer
calories you're not exercise Activity
thermogenesis The amount of energy you
just burn off to normal daily activities
probably has shrank somewhat your
metabolism is adapted to lower calories
so maybe that maintenance is now
actually a surplus and it would be a
little bit too much food you start out
with what your maintenance was before
you started cutting and then you have
your current fat loss calories that you
know you've eaten like last week or
calorie average was three thousand and
let's say your ma your maintenance was
four thousand your best guess at what
your maintenance is now or close enough
anyway to get the deload really sort of
straightened out is somewhere between
the two like 3 500 so you just pick the
midpoint and that's good to go right not
super complicated uh but nonetheless
there's your answer