everyone wants to be shredded but being
shredded is not for everyone
soon to be doctor Milo Walter with wolf
coaching and today we're going to
discuss what body fat is best for you
and how do you find out broadly speaking
I think there are four considerations
one what body fat is best for muscle
gain and for actually maximizing your
progress two what's your preference as
far as aesthetic skill three what's your
preference for the lifestyle that comes
with different amounts of body weight
and body fat and four and finally what
body fat are you healthy is that and
what's your sort of risk tolerance for
different Health detriments let's go for
number one first because this is
actually a myth that I kind of want to
bust there likely is no body fat that is
worst or best for hypertrophy or for
strength in all likelihood there's a
pretty wide range at which you can bulk
or lose weight and still optimize your
hypertrophy and strength adaptations in
other words whether you're currently 10
15 20 or even 25 or 30 percent as a man
at least during this it now there is
definitely such a thing as being way too
low or way too high for example for men
that might be below about eight or six
percent for most people and above about
30 to 40 for most men and likewise for
women it might be around
much below 15 and much above say 45 but
within those ranges for hypertrophy and
for strength development you're going to
gain the same amount of muscle mass
whether you're bulking from 10 body fat
or from 25 body fat the reason why
bulking at super low body fats or super
high body fats may not be ideal is
relatively complicated and the reason
why there's a wide range but if you want
to see a video going through why there
is such a thing as too low and too high
but it's a pretty wide range for high
protein purse strength leave a comment
down below and I'll touch on that the
body fat at which your bulk doesn't
really matter for hypertrophy and for
strength right it could be 10 to 20
Etc so what does matter well one thing
that matters is your aesthetic
preference different people prefer
different looks most people want to be
pretty lean and that's a good thing to
keep in mind right if you want to be
looking a certain way there's a certain
body fat percentage that's usually most
conducive to that if you want a Labs
usually for men below 15 if you want to
have more vascularity usually for men
again below 15 12 there is definitely
the component of because there's no
optimal body fat for gaining muscle or
gaining strength other considerations
like the ones I'm about to list come
into play more so and one consideration
is definitely eurocelli preference a
second one that not many people consider
and I would argue is actually the most
important one is the lifestyle that
comes with first getting to that body
fat and secondly staying on that body
fat let's assume most people want to get
lean because most people want to be
about 10 body fat as a man or about 20
as a woman that is all very well and
good however to get there you will need
to be losing weight for a pretty good
amount of time the sacrifices that come
with losing that weight aren't
necessarily fun and oftentimes aren't
actually worth the trade-offs so when
you're losing weight oftentimes you'll
have to restrict how well you can
socialize for example you'll have to
restrict what you eat when you go out to
eat friends or family you'll have to
maybe cut down on some holidays like
drinking with friends there's a lot of
sacrifices that come with getting down
to a lean body fat percentage for
example equally to get down to a lean
body fat percentage you may have to
spend more time doing steps or even
doing cardio and that's an additional
time commitment that for some people
just won't be feasible or won't be
preferable because they have other
priorities like taking care of their
children like having a full-time job
like lifting weights there are other
things in life that may be more
important to you than spending that
extra time doing your steps sacrificing
social opportunities or time and other
stuff so for example oftentimes when
you're higher in body fat you'll find
that you can eat more food and that can
be very enjoyable some people and still
stay the same weight whereas if you're
leaner you really have to watch what
you're eating you know when you're lean
there's a few things that happen
especially the leader you get for
example if you get close to a bodybling
show is that you generally grow more
concerned with how you look you
generally have to watch where you're
eating more you generally give more
thoughts to various aspects of your body
and how it looks so you get a bit more
body dysmorphia and a variety of other
things happen it's worth considering
that maybe actually yes you want to look
diced and lean for summer but actually
you may be better off being 15 body fat
instead of 10 because you don't have to
make those sacrifices with regards to
your hobbies with regards to socializing
with regards to watching your food
intake super closely so that's a
consideration and likewise with your
aesthetic preference it's not as though
you have to be 10 to look good in fact
for you you might think that between
about 10 and 20 body fat you look pretty
good so the first two considerations
were your lifestyle and your aesthetic
preferences the third one would be
Health considerations now again I'm
going to myth bust it a little bit here
the healthiest body fat is likely not as
low as you think you don't need to be 10
body fat as a man or 20 body fat as a
woman to optimize your health in fact
for men for example if the most recent
analyzes show that likely between about
10 or 12 and 25 body fat you're in
pretty good health you don't need to get
down to 10 that's just there's a
consideration of okay well if you're
about 30 body fat right now would your
health benefit from going down to say 25
or 20 right equally if you're currently
eight percent body fat because you've
been getting yucky you feel me you may
need to gain some weight before you're
fully healthy again so that is a
consideration but much like the ideal
body fat for bulking or for gaining
strength or forgetting muscle it is a
bit of a myth where people think that
you need to be between say 10 and 12
body fat for often Health in reality the
range is way larger and it's either
extreme you will notice some health
decrements but as long as you're within
that pretty broad healthy range you're
doing pretty well so in the end to
determine your optimal body fat
percentage you kind of need to take
these considerations into account you
need to consider what's your aesthetic
preference what do you prefer to look
like what's your lifestyle preference
you know with each body fat percentage
with each body weight for you they'll
come different lifestyle constraints if
you're trying to lose weight you may
need to move more which takes time you
may have to cut down socializing a
little bit or just be more mindful of
your eating you may notice that as you
get leaner actually for example your
body dysmorph increases a little bit
that's why I see a lot of people at
about 15 body fat or more as men rock it
pretty well be happy look whereas has to
get leaner they get more concerned with
oh I don't have a full six pack and a
final consideration would be Health now
for health again you have a huge range
so you can keep that in mind but as long
as you're someone's in that range you
probably won't see a big benefit of
getting leaner or gaining some weight so
if you take those three together you'll
find out what ideal body fat is for you
I'm gonna take myself as an example just
to give you a brief idea of how to run
through it personally aesthetically I'm
pretty happy being between about eight
and twenty percent body fat do I prefer
how I look closer to eight percent of
course however this is where the other
considerations come in to get down to
eight percent body fat I need to be
relatively mindful of my eating and make
sacrifices regards to my hobbies so for
example I like to cook so that's a
sacrifice I like to go out for food with
friends that's another sacrifice and
finally health-wise that range works
pretty well so all things considered for
me because I have aesthetic preferences
that are pretty broad but closer to
about 10 body fat I have lifestyle
preferences that are also pretty broad I
don't mind a ton but I do prefer having
a bit more wiggle room I can need a bit
more food I don't need to be as mindful
of my intake week because of my hobbies
and my friends and socializing in
general I prefer to be about 15 as far
as that goes and then for health I'm
fine like as long as between eight and
twenty percent you're good so for me the
range of about eight to fifteen percent
or so seems pretty good and that's
roughly where I tend to be for you this
may look different you may prefer being
meaner because you want to look good
year round or you may prefer having a
bit more wiggle room because when you
move around when you're heavier and the
heavier body fat percentage your body
adapts burns with calories and you can
actually eat more food without gaining
additional weight so that's the video
check out these three considerations
keep in mind that you don't need to be a
certain body fat to optimize muscle
growth or strength adaptations which
I'll make a video on soon if you want to
see that leave a comment below finally
if you liked the video like comment
subscribe and I will see you guys in
that next one
peace
it is hard as [ __ ] here it's like 29
degrees we'll do a frontal bicep
decide I am sweating myself this is
crazy