alright guys we've got a rainy day here
in Jacksonville today but we're gonna go
hit a back workout anyway I'm gonna make
a run for the car so guys what I decided
I do is a quick Q&A video so I got a ton
of question I think there was over 5,000
comments on my million subscribers video
so thanks for all the amazing comments
all the support and all the great
questions I was actually really
impressed with the caliber of questions
that you guys ask I'm so what I did was
I went through and tried to pick the
ones that got a nice view of votes so
that there are at least questions that
you guys probably wanted to hear me talk
about so I picked 16 ahead of the 5,000
that I just screenshot as I was going
through the top comments there and I'm
gonna answer 8 in this video and I'm
gonna enter the next 8 in another video
and we're on the way to the gym
right now to hit a back workout so I'll
just overlay some of the clips from the
back workout and answer you guys
questions so I'll check in with you guys
over at the gym alright so guys what I
decide I'm gonna do is I'm gonna sip on
my cue line prolific pre-workout here
and answer my questions that I sip on
this and then get into the workout after
it so we'll overlay the clips of the
workout as I answer the questions and
yeah let's dig into it ok first question
how do you find motivation to go to the
gym when having a bad day I'm so for me
I basically set up a rule for myself
that I'm just simply not gonna skip this
gym because I'm having a bad day and I
think that this really speaks to the
importance of having a training program
and you can adhere to I find if you're
just totally freestyling it you'll be so
much more likely to have that temptation
to skip but if you can build trust in
yourself that you're actually gonna
stick to your program and get to the gym
overtime and it just becomes less and
less likely that you're gonna skip a
workout I'm just because you're having a
bad day which I don't think is a good
excuse not to get to the gym and one
thing I used to do earlier on in my
training career was
to put a lot of pressure on myself to
perform to my best ability even when I
was having a bad day but over time I
realized that it's just perfectly normal
for progress to whack some way you're
gonna have good days you're gonna have
bad days and if you're having a bad day
you should just accept that continue to
stick to the program and get all the
work in but if your lifts aren't
necessarily as good as they would be on
a good day
then you shouldn't beat yourself up
about that and realize that you're going
to bounce back and get back to where you
were anyway
and interestingly I found that on days
where I feel the worst going into the
gym those often end up being the best
workouts for me and sometimes when I
feel amazing going in the gym I'm
feeling hyped and everything the weight
just for whatever reason ends up feeling
really heavy so how you're feeling going
into the workout isn't always a good
predictor of how that workout ends up
actually going now so you want to keep
that in mind and like I said build trust
in yourself and your ability to follow
through on the program you'll be so much
more successful over the long term okay
question number two what is the optimal
amount of muscle mass relative to wait
for health and is there a point where
space and muscle have a negative effect
okay so I think that this is an
interesting question so I think that
most of the health benefits that we see
from working out are a result of
resistance training itself and the games
and strength that you'll see from that
not necessarily the gains in muscle mass
themselves per se that's kind of just my
opinion on it I don't really have any
research to support that but I feel like
all the benefits in terms of improved
bone mineral density better jointing
ligament health better strength
prevention of strength loss as you age
or muscle loss as you age tend to come
from just getting stronger which is
great from a general health perspective
and then you do have all these other
peripheral health benefits like
insulin sensitivity even improved
cardiovascular health from lifting
weights so there are a ton of positive
health effects that come from resistance
training and I would say that there
probably isn't a point where you'll
build so much muscle naturally that it
starts to have a negative effect those
negative effects usually come from
steroid abuse where you build so much
muscle that your heart just has to work
so hard to pump all the pudding
throughout your system that it ends up
usually resulting in heart problems for
people who abuse steroids for a long
time but I just don't think it's
possible to build that much muscle
naturally so as a good rule of thumb I
would say the more muscle that you can
carry naturally probably the better
unless it results in also a really high
body fat percentage now one thing that I
think a lot of people get confused about
on this is that they assume that because
someone looks very fit or very aesthetic
it necessarily means that they're
healthier and I say it probably is true
as a general rule of thumb that if
someone looks fitter they're probably
healthier than the average said entry
person but on the flip side I know a lot
of fit people who look very aesthetic
and muscular who actually aren't very
healthy and that usually comes as a
result of being excessively lean so for
men for example when you get below let's
say eight to ten percent body fat you
start running to all kinds of health
complications like low testosterone and
then psychological issues like body
image dysmorphia is really really common
as you get leaner and with women is
probably even worse and you get really
mean you can get amenorrhea reduced bone
mineral density increased risk of
osteoporosis all kinds of bad stuff so
just because you're lean doesn't
necessarily mean you're healthy if they
get
to the point that it's successful when
it comes to really high levels of muscle
mass another potential issue is
overtraining to the point that it leads
to injury or just overtraining in
general and I do see that in people who
are really really adamant about
maximizing their muscle growth but when
you keep moderation in mind I would say
that on the whole weight training and
building muscle is very positive for
health and I wouldn't say that there's a
point where that starts to turn negative
until you turn to steroids or if you
just get overly obsessed with exercising
in general all right question 3 can you
do a video addressing rest times and how
they change depending on how your
training changes so I actually already
did a video on restrooms but not a lot
of people saw it because it was a
fundamentals
whiteboard video so I will quickly
address this again because it did get a
lot of uploads I think the main thing
you want to keep in mind with rest
periods is how it fits into the context
of what's really fundamental for driving
muscles so we know that volume is really
important there's a dose-response
relationship between volume and
hypertrophy meaning the more volume you
do up to a point
the more muscle growth you'll see we
don't really know where that point is
yet now we also know that progressive
overload is very important for growth so
you need to be presenting a new and
increased stressor to your body over
time that's increasing weight or sets or
progressively getting better form or
whatever and then we also know that
there's a threshold of effort or
intensity that you need to reach because
it doesn't really matter how much volume
you're doing or how well you're
progressively overloading if you're not
training hard at all I mean that's
probably somewhere around like an RP of
seven or eight so you do need to train
harder and that matters so what we need
to think about is how do rest periods
fit into the context of those more
important acute training variables and I
would say that as a general rule if your
resting not long enough so you hear if
your rest periods are too short between
sets then you're probably not going to
be recovered to the point that you're
going to be able to handle the same
amount of weight and so your ball
is gonna be diminished as a result by
the same token if you're arresting too
long between sets your guts can get
really dragged out and you might not
have the same amount of energy to put
into your sets toward the end of your
workout and the intensity may be lowered
right so I think that as a general rule
a sweet spot is probably around 1 to 2
minutes of rest between sets that have
let's say 6 to 15 reps which should be
the majority of your work if your
primary goal is hypertrophy for pure
strength work so stuff under let's say 6
reps you'll want to rest a little bit
longer because they generally take a
little longer to recover from so
something like let's say 3 to 4 minutes
or maybe as high as 5 minutes if you're
doing a really heavy set and then for
the really high rep stuff I still
generally don't recommend resting under
1 minute because all the research that
we have tends to show better hypertrophy
in groups that train with longer rest
periods or with rest carries longer than
one minute alright next question do you
think advice like cardio kills gains is
taken to the extreme by people who want
an excuse not to do cardio thereby
affecting their cardiovascular health
and what is the amount of cardio that
can be optimally incorporated into a
bodybuilding routine for health benefits
even if it slightly affects gains okay
those are two those are two really good
questions and there's a little bit of a
controversial area so I'm gonna share my
opinion before I do that actually what
I'm gonna do I'm gonna dig up the
American Heart Association
recommendations for cardio here give me
two seconds so okay I'll put this up out
here on the screen as well so the age a
as of 2015 recommends at least 30
minutes of moderate intensity aerobic
activity at least five days per week for
a total of 150 minutes for 25 minutes of
more vigorous activity three days per
week however I would say that those
recommendations are generally being made
for an average sedentary population
and I don't think they take into account
a lot of specific individual scenarios
so in 2010 Alan Aragon wrote a really
great piece about the crossover between
resistance training and its effect on
cardio metabolic outcomes one really
important takeaway is that how much
cardio you should do for health really
depends on all of these lifestyle
factors so let's say you work a job in
agriculture we should be really really
active your levels of meat or
non-exercise activity thermogenesis so
how many calories you burn
apart from formal exercise is going to
be really hot times one study found it
was higher than 2,000 calories per day
just from these extra meat right whereas
if you work a desk job you might only
burn off a 200 or 300 calories due to
fidgeting or whatever in which case you
might need more formal cardio to get the
same benefits right the same thing goes
for resistance training if you're doing
a very high volume say high rep
resistance training program
you're gonna reap a lot of cardio
metabolic effects from that on its own
and may not need as much fun with cardio
so like almost any issue when it comes
to health the real answer is going to be
that it depends when it comes to me
personally I'll probably walk for about
a half an hour probably two to three
times per week I found that's actually
helped with my lower back as well and it
helps keep me a little bit more in shape
and able to hinder handle volume and
then I'll probably just play a game of
pickup basketball probably once or twice
a week as well and that's about it now
to address the second part of this
question which is basically how much
cardio can you get away with without
losing games that's another really good
question and that also really depends
and it's actually really well documented
in the literature that
alekhya low level there is an observed
interference effect between the pathway
that drives endurance adaptations in the
pathway that drives muscular growth so
they do seem to interfere at a
fundamental level however when you kind
of zoom out to the human scale it seems
to depend on a whole bunch of other
factors and there are tons of examples
of really impressive true hybrid
athletes like Alex piata has a really
good example who have incredible
endurance and also incredible strength
so it's I think more so a matter of the
fact that your programming has to get
more intricate and complicated as you
start to get more and more advanced on
both of those modalities what it really
comes down to is that whether or not
your cardio is going to interfere with
your muscle progress it Altima comes
down to three main factors so frequency
duration and mode so the more often that
you can cardio the more likely it is to
interfere from me I try to keep it to
two or three times a week the longer it
lasts it's more likely to interfere and
how much impact it has it is another
factor so running seems to have a
greater interference with muscle growth
and say cycling or swimming I'm so in
general you want to keep cardio to an
effective minimum and you don't want it
to last too long and you want to choose
modes of cardio that have lower impact
so hopefully I think this is that next
question all right
how does flexibility affect our
physiques are there any studies related
to this the stretching effect the hard
look of muscles even though it can
change order in our insertion points or
is the increased mobility conducive to
training or to gaining more muscle
through a greater range mode so I'm not
aware of any studies on flexibility and
muscle growth but it's funny you say
that because I remember probably five or
six years ago there was a style training
called FST seven treating where
basically the idea was to really pump
the muscle full of blood and then
stretch it between sets and in theory
that was kind of stretch out the fast
or like the layer that surrounds the
muscle and then that would allow more
nutrients in blood to get in the muscle
which would I guess make it grow better
but I don't think there's any research
to support that that's pretty much bro
science in my opinion with that said I
would say the main benefit of being
flexible or being I would say mobile is
that it's going to allow you to perform
a full range of motion effectively on
basic bodybuilding movements so how much
mobility you need I think really is
specific to your sport and when it comes
to bodybuilding you actually don't have
a very high mobility requirement so if
you can reach depth on a squat you can
you know get into position on a bent
over barbell row or into a sumo stance
on the deadlift
then you should be able to exercise or
execute that movement through a full
range of motion and that's what's going
to ultimately optimize your hypertrophy
so if you have a specific mobility
detriment or deficiency I would say to
address that with specific drills so for
example if you can't get into a wide
enough position with your sumo stance I
mean the deadlift then you should work
on increasing the flexibility of your
adductor muscles probably foam roll your
your hamstrings and your inner thighs
before deadlift in and really make that
a priority but in the absence of any
specific detriment I would say that you
don't really need to kind of waste your
time doing a ton of static stretching
and all these mobility drills if you're
able to execute the most important
movements through a full range of motion
effectively so that's my paddle now
where do you see yourself in five years
career-wise and familywize so I actually
got asked this over a bunch I was really
surprised to see this because I do not
have a good answer for this
it's pretty crazy for me to think five
years ago there's no way I would have
imagined that I'd be doing what I'm
doing right now so I think it's equally
difficult for me to predict what will
happen in the future I know that I would
like to have some point branch outside
of fitness a little bit
I'd love to explore some of my other
interests like I love psychology
philosophy just general science like
anatomy and physiology an even more
mainstream technology and whatever so I
could eventually see myself doing some
kind of channel or podcast where I do
more mainstream science stuff or just
general culture stuff but I'm not too
sure about that yeah it's really hard
for me to say I mean you guys may not
know this stuff just finish up her PhD
it was last year about a year ago so as
of now our main plan entails like do
some travel focus on our own careers and
kind of see where things go from there
so yeah really not sure but things are
going really well so definitely excited
about the next five years and we'll see
five years from now
all right there's actually the last
question do drop sets actually work and
what is the importance of micros so
vitamins for games
so I'm actually only going to answer the
first part of this question here because
the second part is gonna be really long
and I got asked that a bunch so I'll
answer that in the next Q&A when it
comes to drop sets so dr. Brad
Schoenfeld just published a it was a
review paper remote event a systematic
review last year my time in 2017 I'll
link it in the description box below but
it basically found that you know in my
opinion I think the evidence on drop
sets have been pretty underwhelming the
main effect seems to be that it's good
from
or efficiency perspective so if you're
trying to get a workout in in cram a
bunch of volume in a short period of
time drops that's are pretty good now I
would say that there is pretty good a
pretty good mechanistic case or drop
sets as well because let's say you take
a set to failure with six reps there
will still be slow twitch motor units
that may not have been fully activated
from that even though you've technically
leads to failure
so by dropping the weight back in theory
you'll activate a more full spectrum of
motor units which might lead to more
growth that hasn't been fully fleshed
out in the training research but I would
still say that as an advanced athlete I
could see it being useful as an
intensity technique if you use it on the
right exercises so for me personally I
do like to use drop sets from time to
time especially if I'm in a block of
training that's really focused it's a
more so on
hypertrophy metabolic stress rather than
say like a pure strength focus block
that's when you want to apply the drop
sets thing when you're when you're doing
more training to failure and so on and I
would reserve it for exercises like leg
extensions I really like them on bicep
preacher curls and I really like them on
lateral raises those are relatively
smaller muscles that I feel like can
take a little bit more of the beating
and in my experience have kind of do
benefit from that but I would reserve
them or I would be a little bit
conservative with them just because they
can make your training a little bit
harder to recover from and if you do
them too early in the workout they might
impede your ability to kind of
accumulate volume on the heavier stuff
you want to use discretion with them but
I do think it's good as an advanced
technical tool and I don't think I've
said this yet I might have shared it
over my last technique Tuesday but I am
working on a follow-up series to the
technique Tuesday series are is like a
sort of spin-off and my goal is to go
through all the different advanced
training techniques that you can use so
like drop sets super sets rest pause or
scraps heavy negatives all that stuff
and each
I'll have a separate video and how you
can apply it to your training in a way
that actually makes sense so I'm really
excited to that because I think that a
lot of people write drop sets and all
that stuff office bro science whereas I
think that they're useful training tools
to kind of use when appropriate so
anyway those are all the questions I'm
gonna get into the workout hopefully you
guys are watching it I hope you enjoy
the video please leave me a thumbs up
and make sure you stay tuned for the
next Q&A video I'll insert the remaining
eight questions there's some fantastic
questions there as well thank you guys
so much for watching and I'll see you in
the next one