science-based evidence-based science
this science that it seems like the W's
scientific training and complexity have
become somewhat synonymous in the past
years as evidence-based Fitness has
[Music]
grown a scientific approach to training
does not mean tracking 200 different
variables or living in a sport Science
Lab you often see people labeling
science-based trainees and science-based
coaches and evidence-based Educators as
people that don't even lift even though
we have plenty of really well-known
people in the field who don't only just
lift but are also competitive strength
and physique sport athletes as well as
work with world champions but it's not
entirely their fault there are people
out there that take a scientific
approach to training a bit too far these
people are usually the people that get
into training by just looking at the
scientific side of things first usually
by following some a large YouTube
channel that is evidence-based versus
getting into lifting the Bro
weight and then eventually go smarter
about training decisions people that
take a scientific approach to training a
bit too far are usually people that have
a very calculated approach with many
things in their lives and they try to
apply the same to training but here's
where they go wrong okay let me try this
resistance training thing out it seems
like it has a lot of benefits let me
just find the best resources to read and
educate myself about lifting let me just
quickly pause my Toyota previous
order and read all about how to get big
and strong they then start learning
about lifting technique periodization
how to maximize muscle growth and
strength nothing wrong with that but
this often leads to a great deal of
pseudo intellectual mumbo jumbo and G
engagement in online Forums on YouTube
on Instagram and so on and so forth
where it seems as if the most
complicated question one can ask uh will
win a medal or something which can
trigger the Bros and triggers myself and
other evidence-based folk because in the
reality of things although we love
geeking out about lifting when you're
somebody that is very new to lifting it
really doesn't matter whether X exercise
may be slightly more optimal based on
some mechanistic rationale than what by
exercise seeing somebody who's new to
lifting asking a bunch of questions
around absolutely maximizing muscle
growth and strength can and is many
times infuriating when they don't even
lift this is especially true and you see
that they're leaving plenty of reps in
the tank they're overly focused on
having the absolute perfect technique on
every lift but are no training hard stop
worrying about your beigan curls being
optimal just make sure you have good
technique and you're lifting hard
consistently why are some of these
people not able to train hard this may
have something to do with how they got
into lifting getting into lifting just
by yourself even if you've done all the
reading in the world without having
somebody there to push you past failure
or to failure when you're a beginner cuz
that comes with a great deal of
discomfort and a feeling that is not
really familiar to somebody who has
never felt it before all that can make
things a bit tricky and can make
training hard a bit tricky especially if
you're focusing on everything but
training hard I got into lifting 12
years ago or so with my bro elas where
we started lifting at school our
training was just whatever but full on
intensity training that wasn't
inherently smart but it did teach us one
thing how to train hard and the idea
that training to the point where you're
feeling pretty done is something that is
almost non-negotiable when it comes to
maximizing muscle growth and in some
cases strength I couple of years later
however I started learning more about
resistance training and then took my
training adapted it and started training
much smarter than before no more leg day
every 29th of February training legs
became a thing uh some form of structure
became a thing the one thing that
remained from those YOLO years was the
idea of intensity and the idea that
training will be hard and we have to be
pushing ourselves and this brings me to
my real Point what does training
scientifically really mean the answer
may surprise you stick till the end of
the video which is near cuz the video is
finishing but I digress ADHD am I right
diagnosed so you can't cancel me and I
can say 2023 disclaimers let's finally
talk about what constitutes a scientific
approach to muscle growth and strength
so I personally ask you to not screen
record this quote me make notes or even
download the video this is top secret
Innovative information that comes
straight out of the science-based uh
headquarters cuz we all know there's
such a thing where we're all controlled
by one big entity called science based I
guess for muscle growth here's what
science says you have to do and again
bear with me one train very hard very
close to failure or to failure perform
enough training volume per muscle group
per week roughly between 10 to 20 sets
that may vary based on the individual
bias long muscle lengths making sure
you're getting a nice stretch on every
exercise resting enough so that you can
perform really well on the next set and
and here comes the kicker okay are you
ready for this the science-based people
have done it again you have to be adding
weight and or reps over time so you have
to be training hard and progressing your
training over time I mean it sounds too
crazy to be true right
like they've gone and over complicated
things one more time what about strength
that's where things get even more
sciency and complicated
so hear me out for strength a
science-based approach to strength
training and this sounds ridiculous
means that you have to lift heavy right
for strength get good at the movement
that you want to get strong in so if you
want to get your squad to be stronger
you have to be
squatting science right
perform enough training volume that may
be different to hypertrophy but again
you have to do some sets every week to
get stronger and you may not need to get
as close to failure as um with
hypertrophy I mean wow now you're
probably thinking damn I got to shut
this video down get off YouTube ASAP and
take this never heard before information
and turn it into a business somehow this
is absolutely mindboggling science has
done it again am I overdoing it with the
irony maybe but you're still here and
that's what matters all I'm trying to
say is that a scientific approach to
strength or hypertrophy training is good
old traditional hard lifting with some
structure and using this the totality of
available scientific evidence as a base
to inform your decisions now obviously
being evidence-based is not just looking
at what the studies say but taking your
own preference and experience into the
equation so if for any reason you see
that you can perform better training a
muscle group twice per week you can do
so and that may lead to better gains
Over time however you know that even if
you were to train once per week that's
totally fine I also think that sometimes
the word based may be carrying a bit
more weight than it should and that
saying science inform training may be a
bit more appropriate in some cases as I
do think that people misunderstand the
word based although we are based and and
red peill actually science peill but at
the same time people often here based
and think that all our training or a
science Based training program is just
based on abstracts and Conference uh
presentations another thing and this is
last but not least that constitutes a
scientific approach to training is
having an open mind to to changing your
ways in the light of more emerging
scientific literature if we get five or
six or 10 new studies showing that X
actually works better than Y at getting
you bigger that's something that you
should pay attention to and if you're
doing y it may be better to do X there
you have it a scientific approach to
getting bigger and stronger is not as
complicated as some people make it out
to be that does not mean that we can't
geek out and have debates and actually
do studies and look at minute details
and optimiz ization and so on and so
forth all that is cool and that's what
my life is all about don't forget to
like subscribe hit the notification Bell
and send me your harder money my bank
account details are there please guys I
am begging you I am desperate out here
things are very rough I've invested a
lot in making these videos I'm flying
guys from Greece out to here I'm driving
them my car is not fuel efficient please
send me money subscribe if you don't
want to subscribe and you just want to
send me money just send me the money
please send me [ __ ] [ __ ]
[Music]
money