uh sorry you were justifying a stupid
programming thing sorry I'm boring you
or what I didn't want to roast the out
of your routine but I feel like you
couldn't you couldn't roast it Scott
video guy cut the fuing interview I've
had enough of this what so is this video
not coming out no we're not going to put
this
out hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization
and hello teleported in a Mis will
Tennyson himself how's it going known
for things like being will Tennyson and
the best hair in the industry who's got
better hair than you in the fitness
industry go yeah I couldn't think of
anyone either I can't think of it either
well you did a nice thing but also
potentially a terrible mistake oh I know
you sent me your workout usually I tuck
my tail hide away in a little studio and
make fun of people that are too
important to ever notice me you may have
seen that on the exercise scientist
critiques videos but you're in here in
real life because you're a real man a
Canadian man I was going to make an
animal sound for the Canadian animal
which is what's the beaver sound like oh
is it really a beaver think a beaver or
a
moose oh moose is
like but run cuz moose is serious yeah
they're fucked your workout also looks
serious I'm going to critique your
routine with your permission right in
front of you roast me man my God
actually don't know you might not roast
me you might actually like it because I
feel like a lot of my training is
inspired by you get out of here
seriously saying that to get out of a
roasting you'll see I think you I think
I think you might be pleasantly
surprised or unpleasantly
aggravated all right so we have day one
day two day three day four day five so
it's a 5-day program okay so I took a
look at this my first thought is that I
really like it and not just because you
Mr important on the internet have a
bunch of
subscribers though that is definitely a
factor the following video will be a lie
so I can suck up to you be your friend
this is an interesting split design that
I have used before and I highly approve
of and the split
is upper body Monday Wednesday Friday
lower body Tuesday Thursday and I
especially would like if you skipped
Thursday and pushed lower body last
workout to Friday and then had Saturday
as your last upper body workout because
otherwise Tuesday legs you go into it a
bit sore you go into Thursday a little
bit sore so you're not going to be
perform at your highest you go a little
bit tired which means you can't perform
your highest which means you can't
Supply as robust of an overload which
means you're not going to get as good of
results on average uh it also increases
safety because if your like knees are
still kind of weird from leg presses on
Tuesday you get to hack squats Thursday
and it's like but if it's Friday that
one extra day over time can make a
difference there's also another really
smart thing you did here which is your
day two and day four they're not
actually leg days they're leg and arm
days so you train push and pull
Monday Wednesday Friday and you do delts
and then you do legs Tuesday Thursday
but also uh your biceps and
triceps this is a really good idea for a
few reasons upper body in one day it's a
lot oh right so it's a good idea to sort
of ease up on the upper body take a
little bit of Burden off it throw it
onto the leg tap that part of your
routine that you took the arms out of
the upper body I think is is fucking
great so the overall structure of it I
think is awesome and why am I saying
that first because there are kind of two
elements of critiquing a program maybe
three people just think you look at the
program and you read it line by line and
you critique it bullshit because the
ultra structure of the program is the
most important part before you tell me
hey look at the exercises I'm you doing
for triceps I want to see where you
train triceps in respect to each other
during the week I want to see if the
frequency is sufficient because if you
only hit tries once I'm like what you
should be hitting everything kind of two
to four times a week and if your triceps
let's see have a big chest day on
Tuesday but you got crazy tricep day on
Monday it's like but your triceps are
going to be tired eliminating your chest
so the overall structure is the first
thing I look at at a program which is
why I just did what I did yeah the next
thing you can zoom in on is the
specifics of each day then that's what
we ask what's in the actual exercises
what's the exercise selection Etc we can
get real funky with that the last level
which I don't have what we can chat
about later is how does your program
change and progress week to week because
you can have a great program in week one
but if you never change it you never
Auto regulate it you never adapt to it
uh it stops being the best program after
a little while but if you make some
subtle changes here and there like the
RP hypertrophy app does for you
automatically for just a dollar a day
just sign up link and buyo subtle plug
very subtle so that's not in the program
let's zoom in on the exercises yeah so
I'm just going to go one by
one day one my favorite day is it really
yeah is it just cuz you're like a Monday
type of person yeah I man I have two I
have two days rest I'm like let's go
it's more than enough I'm over qualified
first exercise this incline Smith Press
uh three sets of 8 to 12 reps nothing
wrong with that whatsoever I think it's
great a compound movement when you're
fresh Smith machine is a fine tool to
use in the gym not a lot of manhood
points but you're in the gym to Get
Saucy and swole not to look like a man
exactly you look plenty like a man
already although you do have a boyish
appearance has anyone ever told you that
like a Peter Pan facial hair I can't I
can't grow this is really it huh yeah
love the incline Smith great rep range
the sets seem very reasonable then you
go to weighted Pull-Ups for two sets of
8 to 10 plus one back down set assisted
so the 8 to 10 weighted MH and then I
find at least for me when I do like to
like heavy first and then I back down to
light I feel a lot better it's amazing
mind muscle connection blows up I love
it huge approval number three we're back
to chest machine chest press for 3x 12
to 15 I love it it's a higher repetition
range because you're a bit more tired
time for super strength stuff is over
very good tar row 3x uh 12 to 15 reps
excellent no problems there you like
this next one full ROM laterals you see
you see the rep range three by 10 to 20
mile rep match a man after my own heart
yes the myette matching is terrible for
those of you not in the know did you
just put your foot closer to me little
bit okay this is on camera we're married
yeah H happily yeah I don't I don't wear
a ring but yeah she's not happy about it
the my match is awful because it's
however many sets you get however many
reps you get in your first set let's say
it's two or I you get 18 you have to
take as many my rep breaks on your
second third and fourth whatever sets
you do as is required to match that
first Total rep number so it's 18 18 18
18 and it's terrible and then in that
Spirit you do some cable y raises now
what are you targeting with those y
raises side do side a little and a
little bit of rear because I i' like to
try to go like as far back as I can
squeeze hold and then control down
perfect I love it three sets 10 to 20 my
match uh my only critique and this
really isn't a critique it's um a
suggestion for an alternative way of
doing things is is if you clustered the
chest work together and then clustered
the back work together that might have a
maybe a tiny bit of an beneficial effect
it's not good for enhancing strength
gains because you want to be rested
between the exercises but it sums up
more local metabolites for you your
chest is pre- fatigued with the first
exercise it gets really cooked with the
second exercise and it allows you to
maybe get a little bit more local
fatigue for the same amount of systemic
fatigue and that might have a bit more
of a hyper hypertrophic Drive it's just
not a big deal and I can't even put my
scientific reputation on it but it's a
net benefit a chest plus back pump is
like neither one of them could be that
pumped but a mega chest pump Flex of
that fucking bitch that's in the corner
that never looks at you and then back
pump you turn your back to her do the
same thing maybe she's looking maybe
she's not who cares and then you're good
to go so just a quick suggestion but
this is awesome I like this a
lot but don't don't bre that yet you're
not out of the woods there's four whole
days you could have fucked this up day
two lying hamstring curl three by 10 to
20 my match my man did that yesterday
yes a man that likes pain uh that looks
like a great idea also training your
hamstrings first a lot of times is
really good because they don't
systemically fatigue you a ton but if
you did quads first you would just be so
blown up systemically that you you look
at the light crl machine you're like man
fuck this I can't though and also my
knees are so fucked that I find if I do
hamstrings first it helps it no way
perfect it warms you up a lot of people
said that uh John Meadows RP uh used to
say that that was a good thing to do yep
then you go into leg extensions uh three
by 10 to 20 myage do you get a lot out
of leg extensions do you get huge pumps
and S and stuff okay great cuz for me I
get barely dick out of them they're
great exercise but my stimulus to
fatigue ratio personally for me on them
just sucks so if yours is good you're
the man so totally screaming by the set
three I'm like damn I'm screaming just
because I'm a show off and I have to
have all the attention but I don't feel
anything number three single leg press
that newly added explain I was kind of
tired of doing like I was doing like
regular leg press for three at 12 to5 I
feel like I hit Plateau on it and I was
just kind of like stagnant with my form
and everything sure I was like let's
switch it up a bit and then come back to
it later do you like the exercise you've
been liking it yeah I hate it fuck I
don't get dick out of it it's too
unstable for me I fucking hate it I
can't stand it and my adors end up
getting super fucking sore because the
stability requirement but if you like it
Mega approval I would just tell people
that there's nothing magical about the
single leg Light press you're just doing
it out of variation yeah because
something something different it does
take longer like if I'm getting into a
leg press bro I'm doing both legs at the
same time fuck that I want to be in that
machine as little time we're get there
though we get there though eventually in
this program oh yes yeah oh yeah
excellent so good so far hack squat two
sets of 8 by 12 why the single leg leg
presses first you can go heavy on a hack
squat I would prefer to have it earlier
what's the issue because I used to go
heavy on the hack Squat and this is like
a you know you're talking about
progression within so I I I like to
progress obviously sets reps but I feel
like I like to kind of change order as
well like I I I was kind of stagnant on
the hack squat for a while so I wanted
to kind of get to the point where I'm
doing the same weight on hack squats as
my later in the later excellent okay
perfect back burner I love that then
that's it for legs so far great leg
routine and then spider curl uh three
sets of 10 to 20 Myro match spider curls
are fun they're very effective they do
prioritize the muscle at the shortened
end of the range of motion and really
deprioritize at the length end
biomechanically it would be better to
choose an exercise that stretched you
behind or something like that incline
dumbbell curls um the menah hlan basian
curls or whatever this what's next no
way yeah it's in there yeah my man um
but uh other than that let just me being
pricity like this is totally fine I've
done a crapload of spider curls then
there's cable curl super behind the back
very cool that's excellent those fuck me
up BR fuck uh super set with skull
crusher two heavy plus one lighter set M
you're doing your Skull Crushers with
what Implement so i' be like the first
the first two sets like 8 to 10 okay
with a barbell with dumbbells dumbbell
skull Crush SC pressers and where do you
put the dumbbells to the outside of your
ears out my ears and then I just I kind
of extend back okay and then I'll I'll
drop the weight for the last set and
I'll go like 12 to 20 dope yeah that
looks really good so far so good I think
I'm taking over this channel soon I
think you're actually in charge now yeah
are you Dr Mike no you have too much
hair yeah just buzz it off and get a
smaller dick and yeah day three flat
Smith press 3x10 to 12 I love it I for
uh when I first looked at this routine a
couple minutes ago I was like oh this
motherfuckers doing the same shit over
and over nope one was incline one was
flat very good and then you have seal
row 3x 1215 seal rows are an excellent
variation but they're not my favorite
back exercise because
unfortunately since you're flat it ends
up being that the maximum difficulty of
the exercise is close to the contraction
point and not when you're super
stretched out and we prefer exercises
that give you a big Challenge on the
stretch so the seal row looks like a
good exercise another thing is do you
have balance problems on there when you
pull up you kind of shift forward and
you pull down you shift back a little
bit yeah I hate that so the seal road to
me when I first saw it as a machine I
was like whoa but then I tried it I was
like ah does your seal row thing have a
camard bar so that you can uh no ah so
it clanks yeah okay not ideal but not
the worst thing in the world weighted
dips uh 2 by 10 to 12 amazing you're
doing those for chest and triceps and
the whole thing yeah excellent how low
are you going
de don't lie to me will I go like a nice
like 4 second Ecentric nice one to two
second
pause I can tell from your juicy packs
yeah are you drug free oh yeah we'll see
uh neutral grip pull down 3x 20 my match
my match on pull Downs you must be out
of your mind what kind of forarm pump do
you get after that insane fucking insane
that's that's actually the only exercise
I use straps yeah yeah good idea back
training hugely benefits uh from straps
and a lot of people make it an ego thing
like you fucking using that like a
crutch motherfucker the gym is a crutch
you dumb asshole also you buy fuit from
a grocery store you're supposed to be
eating it with your bare hands like
liver King a real man yeah uh 45 degree
laterals to upright row super set oh a
man after my own heart my up match ouch
and then face blls three by three to
four sets to failure now this will you
have stepped on my toe uh
what is to failure if I don't know what
rep range is I assume sets of three to
failure so it said what do you mean it
just says X failure there's no rep I do
three to four sets so basically if I'm
like all my thirs I'm like the fuck this
feels good today I'm do another one how
many reps are you doing well I'm just
going I I pick a weight and I'm just I'm
I'm just going so like I would say
upwards of 25 oh I see yeah why didn't
you write 25 plus because it could be
20 Scott video guy cut the fucking
interview I've had enough of this what
you dropped your mic oh
I just wanted to see you bend
over uh sorry you were justifying a
stupid programming
thing well I guess I was making it for
myself without without thinking about
making for because you know things yeah
and you already know that and I was you
know I was like 40 I can typically get
20 yeah 25 I'm gonna go there perfect I
take my critique back but I meant
everything I said sorry I'm boring you
or what oh fuck you're still here yeah
isn't like doesn't Canada need you or
something no day four
seated hamstring curl three sets of 10
to 20 reps my rep match I love it uh my
rep match on that is terrible but also
super effective it's like once you're in
the fucking machine just go yeah um
seated is awesome because you did lying
earlier this is excellent
variation I'm not seeing any good
mornings or stiff like a deadlifts or
anything like that explain yourself so
enjoy them yeah they suck yeah um if you
wanted a bigger gnarlier back and a
bigger ass which I guess you probably
yeah then you could do that but no
worries leg press three sets of 8 to 10
um that's totally cool I would like to
see higher repetitions on the leg press
okay especially with my reps I think
typically the legs just get blown up
from from higher reps a little bit more
than sets of 3 to8 or something like
that or sets of 8 to 10 but if it works
for you rep range is all super personal
Smith squat two sets of 8 to 12 love
easy bar curl three sets of 10 to 20
myup match amazing try push down three
sets of 10 to 20 my match what handles
are you using for the push down is just
a regular straight bar okay perfect I
actually like the straight bar best
people are like hey have you ever tried
the fucking dildo attachment with the
fucking like you can't go nearly as
heavy yeah and it also like actually
feels worse on like people say like oh I
use the rope because of my elbows and
I'm like dude I try to use the rope it
hurts my fucking elbows fuck that are we
built similarly some places other places
far off the fact that we're just both
adult men I guess that's where the
similarity ends uh incline curls love
three sets of 12 to 15 reps you
controling the entric on those always of
course I'll believe you for now I will
day five last day pack deck which you
spelled wrong did I uh I it is it dck I
don't know actually so I was thinking
you would riff off that and come back to
me and say it's actually how you spell
it uh folks let us know in the comments
how do you spell p deck I think I'm
right don't Google that at work is it I
think like a deck like you're on the
deck it's like I'm like I'm walk there's
a k at the end of that but we're not on
the no we're just in a machine yeah so
why is it called deck because I feel
like it's like PE PC and then deck just
a deck just for no reason at all yeah
yeah great three sets of 12 to 15 now
which one is it is it this one no this
one this one okay so uh machine fly same
idea uh cable row uh 3x 12 to 15 are you
doing this with spinal flection or are
you trying to keep your back pretty
straight oh I try to reach oh my man it
feels fucking great doesn't it uh
machine chest press 3x 12 to 15 so this
one's a flat chess press okay so the
first one the other chest press was an
incline this one's like I'm lying flat
now day one exercise three was machine
chess press yeah but that so that was an
incline one slightly incline this one's
like I'm lying flat a flat one excellent
great variation I you don't like
dumbbell presses or just the variation
you're doing I I just did a whole stamp
with dumbbells I'm like fuck beautiful
perfect it's interesting because a lot
of the questions I get on social media
is like I post my workout and any
exercise someone picks like they're like
I just do regular barbar Rose and
they're like why not camber bar Rose and
I'm like that's like telling someone who
ordered a rice dish like why not pasta
like I don't know tomorrow pasta Jesus
Christ like there's multiple correct
answers to the shit so this all looks
good so far close grip pull down how
close like the V is the V bar handle
yeah do you feel a big stretch at the
top because my shoulders won't allow me
to stretch at the top with that one I
think yeah I think so super and you
touch your chest at the bottom excellent
uh that looks good cable laterals uh so
I'm like I'm like I put them behind me
here and I oh dope excellent excellent
excellent oh look it's three sets of
failure yeah we're not GNA Broach that
again we've already beat that to death
so I pick a weight where I'm like I
could probably get at least 15 and I
just go just go and then I once I'm like
failure then I kind of burn them out F
yeah load uh lengthen partials are great
yeah and then lastly exercise number six
for day five machine laterals uh which
one of these these ones or okay those
like the I fucking wish man the Atlantis
one well we can't all be Rich
Lamborghini owner Butler collectors like
myself fuck you I assume you came from a
life of grinding poverty in Canada do
you want to stay in America I would love
that you can hide you in the house I
could just live in the gym sure yeah
it's air air conditioned and heated
scent from my iPhone what's that I've
never heard of that before is that a
workout
routine um I have no come back on that
that was just a stupid joke it was a
joke that will probably delete an
editing by that I mean it's for sure
stay to make me look like a fucking
moron
will um this was a bit tenuous for me in
real life I'm actually a nice person
believe it or not I didn't want to roast
the fuck out of your routine because
like you could have to sent me some shit
like I don't really know you bro we met
yesterday but I feel like you could you
couldn't roast
it because it was so good yeah exactly
but it could have been shit yeah so
before I started this I was like Jesus
Christ like we're collabing with will
this is great I'm going to roast him
he's going to say fuck you he's going to
leave he's never going to post the
videos we we're going to get no subscrib
is going to suck but it turns out like
your shit is fucking pretty dope man and
you kind of seem to know what you're
doing other than the fact that the
failure thing is just a sign of
illiteracy and and dare I say degeneracy
on your part it's all numbers until you
just turn into a bro it's when you get
tired at the end you just like rage out
and they're like fuck these numbers bro
the rep my rep range is is pain on those
so would you give me a score like what
oh oh god um I'm getting my report card
parent teacher interviews and and your
parents are like come on I'm a career I
got a career person here tell me how my
son is fucking up um
I would give this a 95 out of 100 it's
an a it's not an A+ cuz you're not Jared
feather but uh it's almost as good as it
gets and if I saw this program online
and someone was like hey could you
crique will tennison's program you and I
weren't boys like we are now I would
start filming the video and then halfway
through Scott would be like this isn't
fucking like there's nothing
entertaining to this it's just another
review of a really good program so is
this video not coming out no we're not
going to put this out
guys follow this guy if you don't
already and if you've come here from
will Tennyson's people and you want to
follow the channel just don't let your
kids watch the channel we get that
misunderstanding so agree verye
[Music]
peace
[Music]
solid