folks it's us mike and james we're here
to answer your questions not every week
but every other week every two weeks
we're gonna do it mike's got the the the
deep throat microphone going mike how's
it going
shapes that are shaped like this and you
just think to yourself
what would stop me from just putting my
mouth all over that whole thing wouldn't
it feel great
don't have to worry about like the delta
variant on that or anything just put
that no delta variant on some good
old-fashioned knob
[Laughter]
just folks having fun just having a good
time i actually i made um i don't know
if you caught wind of it but during the
rp summit i made more than a few dick
jokes um
i i took some pictures of charlie's like
food and i i was like have you guys ever
seen charlie and mike's instagram
they're on some new shit it's called the
rp phallus diet it's where you eat
things that are shaped like well
you know we're definitely suspect for
being dick lovers
you've been known to intermittent
phallus or
i like continual fallacy myself
i don't like to go phallusless for
longer than a necessary amount of time
have you ever used my phallus pal
oh i have a website to interest you and
james it's an app it's called
fuckmyphallus.com i know the app has a
dot com in it it's not typical you know
there is uh we're trying to be cheeky
and just went to fuck my best friend
when i went to school at michigan in ann
arbor there was a restaurant it may
still be there
called
[Music]
this is amazing it's called sushi.kame
oh it's good and it's like yeah
is there an internet version of your
restaurant like nope we just wanted to
call it something internet but here it
is and there's this is before online
ordering
is was it k-a-m-e like
dude that's a sweet uh domain name
because it's like dot god basically yeah
god eats your sushi you're well on your
way
i mean we've got to get that domain note
to self after the after the show today
speaking of which
announcements at the front end this time
folks we have
a new product the advanced muscle focus
templates if you really need to blast
your biceps or triceps your chest
they're just 50 bucks right now for the
next week and after that they're not
much more expensive i think it's just 60
and you just get them and it's a
mesocycle that's six weeks long
completely auto regulated pump and
soreness are auto regulated separately
and feed into volume it's really really
neat and it's a program designed to
bring up whatever muscle group you have
so get on the rp site get that program
james uh i'm sure uses his money somehow
i buy lamborghinis everyone knows this
james where does your money go what is
your exotic car of choice
i actually actually have more than a few
cars i'm a little shame to admit that uh
my recent one i splurged on a gun
recently i got a henry uh lever action
long ranger it's actually in the gun
store right now they're putting a scope
on it so that was my caliber
308 so it's kind of like a a
medium-sized rifle round is that the
same as a 762
uh it's very similar not not exactly the
same but almost the same in terms of
shape
so it can kill large animals
from far away
sweet
it's exactly where i like large animals
to stay unless they're dead mel bought
another gun too she's been going crazy
she bought like four guns recently
making money was the worst thing that
ever happened to mel she's just buying
everything she likes which is terrible i
know
my wife's also on an rp uh meeting right
now and she does this funny thing
whenever she's on a microphone she yells
very loudly
you know my dad my dad spent years um
living in moscow and calling his
relatives in turkmenistan
and the connection from moscow to
turkmenistan was like if you didn't yell
no one would hear you so
my dad
up until like five years ago having
lived in america for like 30 years i was
still yelling on the phone and we
finally had to be like
everyone can hear you and now you're
just yelling so
it's so funny
yeah
all right
let's get to the questions yeah let's do
it
okay
all right guess who's first i'll be a
wild guess
henrik anderson ain't rick anderson
mr anderson as we call him in the matrix
mr anderson of the matrix decided to get
jacked he asks assuming body fat levels
and general health are fine will a high
step count be enough for the heart and
cardiovascular health is more intense
cardio 100 plus beats per minute
required for optimal health do you
recommend more intense cardio is
hypertrophy training intense enough so
i'll say my bit and we'll see what james
says
my bit is the following if you are in
good body fat level and your step count
is high and you also undergo rigorous
hypertrophy training
you are about as healthy as you can be
and any attempt to increase your health
beyond that would be for very marginal
returns would require doing more intense
cardio and probably losing even more
weight muscle to get crazy longevity and
psycho super health benefits but to be
about as healthy as a normal person can
be in excellent health
yep hypertrophy training plus a high
step count does everything you need and
you don't actually need to go and do
quote unquote cardio if you do your
health is probably going to marginally
improve but it's a very very small
amount james
yeah i think that's totally spot on the
only things i would add is at that point
like if you're if you're asking the
issue of optimal health you could also
be looking at things like your resting
and exercise heart rates resting on
exercise blood pressure if all of those
things are in order seems like you're
good to go you could look at if you want
to get fancy you could look at your
heart rate variability that's another
thing you can look at um but
after that i think kind of the only
point i would add to mike as
um
optimal to me would mean like can you
get through your daily activities
without being like out of breath or
feeling unnecessarily fatigued like that
would be a good indicator of like okay
what's your baseline kind of physical
stresses stressors that you encounter
throughout the day and can you manage
those well
you know from that point on i mean
there's not really much else to do it's
outside of doing cardio for its own sake
yeah and your blood work and everything
will be super super awesome just just
having done this so yeah it's not
optimal but i think it's like within
five percent so do that without what you
will um all right next up is
carmout
i think we have to click read more
because
here we go he said every time i deal it
i feel absolutely terrible throughout
that week my motivation
in everyday life is non-existent i feel
weak slash legislative sore is it normal
to feel this way and what could be
causing it is it possible that my body
and mind are so beat up from the mouth
cycle that once my body stops producing
adrenaline from hard workouts i just
start feeling all the damage that needs
to be repaired that is exactly
what's happening verbatim good call and
it's relatively normal so long as
the week after you deload you are your
strongest ever feeling fucking
phenomenal
just raging to go and you make continued
progress
then you're fucking good
but
if at the end of that deload week the
beginning of the first accumulation week
you're still a little bit fucked up or
don't quite feel your best you're going
too hard in the meso especially last
week before and you need to be easy so
that about halfway to two-thirds of the
way through your d-load week you really
start to feel your funk again and by the
sunday before that monday of the next
week you're like i lasering people in
the street then it's good but if by
sunday or saturday of the end of the
dealer week you're still fucked up man
you know you you went too hard and a
week wasn't enough james
yeah absolutely and just keep in mind
karma out that you know fatigue doesn't
just kind of go away on its own it does
take a little bit of time and so the
reason why you feel like shit during
your d load week is because you pushed
it really hard in the previous training
week before so you have been
accumulating fatigue that whole time
maybe you weren't feeling it quite so
much but after that you know that last
week the overreaching week you did
exactly as the name implies you started
overreaching and then that is going to
be a kind of a transient process of you
slowly alleviating some of that fatigue
day to day until hopefully by the end of
your program deload time you're feeling
recuperated and refreshed and ready to
go so don't feel weird that's totally
normal you should kind of feel i don't
want to say should but it's common for
people to feel shitty as a result of the
accumulated fatigue from that hard meso
of training so totally normal
awesome awesome awesome
next up is a little bit uh one
two persons down is elliott
which if i had to guess is a profoundly
jewish person but you know oops if i'm
wrong
all right
so elliot says i know it's shown that
doing cardio hours apart from lifting is
the most optimal way to incorporate the
two but if you were to do them say 15 to
30 minutes apart would eaas or high
protein meal between the two help with
whatever muscle loss or extra fatigue
that could come with doing cardio and
lifting so close together specifically i
mean doing weights first then cardio for
15 to 30 minutes after as
context i'm in contest prep and don't
have a lot of time in the day to spread
uh cardio and lifting out optimally
thank you docs love the content love you
back elliott so first recommendation is
get a step tracker set a total number of
steps between 10 and 15 000 per day on
average and you'll never need to do
cardio again you'll get in the best
shape of your life
uh
that's the best advice i have um the
second best is
as soon as your workout is over i would
just start sipping your protein and carb
recovery shake like you normally have or
even having some eas or just 25 grams of
whey protein and you could have an
anti-catabolic slightly pro-anabolic
primer get your cardio done 15-30
minutes after and then eat a meal even
better advice is whatever big meal
you're going to have after that whole
thing bring it with you to the gym so
you're not killing another 30 or 40
minutes driving home showering
pretending
that you're going to eat a meal or as
your fuck mighty girlfriend is like
texting you during the shower and she's
like i'm coming over now and you're like
sweet and then two hours later banging
you still haven't eaten anything so no
joke um if you're gonna do cardio after
training not the worst thing in the
world yes you can have some protein
probably even protein carbs during your
training so it's in your gi tract for
after but honestly the best advice i
have in that situation is make sure you
get your meal as soon as you're done and
you probably won't even cost you that
much but that 15 to 30 minutes of cardio
and then sitting in the car for 40
minutes you're missing out on some
anabolic signaling that's for goddamn
sure uh james
yeah so the kind of the concurrent
training stuff is kind of a hot mess of
opinions um so that we know that there
are some kind of indirect effects of
doing those kind of things near uh in
the same program right it's kind of like
resources issues recovery issues etc in
terms of direct interference effects um
there's really only like one big one
that we've kind of narrowed it down to
and that tends to be like doing cardio
immediately after lifting just as the
kind of the flushing effect of the
metabolites
so that's really the only direct one
that we can really pin down how profound
is it not that profound it's fairly
minimal it's not i don't wanna say
minimal it's it's it's measurable but
it's not a huge effect um so if that
cardio is not particularly hard if it's
mostly kind of list style cardio i would
even recommend just doing it first and
just calling it a warm up and then yes
if it doesn't if it doesn't hurt your
workout like if it's hard cardio and
it's going to hurt your workout then
that's a different story but if it's
like easy bodybuilding cardio just do it
as your warm-up and then you kind of
eliminate that whole problem altogether
and you know 15
i would say for for people who are
serious with their training like 15 to
30 minutes of list cardio really
shouldn't take you out of commission
um
yeah
yeah best of luck elliot i again get a
step tracker
let's take care of luca up below because
he's actually a few down but let's not
forget him so scroll up sorry i'm sorry
i'm sorry scroll up up there he is and
there he is so
luca says dear mike and james fucking
names in my q a he meant to say in james
he just had him whatever all right
i read that one second eccentric
ironically builds more muscle than for
example a five second eccentric so why
do you do slow reps then with that long
eccentric you also lose some concentric
reps because you're tired and just
cannot perform another explosive
concentric rep which builds fast fibers
sequentially followed by four question
marks at renaissance preparation thank
you for tagging us all right luca
so
one second eccentric probably doesn't
dependably build more muscle than a five
second eccentric
but
anything much more than a nine second
total rep which is to say realistically
like anything over a six second
eccentric is probably bad so we can
pretty definitively say
five second eccentric and one second
eccentric has roughly the same effect on
hypertrophy
and if i had to put all my money into
one the one second would probably be a
little bit more hypertrophic but i'm not
sure of that we just know there's
probably no difference so why do you do
slow reps well the answer is you mostly
don't then then the question is when you
do why do you a couple of reasons one
you're in a particular state of your
training process where you really want
to avoid injury you're really dry you're
really lean you're really tired
pre-contest your athleticism and ability
to adjust on the fly is down being
athletic and being explosive is probably
not a good time for that so you slow
down the eccentrics to keep it safe
another one is just variation you've
been doing everything the same for a
while you want some variation good to go
another one is you just got injured a
few months ago you're coming back into
the big loads now a longer eccentric
means that you don't have to use as much
load and the velocities of contraction
are not as high and velocities are
essentially forced in position on your
tendons and ligaments etc are not as
high so you can be safer so there's good
reasons to do them but we don't do
five-star concentrics because we're like
this is the ultimate plan to ultra
growth variations in there and directed
variation variation for a reason
is uh there as well if uh you want to
know a ton more about that
give our hypertrophy scientific
principles of hypertrophy training which
james and i co-authored with jared
feather a reed that gets gets into all
the definitions of everything i just
said and also advanced hypertrophy
concepts and tools the variation one is
gonna talk about all that so
we want you guys to look less for what's
the best and and everything else and
more look at what's the best tool for
the job and is it okay to use other
tools for example and this is a really
easy analogy that's actually is a very
very good analogy on technical grounds
i'm not sure if it's going to be
emotionally very salient but um if
you're like a rich dude and someone's
like okay now that you're rich like
which car are you going to buy most
richards are like well you know i'm
going to have a truck for riding around
town i'm going to have a sports car for
taking to the track i'm gonna have a
helicopter for flying in new york you
know like it's not one car is not the
answer and thus one training method is
almost never the answer either like
you're gonna want to have shots at me
here with the vehicles so if you're
james hoffman yeah this is a personal
attack
you have a huge bust to drive friends on
when you have a can-am to drive around
the country like country bumpkin but but
honestly and you have guns for all those
but on a serious note like it's
different tools for different jobs it's
also actually just to continue to make
fun of james um it's the same thing with
firearms you know like you imagine
meeting a navy seal okay so imagine
meeting uh jay cutler sitting next to
him on the plane and be like jay i can
ask you a question he's like sure like
what's the best exercise for chess okay
it's as stupid as you and i i know a lot
of you guys follow military hardware and
stuff i do too it's as stupid as if you
sit next to an abc on the plane you're
like navy seal he's like yeah they can
ask you questions like sure like what's
the best gun like
best gun for what like technically
speaking one of the best guns ever was a
fucking ship mounted 16 millimeter
cannon that shoots shells 45 miles away
because we don't exactly just deploy
that in house to house combat like nor
can anyone carry even a shell which
weighs as much as a car so
yeah there's no such thing it's what are
the tools for the job now when there is
a job like for example getting your
chest to grow or for example having us
uh you know a maneuverable firearm for a
house to house fighting situation there
is a list of guns that are the best and
within them there's just specific
situations that you want like you know
if you have uh like a 556 caliber weapon
it's probably it might not shoot through
walls or heavily armored stuff but it's
it's really light it's really it's good
sometimes it's good not to shoot through
walls because your boys might be on the
other side of the wall if you have an
ak-47 like a 762 platform you can shoot
through walls you can shoot through some
armor plating that might be a good thing
might be a bad thing both are really
good guns but then it's specific and of
course there's other guns that suck like
hey my grandpa built a gun do you want
to use it like no your grandpa sucks so
there's some exercises people come up
with that blow and some 10 second
eccentrics are never a good idea but a
lot of it is what's the best tool for
the job and you just got to get familiar
with the jobs with the tools with the
constraints and then you can make good
decisions
yeah absolutely and i think sometimes we
put a little i i mean
from a as a scientist we obviously want
to investigate these things and find
kind of like our upper and lower
operational range but this is one of
those where the kind of the bros got it
right where it's like don't don't
overthink the the rep cadence stuff like
more often than not a pretty
normal self-regulated rap cadence is
probably fine there are some instances
where you can kind of get a little bit
fancier in terms of like if you're being
explosive or you're deliberately being
more controlled as dr mike was talking
about earlier but for the most part like
do what feels pretty natural and you're
probably going to be just fine as far as
rep cadence goes
yeah absolutely
um
next up is vasil relief our best friend
he you don't have to just scroll right
down actually
he's got the rp logo still yep still
robbing us of our logo just kidding he
actually asked me if it was cool or not
i'm like of course man wrap that shit
so
ah damn it oh james i'm sorry there it
is okay we're good
vicel asks will the sports scientist
podcast ever come back or can you do one
of the q and a's with marcos i love the
guys series thanks for everything truly
my seal
we love marcos too he's one of our best
friends um
the sports scientist was amazing maybe
we'll bring it back at some point the
problem is we don't live anywhere close
to each other anymore so it'd have to be
over zoom marcos is such a fast-talking
witty motherfucker that we lose
something with zoom because he can't cut
us off real quick and say some funny
shit there's a delay blah blah another
of that uh another concern there is this
is the rp account
that's what i was gonna say
yeah you know we can make our little
bullshit jokes but
we barely keep it together on this mike
and i barely keep it like pc enough for
the rp account barely
someone said something uh in a comment
section of about the sports scientists
podcast where they said man i feel like
this is just you and your friends
hanging out and just like this is how
you normally talk absolutely not
normally we say the vilest shit you can
think of and if you think you know like
more vile shit to say you're probably
wrong shit that will get us canceled
immediately on the first syllable
all the time we talk like that all the
time that's the default way we talk with
our friends
marcos is like one of our funniest
friends and he talks that shit at a
completely high level and we want to do
that with him so every time we're doing
anything with him it's like really
difficult for us not to just default to
saying insane shit you never want to say
in public and
for that reason because it's a painful
process and because we can't even do the
funniest jokes i mean it's not likely
that the sports scientist is just
mainstream and sorry
it's just a cancel platform is what it
is we're just trying to get canceled
exactly yeah it's he's just too much
he's too much to handle for for the rp
account for this one i mean it would be
fun to have him do a couple of them but
i could just being like yeah we just
can't air the q a this week yeah our
video guy can't edit out that many
racial slurs is what i'm trying to say
and marcos is like every race so he
makes fun of them all baby and you
you're getting it so all right all right
let's get into
the other questions so we did this yeah
let's see who's up next
we have forest nash fitness with a very
detailed question
got it damn for us write us a fucking
book why not
yeah jeez jk
thank you for wait james what is this
gay batman
what
look at your screen all right
don't say
[Laughter]
i don't know yeah anyway
that's the guy from that improv show
looks like yeah yeah i guess that's like
one of his acts okay all right oh
boris nash says hi docs i hope you're
both keeping well after finishing the
hypertrophy book which was fantastic
thank you so much
i started working my way through the rp
hypertrophy training guide articles for
each muscle group dude you're the man
you're gonna know like everything in a
bit
and uh i had a quick question about the
maintenance volume landmarks mentioned
in those guides for some muscle groups
such as front delts rear delts and
glutes
the maintenance volume is listed at zero
sets of direct work per week as long as
other compound movements that involve
those muscles are still being done
similarly the maintenance volume for
biceps and triceps is listed at four
sets of direct work per week with the
assumption that they will get a fair
amount of stimulus from compound pushing
and pulling movements this makes a lot
of sense to me but my question is will
these low maintenance volume numbers
still hold true when every other muscle
group is at maintenance volume
simultaneously during a maintenance
phase i'm guessing that the answer is
yes since everything i know about
maintenance volume suggests that it's
quite low but i just want to double
check if that's what you guys had in
mind when writing the hypertrophy guides
as a further disclaimer i understand
that all the set numbers listed as
articles are roth averages for
intermediates good very good and that
individual volume landmarks can and will
differ many things for help great great
great question and it's got a convenient
answer yes
if you train everything in maintenance
volume you like literally do like six
sets of pushing per week your triceps
almost certainly will not get smaller
some people are the exception and if the
direct work's not enough for them and
they start to recede but again huge huge
huge thing to call out here
actual recession and muscularity
is really tough if you're eating
maintenance calories and sleeping well
and just training some part of your body
hard that involves that muscle so
that really is the case and yeah the
answer ninety percent of the time is yes
and with two direct sets per week is
definitely yes added to that so
uh james do you have any anything uh to
add there not really no i i liked the
question a lot because he's saying like
okay for those of you who maybe didn't
follow along with his reasoning um
basically saying like okay well if
you're only doing two sets of bench
press in a session like is that actually
enough indirect work for let's say your
deltoids or your triceps to
hit the maintenance volume if we're not
if we're under the assumption that maybe
we the maintenance volume for
delts and triceps might be
a little bit higher if
sorry i got lost in words there but
basically it was saying like hey if the
if volume is low all around does that
affect those other numbers too because
we're assuming that they're getting
direct or indirect work right so it's a
very good line of thought and the answer
is yep that's all that's covered and
those numbers are actually conservative
by the way um
the more we look into it and even the
more still um the funny thing about like
deconditioning your muscles is
not only is it kind of difficult to do
in terms of like you really don't need a
ton of stimulus to just kind of hold on
to what you got but even if you do
decondition it comes back really fast
man real fast so i mean like we could
even you could even start describing
maintenance volume across different
timelines which is unnecessarily
confusing for the average person but it
is something that you could feasibly do
right where it might be something
uh where you might say like two sets
every three weeks or something like that
might actually be appropriate um
you know what i mean i don't don't don't
say that's that's the correct answer but
it could be phrased in those kinds of
ways so it keeps getting lower that's
kind of the crazy thing where um it's
hard to describe in a weekly context
because that level of deconditioning
probably doesn't occur within like a
week probably occurs over like several
months and so then it becomes more
difficult to express that explicitly
100
all right next up is hilariously named
seymour gaines oh
[Music]
what were your thoughts on the 90s
cartoon show pinky and the brain and
have you realized you're basically them
but of the fitness world well
now thank you so much seymour but we'll
uh i'll strain to correct you
um
pinky was probably close to mentally
retarded
and james hoffman is a phd in sport
physiology so
which one of us is pinky because if it's
me fuck you and if it's james also fuck
you that's what i was gonna say which
one's which motherfucker is it just
because like one's tall and one short is
that all in all in good fun that's true
i actually look more like the brain than
you do because i'm deformed and short
and you're of normal mouse slash human
size um
i i will say i used to watch pinky in
the brain and i stopped watching it and
here's why
at some point i was about 10 years old
when i watched this at some point it
dawned on me that
because every single failure of their
plot to take over the world it almost
worked it it failed to work on account
of pinkies
uh essentially dereliction of duties
um
if brain was as smart as they made him
seem
he would have excised pinkie from that
relationship
after several tries three at most
replaced him with either a robotic
assistant or no assistant at all or some
other assistant
and had accomplished world domination
because he was brilliant and real close
to doing it every time and pinky fucked
him up so i think at 10 years old i was
already too old for the show because i
was like this is nonsense and it's not
even funny to me because i i took the
brain seriously i thought i wanted him
to take over the world so
yeah i liked that show but that was
i think that was like when there was a
really a bunch of really good warner
brothers cartoons the animaniacs were
unbelievable yeah there was like
animaniacs freakazoid earthworm jim had
a show for a little while around that
time there was a bunch of bangers at
that time and pinking the brain was okay
but it just couldn't stack up to the
other ones animaniacs
is legit like me too level cancelable
sexual humor like oh yeah yeah some of
those are really intense we're like they
said that like
there wasn't a day on that show in which
the animaniacs didn't actually commit
sexual harassment so
they did a reboot i hadn't i haven't
watched it i know they rebooted it oh
shit i didn't know that
i'm getting tired of the reboots to be
honest like come up with some original
shit already come on
for sure
um all right julie
menken
is up next
got it boom all right
hi there thanks again for your content
y'all are amazing thank you so much how
do you increase work capacity i find
that i am unable to really push leg
movements closer close to failure
because my cardio capacity ends up being
limiting factor when working through the
female physique template it's been great
except my quad and hamstring growth has
definitely been less than arm growth
really need to learn how to push legs
to failure slash close to failure any
tips on how to get closer my reps thanks
so my reps don't really help you with
work capacity because they strain that
even more
because while you're supposed to be
recovering
you are not so i would actually say
taking longer rest breaks is probably
best take longer rest breaks really get
your wind back then start crushing
another hard set another one is go a
little heavier with fewer reps that way
you can get a really robust stimulus
without having your cardio hold you back
another one is continue to train legs
normally in a progressive manner for
weeks and months and your capacity will
get better and another one real quick
off the cuff is to make sure that you um
try to be a little leaner over time
because i found in my own training
specifically with like jiu jitsu
i cannot roll hard
and then roll pretty hard having
quote-unquote not accustomed myself to
hard rolling and when i'm lean like in
bodybuilding shape i can fucking dude
there was one time where
there was like a two-minute timer and
this kid and i are training we're going
to we're doing stand up like takedowns
and i
came after him with repeat double and
single legs for two minutes straight he
was doing this at the end
and i actually got the take down at the
end and i like got off after and i was
like
you got it
where you're like yeah i got it i got
off many times
but like when i got up afterwards i was
fucking golden that's because i had like
i don't know single digits body fat and
i was just fucking on the money and i
was trying shit too hard but not crazy
hard not like that it's just leanness is
a thing and when i was up at like 260
pounds a few years before that i was
doing jujitsu all the time my jiu jitsu
shaped corner quote should have been
good but i had a fucking real shitty gas
tank because i was fat and that's just a
thing to consider it doesn't happen
overnight but if you do a fat loss phase
and you maintain after and then you do
another fat loss phase and then you go
into a mass you may find yourself really
really not held back by your cardio
hardly at all and one thing i will say
when you think of a fat loss phase and
the psychology of heart training
you think i'm going to be two weeks out
of this fat loss phase at the end of it
and i'm going to be having rocky balboa
style training what many people you know
like out of breath and on the floor many
people find is that as they get leaner
they actually get through all their quad
volume and they're like i'm actually
okay my quads are fucked up but i feel
great and it's kind of like um
a bit of uh uh not disappointing but
it's kind of like weird like this is how
it's happening i thought it was gonna go
crazy and then you're like oh man i
can't wait to mass and i'm gonna do
crazy workouts and feel it in my muscle
and really push the muscle and get a
huge pump four weeks into massing you're
eating a ton of food again and you're
gassing out again and you're like god
damn it why can't this be backwards so
in reality getting getting leaner is a
huge step in the right direction james
100 on the getting leaner part uh
totally agree on that um julie a couple
other things that kind of stick out to
me and i'll kind of ping him off mike
and see what he thinks so mike already
touched on the rest times so to me that
seems like the most obvious thing like
if you're out of breath all the time
you're probably taking too short of rest
the next thing is that um you might just
be working in in needlessly high rep
ranges
right so and this is uh just an
observation don't blow my head off over
here but i have had lots of female
clients use the female physique
templates and for some reason there
seems to be like an unwritten rule that
more is better and so there seems to be
a i don't know why but a persistent
belief that doing 20 reps or 30 reps is
what you want to do
uh that's not necessarily true there are
some instances where that is kind of
built in but ideally as mike said it
might be actually better for you to
start working heavier so if you're
training your legs and you're always out
of breath to me that sounds like you're
doing sets of like 20 maybe or something
like that when maybe you could just be
doing like a set of eight or ten and
getting a very robust stimulus and not
having that same limitation so
maybe re-evaluate what kind of reps
you're doing if you're finding yourself
always like on the high end and by high
i mean like more than 15 especially for
those compound movements maybe push a
little bit heavier and then another
thing to think about is um the sfr of
the movements that you're choosing you
might be just getting exhausted because
you're picking like deadlifts for legs
and you're like doing a set of like 15
deadlifts and you're like this sucks i'm
exhausted um it might be worth looking
into like um playing around with the
exercises a little bit that are more
excuse me are higher in the sfr kind of
metrics so that your muscles the
limiting factor undeniably so you should
be picking leg movements where if you're
doing hands or you're doing quads like
the thing that stops you is your quads
or your hams not because you're not the
fact that you're out of breath so kind
of there's an interplay of all of those
things like don't rush through with the
rest times make sure you're lifting
heavy periodic you know heavier than you
might be and then picking movements
where you can really feel it in the the
target muscle unless just everywhere
else
yep yep yep excellent stuff excellent
stuff all right next up is
oh he's the one with the
i don't even know if it's a he but he's
the one with the uh naruto yep there it
is
all right he says
a new i think it was another one james
it's a more upvoted one
excuse me how about there it is yep
there it is yep
[Music]
i was like that had two up votes there's
no way i fucking picked that one
all right uh oh well tamara will do you
two for one anxiety depression
medications are there any harm to
hypertrophy i don't think in any direct
way indirectly if they reduce your
motivation to train but generally they
increase it because if you're super
depressed and anxious you probably don't
train all that well anyway but um yeah i
think something can make you like
lethargic i i know too that might be a
indirect factor but not a direct factor
yeah
all right and then the actual question
when will it be too soon to take a half
dilo during a meso to see me you know
what's
brought this up is overdosing volume
slash intensity and also when will it be
too late that you know you probably
could have progressed faster in volume
intensity
but you force to full slash half week
deload mostly because systemic
fatigue symptoms okay i gotta reread
this one because i didn't follow the
question so when will this use half of d
load during the mezzo
so like when so when
what's like a reasonable limit before
you pull the trigger on a half do you
load
i mean honestly like when you get
to a situation where you think you won't
make it to the whole d-load
it's time to take a half-de-load
probably now like
if you after a week and a half you know
that you'll never make it four weeks
take the half week deload and then make
it four weeks
um
no such thing is too soon
now if you take if you do one half of a
week
can you take half deload after because
it's crushed you actually yes you can
and then you restart the meso with much
less solving that problem of overdosing
volume intensity you actually can take a
half week deload literally in the second
half of week one of your meso because
it's better to do that recalibrate your
plan and come in smooth versus doing
half a week being like dude if i keep
this up i'm gonna be doing two weeks and
then deloading don't do that take the
half week deload right away
and
too late
i don't think there's a too late i would
much rather see people take a half week
of deload and then finish off their
training productively than like be
overreached two weeks out and say i'm
still gonna make it through these two
weeks and then take a full week like
don't fuck with that process
uh because it can bite you back in the
ass you can push too hard i would rather
see people take the deloads if their
performance is over the course of two
sessions for sure down and you have all
the other symptoms that's too much and
that's actually human fatigue i think
you take them as you need them james
yeah i'm trying to address this issue of
too soon because i i kind of get what
he's saying in terms of like if it's too
soon
um it just becomes like an inefficient
use of your time like you could have
just structured it like time wise where
you you're having less like intermittent
training so i get that part i'm trying
to understand his reasoning where he
says
um what brought it up was overdosing
volume and intensity so that's like he
means like if i need the deload so soon
then maybe i'm just doing too much and
then the answer is you still take the
deload and then you don't do as much
yeah and that's what i was going to say
is that's not really a half deload issue
so much as like you go back to the
drawing board on the next the next
mesocycle and another thing too um
i mean auto regulation kind of
eliminates this like a lot of this have
to mean you can take half deloads as
part of auto regulation but if you're
doing a pretty good job on your kind of
ghetto mev metrics and your pumps and
your soreness and your monitoring
performance if you're making those
adjustments throughout the meso you
might not have to think about doing this
kind of stuff as explicitly that's what
i would say i think maybe you're just
um over analyzing like the half deload
specifically and under analyzing just
like how are you feeling day to day is
your performance going pretty good blah
blah blah stuff like that
all right james our last question asker
oh my goodness just type into the search
m-r-o
what
rose law coleslaw over here what the
fuck
okay wait
i'm gonna i'm gonna take a crack at it
rush
no wait
rush law
shanovsky
how did that do
let me take a crack at it
martial sloth
uh
jesus
[Music]
yeah
god damn son who did this to you who did
this to you god fucking hey awesome i
love him all right
uh can you click on the read more james
oh yeah sorry
is there this is right up your alley
james is there any way short of
dehydration of limiting excessive
sweating during training
uh we're talking about having almost
fully sweat saturated shirt in a gym
that's having its air condition at about
20 to 21 celsius which is like 69 um
and 69 fahrenheit i'll add that the dude
isn't obese or anything
upper teen's body fat reasonable work
capacity maxing at 25 heart sets workout
session with a typical daily volume of
20 cents mainly compounds with some
isolation thrown in i'm thinking maybe
extra cardio is a solution though it is
not a limiting factor during lifting
here's the funny part if someone gets
really good at doing cardio they
actually sweat more and not less high
sweating is an adaptation to being a
really good athlete now you could have a
really high internal body temperature
getting leaner will almost always reduce
sweat amount so if he's in the high
teens get him into the low teens and
almost certainly he'll sweat less but
you could just have patrick ewing
syndrome which
you or jaden cox syndrome from wrestling
you just sweat
a lot and that's a thing and that's
something to go talk to a dermatologist
about because they do have solutions for
that some of them are drugs you can take
it's a real intense problem some people
really really have that's really fucked
up and it's just something that happens
and yeah short of getting leaner and
wearing very um
light clothing uh and if even for him
turning the the
temperature down even more if he can
that's that's the deal
yeah i don't really think there's a
whole lot you can do from the training
side of things some people are just
sweaters it just it's just the way it is
and at that point either you have like
you know clinical level either
medication or deodorants or sorry
antiperspirants or you just might have
to bring extra clothes uh i know like uh
when mike and i were teaching i would
always sweat through my shirts not
because i was nervous or anything just
because like teaching for whatever you
know i would just get turned turned you
know turned up for teaching and
my
elbow to hip would just be soaking wet
sometimes you got to bring a spare shirt
because it's nasty yeah i don't know
there's really i can't think of anything
and i don't i i've been struggling with
this issue i almost feel like preventing
the sweating aside from it just being
like disruptive to your life which i get
when you're like a sweaty mess and you
don't want to like look like that all
the time but i think it's actually a
good thing to let it out i i struggle
with the idea of like trying to keep it
in because i feel yeah fuck that you're
supposed to let it out it's serving a
specific purpose obviously it can it can
get a little crazy and if you're if
you're sweating through all your clothes
all the time it's not great for your
lifestyle and certainly not great for
your professional life but i also feel
like i'm not and i'm not like a
naturalist either i just feel like
you're you're supposed to sweat and i
stopped i personally stopped using the
antiperspirant deodorants just because i
feel like it's weird it's supposed to
come out and if i feel like i'm just
plugging it up like
where's what's what's i don't i don't
know that's the same reason i i stopped
stopping myself from masturbating in
public like if it's gonna happen it's
gonna happen it's gonna happen right why
why hold back um yeah
that's an interesting one and an
interesting name to go with it good god
my man my man
um
one last bonus round james scroll up a
little bit back to miroslav
oh shit bonus round just for shifts and
giggles i don't even know where just
search mro real quick
there we go right below
darth to ziki ickius
what's dr james cause of dissatisfaction
with technology
sucks it sucks what do you want me to
say it blows
hold on can you scroll down what is
rainer trainer i know him in real life
what does rainer trainer say he says
have you tried other kits question mark
haha yeah for sure
like techno gym is something when you go
to a gym in italy and you're like oh
this isn't a real gym it's just techno
gym equipment and yeah some of their
stuff is fine but they have like a line
from the mid-2000s which just
whoever designed it had never lifted
weights it's like simultaneously
uncomfortable and low sfr and you can't
get any raw stimulus magnitude on it
you're doing a chest press and you're
like going to failure but like the
machine is failing and not you it's
weird it like you don't really get to
squeeze on the shit it's all yeah you're
always just like who made this why does
this exist
this was like somebody like their
master's thesis project was like design
exercise equipment and they're like okay
there you go here we go
this hypothetically moves like a human
yeah somebody set this thing around
oh boy that was a that was a silly one
it was a good
good q oh shit trevor fulbright asked a
question trevor just sent me that
question goddammit we know each other in
real life trevor
look at your question you got no upvotes
look at you you suck you suck what are
you doing
he's asking a chris stuffin question
flywheel etc we don't know i don't know
anything about a flywheel there's one
cool study on it that's all i know
yeah
i've yeah i'll look into that a little
bit
yeah i got something funny to tell you
after we log off um all right
all right well folks thank you so much
again for the good questions make sure
you guys are up voting questions that
you like and just kind of give a when
you when you pop into the to look at
questions go ahead and just look through
all of them real quick see if there's
any that you thought were really good
throw them a like and we'll get to those
and then if you have any that have not
been answered you can go ahead and pop
it in there and hopefully other people
will pay you the same courtesy and
upvote yours as well so we get them all
answered so we already had our
housekeeping make sure you guys go check
out the new body part focus templates
that we have really really awesome i was
just on the rp podcast talking all sorts
of shit for two episodes so you can guys
if you want to hear more of my derp
ellerps you can check that out dr mike
anything else
that's it uh for now always new stuff in
the works all right folks thanks again
for the good questions we will see you
next time