what happens to your body when you stop
lifting weights this is a common
question a lot of people are asking
right now as the global pandemic has
many people training in some sort of
limited capacity now I want to start
here with a real-life example of muscle
loss Matt H a client of my friend cliffs
built up an impressive physique but was
forced to take a significant break from
training when he was hospitalized for a
Crohn's flare-up
he went from 200 pounds on the Left down
to 165 pounds on the right so he lost
about 35 pounds of muscle now we'll come
back to Matt a little later in the video
but at this point I think it's
reasonable to wonder exactly how long it
takes to see this kind of muscle loss
does it happen
after a week a month a year and does it
depend on if you did absolutely nothing
or just reduced your training workload
well luckily science can help us answer
all of these questions first it's
important to acknowledge that muscle
loss is a complex process an ongoing
tug-of-war between muscle protein
synthesis and muscle protein breakdown
where gradually the muscle protein
breakdown side starts to win and how
quickly that tug-of-war turns in favor
of muscle loss first depends on just how
little you're doing physically
scientific evidence tells us that if you
don't do any physical activity at all
unfortunately you can lose a lot of
muscle depressingly fast 1 2016 study
from Dirk's and colleagues found that
complete bed rest caused significant
muscle loss in just one week now granted
this study may not be relevant to many
of you since these subjects weren't
regularly weight training in the first
place and unless you're seriously
injured or hospitalized chances are you
won't be restricted to a bed for 7 days
including hygiene and sanitary
activities I mean even if you're not
training at all chances are most of you
will still be getting out of bed and
doing some sort of normal everyday
activity and as it turns out just
walking around is actually quite a lot
better at preventing muscle loss than
lying in bed all day even if you aren't
actually lifting weights this was
evidenced in a recent study from
Hawaiian colleagues where they took 20
subjects with at least one year of
training experience and had them stop
lifting altogether for two weeks but
still carried out their regular daily
activities so not complete bed rest at
this time and this time as you can see
in the graph there actually was no
significant drop-off in muscle mass
after two weeks of D training so this
study and other similar research tells
us that you probably won't see
noticeable muscle loss within two weeks
of D training as long as you're
bothering to get up and get dressed
but in my opinion I would say that's
probably just about the cutoff
sometimes soon after two or three weeks
most people are gonna start to notice
some muscle shrinkage this is the same
timeframe muscle researchers Fisher and
Steele cited in their review of
evidence-based recommendations for
hypertrophy with quote up to three weeks
being the maximum time frame you can
take a break without fear of atrophy or
muscle loss the three week time frame
also makes an appearance in the Ogas our
data I've talked about here on the
channel before where you do see these
dips and muscle mass after three weeks
of D training but if we zoom in on the
line here it's still hard to tell if
that muscle loss happened gradually and
evenly over those three weeks or if
there was a hard drop-off say after two
weeks now some experts still claim that
this isn't actually true muscle loss
it's mostly just a loss of glycogen and
water stores inside the muscle not
actual contractile tissue loss per se I
think they might be onto something this
theory would explain why the rebounds we
see after these short breaks are so
quick if it's just water and glycogen
loss those fuel stores should refill
very quickly as soon as we start lifting
again okay so D training for up to three
weeks doesn't seem to be too bad as long
as you're moving around at all but what
about training breaks that last longer
than this what if you're forced to
cancel your gym membership for say two
months because you decided to take part
in a training montage inspired home
invasion and got put on house arrest for
two months well based on two separate
studies here it seems that you could
expect to lose up to half your gains if
you take two months off let's take a
quick look at this Leaguer paper from
2006 they put subjects on an eight-week
training program and then have them
abruptly stopped training for another
eight weeks so about two months on and
then two months off during the first two
months they saw a 10% increase in muscle
size but during the two months of no
weights they saw those gains get cut in
half so if we take a glass half-full
approach even after two months of no
lifting at all they still kept about
half the muscle they had built in eight
weeks by just continuing everyday
activities I think that's actually
fairly encouraging especially if you
consider that most people should be able
to do a little more than simply get out
of bed and make it to the fridge now
keep in mind these subjects were
essentially newbies so they trained for
two months and then took two months off
that's it
so most people with more lifting
experience might see less relative loss
in that same time frame but it's hard to
say based on the data available and of
course so far we've been speaking in
very broad terms how much muscle you
actually lose
three main factors again the first being
just how much or how little you're doing
as we've seen complete bed rest is in
fact quite a lot worse than just walking
around and doing everyday activities
because those simple movements will
mechanically activate most muscles to
some extent but that itself will still
be quite a bit worse than doing high rep
bodyweight workouts which is probably a
bit worse than doing heavier training
with weighted resistance but still I do
think the gap here is much smaller than
the gap here and the reason I say this
is based on a 2011 study from bikal and
colleagues which found that even
reducing training volume all the way
down to 1/9 of what you were doing
before was enough to maintain muscle
mass on average for 32 weeks
that's over seven months so this is
quite encouraging it tells us that even
low volume quote suboptimal workouts
should be enough to keep most of your
muscle hanging around for at least six
or seven months ok secondly how much
muscle you lose depends on your diet
especially total caloric intake the new
paper published this year from Allen
Aragon and Brad Schoenfeld noted that a
sustained energy deficit compromises
muscular potential by inhibiting muscle
protein synthesis and molecular anabolic
signaling whereas being in a caloric
surplus provides the ideal milieu for
promoting muscle growth and while this
research is focused on maximizing muscle
growth rather than minimizing muscle
loss because muscle loss is ultimately
driven by muscle protein synthesis
losing the tug-of-war this same advice
still holds you want to avoid a caloric
deficit and at least eat at maintenance
or in a slight caloric surplus if your
main goal is to avoid muscle loss third
protein intake also really matters that
same review sites one point six to two
point two grams of protein per kilogram
of body weight so about 0.7 to 1 gram
per pound is a good range for drug-free
non dieting trainees however you may
want to err on the high end or even
slightly higher if you aren't actually
training now another thing a lot of
people worry about is age and based on
the mountain of research exploring
age-related muscle loss or sarcopenia it
would seem reasonable to assume that
muscle loss from D training increases as
you get older however this isn't
actually all that clear at least in
cases of bedrest
according to a 2016 review in the
Journal of frailty and aging it appears
that periods of muscle disuse result in
muscle losses of a similar magnitude
compared to the young but these authors
still highlight the importance of muscle
mass maintenance from metabolic health
in aging with that said the Bickle paper
from earlier did find that the
one-ninth training volume protocol was
only enough to maintain muscle mass in
the younger group and not in the older
group which could imply that older
individuals so folks 60 and up need a
more volume to keep their gains sticking
around but for anyone under 60 just
hitting simple bodyweight workouts where
you train each muscle close to failure
once or twice per week should be enough
to keep the muscle you've built hanging
around as long as you know you're also
eating somewhere in the range of 1 gram
of protein per pound of body weight and
putting yourself at or above caloric
maintenance and if you don't know how to
figure that out multiplying your body
weight by 16 should get you in the right
ballpark for calories and then you can
guess and check your weight trends from
there but and this is a big but even if
you ignore all of my advice in this
video and decide to do absolutely
nothing for the next two months or two
years not all is lost remember Matt from
the beginning of the video well it took
him about 7 years of training to build
his peak physique then because he was
completely bedridden and fed only
through an IV it only took him 2 months
for him to lose all of that muscle
however here's the good news it
definitely didn't take another 7 years
for him to build that muscle back in
fact with just 2 months of retraining he
was able to pack all of his lost muscle
back on this is of course owing to the
power of muscle memory the idea that
it's a lot easier to rebuild lost muscle
than it is to build new muscle from
scratch now there's actually currently a
controversial topic in the scientific
literature and now famous pioneering
study from 2010 showed that muscle
nuclei that were formed during training
stuck around basically forever
so the original theory was that as soon
as you start training again those nuclei
can start pumping out new muscle
proteins and boom you rebuild all your
lost muscle lickety-split and even
though this was the prevailing theory up
until about the middle of last year this
research was performed on rodents and as
it turns out a new study from
Schneider's and colleagues conducted on
humans this time found something
different myah nuclei still increased
with training but actually went back to
baseline after just one year of D
training so maybe they don't stick
around forever after all now this has
led many experts in the field to wonder
if it's actually epigenetic changes
playing the main role in muscle memory
although this 2018 study from C borning
colleagues regardless while the actual
mechanism is currently up for debate
again the existence of muscle memory
itself is not whether owing to nuclei
retention or epigenetic modifications
muscle memory is real
and it will help you build back any
muscle that you lost a lot faster than
it took you to build it in the first
place okay so guys before you click out
I've got two quick announcements first
I'm going to be releasing a free bridge
program for anyone subscribe to my
newsletter in the coming few weeks so
you guys know exactly what to do as soon
as all the gyms reopen so I'll put a
link to my newsletter it down below so
you guys can sign up and get that free
program as soon as I drop it now second
I just launched my first blog article
over on Jeff Newport calm now covers the
same topic as in this video but in quite
a lot more scientific detail and this is
something I'm gonna do my best to do in
future videos for those of you who want
to nerd out a bit more or have something
that you can more easily reference and
come back to also if you're wondering
what to do with your diet after a
detraining period there's a full section
in my ultimate guide to body
recomposition dedicated to dee training
with specific examples of how to set up
your macros including sample meal plans
and really everything else related to
nutrition and it's over 15 chapters in
total so I'll put a button to that over
here next to my head if you guys want to
check it out
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one
is not beautiful
Dominique