Paul quarter is one of my least favorite
people within the fitness industry
besides accusations of misogyny here's
what I've seen him do step one you find
someone more credible than yourself to
copy all of your content from step two
make reels where you awkwardly stand
around and eventually pretend to notice
the camera you've set up all along step
3 make extreme claims selectively citing
research to support static stream claims
step four if someone disagrees with you
or asks you a question block them
threaten them in DMS call them a fat
 or as a last resort if they're
really not paying attention to you maybe
even make a bunch of subliminal pathetic
misses just hoping that person finally
notices you let me give you an example
Paul Carter can stop going on about
effective reps this effective wraps that
in fact he loves this so much when this
was challenged in the past pretty
reasonably he quickly resorted to ad
hominem to conclude don't get me wrong
Paul has some good takes that being said
he also lacks scientific integrity and
behaves like a online take that as
you will