the the biggest things are making sure
that you cut out all the crap all the
processed foods this is a man that
injects hormones into his body you don't
get much more processed than
pharmaceutical grade growth hormone but
I digress all the liquid calories all
the seed oils seed oils are not bad for
your health this is a myth if
you try to look into the scientific
literature you will find convincingly
nothing on the aggregate that shows seed
oils are bad for you this is some like
right-wing bro that drives a truck that
does Trend kind of Bullit lore I thought
leftwing Kens that drive Priuses had
aing Monopoly on that type of
but I guess we're all getting mixed up
lately so seed oils are totally fine in
fact seed oils are some of the
healthiest foods that you can take in
liquid calories you have you're having
trouble with your weight not ideal and
yeah generally speaking junk food isn't
ideal for you but having a little bit of
junk here and there is totally fine in
an awesome part of Modern Life if you
have no junk at all maybe that's cool if
you like that sort of thing but if you
have a little bit of junk here and there
it could really enhance your life and
cost you basically nothing in health and
fitness