it is a physiological fact skeptical
eyebrows activate that during exercise
the larger muscles of the body demand
more energy than the smaller ones that's
true it is advantageous therefore to
work the largest muscles first false you
work the muscles first that are two
things one your highest priority muscles
that you want to get the biggest and
strongest because they are the freshest
at the beginning of exercise and two
muscles that are not limiting factors
for other muscles that if they become
tired the other muscles later are really
really difficult to train if you wanted
to train your ability to deadlift and
train your grip you probably don't want
to do grip first and then deadlift
because your tired grip will severely
deteriorate the quality of the
deadlifting but you could do it in
reverse the idea that larger muscles
should be trained before smaller muscles
is not a categorically true statement