optimal training is or is it Dr pack
here straight from the doctor's
conference AKA having a chat with my
friend Dr Milo wolf who in the room next
door aka the doctor's conference the
official one nice Tri pediatricians
Physicians whatever the called thank you
for poisoning our youth with all your
Pharma and medicine and all that listen
to that dude on Tik Tok who grabs foods
and then tells you why they're bad just
by telling you they're bad and then cing
all that to say optimal training is not
BS actually and it's totally fine to do
where am I going with this you may ask
the very wellth thought out intro side
I'm here to talk to you about the idea
that optimal training is and just lift
bro and just do the weights and whatever
they tell you even though I'm not
necessarily in the optimal Camp myself
now the idea of optimal training is
something that we see quite a bit on
soci social media the chase for
optimizing adaptations for making sure
that you're taking every possible box
even if that box is a speculative box uh
when it comes to maximizing strength or
hypertrophy or fat loss or whatever now
a lot of people attack the idea of
optimal because they get annoyed at
people pimping out science and just
presenting themselves as authority
figures who will give you the magic
tricks that are going to make a huge
difference to your Gams it's important
to understand that a lot of things that
are mentioned in the context of
optimization sometimes are educated bets
again in the context of let me do
anything possible anything that I can
let me make sure that I leave no stone
unturned in order to absolutely maximize
the adaptation that I'm interested in
however a lot of people seem to take
offense with that they seem to not like
it and they seem to tell people off uh
because they think they're overthinking
it they think they're missing the force
for the tree and so on and so forth
which to a certain extent I agree
obviously the basics come first training
volume training intensity of effort um
eating protein and being in a calorie
Surplus or deficit depending on your
goals and so on and so forth those
things are the most important but and
here comes the
nonoptimal doctor to defend the optimal
Bros just because I'm having a good day
terms of condition supply I'm here to
tell you that it's totally fine to want
to optimize at the end of the day for
the majority of you AKA 99.9% of you
especially those watching this video
this is a
hobby chasing optimal can be fun it is
the reason why a lot of people still go
to the gym finding the new exercise
variation that you you want to try or
seeing that there was a new study that
showed that X technique may provide a
bit more additional growth under certain
circumstances and then applying that and
placeboing it that it will do uh all
sorts of wonders can be fun and can keep
things interesting at the same time I
want to advise people that go down this
path to have fun with optimizing but at
the same time remember that at the end
of the day it's the basics that will get
them the majority of their gains it's
totally fine to want to be completely
dedicated to your training to want to
control a bunch of variables and to
optimize and adjust your training so
that you're making every possible
educated bet in order to maximize
adaptations do I personally think that
you're looking at an insane amount of
additional gains no could you be looking
at 5 or 10% more gains that for some
people may be meaningful or the pursuit
of those gains at least may be
meaningful sure it's totally fine to
want to optimize and to want to be in
the gym for 2 hours per session and to
want to have the perfect form and watch
100 videos on form as long as you're
doing so because you're enjoying
yourself because you're doing your hobby
and the same way petrol head will drive
a 700 horsepower Beast that is
completely unnecessary and just cost
them money because they enjoy so and
they will make the exhaust louder just
for the sake of the exhaust being louder
the same way the muscle geek who wants
to maximize muscle growth is totally
fine to want to watch 300 videos per day
and have 700 different Excel sheets and
track everything and go to the gym and
treat it as if it's the most most
important thing in the world as long as
that person and yes I'm talking to you
one Optimizer guy that made it to my
nihilistic Channel as long as you're
still remembering that it's the basics
that will get you most of the gains
lifting the weight and putting it down
is still the most important thing and
that you are just you know optimizing
For the Love of optim optimization and
those slide adjustments are not really
going to make or break your overall
program as long as you're aware of those
things and you're not actively stressing
about the little details and whether you
did that extra rep or that extra set and
you're doing them just because you want
to leave the gym and be like yeah that
was cool now I'm doing my leg
specialization phase where I do uh
reverse NY curls and lengthen partials
on the Smith Squad and I'm also doing
some stretches in between because you
know there was that one study that
showed this and I've have created this
really cool sort of training block now
where I do new exercises as long as
you're in that mind frame totally fine
to optimize and for those of you that
hate on everything just let people be
let them optimize let them have fun as
long as they're not in your face telling
you it is super important to do this
thing because if you don't do it you're
not going to see gains as long as
they're not doing that they're totally
fine nobody wants to hear you yelling at
people for wanting to optimize their
training or wanting to watch content
about optimizing training or wanting to
geek out about their [ __ ] hobby at
the end of the day for the majority of
us this is a hobby I don't need to
deadlift to be alive or to exist or to
even have a thick physique I do it cuz I
like it what's that have to do with the
video nothing I lost my train of thought
ADHD and therefore like subscribe
notification Bell send me money to buy
ADHD meds which are not ADHD meds and
are indeep substances that I will
consume in order to think of more videos
AKA I'm not even thinking of these
videos these are complete freestyles and
I'll see you guys on the next video
peace