hey folks it's me Dr Mike for
Renaissance periodization and it's
hypertrophy myth series myth number two
you gotta warm up the quads with leg
extensions before getting into the
compound movements
that is the thing a lot of people think
we're going to talk about the myth maybe
some good points it makes definitely
some bad points it makes that's why it's
myth and a little bit of real talk to
kind of close out and give you guys some
actionable advice
the claim really hears that you know you
should warm up the knees with leg
extensions before moving on to presses
or squats of any kind this has been
explicitly stated by many bodybuilders
over the years these supposed rationale
get to why later why it's supposed is
that the leg extension is uniquely uh
beneficial exercise for knee warm-ups
maybe because it doesn't have any
vertical loading component or maybe
because you can it's going to say use
lighter weight but that actually the
case because you can use lightweight on
any exercise maybe it's the vertical
loading I don't know in any case it's
supposed to warm up the knees really
well and uh also doing process before
this is somehow a bad idea I think
because it enhances the risk of injury
or because it prevents you from having
good mind muscle connection fine fine
hypotheses let's see
how they stand up to some examination
here's the thing if you are very
experienced in training properly
and in warming up properly and you've
found time and time again that some
light leg extensions before squats or
before leg presses before hack squats
really just make your training go better
especially if your knees are just not so
great you're like look man normally I'd
be down but I've had 10 knee surgeries
on one knee nine on the other like I
just need my fucking leg extensions
that's what works for me and I know it
does hey great
no problems at all
however it does beg the question of how
experienced at proper training are most
of the folks that either claim that this
thing is a reality or not so much
cleaning themselves but do it you know
like buy a flex magazine and see that
it's three by ten light extensions to
start just do the workout why are you
doing that I don't know it's what I got
from a bodybuilder it's supposed to work
ooh but does it though does it though
let's find out here's the bad we have at
least three bad things we can talk about
problem number one
the vast majority of bodybuilders and
people that claim this is the thing
wouldn't no proper warm-ups or proper
training if it jumped up and bit them
right on the tip of their fucking cocks
the fuck up out of here these people
Rush their warm-ups they have shitty
technique to begin with
like sometimes they're like yeah man I
need lug extensions warrant for squats
they do like extensions you're like okay
they start doing their squats they're
like what the fuck I need a fucking car
accident to warm up for that what the
hell is that even that not a squat get
out of here a lot of them do excessive
loading and work sets like yeah maybe
it's a good idea to warm up your knees
and legs and just if you're gonna like
get into a heavy triple as a bodybuilder
which a bunch of these people do all the
fucking time you fucking name it they do
it just God forsaken terrible everything
and then they do this terrible
everything and they say well I need
light extensions before to make this
work maybe but if you fixed all that
dumb shit maybe that wouldn't really be
the case right
problem number two
is that warming up is not rocket science
you can have an unbelievable warm-up in
a compound movement
if you simply do the first few sets very
light with a slow eccentric and a nice
pause at the bottom you're gonna get
amazing warm-ups and then by the time
the sets get heavy and you're getting
into your work sets you'll feel hunky
fucking Dory and everything's gonna be
great and your knees are going to feel
great your quads are going to feel great
your Technique is going to be that much
better because you've been warming up
and practicing technique the whole time
most folks that say leg extensions are
necessary warm-up before compound lifts
don't know how to do this they're
warming up wrong their technique is
wrong so automatically I just don't care
what they have to say about this because
you're fucking wrong sorry I'm getting
too emotional how typical
problem number three is that leg
extensions even just aren't that great
for the knees at this they're a fine
exercise but they're not somehow very
low risk or very not prone to damaging
the knees technically leg extensions
impose some of the high shearing forces
on your knee joint it's not necessarily
a bad thing it's necessarily a good
thing either leg extensions are not easy
on the knees
actually if you go on the leg press and
just leave just the sled on that's
probably easier on the knees for the
first few sets of reps anyway than even
leg extensions are because it's ultra
light load but it's not even in a
shearing Direction so the idea that leg
extensions are first
is by itself it's sort of like without
reasoning even you say well they just
got to warm up with leg extensions what
is it about lay extensions it warms you
up all that well and the answer is
there's not really anything there right
and the thing is is that a lot of these
bodybuilders when they do leg extensions
they end up fucking that up too it's not
like they're doing slow eccentrics and
pauses and leg extensions either they
get into leg extensions their warm-up is
like all work sets basically crazy High
Reps to failure and Beyond failure and
weird jiggling motions and that's all
fucking wrong too if someone's doing
everything wrong maybe learning how to
do right here from them you know you
could like think about it twice or some
shit be like is that person that person
really got it all figured out I know
they have big muscles I think it's
mostly from good genetics tons of hard
maybe not smart training over the years
a shitload of gear that kind of explains
everything maybe you can learn a
technique from people that seem to be
able to explain things logically that's
a fine idea so real talk here it is 99
or more of all lifters can just warm up
with super light
slow deep paused reps of the first
movement they're doing and if that's the
leg extension great if it's leg press
great no problem you don't need to do a
different exercise with supposed
benefits people this is related to the
idea of like activation exercises like
to activate my packs of flies and then
move on to process like do you mean
pre-exhaust like no activation like okay
I feel like you if you're using the
bench properly the incline properly
whatever chest compound move you do
properly you can activate your packs
just fine if you know what you're doing
and again nine out of 10 times these are
the same people that you see them on
both exercises and their technique is
terrible no fucking wonder you have an
activation problem right here's the
thing if your knees are bothering you
there's a huge chance that your
Technique or your warm-up or your load
selection or your fatigue management
sucks
fix that and not Band-Aid the shit with
leg extensions I've seen a lot of pro
bodybuilders over the years that
motherfuckers with startled leg
extension and then what do they do next
they get into leg press put on 20
fucking 500 pounds wrap their knees
wrong I might add based on how power
lifters actually wrap their knees and
get in there do some kind of weird half
reps on their toes and their knees hurt
even more but they're not sure what it
takes learn how to do shit better so you
don't have to put weird ineffective
Band-Aids on it let me tell you guys a
quick story before signing off one time
I was like nine and I um saw like when I
was getting my shots like they had
little Band-Aids at the doctors
pediatrician's office they had Band-Aids
and fun stuff like Mickey Mouse and
stuff and some Disney ones and a super
wanted one and I thought they were
giving them out but then when I got my
shot I was like can I have one of these
and they were down to just like the
bright colors because they ran out of
Disney ones and I'll never forget that
shit as long as I live I never got my
fucking chance