hey rp+ welcome back dr. James Hoffman
here and today we're going to finish off
our applied periodization lecture before
I do some of the other crazy stuff on my
own so today what I wanted to show you
is build upon what we talked about last
time where we learned about the
different phases of the annual plan and
how we sequence them together into our
nice face potentiated model today what
we're going to try and do is actually
put that into the real world so now
we're going to show you how to actually
make this in some type of usable form so
hopefully you guys have the PowerPoint
so you can follow along with the
pictures and let's get started
so first off the first question we're
gonna ask is what is an annual plan and
so the annual plan is a tool that we use
in Sport and Exercise Science to put
together all these different training
principle concepts periodization
concepts into writing right so really
what I like to say is kind of the annual
plan is like the physical manifestation
of our whole periodization concept so
now we've talked about all the different
theory behind training we talked about
sets reps volumes intensities variation
phase potentiation all these different
things now is the actual time where we
have to have our athlete we did our
needs analysis we know what we need to
train for now we put it on writing now
we actually have these plan so the
annual plan as the name implies is
actually an entire year it's worth of
training mapped out ahead of time which
is pretty cool this is going to include
all the training of the sport practice
of the fatigue management recovery
strategies you name it it's in there so
our annual plan is kind of a very uh
underappreciated underrated step
throughout this process because not only
are we trying to get the person in the
gym today and what are we doing today
what are we working on right but now
we're actually mapping out all the
different things that they're going to
be doing throughout the year and we know
that it's not always going to be 100%
perfect things are going to come up
right the natural order of the world is
chaos and entropy but the more organized
we are ahead of time the better it's
going to be when we actually go forth
and implement this in the real world if
I know that there in the general prep
phase I know that they should be doing
certain types of exercises or certain
types of set and rep schemes even if
something gets fudged up or if I have my
a plan and our schedule changes and I
say dang it I thought we were gonna have
competitions at this time but now
they're at a different time I can at
least look at my plan and say you know
what I can make some slight
modifications no big deal I don't have
to start over right because I had this
all mapped out ahead of time so one of
the nice things is the annual plan helps
us break down our training into those
smaller phases so we've already said
phasic models very important this is how
we actually start breaking them down
putting it on paper essentially and it
also allows us to make sure that our
athlete is performing at their best when
we want them to why because now we
literally have mapped out all the
competitions and we can sequence the
training up to all of those different
points so this is kind of how we
actually like I said put it in on pen
and paper put it in the real world so
let's go onto the next slide so what
kind of things do you have to put into
your annual plan and there's no easy way
to answer this unfortunately everything
that you can anything and everything
that you think of you should put in
there and I promise you weird is
gonna come up and it still comes up for
me every now and again I'll be working
on one and somebody would be like you
forgot to factor in this random holiday
that you never heard of and I'm like
damn it I'm gonna start over right
so essentially what are the things or
what are the components that you have to
put in the annual plan well first off
you want to make sure you have all the
sport practice sessions whether they're
light sessions challenging sessions
tactics technique all that kind of stuff
so whenever they're doing their sport
practice we want to have all of their
training sessions whether they're heavy
light if their weight training
cardiovascular training power speed
agility any type of fitness related
training session we want to have all
their fatigue management recovery
strategy stuff already built in so we
want to make sure not only are we
managing fatigue concurrently throughout
the process but we want to make sure we
have pre-planned strategies built in and
already set up ready to go one of the
things that is difficult and will always
be difficult is travel traveling can be
a pain in the butt on a number of
different levels first off time spent
traveling can be challenging right
because now we actually have if a person
or an athlete is taking several days
maybe even upwards of weeks to travel to
certain locations that's time that they
cannot be training it's time that they
may not be able to recover well or
practice so we have to figure out when
are they unavailable
due to travel a couple other things you
have to think about with travel
facilities does the places that I'm
going actually have access to Jim or can
I call somebody kind of call a
neighboring strength coach and say hey
homeboy can I workout at your gym while
we travel who knows maybe you for going
out of the country out of state that
might not be available to you a couple
other things you got a thing about
travel time changes circadian rhythm
changes right so if you're traveling
somewhere where they are on a completely
different time zone distinctly different
from where you are normally training at
you actually might have to get there a
little bit earlier than you planned on
especially if you're having like a major
major competition something it's really
important like a championship soccer
match or a fight or something you might
actually decide to get there like two
weeks earlier just to establish new
circadian rhythms for your athletes so
they're not feeling jet-lagged all the
time a couple other things Travel it
just doesn't seem to end food cannot
tell you how many times we've traveled
with people and what's the first thing
they do when they go somewhere new fun
and exciting they want to eat that crazy
Street food melissa davis from Rp she's
the worst she'll eat like run over
garbage taco on the ground that a dog is
eating she'd be like great I'm gonna eat
that no don't do that right what's one
of the first problems you run into when
you start eating foods that you are not
accustomed to eating you get GI distress
diarrhea nausea all sorts of nasty stuff
so sometimes with travel you have to
actually bring your own food and make
sure you're keeping tabs on what they're
doing so they don't go and eat like taco
supreme and then have a blowout on the
platform you know what I'm saying gross
we don't want that holidays there is
never-ending supply of holidays going on
at all times some of them are national
holidays some of them are religious
holidays I can tell you there are so
many religious holidays out there
between Christians Jewish people people
who who do Islam all those different
religions all have a various number of
religious that you have to keep in mind
I had a one person not too long ago was
having trouble because we were doing a
training program and he was honoring
Ramadan and he could only eat during
certain amounts at certain times
throughout the day is it a huge obstacle
no but it's something that you want to
actually just put down and say hey you
know what I know this is coming up I
know I'm gonna maybe have to make some
modifications because of it so I want to
make sure I'm prepared and ready to go
ahead of time so any holidays whether
they're religious school holidays
national holidays or anytime basically
that holiday would mandate that somebody
not recover not trained not to sport
practice something like that we want to
just put that in there of course we need
to have the competition so anytime that
they're actively competing we want to
make sure those are explicitly marked
out on our calendar so we always know
when the athlete needs to be prepared to
compete and we can adjust our training
accordingly we also want to have a
pretty good idea of their nutritional
paradigm so we saw beforehand we set the
different phases of nutritional
periodization we already talked about
that in the previous video but I want to
make sure I know I guess this is a time
period where I'm doing weight loss
weight gain am i stabilizing
you might prioritizing different things
like carbohydrate over protein or
something like that those are things
that you want to have mapped out you
want to have all the major testing and
monitoring that you're doing with that
athlete now that can be your own testing
and monitoring that you do with your
athlete it can include other things like
NCAA compliance it can include like drug
testing you sadha testing stuff like
that
anytime where there's some kind of
laboratory test or some type of testing
that's going to take your athlete away
from their normal schedule practice or
training times you want to map that out
as well and then if they're doing any
type of like sports psychology practice
like mental practice imagery
visualization any of that kind of stuff
you're gonna put that in there sounds
like a lot and it is a lot the key here
is basically you want to find all the
factors that would essentially take
somebody away from training sport
practice or recovery time and try to map
them out the best you can you will never
get this perfect there is never a time
where you will hit every single obstacle
ahead of time to be 100% prepared but
the more prepared you are ahead of time
the better now if you're a strength
coach and you're managing five or six
different teams you can imagine this is
going to get a little overwhelming
really quick but the good news is a lot
of this stuff tends to overlap quite a
bit so if there's major holidays and
stuff that applies to everybody travel
things like that individual schedules
can get a little bit messy but again the
more prepared to hour ahead of time the
better so essentially what goes in the
annual plan basically anything you can
think of now why is this important well
again the annual plan is the physical
kind of expression of our periodization
concept this is why we do all this crazy
nonsense the annual plan essentially
allows us to put structure to the theory
right where we've talked about phase
potentiation we've talked about
changing exercise selection and volumes
intensities variation overload
specificity all that stuff well it's all
fine and good until you actually do it
right so this is the tool that allows us
to develop the highest levels of fitness
characteristics whether they're power
speed strength cardiovascular endurance
all of the above this is how it actually
gets done so you actually got to put it
down or write out your training program
and now we're actually going to do it
not just for a couple weeks at a time
not just for a couple of days at a time
but now we're doing it on the scale of
years right potentially multiple years
if we want to but we're just going to
start with the one year plan just to
make it really simple so let's go on to
the next so the first thing you're gonna
do you're gonna find a medium that works
for you so what does that mean that
means you're gonna find a program
something that is very easy for you to
manage typically the way that I do it
and you can see on the slide is in
Microsoft Excel that's what I find to be
the most useful the most practical and
you don't have to be a rocket scientist
to use Excel now the more rocket
scientist you are the more fun Excel can
be but even for somebody who is a
relatively layperson with Excel or not a
strong user of Excel you can do just
fine are there other programs out there
that you can use can you use calendars
like Outlook can you use them specific
actual coaching software yes absolutely
100% the key is figuring out which
things seem to work the best for you so
you have to find a way where you can
open it every day use it really easily
and I'll hopefully be able to share it
with your colleagues because more often
than not you might have to be sharing
with your athletes or your other
assistant strength coaches or whoever
you're working with right so typically
what I recommend if this is your first
time doing it use Microsoft Excel I use
Microsoft Excel all the time makes it
really easy now if you want to go out
and buy like coaching software that you
can actually go on the internet and buy
stuff for it's like a couple hundred
bucks that does the annual plan stuff
for you really fancy that's cool too
that's totally awesome
I like Excel because it's free and you
can do a really good job on it just as
well right so first thing figure out
what X medium you want to use and I
usually recommend Microsoft Excel the
next thing you're going to do is set a
time line now some people get really
really crazy with their time line I
usually like to do it on a weekly basis
where you've mapped out all the weeks of
the year now you can get really fancy
and you can do it month month month mom
and then break those down into separate
tabs within Excel that's great - what I
don't recommend you do is do it day by
day
right otherwise you're gonna have 365
cells going across and it's going to be
a complete pain in the butt for you to
use so typically what I will do and
actually in the subsequent videos that
will follow this I'll actually show you
how to map this out and do it week by
week in Microsoft Excel for now just
take my word for it so what I usually do
is start with the week type in a date
type in to the right of that cell type
in a date that's a week later and then
just copy it and drag it across and now
you have all the weeks throughout the
year and that makes it really really
easy so essentially once you have your
medium the next thing you're gonna do is
map out basically one year of time how
you do that is up to you I recommend
doing it weekly if you want to do it
monthly and then break it down as you go
that's totally fine you can do it daily
I find that to be overly cumbersome so I
find weekly is kind of that sweet spot
where it makes most most sense when you
look at it so let's move on the next
thing you're going to do is probably the
most important step so once you have
your medium you have all the dates
mapped out now you're going to actually
start popping in your important dates
we're going to start with the
competition period so right off the bat
you're going to put in all the major
competitions for your athletes so if you
have a competitive season like an early
season and a late season
you're gonna map those out right away if
there's any tournaments any friendlies
any scrimmages any Championships any
playoffs anything that they're competing
that is of note to you right so we're
not saying like a pickup game of
basketball with your homies that's
probably not a big deal right but
anything where the person is actively
competing in a more formalized setting
we're gonna start popping those in
you're gonna put in not only the dates
but any pertinent information like the
location time equipment needed travel
etc right so we're gonna pop all those
in next after we've got all of our
competition dates which is arguably the
most important we're going to start
putting in any holidays or mandatory
down times into our plan so this can
include things like NCAA compliance as
you guys probably know you can't always
work with the athletes you might have a
limited amount of time that time might
be variable throughout the year
depending if they're in season or
offseason so that's something you're
gonna want to map out and say hey I only
have
X amount of time during these months I
have less time in these months I have no
time in some other months to actually
work with my athletes if they have
religious holidays again the reason I
bring this up is not because I'm like a
nasty anti religious person it's because
it's come up for me before where people
are like don't you know I'm celebrating
koloth Amala and I'm like I don't know
what that is buddy doesn't matter right
what'd you think about it it's a it's an
obstacle that you have to account for
right so if you can map out any of those
major religious holidays where that
person is not able to train eat recover
or do sports that's great awesome and
then essentially within that any other
time that you would expect the athlete
to be unable to train practice or do
dedicated recovery time so if there's
any events any holidays anything like
Memorial days or any national holidays
or anything like that where they're
basically not allowed to be worked with
you want to map those out okay let's
keep going you want to account for those
travel times this is what gets really
really annoying really really fast so
once we have those competitions we want
to start accounting for any travel if
necessary now if you're just doing
day-to-day trips like if you're you know
competing within the city that you live
in and stuff not a huge deal right but
if you're traveling out of state having
to make a big trek across the state if
you're having to go out of the country
now this is going to start becoming more
and more of a problem you want to
account for things like jet lag it might
take upwards of like a couple days to
actually acclimatize to that new time
schedule you want to make sure if they
have like a two day bus ride or a train
ride or a flight or something that you
have accounted for that time so you
don't plan on having workouts leaning up
into like even if they're light workouts
leading up into the competition but then
you forgot that they're gonna be on a
bus for two days right now you just
throw off your whole plan because you
didn't account for that travel time same
thing on the way back so that goes both
ways to and from the competition again I
dealing with travel times foods
accommodations all that stuff so if they
need to work out while they're on the
road you're gonna have to call somebody
ahead of time and say hey can I work out
at your gym done it up so we want to get
all those different travel times
associated with those competitions why
not account for all of our mandatory
testing sessions this can be more or
less cumbersome at different times
throughout the year so of course there's
mandatory NCAA testing is that you
should be aware of there are drug
sometimes planned sometimes random
screen
for drugs like you sought of testing
there are mandatory doctor visits that
you have to account for throughout the
year and then of course there is your
own laboratory testing and monitoring
stuff that you're probably already doing
we're saying okay you know today we're
coming in we're doing one rep max squads
or today we're doing Wendy eight or jump
so what it doesn't matter I don't care
right but you do have time periodically
that you're testing your athletes
because that's part of evidence-based
practice right you're collecting your
own data on your athletes and comparing
that to normative standards so you want
to map out all of those times because
that's time that they can't train time
that they can't practice time that they
can't recover right and then of course
you're going to start mapping out any
field testing as well so we mentioned
laboratory testing is a little bit more
invasive if they're doing field testing
as well you want to make sure you're
mapping those out you start saying hey
every Monday Wednesday Friday we do a
resting heart rate and we do a vertical
jump or whatever right boom that goes in
the plan that way it's a reminder to
yourself and a reminder to anybody else
who's referencing your plan who might
not just remember that off the top of
their head makes sense I hope so
all right next we're gonna start
actually mapping out the training
portion of the plan so we basically
outlined most of the obstacles that we
can think of are there going to be more
things absolutely I'm sure there's a ton
that I didn't even mention you guys
might be thinking of right now who
didn't mention this well trust me it's
difficult to get all of them so do your
best map out every big road obstacle
you're gonna find once you've done that
then you can start mapping out the
training now the way that we do this is
we actually do a macro cycle strategy
working backwards starting at
competition now this is what we
traditionally say we say we work our way
backwards but really what we're saying
is we're working our way from the
competition periods and we're going away
what we don't want to do is start in the
early phases of training LIF the general
preparatory phases and then work our way
up because you're gonna make mistakes
inevitably along the way and it's going
to be maddening trust me don't do that
so what you want to do is map out where
all the competitions so find your
competitive periods map those out first
and then what we're going to do next is
work our way away from those things so
if we're doing it in chronological order
we're gonna start at competitions right
we're gonna have maybe some early season
competitions and we might have some late
season competitions something like that
once we have those mapped what we're
going to do is we're going to mark the
transition phase which will be later
downstream in time
and then we're going to mark things like
our preparatory phase but then
specifically we're going to mark our
specific prep portion of that
preparatory phase because we're working
our way backwards so we have a
competitive phase if we have a
pre-competitive period we might have
that in there but once we have the
competitive phase the next step would be
to mark the transition and then to mark
the specific prep phases we don't want
to start with general prep I promise you
it's going to be way harder for you
especially when you have to start
mapping out your time lines so we're
gonna start with our macro cycle
strategy this will kind of be like our
month to month strategy working our way
away from competition so starting at the
competition's working away doing our
transition and our specific prep first
once we get that we can move into our
week to week arm or mesocycle strategies
we don't want to do is start working on
your day to day strategies before you
have mapped out your month two months
and weeks weeks I promise you I promise
you I promise you'll be pulling your
hair out and it's maddening so once
you've started to map out all the major
sub bases rights we said competitions
transition specific prep then we can
mark the general prep right now we
basically have the whole year of
training and there might be some repeats
of that within that same cycle right so
we might see series where it's general
prep specific prep competition
transition repeat or it might be just
one big blown out one who knows depends
on what's more you're working on once
we've got that we have the whole major
phases mapped out we can work on our
mesocycle strategy or week to week
strategy what we're gonna start doing
there again starting from competition
working our way backwards is now we're
going to start marking our things like
our accumulation phases our overreaching
phases Rd loads and all we're gonna do
is not being too fancy we're just going
to start marking volumes and intensities
so basically set by reps and relative
intensity so we're saying alright I've
got my three by five four by five five
by five D load here right I've got my
three by 10 4 by 10 5 by 10 90 percent
followed by D load there right we're not
even getting to exercise selection yet
we haven't even gotten there all we're
doing is basically working on big
concepts starting on our mesocycle
strategy working our way backwards so
again start with things like
accumulation periods overreaching
periods D loads all we're doing is
mapping out volumes and intensities
stuff like that nothing crazy so once
you've done that for all of the major
weeks throughout the year
then you can actually start your
microcycle strategy which will basically
be your day-to-day strategies once you
have a gross idea of all the different
things so at this point right you have
your general prep your specific Raptor
competitions you have your general set
by rep schemes across all of those
things now it's really easy now you can
actually start picking your actual
exercises and structuring your sessions
how you want them to be and now that
you've mapped all these things out you
have a very good idea of what all things
should be going into any one of these
phases right so if you're in the general
prep phase you know you're probably
going to be doing some strength
endurance hypertrophy type stuff and
spending a lot of time in the gym
whereas if you're in the late end of the
specific prepper in the competitive
phase you know you're going to be doing
a lot of sport practice a lot of maybe
plyometrics sprinting repeated sprint
type stuff right nothing too crazy so
we're gonna start marking in or heavy
sessions are light recovery sessions if
we're doing split sessions like AM and
PM sessions and then we're going to make
sure we have all the practice all the
training and everything and anything in
between on the day to day level so here
we started big right we had our weeks
mapped out we said okay I'm gonna mark
all the major sub theta the major phases
of training so I have my preparatory
phase competitive phase transition then
I'm gonna mark all of my sub bases so I
had my general prep specific prep pre
comp if applicable competitive and then
transition again and then once I have
those I can start mapping out volumes
and intensities after that I can start
mapping out the actual day-to-day
structure so start big and kind of work
your way small if you start small and
try and go up it's gonna be a really big
pain in your butt and you'll just get
frustrated especially when you realize
that you made a mistake and you have to
go back and change everything right
that's when it becomes a really big deal
so start big start with big concepts and
kind of narrow it down over time as you
go let's go to the next one
now we can also set up our annual plan
to have what I like to call multiple
stages we know that not everybody is
gonna respond the same way we know there
are all sorts of major considerations if
you're following along I really love
this freaking slide with the kid with
the rugby ball he's so pumped he's
pumped out of his mind
I love that picture it's so funny I
can't get over it I'm looking at it
right now anyways we know that
individuals will respond differently to
the training stimuli right we know
training age plays a role gender
genetics psychological state training
history all that stuff plays a big role
so it's fair to say
even though you might be a strength
coach or you might be coaching multiple
athletes within the same sport that they
might not need the exact same training
plan the training plan might differ from
person to person a little bit and that
is absolutely true now the problem that
you run into is if you are managing
hundreds and hundreds of athletes if
you're a strength coach right are you
really gonna write hundreds and hundreds
of annual plans hell no it makes no
sense that's gonna be a huge waste of
your time right do we individualize yes
absolutely every athlete should have
some individualized considerations and
however most of that can be explained by
concepts that you guys are already
familiar with like MRV which really just
comes down to how much volume of
exercise can they really tolerate right
so although Johnny boy and Susan both
play tennis their training programs
probably going to look pretty similar
but for example Susan might have to have
a lot more training volume simply
because of gender differences than
Johnny boy here right they overlap more
than they are differ but there is some
individualized considerations made along
the way right so they're more similar
than they are different can we face
potentiate throughout the year
absolutely we've already established
that phase potentiation is a very good
idea especially if you're working in
sports that have a power speed component
or if they have multiple facets like
conditioning strength power speed all
those things so that's a good idea
can we face potentiate over multiple
years you bet right there is nothing
wrong with taking that same face
potentiation model and expanding out the
timeline over a much greater period of
time can we actually use that to promote
long term athlete development hell to
the yeah absolutely we can so let's take
a look an example we can make our
multiple stage annual plans so that they
are different over the course of either
the same year or multiple years they can
be done based on how well that team or
individual has performed their training
age or their development level right so
there's a number of different routes you
can go with it a lot of people like to
do the training age one makes a lot of
sense a lot of different a lot of
different evidence for giving people
different training programs based on
their training age works really really
well
development might be based on how well
they're performing or in terms of like
the gyms and training skills
so how strong are they what's their
squat - body weight ratio things like
that what kind of numbers are they
putting up in the gym another good way
of doing it and then performance it
could be like did they make it to
playoffs this year yes or no dude are
they going on to the Nationals are they
going on to World Championships yes or
no that might be like a fork in the road
where we say I think they're going to
playoffs but I don't think they're going
to Nationals so I'm going to plan I'm
gonna have two contingencies here one
says they actually make it to Nationals
one say we just get through playoffs and
then we don't make it to Nationals right
that's an example of each one of those
things so let's keep going on the slide
so what might this look like so if we're
doing it based on age right a really
simple example is if your collegiate
strength coach if you're dealing with
people who are freshman sophomore junior
senior are really really dumb down
approach might be like the one you see
here where we might spend a lot of time
with our younger athletes our freshman
athletes focusing primarily on
hypertrophy and strength endurance for
their sport does that mean that that's
all they train throughout the year
absolutely not
no no no all this means is that more
often than not the emphasis of their
training program is going to focus on
gaining lots of muscle mass for the long
term this is a more long-term approach
model where I'm saying I'm not going to
do a lot of power speed training with
this person this year I'm gonna do some
maybe not a ton really what I'm gonna
focus on is trying to make them more
muscular so that in the years to come
they can start transitioning all that
muscle mass into stronger more powerful
muscle mass when they want a senior or
they're going off to go to professional
level something like that so our
freshman's might focus a little bit more
on work capacity hypertrophy as they get
a little older moving to their sophomore
years we might focus just more on
general strength right now we're taking
that muscle we've made it bigger now
we're trying to make it stronger more
forceful as they get to their junior
year we might switch over to maximal
strength and focus a little bit more
empower and then their senior year we
might really focus on doing power speed
and really peaking out their performance
for that year does that mean that they
don't do other things that they don't do
power or speed training throughout the
year absolutely not right we're saying
we might just put an emphasis on some of
these years more of a phase potentiated
model of emphasis over the course of
multiple years so that's a way that you
can do it do you have to do it that way
no but it's something you can do if
we're doing it based on development
right another good thing to look at is
their strength levels it doesn't have to
be strength but strengths a really
common one typically good
milestones that we use for men are
double bodyweight high bar squat if they
can squat twice their body weight
typically they're able to move on to
more advanced training programs for
power and speed development for ladies
we use that same idea but about 1.5
times their body weight that's a very
good strength milestone if they hit it
great they can move on to bigger better
things if not they probably just need to
really start hammering those basics and
maybe up their MRV a little bit and push
push the boundaries of their MRV a
little bit and then last but not least
like we said if it's based on
performance this will be basically how
far they get through their competitive
season did they make it to the playoffs
that they make it to the Nationals world
championships Olympic level and then we
might see some branching within our
annual plan that says hey they made it
here did they go on to the next one yes
or no and then we see two different
paths right did they make it to the next
level yes or no two different paths so
this is an example of what I like to
call multiple stage annual plan where
you have some different contingencies it
might be based on their age or
development it might be based on how
well they're doing that might be based
on how strong they are but it's not just
a simple linear path where we say
everybody's doing this exact path right
we might have some kind of points along
that path that diverge a little bit out
here they're kind of branch out so it
gets a little kind of it sounds
overwhelming and a candy at times but
again the more you plan the more prepped
you are the better it goes so that's all
I got for this one for today in a couple
videos that are gonna follow I'm
actually going to do this on the fly and
you guys are gonna watch me do it
because I'm the man and I'm good at it
right but hopefully you guys have a
pretty good idea now and can start
practicing I'm putting together a nice
periodized annual plan for yourself and
for your athletes and then next time
I'll actually show you how it's done all
right
well thanks for tuning in RP plus we
have new guys I'll see you next time
you