I mean is there anything so wrong about
alternating this no not a ton I mean
this is a fine way to train I respect
the fck out of the rock he's doing
whatever the he thinks he needs to be
doing he's the closest to the problem
he's probably more correct but if you
guys are using this kind of video to
like take some tips and stuff away I
would say put your feet considerably
lower on the platform in such a way that
your heels are still in contact through
the Press you will be able to get way
deeper and get way more knee flexion
which means more tension on the quad in
a stretch position which means more
growth and so putting your legs up that
high typically unless you're insanely
tall even for the rock I can tell if he
put his feet lower he would get more
knee flexion so even he's not tall
enough to be justifying that unless he
has some kind of specific goal with this
I I I don't quite know and of course as
always injury history Etc that's that's
a Full Pass to do anything not that The
Rock needs approval from me I need
approval from my wife to do most things
Scott the video guy does she know about
this it's a secret oh uh oh I'm gonna be
in deep shit when this releases so yeah
get those feet a little lower toast
pointed out a little bit more get a nice
deep stretch that's probably going to do
you a world of good