to get your feet moving to get in those
10,000 steps a day 10,000 steps a day is
a pretty good Landmark for a lot of
people some people can do more some
people can uh get away with less
generally north of about 8 to 9,000 the
metadata on tons and tons of people
walking around shows that the Health and
Longevity benefits Peak and sort of
plateau around that 8 to 10,000 step
number but it's really context dependent
some people are waiters and they walk
20,000 steps per day and they're in
amazing shape so generally I would say
better advice is like as many steps as
you can get until you're really fatigued
and like that kind of whatever number is
just shy if you're getting pretty
fatigued is really good to try to keep
up and it's also on average not every
day if over the week you're averaging
around 10,000 or 12,000 or 14 or eight
whatever that number is for you that's
just shy if you getting really tired
that's a really really good thing and it
sucks that a charlatan lying
like liver King gets to be correct every
now and again but that is the nature of
reality