practice FR of that miror you twerking
it on the dance prce of that miror you
twerk it on Twerk it on prce of that
miror you twerking it on the dance blow
that you twerk it Twerk it on the flow
twerking it on The Dan blow Twerk It On
the Dance blow Twerk it
on all right hey guys so this video is
going to be what I think I'll consider
my most important video to date and
that's because I think it's the most
controversial topic surrounding
bodybuilding and if you read the title
of the video you know that I'm going to
be speaking about water and sodium
manipulation leading into a bodybuilding
competition now within the community
this is known as the peak week and a lot
of different coaches and competitors
have a lot of different approaches and
it's a very common view that
bodybuilders will deplete water in the
days leading up to the show so that they
achieve that Ultra tight look in that
super thin skin that we often see in
competitive bodybuilders now the reason
why I say this video is so controversial
is that this is really the main reason
why bodybuilders are getting
hospitalized and dropping dead this is a
very important topic and it's largely
because of these practices that
bodybuilding has gotten a bad rrap by
the public eye and the use of things
like diuretics and extreme water cuts
and sodium depletions leading into a
bodybuilding competition are extremely
dangerous and this is actually a
pressing issue within the community now
with all of that out of the way I'm
going to say off the bat that this is
probably going to be one of my longer
videos because I want to delve into all
the science and get all of the Practical
information in there as well so just
bear with me as I unpack all of the
details here I'm also going to break
this video up into parts and if you'd
rather skip to a certain part I'll put a
link in the description box below so you
can just click to the specific time
where I'll speak on a specific topic now
I'd like to start this video off by
saying that this discussion is going to
be limited to Natural bodybuilders or
that is to say bodybuilders who are not
using anabolic steroids or growth
hormone and the reason for this is that
anabolic steroids and growth hormones
have a known side effect of causing
water retention and now before I dive
right into the physiology of all this I
just want to say that there seems to be
two main schools of thought within the
natural bodybuilding community on this
topic the first and what I think is the
most predominant view now is that we
don't need to cut water at all and it
can actually be detrimental while the
other school of thought says that we
need to manipulate water or sodium or
both in order to really hit our Peak on
show
day so the first topic that I want to
focus in on closely is our body's water
compartments all right so if we imagine
this diagram being all of our body's
water together
about 2/3 of it is found in the
intracellular space and it's called
intracellular fluid and the rest is
found in the extracellular space and
it's called the extracellular fluid so
the intracellular fluid includes the
water that's found in our body's cells
so actually in the muscle cells in our
heart cells in our liver cells in all
the other cells that make up our body
and then the extracellular fluid is
found outside of the cells and then the
extracellular fluid is itself divided
into three different
compartments so we have the interstitial
space which is basically the fluid that
lies between the cells and the blood
vessels so if you cut your body open
it's not just going to be a big pool of
blood in there the blood is confined to
the vessels and then we also have organs
in there and these organs are sort of
bathed in a interstitial fluid and it's
this fluid that makes up the inter
interstitial
space then we also have the plasma water
which is the water that actually makes
up the blood and it's in the blood
vessels and then we have the creatively
named third space which is mostly just
cerebral spinal fluid but it's so small
that we can effectively ignore it so now
as a bodybuilder it's clear that we want
the intracellular fluid to be high since
we want water in our muscle cells this
gives us that full and round looking
appearance so now let's move on to the
extracellular fluid I already said that
we can ignore the third space so we have
two spaces left the interstitial space
and the plasma water we want the plasma
water to be high because that's what
gives us that vascular look on stage so
it's specifically the interstitial space
that we want to Target when we deplete
water now it's commonly assumed that
this interstitial space is found just
under your skin but that actually isn't
the case in fact muscle itself actually
has a high high volume of interstitial
fluid and it's the fluid that goes down
into the T tubules and so we don't
really want this fluid to be low we also
don't want the fluid the interstitial
fluid around our organs and in between
our blood vessels to be low uh because
that's just simply not under our skin so
we shouldn't really care about it so the
only type of interstitial fluid that we
really care about is the specific layer
of water that's under our skin so in
order to look at this a little bit more
closely I'm now going to turn to the
layers of our skin and look at that a
little bit more in
depth okay so we can see in this photo
that the skin has four main layers and
then below that you have muscle or bone
which it attaches to so let's just run
through them really quickly at the very
top you have a very thin layer of of
dead cells called the strum corium which
is just 20 to 30 cells thick depending
on the location and you can pretty much
ignore this any sort of uh exfoliation
leading into the competition is
basically going to do away with this
layer then below that you have the
epidermis which is the same thickness as
a single strand of hair again you can
ignore this then below that you have a
layer called the dermis and now the
dermis ranges in thickness from half a
millimeter on the eyelids to as much
just 3 mm on the back and I think that
this might vary from person to person
and have a genetic component but these
seem to be the figures that are most
often cited in the literature below this
dermal layer you have a layer of
subcutaneous fat which attaches to the
underlying muscle or bone and it's this
layer that we shed off when we're
dieting for our competition as we lose
body fat so throughout the rest of this
video keep in mind that it is this 0.5
to 3 mm thick d dermal layer that we're
really concerned with when we talk about
shedding water before our
show now this dermal layer is composed
about 70 to 75% of water and the rest of
it is connective tissue so of that 3 mm
at best we're only looking at about a 2
mm reduction due to water manipulation
at the very thickest point on the back
now I think that this is a good time to
point out that there is no subcutaneous
water layer that you see on the back of
these water pills and in magazines the
only place that you see a diagram like
this is on an advertisement that's
promoting water pills this blue layer of
water that you see here it just simply
doesn't exist like this if you look in
any physiology textbook what you'll
instead see is a photo like this where
in this dermal layer that I mentioned
you actually have about 3/4 by
composition water so the question that
we need to be asking ourselves is is
there a way to reduce the water in this
dermal layer while keeping water
everywhere else especially in the muscle
high so that we look full but yet we
keep our skin looking thin by getting
rid of that water in that layer
specifically so as most of you guys know
there are basically two things that are
manipulated leading into a show to try
to achieve this one is sodium and the
other is water so let's look at sodium
first now it's common for people to try
to deplete sodium throughout the course
of a peak week
attempting to sort of dry out but this
is actually an exercise in futility
since depleting sodium in your diet
doesn't actually change blood levels of
sodium the following 1990 Harvard study
by rag aital Illustrated this point
perfectly when they reduced dietary
sodium to pretty much zero for 6 days
and then they measured the blood and
urinary sodium levels in their
subjects what they found that even when
sodium was cut almost completely from
the diet concentrations in the blood
remained pretty much the same so the
point here is that your body so tightly
regulates sodium and is so good at
maintaining this homeostasis that it's
pretty much futile to deplete sodium in
your diet at the hopes of that having
some sort of profound effect on your
physiology furthermore reducing sodium
and increasing water intake which many
bodybuilders do leading into their
competition puts you at a great risk for
a condition known as hyponatremia and
I'll just flash a list of signs and
symptoms here on the screen in case you
want to pause and read about what that's
all
about and if that wasn't enough to
convince you that depleting sodium
leading into your show is a bad idea we
also know that depleting sodium reduces
the effectiveness of a
sglt1 transporter that's responsible for
for shuttling glucose into the muscle
limiting your ability to absorb glucose
into the muscle and Achieve that full
look that you're really looking for on
show day all right so we now have
established that depleting sodium is a
bad idea at any rate but what about
loading it so there are basically two
ways that we can go about loading sodium
one way is chronically by increasing our
sodium for a very long period of time
leading into the show and the other way
we can do it is acutely so only
increasing sodium intake very closely to
the competition now a 2005 study on the
treatment of Edema notes that sodium
chloride intake generally is equivalent
to Output over the course of a few days
when intake increases there is a
compensatory increase in sodium chloride
excretion after a lag period thus
extracellular fluid volume can be
maintained at a constant level despite
wide fluctuations in intake however if
this fluctuation is too wide and too
long sodium intake simply exceeds the
rate at which the kidneys can flush it
out and there will simply be an excess
of sodium in your system that will serve
as a sufficient stimulus for
anti-diuretic hormone release which will
cause your body to retain water now some
of this fluid will build up in the
vessels and then leak out into the
interstitial spaces including the dermal
space which is ex actly where we don't
want it and this is often what you'll
see in competitors who binge after their
competition for a few days they simply
take in so much sodium that their body
spills out the rest of that water and
they end up developing pockets in weird
places and and they see swelling in
places like their ankles but what about
the other type of sodium loading that I
mentioned the acute loading of sodium at
2008 paper on the acute effects of
sodium ingestion concluded that a high
sodium meal may cause transient pressure
increases but in healthy people acute
sodium ingestion does not cause
sustained hypotension or hypertension
sorry or high blood pressure so when we
eat a really high sodium meal our blood
pressure actually does go up for a
little bit but then it goes back to
normal so what is it that causes the
blood pressure to go back to normal well
it's actually the fact that our blood
vessels dilate creating more volume
volum um and therefore reducing the
pressure now blood vessels dilating is a
very good thing for a bodybuilder
because that means that they're going to
look more vascular and just to verify
this I'm going to cite a 1995 study that
investigated the effect of sodium intake
on
vasodilation which
concluded studies in animals suggest
that nitric oxide production is
increased under conditions of salt
loading and that this increase protects
against the development of salt induced
hypertension okay so now we've
established that chronically loading
sodium for a long period of time at very
high intakes can cause edema and is a
bad idea it makes us look watery however
acutely loading sodium can increase
vasodilation okay so based on all of
this evidence it seems clear to me that
maintaining a constant moderate sodium
intake similar to your intake in the
weeks and months leading into your
competition and then increasing your
sodium intake either the night before
the competition or at the very least on
show day itself and this is a part of
the reason why I think a lot of people
look better the day after their show
it's because after they went out and ate
all of those nachos and pizza they ended
up filling out their muscles and they
got the vasod dilation that you see from
increasing sodium intake now just as a
little anecdote here my good friend Jose
who I competed against in a lightweight
class at the muscle Mayhem was backstage
eating slice of pizza after slice of
pizza and he said Jeff here man come on
have a slice of pizza and I was a little
bit tentative I had already eaten a few
ham and cheese sandwiches which are very
high in sodium I also didn't really want
to bloat myself um but just take a look
at this picture you'll see how full and
Vascular he actually looks and he saw no
extracellular fluid retention
because he had spiked his sodium very
high on sh day um but had maintained a
good balance of sodium in the days
leading into that all right so that
covers sodium now let's move on to water
intake so traditionally bodybuilders
would just stop drinking water and the
Hope was that they would get rid of this
subcutaneous layer of water under their
skin that we've already addressed and
have come to the conclusion that it
doesn't really exist like people think
it does now the problem with reducing
water intake is that you're going to
lose water from everywhere you're going
to lose water from all body compartments
so it doesn't seem perfectly clear to me
that the best way to deplete
specifically this dermal layer of water
is by simply reducing your intake of
water leading into the show now as far
as I know there isn't any real clear or
obvious way of specifically targeting
this layer and given the fact that there
is way more water in the intracellular
fluid than there is in this dermal layer
specifically I think that depleting
water before your
competition especially somewhat
carelessly especially if you reduce
sodium as well is a really good way to
flatten out and just end up looking
stringy and depleted on stage now that
isn't to say that there aren't ways to
Peak and there aren't ways that you can
manipulate water to actually improve
your appearance on on stage and I'm
going to get to these now so the first
concept is the idea of dry car looing
this is where you reduce water intake
let's say one day leading up to the show
and drastically increase carb intake at
the same time and the idea behind this
protocol is that the increase in muscle
glycogen will pull water into the muscle
keeping the intracellular fluid volume
High while the extracellular fluid
volume flushes out now I've heard this
idea proposed by Lyle McDonald who is a
good friend of
mine and it seems to hold some promise
it at least makes intuitive sense to me
that it might work this isn't an
approach that I've necessarily used
myself in the past but I could see it
working as long as you jack your carbs
up high enough you keep your sodium high
as well and you aren't too drastic with
your water cut maybe just reducing it by
something like 50 to
75% uh 24 hours out from the competition
okay so the second strategy that I'd
like to mention has to do with the idea
of cutaneous
transpiration so when we look at sources
of water loss in a diagram like this one
we see that urine contributes the most
but in the middle there in blue we see
cutaneous transpiration which accounts
for about 300 mL of water loss per day
now I want to mention that cutaneous
transpiration is not the same thing as
sweating just imagine putting your hand
on a cold mirror you'll notice that
steam accumulates around your hand well
that steam is actually caused from kous
transpiration which is the movement of
water through and from that dermal layer
out to and off of your skin so the
question is is there a way that we can
practically increase cutaneous
transpiration since this would actually
specifically Target that layer of water
that's directly under your skin now I've
given this some thought and I'm not
really sure that there is a way to do it
but a few ideas have come to mind one
has to do with the fact that whenever
I've noticed that I get out of a tanning
bed I seem to be much drier looking than
I am before I go in the tanning bed and
I also notice that when I'm outstanding
in the sun uh I tend to dry out more my
my skin tends to look a little bit
thinner I get a little bit more vascular
and I'm sympathetic towards the idea
that the evaporative losses of water
from underneath the skin has something
to do with this so to offer practical
advice based on this experience I think
it's a really good idea to just stay
warm leading into your competition if
you compete in a cold climate like I do
and it's cold backstage it's really
important that you keep your feet warm I
always wear slippers backstage at a
competition to make sure that my body
temperature is high also you want to
wear warm clothing warm baggy clothing
to make sure that you're staying warm it
also might not be a bad idea to bring a
small space heater like you would use to
heat up a tent just to make sure that
your body is staying warm and you're
taking advantage of every bit of this
cutaneous transpiration that you can
similarly if you are competing in a warm
climate like I did in California I
actually spent a lot of time outside in
the sun and I think that this might have
had something to do with the fact that I
did Peak really well for that
competition all right now before I give
my official recommendations for water
intake during peak week I just want to
quickly touch on two hormones that are
very important uh with regard to this
discussion those are anti-diuretic
hormone and aldosterone I'm going to
keep this really short so I'm going to
lose some of the complexity here but
essentially anti-diuretic hormone is
responsible for retaining water diuresis
just means to pee so anti-diuretic
hormone is going to retain water
aldosterone is the other one that's
responsible for retaining sodium and
it's this reason that why when you
deplete sodium in your diet it doesn't
change your blood levels of sodium your
body simply pumps out more aldosterone
your kidneys retain more sodium and then
your body maintains that constant level
of sodium in your
blood now when we're speaking about
these hormones ADH is synthesized
transported stored within 1 to 2 hours
and it has a halflife of 10 to 35
minutes similarly aldosterone has a
halflife of less than 20 minutes which
indicates that when we're speaking about
these hormones we're talking about
changes on a hour to hour basis instead
of a day to day or week to week basis
they can change their concentrations
very very quickly so to me this seems to
vastly undermine the importance of
loading up on water with the intended
purpose of increasing the levels of
these hormones uh leading into your
sudden cut of water as soon as you cut
the water within an hour or two these
hormones will have already spiked
extremely high and you'll start seeing
retention of water very very quickly so
when it comes to water manipulation I
would suggest one of two very
conservative protocols the first is
simply keeping water intake the same all
through a peak week and then keeping it
the same on show day the second protocol
is to keep water the same all through a
peak week and then decrease it slightly
uh sometime Friday
evening and the time and when you
decrease it Friday evening that would be
a good time to also start very heavily
loading up on carbs this has to do with
the dry loading protocol that I
mentioned earlier now I do want to admit
that I can see the second protocol
backfiring more easily and I could see
an athlete flattening out more easily
using the second protocol so I tend to
favor the first protocol however in some
people that really do seem to have that
thick dermal layer especially on their
back I think that there might be
something too dry caring and it might be
something that you want to play around
with as long as you do so very
conservatively my practical
recommendations when it comes to sodium
I've already touched on this but I
recommend keeping it constant all
throughout peak week and then on Friday
night or at the least Saturday morning
early Saturday morning having a meal
very high in sodium like pizza or uh ham
and cheese sandwich or some sushi but
it's important that you stick to foods
that you know you will handle and digest
well if you haven't had pizza for 6
months this is a little bit risky you
might see some bloating there it might
be better just to stick to a food that's
that's high in sodium and you also know
that you're going to be able to handle
well you could simply just salt your
food very heavily and it would achieve
the same
purpose now another thing that I want to
note here is that while I do recommend
keeping sodium constant throughout peak
week I think it's sort of futile to
measure this extremely precisely and
this has to do with the fact that like I
said before your body is very good at
maintaining a constant level of sodium
in the blood so having an extreme
Precision with the amount of sodium that
you're taking in doesn't really make
much sense because your body sort of
already regulates this extremely
precisely for you the idea is to keep
your sodium just sort of constant so
that you don't see any sort of funky
changes and water intake your weight
doesn't get thrown off too much and you
don't freak yourself out in the sort of
days leading up to the competition now
as for when exactly you should start
increasing your sodium this is something
that you might just have to play around
with and figure out what works best for
you and it would be a good idea to
actually try this out in the weeks
leading into your competition so keep
sodium set at around let's say 3,000 mg
per day for a week and then drive it all
the way up to 8,000 mg one Friday night
and then see how you look Saturday
morning and you can do this without
actually having to change your
macronutrient intake simply by salting
your food for me I actually notice an
increase in vascularity for 1 to 2 days
if I increase my sodium intake over the
course of a full day and I won't notice
that I actually spill over uh until
let's say 2 or 3 days of very heavy
sodium loading so for me increasing my
sodium intake uh about halfway through
Friday so say around 5:00 p.m on Friday
I'll start to increase my sodium fairly
heavily and then all throughout Saturday
I have very high sodium usually in the
form of ham and cheese sandwiches and
that gives me a very full vascular look
now next time I probably will be taking
Jose's advice and uh indulging in some
of that pizza since looking at this
photo again um it's got me thinking that
I probably could have been a little bit
more vascular even at the muscle Mayhem
all right guys so this has been a very
long video and if you've made it this
far I want to thank you for sticking
with me um before I finish up I just
want to say that I think that peak week
is for the most part massively overrated
within the community and yes increasing
carbohydrates and increasing sodium can
really make a profound difference on
someone's physique just as an example
I'm going to flash up a photo here of me
about 3 days out from the muscle
Mayhem you can see that I'm looking very
tight but also pretty flat looking and
then here is another pick of me after I
had filled up with some sodium after I
had eaten some
carbs now I want to say that a lot of
people freak out about this way too much
and that can actually have a detrimental
effect on them so by being so concerned
with their peak week they drive their
cortisol way up and that actually can be
a sufficient stimulus to cause water
retention and it can actually cause them
to look significantly worse on show day
unfortunately I think it would be much
better to actually take a little bit of
a more nonchalant approach with this and
simply recognize the fact that your body
is going to do most of the regulation
for you that isn't to say that physiques
can't change very drastically throughout
the course of the peak week they
actually can in terms of fullness and
vascularity however if you've done your
homework you put in the work with the
diet and the cardio and the training and
all the rest that goes into a contest
prep up until 7 days out from your
competition and you're lean you're going
to look good on show day you'd have to
do something very unintelligent with
your Peak Week something very drastic in
order to actually look a lot worse on
show day so I just wanted to emphasize
that so that people don't stress out
about this too much and I'm just going
to flash a couple photos of some people
who do virtually nothing on on Peak Week
other than increase their curbs and uh
they keep their water completely the
same all the way through prep uh here's
a picture of laye
Norton of Alberto
Nunes um here's a pick of the three of
us uh at the muscle Mayhem uh Frank
myself and
Jose and uh none of us CAU water in fact
I think the other two guys were were
drinking ridiculous amounts of water
something like 8 L uh on show day um so
this just goes to show that as a natural
athlete it isn't mandatory that we cut
water leading into a show and you can
achieve a very tight look um without
this and I also wanted to say that what
we're talking about here is a
0.5 to 3 mm thick layer and people are
getting hospitalized
and actually dropping dead by taking
diuretics set towards reducing this
layer to 2 mm or to 1 mm from 3 mm it's
simply just not worth it in the grand
scheme of things and I would much rather
see a lot more competitors drinking
water backstage I would don't want to
see people with their lips getting stuck
to their teeth on stage it's really a
sad thing that happens in this community
way too often when you see people
getting hospitalized and getting sick
and not having fun on show day I've
depleted water before and I'll tell you
it feels like death and if you can't
enjoy yourself on show day there's
something wrong with that too right um
so I think it's important that we sort
of put this in perspective realize what
it is actually that we're dealing with
here and then move forward in the most
intelligent way possible all right guys
so I know I covered a lot of stuff in
this video I'm going to put a quick
bullet list up here on the screen and
just read through it just to recap on
all the stuff that I said so far if you
made it this far thank you very much for
watching guys please don't forget to
like my video and please do subscribe to
the channel we've almost hit 1,000
subscribers and when we do uh we're
going to make a special video for you
guys thanking you for your support um
all right so here we go natural
bodybuilders don't have to worry about
water retention as much as bodybuilders
using anabolics the water layer we are
really concerned Ed with is the dermal
layer which is 0.5 to 3 mm thick Under
the Skin depleting sodium is always a
bad idea because it doesn't change blood
sodium concentration it reduces carb
absorption into the muscle it puts you
at risk of
hyponatremia a prolonged heavy sodium
load is also a bad idea because it can
lead to edema a short-term sodium load
before Showtime is a good idea because
it will increase fullness and
vascularity without affecting
extracellular fluid volume limiting
water intake is a bad idea because there
is no known way to selectively lose
dermal water without also losing
intramuscular water and plasma water
causing you to flatten out two
exceptions to this may be dry carb
looting and cutaneous
transpiration In The End by the time
peak week comes you should already be
very lean and should already have glut
striation if you're a male competitor if
you're depending on water then you're
going to
drown okay guys thank you very much for
watching this video feel free to add to
the conversation by uh commenting below
sharing any studies or opinions that you
may have and please do share this video
I'm not saying that for my own selfish
reasons but rather to make people more
aware of the fact that there is a way to
do this that is much more safe and
equally if not more
effective
I just like when I can tell you I told
you so God's gift no ribbon on it when I
was grinding for that moment y'all was
wishing on it opportunity clearly you
[ __ ]