hey guys
Dr Micheal Chall here for today's topic
of a rep ranges and muscle growth
whoo sounds pretty cool alright so
before we talk about what repetition
ranges how many reps to do per set to
grow the most muscle we've got to go all
the way back to the fundamental
underlying causes of hypertrophy via
training what is it about training that
causes muscle growth it's a very
important question to ask there's a lot
of individuals start talking about what
rep ranges are best for muscle growth
and they start at second or third order
principles some things that might relate
but maybe don't we got to go all the way
back to the fundamental basics because
that's where all the answers start out
so for hypertrophy training the
fundamental thing we have to realize is
we're stimulating growth at the
molecular level we have to make sure
that however we're trained is actually
supported or scientifically shown to
stimulate growth not just how something
feels not just what we think it's doing
is it causing growth luckily we know
with very high likelihood that there are
three rather independent growth factors
or training mediated growth factors
things you can do the way your training
affects your physiology your actual
muscles in your actual cells that cause
growth here the three of them in order
of probably how important they are to
growth on average right first of all the
most fundamental is a high workload that
means your muscles contracting through
presenting force through a distance of
contraction creating literal physical
work at a high intensity if you
accomplish a lot of work at a high
intensity your muscles have literal
force detectors inside of them that
every time you're generating a lot of
force and for some unit time and through
a range of motion then
and your muscles are literally receiving
a stimulus to grow so doing lots of
heavy work is a stimulus for hypertrophy
and your muscles detecting that have you
work right nothing fancy no burr no pump
is the way most growth happens right or
a very large amount of it anywhere
another probably independent way to
cause growth is what we call metabolite
accumulation there are metabolites
for example lactate and it's a type of
ions that when they are presented to the
cell so when when muscle cells are
working very hard they're generating a
lot of byproducts lottie's metabolites
and sometimes they can't clear the mess
fast into the bloodstream and you have a
higher and higher and higher metabolite
load what we call the burn right in the
results in a pump that a high degree of
metabolites probably independently
causes some hypertrophic adaptations
that causes gains to occur range we're
not sure exactly how that mechanism
works but there's a very high likelihood
that something either the metabolites
themselves or something that comes along
with generating a lot of metabolites
basically going for a burn that usually
a close occurs close to failure that
burn itself even if the weight is pretty
light probably causes a considerable
amount of hypertrophy probably not as
much as the workload median in a per
trophy I'm just training hard and heavy
and a lot but to some extent and lastly
the third independent cause fire per
trophy is a stretch of a muscle under a
load so instead of doing your dumbbell
flyes and stopping short if you stretch
them deep and literally pull the muscle
apart under load regular stretching
doesn't make you bigger but loaded
stretching particularly going through a
full range of motion with all of your
training movements causes hypertrophy in
and of itself now training stretching
under load is something you should
probably doing all the time with full
range of motion anyway so it's not gonna
play in a whole lot into our
differentiation of rep ranges whatever
reps you're doing all of them should be
full range of motion of a big stretch
that being said the reps do affect are
affected differently by intensity ranges
workloads and metabolites so let's take
a look it turns out that you have
essentially two different ends of muscle
fiber spectrums
your body right the old idea that there
were slow twitch muscles on one end and
fast twitch muscles on the other isn't
exactly true but there are lots of
intermediate types of muscles between
them some muscles behave more fast which
and we'll talk about what that means in
just a second some behave more slow
twitching right fast twitch muscles tend
to be larger to begin with the
hypertrophy quicker they have more
contractile elements and less endurance
elements like mitochondria they're very
good for short distances of exertion
short durations of exertions but super
high forces they produce a lot of speed
and power with each contraction but
their endurance really really stinks on
the other hand fibers that are more on
the slow twitch and tend to be smaller
to begin with they hypertrophy from
training but not a ton not as much as
the fast which they have less
contractile elements or actual proteins
to generate force more mitochondria
inside them they're better vascularized
they're better in endurance but they're
not so amazing at getting much power or
much strength out of them as much as the
faster twitch fibers so basically from
this we can derive that there are three
points on a spectrum and these fiber
types that occur at these three points
on the spectrum probably respond a bit
differently to what their optimum
hypertrophy stimulus is members are very
clear they all grow from all of the
hypertrophy stimuli we talked about
earlier they all grow from high
workloads they all grow from volumes and
they all grow from stretch for sure and
they certainly all go from metabolites
but some grow much more from some of
these than others so we have three
essentially different types of muscle
fiber type or kinds we have super fast
twitch muscle fibers really low on
endurance but super big and powerful we
have an intermediate area intermediate
in earnest types some characteristics of
fast summer slow not super big but not
super small and lastly we have much
slower fiber types and potentially we'd
want to grow all of them and they
probably respond to different parameters
different factors of hypertrophy
training a little bit differently here's
what I mean seems like faster twitch
muscles the very biggest fastest which
the most explosive get their best growth
stimulus are literally molecular Li
prepared to accept growth more
from moderate workloads right not a ton
of sets but very high intensity is 75%
or more of a one repetition maximum
we'll talk about what that means and
reps in a second but just remember that
fast twitch muscles probably our best
stimulated by hard training not a ton of
volume but heavy heavy reps on the other
hand intermediate muscle fiber types
probably best stimulated for their
growth by very high workloads lots and
lots of sets lots of total work done but
at moderate intensities of 60% 1rm or
more which could mean something for a
rep range we'll talk about what that
means in a second but definitely they
could benefit from lighter weights done
for very high numbers of reps or higher
numbers of reps and very large numbers
of sets so that's for the intermediate
fibers for the slowest twitch of the
fibers metabolite accumulation probably
what grows them the most slow twitch
fibers don't tend to grow much from high
forces they do but not nearly as much as
the fastest which fibers they go pretty
well from high volumes but they probably
go the best from metabolites
sequestration of summation from the bird
so where do we go from here
that's some pretty good insight before
we expand on what rep ranges that
translates into and what fiber types
we're going to grow we have to recognize
something very important that we might
not want to grow all of those fibers at
the same time we might not want to grow
all those fibers to their maximum size
hold on a second but we just want to get
jacked isn't it a good idea to grow all
but it get as big as possible yes so
bodybuilders people interested in
enhancing their physiques CrossFit
athletes that have to do a variety of
different kinds of exertions are
probably interested in hypertrophy all
the fibers as much as possible but not
everyone should and here is why per unit
of cross-sectional area how thick the
muscle fiber is and thus how much it
weighs and how much space it takes up in
your body fast twitch muscle fibers or
faster twitch produce not only more
force per that area per certain muscle
size they're literally stronger but even
more importantly they produce much more
power and much more speed so if you're
looking to gain muscle size to translate
that into a really
verse 1 repetition max ability into
power ability for weightlifting let's
say or gymnastics or into speed ability
for sprinting or jumping you're probably
not interested in growing a whole lot of
intermediate fibers definitely
understand certain hypertrophy or slow
twitch fibers so when you're doing
hypertrophy training to only get fast
twitch fiber hypertrophy you should
stick to the kind of hypertrophy
training that really hypertrophy is the
fast twitch fibers well but kinda leaves
everything alone to some extent that
make sense so we want to make sure that
we first realize that sometimes
particularly in powerlifting
weightlifting and some elements of
gymnastics and track and field
we might only be interested in super
fast twitch fiber development which
means we have to stick to that range of
the growth range which we'll talk about
what that is in just a second you
probably have already a good hint at
what it is but remember don't just take
for granted that we need to just grow
everything possible because especially
for weightlifting and powerlifting
definitely in sprinting too because you
can't just get that big you power weight
ratio goes off there are weight classes
right if you have a person who weighs
200 pounds and competes in a weight
class close to that that has the same
amount of muscle as another person who
weighs 200 pounds but person number one
has a more fast twitch fibers and less
slow twitch fibers filling in that space
taking up that weight what ends up
happening is that person who has more
fast twitch fibers is going to be just
as jacked looking and you're gonna look
at the meat now who who's gonna win well
it both just is jacked the person who
has more fast food fibers is going to be
more strong more explosive and have
higher rates of speed so if that person
is competing in that endeavor it's
probably good idea for them to limit the
hypertrophy to those kinds of fibers
right if you're let's say some freak
accident
you're almost all slow twitch fibers but
you're super jacked at 200 pounds your
endurance super high wraps your ability
to drop sets etc your ability to run an
800 meter will be phenomenal but that's
very different than being able to run 10
meters really fast to be able to jump
really fast or to lift one rep maxes
it's been powerlifting and especially
with with speed production in
weightlifting so before you go ahead and
try to grow everything
realize that you might in some
situations particularly weight class
sports that really really heavily favor
strength and power and speed you might
just want to grow your fastest twitch
fibers and leave everything else a
little bit alone but for a lot of other
sports and especially for all of
physique we want to
all the fibers so how do we do that well
here we go you want to make sure that
you take care of every fiber and every
fiber gets growth so you have to make
sure that every part of your training
through all broad spectrum of rep ranges
attention to those fibers so the fastest
way fiber remember we said two things
plenty of work not a ton but really
heavy higher than 75% of 1rm is when
those fibers are for sure tacks to the
limit for sure stimulated for growth so
sets of six to ten repetitions on
average and just remember not at failure
but close to failure you know three four
reps away from failure and then as you
go theorem has a cycle you get closer
and closer to failure so hard sets
between six and ten repetitions
generally almost guarantee that your
fastest which fibers are going to get a
stimulus if you go heavier than that and
say start doing you know 80 84 85
percent plus 90 percent plus sets of two
to five reps yes that will stimulate
hypertrophy but every time you do a set
of two to five reps it fatigues you so
much you're not gonna be able to do
enough training to get the maximum
stimulus because remember intensity is
important but so is volume so you want
to have an intensity that's high enough
to stimulate gains for the faster fibers
which is you know anything 10 reps or
below but not so fatiguing for each set
that you can only do three or four sets
in there you're like oh my god there's
no way I'm gonna survive this so six to
ten reps gives us that awesome trade-off
heavy enough to cause growth in the
fastest with fibers but also light
enough to allow us a recovery enough so
that we can do the most work that we
need to and still get good benefits so
the faster fibers 6 to 10 rep sets are
the meat and potatoes for inter
intermediates with twitch fibers 10 to
15 reps sets are probably where it's at
these sets are still heavy enough to
stimulate a 60% plus adaptations right
they're still heavy enough to do a good
job of stimulating growth in the
intermediate fibers not ideal for the
fast twitch fibers but they certainly
help there as well but in 6 to 15 rep
range is where you get that best
trade-off of heavy enough but you can
really put in the volume how do you do
that well sets of 12 for example that's
12 reps each rep adds volume so a high
rep set even if it's a heavy set of six
versus a lighter set of 12 a set of 12
is gonna have more volume to begin with
so it's a really great way to accumulate
our workload and also you can typically
do more of those sets in a pro
and not get us fatigued so while you may
be able to have you know 15 working sets
per muscle group per week of six to ten
reps and after that it's too much you
might be able to pull off 20 sets of ten
to fifteen reps and recover just the
same it's even more volume and because
it's heavy enough it's good enough
especially for those intermediate which
fibers
lastly the slowest which fibers probably
respond best to reps of twenty plus
twenty to thirty reps maybe two super
sets to drop sets and two all those
other kinds of medic meet a belay
techniques to give you a crazy pump
crazy burn and really stimulate that
slow twitch fiber growth so when we're
training for size in some sense
especially in the long term it'll get to
what I mean by that in a second because
you might not train all these things at
the same time if we want full muscular
development we've got to go through
relatively low reps six to ten we've got
to go through ten to fifteen rep range
and we should also sometimes go in the
drop set super sets 20 reps plus range
so that every single kind of muscle
fiber is being stimulated to its maximum
and nothing's really being left out
because you can envision a situation in
which you let's say only do super heavy
training right only six to ten reps all
the time you're gonna get really big
you're gonna get really muscular but
you're slower twitchy and intermediate
which fibers your meters your tires will
be okay your slow twitch fibers won't be
very altered and your intermediate
twitch fibers could be altered even
better on the other hand if you go on
the other extreme and just do drop sets
super sets etc you're gonna have soldier
fibers that are hypertrophy pretty well
but you know you're going to be missing
out on the other other fiber hypertrophy
and that's not good if you want full
develop now here's the deal
do we train all these at the same time
so like right now you might be thinking
okay I got a perfect program I do some
heavy work sets of six to ten then after
that I do some lighter work ten to
fifteen and then I finish off the work
out with burn outs right maybe maybe but
especially for more advanced athletes
the phasic approach of doing some of
these things and not others and
sequencing them is probably superior and
here's why first of all especially for
an advanced athlete your recovery
abilities are going to start being more
delimited than your training abilities
what does that mean
an advanced athlete has no problem
training more psychologically into
energy production than they can recover
from right all you got to do is let them
loose in the gym and they'll probably
come back over trained recovery is the
biggest impetus or the biggest kind of
backstop to growth the biggest limiter
of growth in more advanced athletes if
only they could recover more they could
train to their heart's content and grow
that much more but in every single case
for especially advanced athletes
recovery abilities are usually more
limited than training abilities what
does that mean that means we can't train
everything all at the same time as hard
as we want because we have this much
total recovery ability but if we train
everything that we could we would do
this much training right there's a gap
here that we can't fill so we got to
take some of our training and do it at
some times weight and then do other
kinds of training at other times because
we only have so much of a box that they
learn with recovery but that sounds kind
of depressing because we can't advance
our armies on all fronts at the same
time good news though muscle building ok
is hard but maintaining muscle is not
once you have built muscle and
especially if you're an advanced athlete
we've been shown that advanced athletes
retain muscle and other fitness
characteristics better than beginners
it's actually pretty easy to conserve
muscle after building it even if you're
not using the optimal method so what
does that mean to build your big fastest
twitch muscle fibers you probably need
sets of 6 to 10 reps to do the best job
of it but if you go to just regular
normal training volume training sets of
10 to 15 reps that's enough of a
stimulus not to build much of your fast
twitch fibers anymore at the fastest but
it's enough of a stimulus to maintain
them and even metabolites training
because at the end of a superset you're
all of your motor units are being
recruited even though if it's not at
high forces right at the end of a
superset you still recruit and stimulate
enough fast twitch fibers that
maintenance probably isn't an issue so
the good news we have the bad news is we
can't train everything all the same time
the good news is when we back away from
something and replace it with something
else emphasis the emphasis we keep
everything or almost everything of what
we gained before so the phase ik
approach can really really work super
well here's an example of how it would
work
you can probably work remember we said
if maybe two-thirds of your ability to
recover right so you don't have to just
train one thing at a time it's not just
fast which at a time
you could probably combine two
modalities so for a couple of mesocycles
one or two you can do a combination of
heavy training and moderate training
that means you your main sets of six to
ten and some down sets at ten to fifteen
reps right vary the exercises or
whatever so you're growing your
fast-twitch muscles a ton you're
intermediate which plenty just love what
you're kind of on the back burner are
they getting some stimulus but mostly
they're just being conserved from the
last time you train them heavily after
that for one to two measure cycles you
could do a combination of moderate
intensity work and metabolite work so
two sets of ten to fifteen and drop sets
super sets etc that kind of situation
will or so the first situation the first
couple metal cycles you glue your
fast-twitch muscles and your
intermediate twitch and this one you're
growing your intermediate twitch and
your slow twitch the most well fast
which is just hanging out after that
you're gonna accumulate a lot of fatigue
the very act of hypertrophy training is
going to be desensitized for you so you
probably want to do something we've
Renaissance mention numerous times a
maintenance phase where you train maybe
only in three to six repetitions that's
pretty heavy for very low volumes you're
not gonna be growing much of anything
you're going to be conserving your fast
twitch muscle fibers and probably all
the others as well you're gonna let your
fatigue fall down you're gonna let your
resistance to training decrease and then
you're gonna go back around and repeat
that process of going heavy training
moderate training model training
metabolite training and then back around
in that way you get two benefits one you
get to train everything and two you get
a stainless reduction across the board
you're never training any modality all
the time so there'll be times when you
come back to training fast which really
high force training oh my god I haven't
done this in one or two men cycles it's
gonna cause new gains all together and
the metabolite stuff is gonna cause new
games altogether because there'll be
times you're not using it for extended
periods so not only do we get the
benefits of training everything and at
maintaining but we get freshness at
every step which is really really good
the deal with that is we overload two
systems at a time okay we let one of
them re-- sensitize while the other two
are being trained you might notice that
we're taking fast twitch fibers the very
fastest and training them almost all the
time the moderate fibers are getting
trained
or the intermediates almost all the time
but the metabolites only once every now
and again the reason is that metabolite
training probably isn't as a long term
of a strategy and isn't as powerful of a
growth mediator and slow twitch muscle
fibers per unit size don't grow as
quickly or to as large amounts as fast
twitch fibers so if you have a normal
5050 fast to slow arrangement in your
body which we'll talk about in just a
second what that means if you have the
average number of fast twitch
intermediate and slow twitch fibers your
training shouldn't beat all three
biased's together in a similar biasing
pattern it should always be a little bit
biased towards the faster twitch because
they grow the most right so you know if
you have a certain amount of you know
let's say you have a really advanced
battle tank in your arsenal and you have
like a jeep like an armored Jeep that's
kind of broken and half way works and
it's not even very well armored so it
gets hit a lot and might blow up on you
you know if you have a gas tank and
armaments to put into those two vehicles
but you're very limited
which one are you really gonna put the
most stock in into battle well you know
your main battle tank that's your main
thing and it's got the highest chance of
doing the most damage to the enemy you
probably want to put more versus there
because it's simply gonna be more
productive for you you'll put some
resources into the jeep just in case but
just how you're gonna pull all your
weapons in the fueler than jeep because
it's not what's gonna gift you your most
gains in combat right it's the same way
we know fast twitch muscles just
plain-old grow faster and bigger
eventually so even if we have an even
number of fast intermediate and slow
twitch fibers in our bodies which most
of us knew we're still gonna create a
pattern where we train mostly fast and
intermediate and a little bit of slow
twitch every now and again because if we
spend the same amount of time on all of
them it turns out that we shouldn't be
spending that much time on slow twitch
fibers some more tips for more advanced
individuals okay so that general
framework is gonna work for everybody
however here are some advanced steps
first of all some individuals have more
fast twitch fibers or more intermediate
which or most low twitch fibers than the
average person all right we're gonna
find out how you can tell that in just a
second which one you are or if you're in
the middle or somewhere on the extremes
but what you do there is
you can bias the face times and the rep
ranges as well to make sure you're
getting what you need so let's say
you're more extreme fast which
individual you have 70% more fast twitch
muscles and maybe 20% intermediate
twitch and only 10% slow twitch would be
really interesting you probably a very
high caliber sprinter or something like
that but let's say you're pretty extreme
on the fast which we'll talk about how
to figure that on a second
if you're in that situation the phases
that train six to ten reps should be
longer for you your reps might should be
closer to six to eight reps and not
often eight to ten reps we're taking
each rep range and buying a saying it
heavier when you go into your moderate
reps which you should do every now and
again you might want to stick to 10 to
12 reps instead of you know fifteen or
sixteen reps and metabolite training you
might only be able to do every couple of
months for two or three weeks at a time
and not really put much emphasis to do
it because it's not gonna work a whole
lot and I'll tell you why that that can
be and how you can tell that which one
you are in a second so if you're more
slow-twitch you might want to do higher
end of the rep range for all of those
have shorter sort of low rep faces
longer moderate and longer metabolite
phases with a lot more work emphasized
on those it's something gonna have to
figure out will tell you how in a second
but before we do it's not just in
individuals that this can occur but
specific muscles that individuals have
so your hamstrings might be more fast
which in a require a more fast which
kind of arrangement have your work
longer phases lower reps on average
still moving through all the phases just
biased in the direction of heavier but
your quads might be more intermediate or
slow-twitch which means they could
require a little bit more of that higher
volume higher repetition phase like
planning and maybe some higher reps as
well slightly lower weights individual
muscles can also be variant like that
not just between individuals so your
chest might be super slow twitch your
triceps might be super fast which your
vices gonna be somewhere in between and
so on and so forth here's the deal how
can you tell fiber type these are all
very educated rough guesses you just
have to do your best job with them and
this isn't in a particular order of
importance
one good way decent way are beginning is
to figure out what rep ranges get you
the most pumped the most sore per unit
volume
soreness is a symptom of disruption and
damage disruption and damage probably
underlies most of these hypertrophic
situations so you don't want to do too
much damage but the one training method
that gets you the most damaged you can
now do less volume of it and probably
get more gains right so for example some
individuals say that when they do sets
of some very fast twitch individuals
will do sets of six to eight in the
squat and get annihilated super sore
super messed up can't walk for days
enormous pump Wow
individuals that tend to be more slow
twitch can do a set of six to eight and
a squat literally just look around be
like okay when's the next one
did that hurt and all those kind of
heavy it's kind of annoying do you have
a pump nope not lonely I can do about a
million a half more of these but for
those individuals if they do drop sets
or all four straps or super sets it
burns and pumps them like the world is
coming to an end their muscles are ready
to blow up we're those superfast which
individuals a lot of them especially
really good body builders tend to be
more fast which some of them and this is
it reported in various muscle magazines
have written about this and videos have
been made we're really high level body
builders that came from a fast twitch
background I'll tell you about that in
just a second what that means they'll
say you know I tried all those drop sets
and stuff like that the only thing that
happens is they get really tired I get
really out of breath my muscles feel
stringy and achy and and ever really get
a big pump I just feel fatigued that's
not how you want to feel after
hypertrophy training I want to feel
jacked up so whatever method if it's
super low reps if it's intermediate reps
if it's super high reps that's the one
in which your fiber types probably
predominate in that muscle so for
example if you train your back and if
you do sets of six and you just don't
feel a thing it just feels heavy and
it's like it's breaking you down go pump
nothing in try some higher reps and see
how it feels but when you try those
higher reps that's a 15 or something
like that or drop sets you make a
decision anything is awesome that might
mean if that reliably occurs in your
training is something you've noticed
over time over months and years that
you're probably a little bit more
intermediate and slow-twitch in your
back on the other hand you might try the
same thing for your chest as someone's
okay man let's do a cable fly drop set
and then you know bench you know like
just 135 pounds for a total of 100 reps
you do as many reps as you can you rack
the body weight for 15 seconds and
you'll repeat you like
do that and your pecks are just
literally super tired you're like you
have no pump you're just kind of my god
I feel like a random I'll you know if
you run a mile you're not gonna get a
quad pump if you're a decent sheep
you're just gonna feel tired
right and that slow twitch fibers being
active so if your chest has a
predominance of fast twitch fibers and
you try to get it to do slow twitch kind
of activities drops etc you might just
not feel a damn thing and just be kind
of fatigued you burn up all your life
engineering I don't know and the next
day people like hey are you sore and
you're like nah not really
right but if you do sets of 8 and then
dumbbell fly and sets of 6 in the wide
grip bench you're sore for three or four
days ago my god I got to reduce my
volume misses too much that's a good
sign that might mean you're more fast
which and of course there's everything
in between those so that's a good first
starting sign another one that's not
super reliable but can add to your
knowledge base is if you're better rep
at higher reps or at singles right so
for example you have a certain one
repetition acts as a bunch of other
people in your gym something very
similar let's say you can squat 225 for
a single if you can squat 185 for like a
set of 10 you're probably very slow
twitch that means you're not very well
designed for maximum lifting but your
endurance and even slight submaximal
abilities because you have so many slow
twitch or maybe intermediate twitch
fibers is there a really really high
level you can do 185 for 10 and only max
225 you're probably not working with a
whole lot of fast twitch fiber
now there's technique differences
there's nervous system differences
there's leverage differences that can
present all those differences but it's
just another thing to add in that if
that happens as well as the pump and the
burn now you're starting to see some
patterns there on the other hand if you
can squat 225 for a max which is 185 is
a hard double for you instead of a set
of 10 you're probably really really fast
which another interesting thing you can
play around with is what your failure
looks like now of course get a spotter
don't do this on squats maybe on bench
presses maybe on leg press people who
are very fast twitch tend to fail
because fast twitch muscles when they
get fatigued because their motor units
there's parts of the muscles are so big
when a motor unit fails on you it's a
huge reduction in force fast which
muscles fatigue rapidly slow twitch
muscles can keep going even when they're
tired so in the bench press for example
if you do a set of eight and it goes one
two
and then at 7:00 or at 8:00 let's say it
sure max you all ooh it just falls right
back down on you we all had training
partners like that it's more like that
they're very fast which if you have a
very slow twitch training partner I used
to train a variety of individuals as
Trank the conditioning setting some of
the 5,000 10,000 meter runners would
come in and do squats and sometimes
bench presses watching a 10,000 meter
runner who's got a lot of slow twitch
fibers just because of their genetics do
a bench press is the most terrible thing
I've ever seen in my life in the sense
that you they'll do a 10 rep max more or
less the first rep is a grinder there's
no way he's gonna get another nobody has
that kind of endurance sure enough goes
back down everything's a grinder oh my
god 10 grinders in a row that probably
means you're most low twitch because to
pull that off you have to have high
endurance muscle fibers right so if
you're of that situation
adding to the idea that maybe that
muscle group or maybe you as an
individual tend to be more fast or slow
twitchy depending on how you perform
lastly and maybe more importantly how
good are you relative to other
individuals of your same size and body
composition at endurance activities
versus sprinting jumping and
weightlifting moves if you happen to
weigh 180 pounds and you're pretty damn
good at long-distance running you can do
repetitions really well especially if
you're a crossfitter you're really excel
at the rep events but at weightlifting
movements at jump height movements at
gymnastics movements you're just not
that good you're probably more
intermediate slow-twitch less fast which
on the other hand if you're amazing at
the strength moves super quick under the
bar and weightlifting can do gymnastics
like the world is coming to an end but
every time there's an 800 meter run
you're like oh my god I'm just no good
at this even though I've been training
for a long time that probably indicates
that you're more fast twitch less slow
twitch and if you want a hypertrophy
you've got to bias it more into that
fast twitch versus slow twitch right so
that just about covered us up lots to
think about
anytime you pick your rep ranges make
sure you do use all the ones that you
need but keep that phasic approach in
mind you don't necessarily want to train
everything
all at once thanks for tuning in
[Music]
you