my arms are throbbing they're like numb
yes if your arms are numb maybe you did
a little too much maybe you did just
right but after eight hours that numb I
would just go to the hospital and be
like I'm going to assume I have rabdo
until you guys prove otherwise I'm
hooking myself up to a dialysis machine
in the meantime the pump is almost gone
it's just numbness you guys that is not
a good sign generally speaking you want
to leave the gym with kind of the
maximum pump if you're ever in your
training and you peak in a pump and then
you continue to train that same muscle
very hard and the pump go goes down I'm
inclined to believe on heuristics alone
that that is not a good thing we want to
leave on a high note not on the low
negative note where you're just your
joints hurt you don't even have a pump
anymore that to me seems
counterproductive