alright hey guys so today I was tagged
in a post by dr. Mark Hyman which said
too many people are counting calories
and not enough people are counting
chemicals and I just wanted to remind
you guys that literally everything in
the physical universe is made up of
chemicals and just as an example here's
a picture of a list of all of the things
found in all-natural blueberries and I
think that this goes to show that
chemicals aren't bad in and of it
themselves and anything can be toxic at
high enough of a dose and I did a video
about this at length before and I'll
just put a link to that over here so
this post led me to a video which was
titled 5 simple steps to burn fat
without eating less and I think that
this video tells us a couple of
important things first of all it tells
us that medical doctors aren't
necessarily authorities on topics
related to nutrition and fitness
secondly I think it tells us that we
need to follow the money trail when
people are offering us advice when it
comes to nutrition and fitness and I
think we need to be especially skeptical
of people who claim to have some secret
or some special knowledge that they're
willing to tell us for a price now he
actually only offers 3 tips in the video
so I'll just take them one at a time the
first tip is that eating meals more
frequently gives you a slow steady burn
effect from the food and a faster hotter
metabolism now we know that this simply
isn't true
a 2009 systematic review with 60
referenced studies concluded there is
strong evidence to suggest that there is
no association between eating frequency
and weight status and that the limited
evidence available suggests no
association between body composition
and eating frequency now he dismisses
the Kiko or calories in calories out
model just out of hand and I've done
another video which I'll link here
explaining this in a little more detail
but for now I'll just suffice it to
quote a 2004 landmark paper titled is a
calorie a calorie
where they concluded calorie is a
calorie from a purely thermodynamic
point of view this is clear because the
human body or indeed any living organism
cannot create or destroy energy but can
only convert energy from one form to
another he goes on to say that eating
late at night is a bad idea but this is
just a complete myth in fact a recent
study on 78 police officers found
greater weight loss after a six-month
diet with most of the carbs eaten in the
evening instead of at breakfast
but even this is just noise in my
opinion when we view it through the lens
of the calories in calories out model
where we know that over time the
determining or the major determining
factor of whether we lose or gain weight
is going to be our energy balance that
is to say the calories that were eating
versus the calories that were expending
he then goes on to make a big deal out
of eating breakfast and this is
something that is far from well agreed
upon in the literature now I'll just
quote a 2014 paper in the American
Journal of Clinical Nutrition which
concluded a recommendation to eat or
skip breakfast for weight loss had no
discernible effect on weight loss in
free-living adults who were attempting
to lose weight I will note that eating 3
to 5 high-protein meals throughout the
day does seem to have a beneficial
effect in terms of lean mass accrual or
building muscle mass compared to a lower
frequency diet and I'll just refer you
guys to the research of dr. Stu Phillips
for more information about that so his
second tip is just to eat more protein
specifically he says that protein
increases caloric fat-burning and
controls appetite now he's actually
right here but I think he's massively
exaggerated eating a high-protein diet
does increase thermogenesis it does
cause you to burn more calories per day
then would eating a low protein diet
but it's not a miracle cure like he
makes it out to be and if you simply
increase protein without decreasing
calories overall then you will just
simply gain weight now the role of
protein and suppressing appetite is what
I believe to be the major factor here
and it has been shown that people tend
to eat less when they increase protein
in their diet it's also good for
building muscle which he doesn't mention
in the video at all
so dr. Hyman then goes on to say that
low-fat diets don't work which is just
patently false he says that low-carb
diets don't do work but they're
unhealthy and they give you hemorrhoids
and this is just all nonsense because we
know that any diet will work in terms of
weight loss if it puts you in a calorie
deficit but I think his biggest mistake
in this tip was citing a study that said
increasing protein to 36% of daily
calories caused an extra 71 calories to
be burned per day and that over the year
that translates to an extra seven point
four pounds of weight loss but we just
can't simply extrapolate 71 calories per
day and do the simple math and get to
seven or eight pounds lost over the
course of the year if we did this where
would the extrapolation end after three
years we would have lost 21 pounds after
30 years would we lose 210 pounds it's
just too simplistic to actually have any
practical application in the real world
okay so on to tip number three here he
claims that green tea turns up our
fat-burning thermostat and he cites a
study that showed that supplementing
catechins
which are compounds found in green tea
without changing caloric intake
increased thermogenesis again I think
he's making a big deal out of
thermogenesis and he's over exaggerating
and I'll just refer you guys to examine
calm which is an incredible resource for
supplementation and nutrition
information and they concluded that
there appears to be a slight but
unreliable increase in fat oxidation
associated with the consumption of green
tea catechins
so he then goes on to brag for quite a
while about the antioxidant properties
of green tea and he claims that they
prevent damaging effects of free
radicals on men
hable ism and by this I can only assume
that he means they prevent oxidative
damage on mitochondrial function now I
just want to point out that the whole
hoopla over antioxidants in the media
has been blown way out of proportion and
a lot of people don't seem to realize
that the body has its own antioxidants
that defend the body against reactive
oxygen species and that oxidative stress
isn't necessarily a bad thing for
example heat shock proteins which are
responsible for activating protective
cellular functions are inhibited by
antioxidants and I'll just quote
neurologist dr. Steven novella where he
says antioxidants may one day play an
important role in the treatment of
certain diseases or in routine health
maintenance but so far there is
insufficient evidence to make any
confident predictions or to make
specific recommendations however when it
comes to the marketing hype for
antioxidant products I can make a clear
recommendation healthy skepticism okay
guys I hope that this video has been
informative if you did like the video
don't forget to hit the like button
please do subscribe if you haven't
already and thank you for watching like
wait Akane last I said right
[ __ ] everybody low I'm on the record
luck good luck looking at popular color
faces observing what my brother's face
is no racist