whew we're back dr james and dr mike
how's it going
it's going well man i'm excited to get
into this week meat and potatoes though
i've recently turned both vegan and
carnivores so i can't eat meat orbitals
and carnivore conflict of interest okay
so i was looking through the webinar we
did last time and i don't know why but
this just caught my eye check this out
so i'm gonna screen share here
look at the
look at the tag that milo did
so we start off
intro
forearm and vr
daniel brown that actually was
six minutes and 25 seconds later
so we literally talked about like vr
wanking for like six and a half minutes
before we even answered any questions
beautiful and that's six and a half
minutes those are high quality minutes
and i'm proud of every single one of
those minutes exactly exactly
all right
folks today we have a slightly different
format beginning don't worry it's still
q a but we now have a
little page this time we ask you
questions
that's right
that's right we have a paid member
thing with youtube it's like five bucks
and you get a little stamp next to your
name and you get to do exclusive um
see there's this you got a couple new
videos jared and i are on here as well
so james and i are on here once a month
and we're gonna be answering
10 member questions and two non-member
um questions
and then jared and i are gonna be doing
um
the same thing
uh
and it's you know slightly different
level of expertise slightly different uh
or sorry facet of expertise says
jaredison our pro physique coach at rp
and so
we're gonna start that as well pro you
know folks uh paying members will get
priority but everyone else gets in too
so two questions
for each um would just be the two top
most uh
voted unless the up for the top most
voted are just super dumb or super dumb
or super dumb uh
well we've covered them before and like
for the 50th time um in any case uh
that's gonna be the deal and please
consider a membership and if not just
watch along and maybe you'll get your
question answered and maybe you'll
probably learn about the same amount of
stuff anyway
a lot of times members do ask pretty
good questions sometimes very specific
ones and if you're a coach or personal
trainer you can really uh probably get a
lot out of this by clueing into seeing
how james and i um
just absolutely bastardized the answers
you could have given better than us so
yeah without further ado
james you're ready to go yeah just quick
thanks to everybody who's joined our
youtube channel whatever subscription
tier that you've joined thanks so much
and we're hoping to um you know if
you're if you're a member we're assuming
you've probably heard a lot of our our
nonsense before so feel free if you want
to ask like you know slightly more
personal or detailed question about
something that's going on happy to
answer it because i think you know
there's there's only so many times where
we i think mike and i want to go through
like should i mini cut or you know we've
answered that question like a million
times but if you have like a specific
instance or something that you want to
you know that you're just kind of
struggling with like hey i have this
client i'm working with and we're doing
xyz and i'm not really sure what to do
those those are totally fair games so
feel free to throw those in the mix
yeah and um
by the way folks we take the top 10
member questions every time and then two
non-member questions so if you remember
and your question didn't get answered
um apologies but you know we have i
don't know how much i can talk about
this i guess it's a good quite uh fine
talk about
we have like 500 members already and
it's climbing pretty steadily there's no
feasible way we can answer all member
questions um most weeks because good god
um
but uh we will do our best and as a
member you officially get priority at a
bunch of other perks as well like uh you
can see uh videos that come out way
earlier and you get to see some videos
that will be out for months once months
like my own super in-depth training and
more nerd lectures you get like one
extra nerd lecture a month and like
we're talking about the kind of shit
that like got the video and i guy and i
you know
look this channel is pretty fucking
dirty to begin with so if we take some
videos out of the normal rotation plan
and put them into the members area for
being nerdy you know that's something
like
you know you think yoda's your best
friend in real life you've never spoken
to a girl kind of nerdy
like you still shit your pants on
occasion and grandma cleans up for you
kind of nerdy that's the kind of level
we're on in the paid subscriber area to
come through bring grandma
all right let's get to the questions
queued up number one is from mamba
mentality oh there it is right there
[Music]
all right let's see how snakes think
uh after i deloaded for a week i noticed
that when i get back into my normal
training sessions that i have pretty
noticeable drop in performance on most
exercises
where the cause is most likely literal
muscle loss rather than neurological
and when doing a half week dealer this
does not occur i think this is probably
due to higher myostatin levels which
caused more muscle breakdown for me as i
was
also skinny fat prior to even training
uh ever training uh also i'll say right
now you have we have no idea why it is
myostatin is one of the oh geez
thousands of molecules that plays in
those levels could be anything else but
i like where you're going with this
because it's definitely uh faster um
turnover rates as we call them or rates
of evolution as they're called in sport
science are absolutely possible i was
thinking if this was the case
would a training frequency greater than
2x per week be more effective for me
since this will blunt my statin levels
more times pre compared to lower
frequency oh get to that sec with volume
people know uh this might be wrong but i
just wanted to hear your thoughts and i
mean stop being wrong bomba mentality
god damn just kidding i mean seriously
learn things this we've got this whole
learning website um i think you're
absolutely on the right track what i
would say
is the following um you know
and this is a question please answer for
yourself in your own head and then
proceed with a logic tree as follows
if after a half a week of deload you
don't get any strength loss but you feel
recovered and ready to go for another
meso
your answer is
half a week of d-load is probably a
really good thing to do guys remember
that the week of dilo is a heuristic
applied
on two levels it might not apply to you
level one is the roman calendar or
whatever which is like why the fuck are
there seven days a week right like why
couldn't there be eight again quite
valid like if we talk to aliens and they
have a 12-day week and they're like we
de-load for a whole week and be like
motherfucker that's all act of rust like
i'm sure as hell not doing that right
and so some humans biologically need a
week to recover some humans biologically
a week is too long
you may be one of those people the
second level at which it's applied is
that um it assumes the average person
needs roughly a week to recover and
that's probably true but you might not
be the average person so if you can drop
your volume a little bit in the first
half of the week but still trading
pretty hard and pretty decent volume and
then drop your volume and intensity
quite a bit in the second half of the
week and make a full recovery that's
what you should do so really when when
james and i talk about
d-loads are week-long the much more
scientific underlying answer is deloads
should be as long and as hard as it
takes to drop your fatigue but maintain
your fitness and that combination of
long and hard
thank you thank you
um that combination of long and hard
needs to be something that you can
develop yourself and if the one week
paradigm really isn't working for you
assuming it's real you know it's not
your
nutrition socks or something like that
you're not sleeping on d loads well i do
tour with motley crue on deloads i
forgot to mention that um but as long as
that doesn't occur uh then i think you
can absolutely adjust you can still call
the whole week of deload but the first
several days can be quite hard and oh my
god look at the doggy and james's scream
he's pestering me right now because uh
mel's not home so he's
oh what's up
yes i know go play buddy go play
i play with you now
he's just gonna stare at me the whole
time and so i'm actually gonna have to
kick him out um
uh are you all done answering with me
i'm all done yeah okay yeah yeah so i
totally agree with dr mike here just a
couple things too mom but like
the idea that like you you have
actual muscle loss occurring during that
time i find very unlikely and frankly
like typically what you would see is
like um
neurological changes would come first
and that would be the manifesting and
like your technique would just be like a
little bit
off as a result of deconditioning like
that would happen before you lost any
actual muscle tissue so i find that to
be very unlikely so i would really kind
of if you're latched on to this idea of
myostatin and you're losing muscle
during this time i would kind of just
throw that out the window for now and
just kind of look at how you're running
your volume and intensities and stuff
leading up into the d-load and in the
d-log and as dr mike said like maybe you
don't need a week like me personally i
kind of have a little more of a
type 2a type 1 blend so for me my d load
is usually like four or five days and
like by four by day five i'm like
forcing myself to take that last day and
i'm like chomping at the bit to train
again a couple other things to think
about too uh is that
if you're getting like pretty full
recovery on a half deload
that could just be like mike said that
just could be you and that's perfectly
fine as is you might also consider that
maybe you could be training harder and
that like maybe you're just actually not
accruing that much fatigue that you
don't have it doesn't take that long to
dissipate that's another very feasible
option so you might just be some i don't
want to say on chronically under
training but you maybe you could be
doing more mike sounds like you had
something to say on that oh i said ooh
like as yeah that's the whole
possibility i always like to cut
everyone's black and assume they're
training hard and maybe something that
is true for many people but many people
could come back and kind of have a
little so come to jesus talk with
themselves and be like well am i really
training that hard
i think and i and this is just me maybe
being skeptical over time but we kind of
had different iterations of this
question over the years and my position
on like if you take a reasonable amount
of rest which like a weak deload is a
very reasonable amount of rest it's not
too little or too much in most cases um
and you find that your performance goes
down
the answer more often than not is that
you you just weren't training enough to
warrant that deload in the first place
so like it was basically like you were
you were doing mev training and then you
started deloading and now you're kind of
deconditioning at that point right so i
would actually if and maybe that's not
true maybe your your volume landmarks
and your training is really well dialed
in so you can ignore that point if
not i would re revise some of the things
that you're doing and see like could you
actually be doing a bit more
either way you get to do more um all
right next up is
uh baghdan of vicilio got it
i've known another man named bogdan
before yeah it was very very eastern
european name uh they're bogdans from
nowhere else
um all right it's very likely from like
romania or bulgaria more
creepy avatar too yeah these avatars
folks get your avatars
um all right bogdan says hey guys with
such limited free time when do you
decide something is worth investing time
to learn or when a book is worth taking
the time to read regarding the formal
question what are your go-to methods for
studying something new thanks for the
content you provide i always feel
uh
i feel like i always leave a video a
little wiser and a lot more witty huh
thanks thanks so much my god probably
also more
perverse and less with a good
traditional morality so um
with such limited free time how do you
decide something new is worth investing
time to learn so i actually have um
i i have so probably three
different levels at which i invest
myself or different tiers
tier one is career uh work related and
that's very easy because i just know my
field very well and know what i have to
be doing is my job and what skills i
have to be improving so that's easy the
second one is um a combination of
something very enjoyable for me but um i
i like to learn about um science tech
and data and all this other stuff as it
evolves to
give us this like crazy super fast
singularity bound feature that we're
running into so i'd like to stay you
know with this stuff i have a lot of
literature to lean on of like for
example who do i read to learn about
predictions about future tech who is
reliable i already know most of those
people and that's pretty easy to read
off of them and see what i want to like
so for example if someone's like hey
what's fitness going to be like in five
years like i have a pretty decent idea
of what's
what's vr going to be like in five years
what's genomics going to be like in five
or ten years like i have all the seeds
for those things that i read in the so
it's not terribly difficult for me to
learn i will say if i start reading on a
seed from that and like i've allotted
myself an hour and whatever article i'm
reading or whatever like powerpoint i'm
looking at youtube or podcast if it's
like within the first several minutes
clearly just not going to yield any
fruit and i've seen the
discussion of what they're going to talk
about and they're approaching the issue
wrong from a methodological perspective
or it's a lot of ho ho about nothing
i'll just cut i have like a james
probably have one of these too i'll just
cut the cord real quick i'm like fine
i'm out of here i've got better i have
like four or five podcasts i can always
listen to and if one of them blows dick
i just fucking cut and run unless i
think it's gonna be good for me to to
learn even though i don't like the
subject then then you know i stay but a
lot of times it's just like oh this is
pure nonsense like for example um one of
the things i do is i read um
uh a marginal revolution blog i highly
recommend to everyone it's a super you
know
intellectual economics blog but it tells
you a lot of great news stuff and
attack tech stuff and just you know the
what's the future going to look like
kind of stuff and then sometimes like
tyler cohen who is i'm a huge fan of a
great economist he's a guy that reads
like i don't know like he reads like
maybe 20 or more books per week for real
for real reads the guy's like straight
up off the charts no dude i think he's
he's into a lot of shit that like oh all
due respect i love the guys you know i'd
love to shake his hand one day but like
he's into some mega nerd shit that i
just stepped right the fuck off before
that now mind you i'm into wayne or
other mega nerd shit just different like
james and i are into anime which is like
as nerdy as you get like clearly we have
nobody in love in life that loves us or
we masturbate a lot etc but on the other
hand like tyler cohen would be like no
here's five books i read about like the
medieval transition period from old
english to new england i could cut my
dick off before learning that shit i
don't want to learn it i don't care to
learn it it's not going to enhance
anything for me so a lot of that stuff
i'm just like fuck that and i focus on
what i really need slash like and then
my last here is just pure entertainment
and then there like i really just take a
real aussie fair approach of like so for
example i was high one of these past
days uh a few months back and i was on
netflix and i was like i'll watch
japanese no it's like tokyo vampire
hotel which like if you're not high do
not watch because it makes no sense and
if you're high it's amazing because it
makes no sense japanese shit is going on
left and right no plot at all it's also
one of these things where the plot is
like non-linear james like it's not a
time linear plot like some scene happens
like this scene happened a while back
they don't ever tell you bro but when
you're high that shit is indiscernible i
have no idea what's up and down which is
how i prefer it um and then there you
know like i'll just i know what i like
like if i uh crystal and my wife and i
we like a movie we want to watch we put
it on the queue and then we like just
watch it next time we're free i don't
like for a limited free time if it's
relaxation i try not to worry too much
about if i am i really relaxing the
right way because i think that worrying
about it completely obviates the
relaxation like we got to start relaxing
get your relaxing face on
oh my god
yeah so if something if i'm relaxing and
i meant to watch a movie like crystal
and i love watching 80s movies but some
of them are so bad we just never make it
through like we watch this one movie
called like johnny be good we got
through like two minutes of it and we
look at each other we do this look at my
wife and i look at each other like
that's out that's it was gone instantly
we'll never watch it again james what do
you think yeah those are all really good
examples so like uh mike shares this
burden too but i have add so some
sometimes the way that like things grip
me is a little bit different than most
people so for me it's usually something
where it's more of a compulsion where i
i maybe get a whiff of something and
then i'm very drawn to it and i usually
have to do some type of cost benefit
analysis like mike said where it's like
is this just me being add james and i'm
like oh now i'm really into the show or
i'm like really into this weed whacker
oh my god what do i need to know about
this weed
this is like add life where you just it
does it's not really within your control
just something snags you and you kind of
have to look at it and that's and this
is going to sound a little hippy dippy
but that's where like um things like
mindfulness training can be really handy
where you can just recognize that like
you're having a compulsion at the moment
and you can kind of just let it pass and
you know that it's going to pass and
just not to act on it necessarily and
that's something that's really helpful
i'm actually going through this right
now this exact process that you're
talking about bug down because i was
listening to
um
i was listening to an episode of lex
friedman oh i think it's actually right
there on the screen um and andrew
huberman was on and granted like i like
andrew huberman but a lot of the stuff
he says i think he kind of jumps
jumps into things a little
faster than than what we would normally
do at rp like he'll latch onto they're
gonna hypothesis generator yeah and so
he's great for great for just like um
thought experiment type stuff where
he'll he'll just kind of spit out some
like life hacks or whatever and he was
talking about um kind of a thing that he
he phrased to the um he coined the
phrase
non-sleep deep rest and that like really
just i had this like epiphany of like
i've done so
many things
and this phrase
hits it right on the head non sleeping
it really does and i was like oh my god
he nailed this one so i listened to it
and then it kind of spurred me into
looking into this idea of non-sleep deep
breast methods and um i went on to kind
of another
branch of research looking up kind of
where he got the term it turns out it
was from based on things like yoga nidra
and mindfulness practice and mindfulness
is something that i've already been kind
of into so i started looking into this
yoga nidra stuff and blah blah blah and
i was like this is exactly the type of
things that the recovery book was trying
to illustrate and i wish i could have
coined that term and thought of other
good examples under that umbrella and
stuff like that so that's something to
me where it's like
i was listening to a podcast or i was
listening to an audiobook or something
and i got a whiff of something that i
thought oh that's actually worth
investigating a little bit more and then
the wheels start turning a little bit
more in the head it's like okay well if
i look into this could i do something
for the youtube channel could i do like
an nsdr type like meditation for the
youtube channel or could i do you know
something along those lines now that's
where your add has to be rained in where
you go like okay what is i gotta my
mind's going in like a thousand
different directions i gotta reign it
into something that is potentially
useful and actionable um but that's kind
of the process right where
i like to listen to a lot of podcasts i
like to do audio books and that helps my
add brain throughout the day where i can
just listen and that's where like joe
rogan is really kind of helpful i'm not
saying that joe rogue is the best
podcaster out there but he has like 20
hours of content per week and a lot of
the guests are interesting and you kind
of just get that like little taste of
something where you're like oh
that seems kind of cool maybe i should
look into that and you look into it and
you go oh that was that guy's full of
shit or there's not enough there or
maybe there's something cool that's what
happened with me this week in the andrew
huberman stuff so that's been my little
pet project is looking at kind of like
how to include some of the thoughts of
nsdr into some of the work that we've
already done at rp
good that's what they actually answered
all right let us turn our
eye of star and ask attention james
sorry you were drinking that you almost
spilled your drink
i loved the the nerd and level of
sarcasm there
dude if i was ever if we ever get in our
lifetimes like full immersion completely
like you can't tell vr with any
experience you want like powered by ai
and 100 of going into the lord of the
rings universe on like five grams of
mushrooms and putting that fucking ring
on show me that eye baby dude oh shit
this is intense you take you you get off
the mushrooms you come back oh shit this
is still intense god damn dude all right
it's really on me did you watch the new
dune movie
no i heard good things it was so like i
watched the first dude movie i wanted to
kill the first dude they're rolling
their eyes right now going like are you
serious
it's so bad um but dude is like uh uh
did you remember did you ever see the
watchman when that came out
yes
did you did you notice how it felt like
there's something cool here but it's
just too much there's too much going on
like i can't there's a lot going on and
it was pointlessly dark but yes yeah so
dune is kind of like that where it's
there's just so much content there it's
hard to cram in like a movie yeah um the
new dune
is awesome like the sound the visuals it
has a bunch of like a-list actors too
which is really there's a smackdown worm
in it the megaware makes several
appearances
um is it credited as a cast member
no that'd be awesome played by john cena
um
but check dude it's worth checking out
like i watched it on the airplane and i
was like blown away if you were high
watching that oh my god and it's like
it's got just enough continuity like the
first the old movie you're just like
what is happening i have no
fucking idea what's happening in this
movie this one's kind of like that but
you can at least follow along where
you're like okay some there's a plot
here that i can go with but the the war
scenes like the um the sound
oh it's really intense it's kind of like
it's kind of you know weird but
you remember in the old movie like the
one bad guy had like a slave person that
had like a carotid plug and at one point
you just like pulled the guy's plug and
the guy just stopped right and it was
like this weird sexual thing and i was
like you know that guy ostensibly did a
job for you right now what like at the
very least if he means nothing to you
do you have an infinite supply of these
folks they're all well trained what are
you doing don't destroy capital
equipment like that's insane yeah
totally wasteful
in any case
evan lutz has that question it's
actually not uh it's it's a longer
question but the answer i think is quite
straightforward um
love the exclusive content format
especially since you've helped me so
much in my fitness journey up to this
point i'm happy to support the channel
and help you get your 10th lambo it's 19
flambo actually i'm well ahead of the
pace thank you since nine is only for
presents since it's really um and so is
18
lambos you know who's counting i was
like is am i missing something lambo and
then i was like oh he means lamborghini
you know you you know of my lamborghini
collection james yes i yeah but i was
like is lambo like a slang for something
that i'm not capturing right or you've
got a fucking big lambo don't you oh i
stopped it fuck off yeah as well
lamborghini interaction tractors did you
know that yeah it's nonsense nonsense
the entire brand is nonsense
uh all right i lost a total of 110
pounds and dropped from 285 to 175 six
foot tall male 28
years old and single digit body fat with
at least with the last 30 pounds
happening over about 10 weeks not great
not great was his notation not mine he
felt like shit and had no sex drive uh
maintaining sub 185 and started bulking
now i'm sitting at around 200 and
dieting is so hard even
at this higher level of body fat which i
estimate to be mid to high teens
i want to keep bulking and putting on
size
should i cut back down to somewhere
around 190 and bulk to 210 or do a
shorter bulk to 210 now thanks for all
you do
no that's a good question i actually
just don't know i would say since you
went all the way down to 185 and you
were fucked in the ass
going to 210 now slowly
add half a pound a week for the next
however many weeks it takes you to get
to 210 you're 200 now like i'm talking
about you might have 20 weeks of massing
that long term of massing even slowly
heals your fucking psychology up like
nothing else does a long mass even if
it's a conservative mass will get you
over that food addiction etc in a big
big way so i would say go to 210 now
maintain cut back down to 200-ish or 195
you'll be ripped etc and then continue
that process that's my best effort i'd
say since
saying
he said dieting is so hard i i don't
know i don't think he i think what he
means is like at 200 pounds he still
feels like losing weight to get back to
like 185 it should be really is hard yes
yes yes so i say keep going that's why
i'm saying keep going what do you see
if if i'm reading that right so that i
can kind of read this question two ways
saying like trying to cut to get any
leaner is really hard right now and then
i would say yeah just go go ahead and go
right to 200 or 210. um not right slowly
get there just increase your calories
and train really hard
if it's the other way around if you're
saying like you're trying to get to 210
and eating enough is very difficult
which is maybe another way of reading
that um
i would say you could actually just kind
of cruise at like maintaining
maintenance levels and just maybe a
slight caloric surplus and just kind of
see where that goes for a little while
and if you feel better
keep going and if you're still feeling
shitty then just maintain for a bit
until you feel less shitty yeah
yeah but i would yeah so but depending
on which one you're in that you have
both correct answers there
all right joey mott is up next and he's
actually just below evan
and he says
lads i have a question about you know
he's from the united kingdom
um i have a question about fitting
together my diet phases with my
mesocycles i'm currently in a six week
maintenance with four weeks left after
which i'll be cutting for eight to ten
weeks this week i'm on d-load followed
by six-week training would you guys
recommend that i continue the meso
after the end of the four week
maintenance no or doubt my volume slash
training in my diet phase so i would say
absolutely if you have four weeks left
of maintenance you need to do a three
one
uh paradigm or even a two to one
paradigm and then take the last week as
active rest
i don't know if you need that but if you
don't three to one paradigm low volume
four weeks total and then when you start
your eight to ten weeks you start the
first of your two mesos of that eight to
ten week diet with normal fat loss whole
body training mev to mrv volume etc
james
yeah so just like a good kind of default
rule and again this is not a hard rule
but a soft rule just has like kind of a
guide post is you should always kind of
have continuity with your diet and
training phases it's very difficult to
kind of especially for the training
stuff to keep track of what you're doing
when the diet fluctuates wildly and so
going from like cut to maintenance or
vice versa that's a humongous delta in
the circumstances and the conditions in
which you're training in and we'll have
massive and most of you have probably
experienced this before like you if
you've been cutting for a long time and
then you have a couple cheat meals or
you switch to maintenance midway through
all of a sudden you're getting
outlandish pumps you're sore all the
time
how do you keep track of that well it's
just different it's so different that
you should treat them as separate phases
and so i find that um trying to
kind of have asynchronous diet and
training just ends up being more a
hassle if you're somebody like me and
you and
you know you've done this more than a
few times this you can do it it's not a
huge deal but for most people i would
say um try to keep them as synced up
there's no real incentive not to either
like so what do you what do you gain
from keeping them asynchronous
synchronous not much i think some people
like get really set james on um training
continuity and they're like i can keep
going
and i'm hitting these pr's and i've got
this momentum but it's like look like
diet is such an important part of your
training
that you really want them to align to
get the overall and sometimes that means
some training phases are cut a little
short like that's that's okay
yeah it just it makes your life a lot
easier especially from the tracking
perspective of just keeping them in sync
because then you don't have any
questions of like oh did i cut my mess
did i cut my my five-week mesocycle like
a little too short maybe i could have
done six weeks no it's just because you
started eating more or you know i have a
stupid analogy for like uh really quick
for like racing this is completely gonna
be super wrong but just like it's a
video game understanding of racing that
i have like if you have a car that like
maxes out at 220 miles an hour and then
like ideally prefer to hit the nas after
to get it to 240 like if you're coming
up and there's the finish line is just
100 meters away but you're only at uh
200 miles an hour not a 220 yet you
might like it might be in your best
interest to hit the nas right away
anyway you're like yeah but i don't like
to hit the gnaws until i'm at top speed
like yeah but the race is almost done
like if there's a time to hit the masts
now right i know i know i know you would
ideally hit it later but the remember
the overarching purpose of racing is to
win the race so hit the fucking nos now
i know you're just a 200. so even if
you're just at week four of a meso but
you have to transition to a diet yeah
it's time for that measure to end
because the is the most more important
have concordance than some like
arbitrary level of
length and finality to your muscles
actually at six weeks like no you don't
there's no sport science that says that
so
yeah and you can always adjust your
diets uh sorry one last point on this is
like you if you're if you're if you're
setting your training schedule up so
that you can do vacation or your wedding
or you got some event that you're
working around and that's the reason for
the strict timeline you can always
adjust the length and uh intensity of
your diets as well so if
you have to cut it a little shorter you
can go a little harder and vice versa
you can always keep them together
harder
more dicks
yeah fellas
every now and again i say something
remotely sexual could be derived from
one of my instagram videos is no
shortage of people that come in and
they're like
dr
one time i was wearing like pretty loose
fitting shorts and like i was like i
hiked him up and there was no like
actual dick but like at the bottom of my
like lever squat you could clearly see
the outline of my cock through my penis
yes penis outlet just outlined it's not
like translucent and like
one guy was like
dick man i was thinking like look
motherfucker like if you're just like
funny making a joke i love it like all
right but i think if you think this is
like this thing like oh my god a dick
like bro really like what first of all
what grade are you in like also you know
he was watching that video like just
waiting for that fucking dick
is it gonna happen is it gonna happen oh
there it is oh there it is and i think
it's like it's like dick doctor yeah
yeah i think it's like i know
motherfucker i know you're straight
because all the gay boys on my page are
like oh my god i love you i'm like i
love you back like they don't just say
like and also they're like they'd be
like hey nice dick they wouldn't be like
i see your cock
you're straight and weird about it
yeah
it's uh
yeah it's like you were just waiting for
that dick and just waiting to be
offended motherfucker or something do
you waiting to sniff it out
yummy all right
yes uh all right tom north is up next
you might have to search for him what
the fuck it's a peter north's long lost
brother
tom
just just tom maybe
there it is
that nice rp stamp
hey docs when adding frequency each meso
based on your own recovery feedback from
previous mesos how do you go about
adjusting exercises that
so that not one day has more than the
recommended seven exercises for instance
i feel like i can hit the same muscle
the day after training then but my
sessions are looking really long if i do
that therefore if i just stick with 2x
frequency for each meso is it perhaps
that i'm not training hard enough in the
previous sessions it would be great to
get your feedback on this so so tom
actually very good answer there's
actually only one very specifically
correct answer to this
if you notice that your systemic mrv is
really high such that you are like
totally able to train
but it's getting to the point where
you're like doing three and a half hour
workouts with 19 exercises each time but
you're totally able to recover we have
two suggestions for you
the advanced suggestion which you
probably shouldn't take but jared and
charlie and i do is two a days like
we'll have days we have weeks we train
eight times a week nine times a week
and some like monday wednesday friday
are two a day workouts where you do like
biceps and shoulders and calves at the
end of every you know pm session or
whatever is when you do them and am
sessions you do chest and triceps or
something like that that can let you
squeeze in more volume without getting
you into that more than seven exercises
problem with like the custom trading
templates because they're limited to
seven because james and i fully believe
when we build these templates
if you can do more than seven exercises
in a row hard with five to ten sets each
like yeah no you can't get out of here
that's the
that's the james skip skeptical squid
like shut up you're not training so in
any case
if you really can keep going and
cranking after that what i would say is
if you don't want to train eight eight
times a week i would say still trade six
times a week or whatever you're doing
but have priority phases so like some
muscle groups you choose as the last
exercise you just put a little bit of
work into them and then you know the
other muscle groups you push first and
you train the fuck out of them and so
that way you can train a whole bunch of
days and can train a bunch of the
exercises
but you know you're not always training
your whole body hard so you might have a
situation where you train your chest and
back and legs super fucking hard
shoulders arms uh and you know calves
are sort of back burner for a meso or
two or three and then you flip the
script and do it the other way around
that way you don't have to do infinity
exercises to train everything and you
can still fill it on because your
question applies to high frequency
training but not just a high frequency
like some people can do moderate
frequency but just crush the volume and
then they're like how do i not do more
than seven exercises at a time those are
the two ways to do it one you either
prioritize or two you do two a days um
at the end of the day if you have a lot
of training your body can survive that's
how you
grab that at james
yeah i have another thought mike i'm
just gonna ping it off you see what you
think so sometimes i think when people
start thinking about like this kind of
frequency issue and they're like oh i
need to add more frequency i think
sometimes they also fail to scale up
their mevs across mesocycles so they
might be like okay i'm gonna do two sets
we you know meso one is my first mev and
then kind of go from there and then by
meso two they're like okay now i'm up to
like three sets when maybe you should
actually be up to like four or five sets
and you're like oh i could i could add
another exercise it's like well maybe
you actually are kind of under training
quite a bit by the time you reach meso
two or three by just not scaling up your
mevs on the things you're already doing
i think that is an issue that i have
fallen i have done myself that's why i'm
suspicious of it because i've done this
and then i'm like okay well let me just
play around with mev a little bit this
these upcoming mesos and it's like no i
should have been starting at like four
or five or maybe even six sets per
muscle group instead of like the three
that is more traditional
instead of trying to add more exercises
per week that's something i have
experienced myself so i'm wondering what
do you think about that yeah that's
absolutely a consideration
another thing too if you're finding that
you're kind of um spilling over this
kind of again this is a soft
recommendation on the seven exercises
like if you're on more on this the slow
twitch fast recovery spectrum like maybe
that's just how it is but uh
consider the sfr of the movements that
you're doing because if you're doing
five to ten sets per muscle group um
or sorry yeah per muscle group uh the
raw stimulus magnitude in this case
right like yeah there's no fucking
damage or something you're just not yeah
you're just picking shitty exercises
like i mean realistic i still we still
stand by that seven exercises like a
failure
yeah i would say look at the things that
you're doing and if you're just kind of
going through the motions like if you're
just hitting those if you're hitting
like five sets of barbell curls and
you're just kind of meh
on it right like maybe that's not a
great exercise or maybe you could modify
your technique in such a way that really
fucks you up so that you were like no
more no more please i'm good that's
usually another issue of people kind of
just doing movement training and not
muscle training and that's where
estimating that sfr can be really
helpful
all right next up is ibrahim
which
taste kin and he's just fucking with us
tasty ketchup tasty cans that sounds
like a southern tree
hey you want to have you want you want
your own can in your mouth what well no
it's candy
tastes like your kids
yeah i could have i was going to start a
discussion about adult films that
replicate that sort of behavior but i'm
just going to that that's a rabbit hole
we don't need to go to well funny enough
ibrahim is getting us under rabbit hole
anymore hey guys i've got a big question
it came up while i was pondering some of
the gripping depths of bodybuilding
physique sport and peds feel free to
push into us into the subject as deep as
possible i do think a lot of pe i mean
guys might benefit from a meaty response
to it how sizable of a stimulus get a
certain special supplements in introduce
if we were trying to target the
lengthening portion of our phallus or
more aptly put will the trt make my pp
go we so that's actually by no means
clear to me what this question is asking
i think he's asking if if there are any
special sports supplements to make your
makeup bigger
because i mean generally speaking when
your pp goes we that means it's
urinating not getting larger
um i think like there are some there are
some supplements that you know can help
increase like
vasodilation boner size but like it's
not going to help your flaccid dick
length but it might make you like fuller
and harder when you're
you know erect but i don't think there's
anything that makes you longer just by
default listen i got they got the answer
but the following is a joke the
following is a joke
trend
weed
and viagra all the same time jesus
christ you will be knocking things over
with a boner that cannot be satisfied
with me immortal that cannot be
satisfied that's the worst part you
should be having psychotic thoughts and
you will not want to be anywhere
especially inside your own body slight
side effect of trend and weed combined
um
yeah ibrahim look man you know what i'm
saying the girl go see your surgeon and
tell them you know the god did part of
the work you're gonna have to do the
rest
and uh he'll get you a nice
extension
i don't think there's any pills to make
your dick bigger and like there's no
there's no pills to make your nose
bigger you know what i mean it's like no
yeah there's we don't have bigger pills
that's muscle yes but your penis is not
full of muscle
if maybe if you train harder it could
have muscle in it you jack off so much
that your dick grows muscle and you're
like oh my god
yeah
i think there are definitely like
special sports supplements and even
over-the-counter supplements that if you
are wanting like a bigger fuller boner
then you guys notice how james said this
he goes i think there are uh allegedly i
know there are how many gas stations you
you bought that fucking
of them i've gotten all of
them yeah there's just plenty of shit
like that like how much of an effect is
there uh i mean it's not it's not you're
not gonna go from uh
well you know believe in that but
i will leave it
yes all right so that's what you got my
friends
sir
next time
uh we we could dig into it more just
kidding all right next number seven is
james just type this into the search
because this is not a word person's
username is not a word
you ready ready
s-t-f-n-y-t
it's like um i just got my vision done
i'm gonna get new glasses that's the
kind of shit you read on the other thing
you know like the fucking vision is it
like is it internet speak for like stiff
nut or like
sgfu is like old school shut the fuck up
shut the fuck up new york city new york
times new york transit
he hates the mta
um all right uh i don't know all right
oh here we go we well he's got something
we've got docs first of all i'd like to
thank both of you for all the great
content you provide us with well thank
you so
much i understand quite the extreme
transformation within the past two years
oh sorry i underwent i understand that's
nice that you understand transformation
uh i underwent uh quite the extreme
transformation within the past two years
and lost a whole bunch of weight
close to 30 percent of my original body
weight we got a couple of you fucking
bangers in here today amazing work
gentlemen
um the only thing i'm doing 30 of us
eating 30 more chocolate cake
damn i'm massing it's terrible i can't
eat anymore and i hate myself um like
it's difficult for me to i crystal
walked in on me yesterday she got back
from jiu jitsu and i had put the last
bit of rice and chicken in my mouth and
she's like how are you i'm like
it was really tough um
uh 30 of my original body weight in the
matter of eight months unfortunately
i've discovered rp way too late and not
just skip
and did not just only skip the needed
dedicated maintenance of 12 months i've
also been on a roller coaster of running
too many cuts i know i know and then
slowly having my weight creep up again
yes
now i'm stranded with a problematic
relationship towards tracking and food
in general and absolutely devastating
hunger i know that i cannot keep the
cycle of dropping and regaining the same
weight in the long run for now it's
blessing me
with good gains in the gym but i
understand this is not only going to
work out for me in the long run how
would i best strategize getting back to
baseline of low diet fatigue towards
lower hunger levels thanks in advance
for answering you guys rock so i would
have a lot of different answers for you
but i think i have a guy
this motherfucker knows the answer he
already said yeah
so i would say just like uh you know set
yourself uh
a 12-week massing window and aim to gain
half a pound each time each week on
average so six weeks overs remember six
sorry 12 weeks you gain six pounds and
six pounds of weight just is not that
much weight like it's just not but that
12 weeks of being technically hyper
caloric the whole time can heal your
psychology like james and i and all of
us at our pc maintenance faces desire to
heal your psych but it really is right
but it's actually the second best diet
phase to heal your your dieting
psychology massing is the best the
problem amassing is like you know if you
get females down to 140 pounds and
they're like what do i do to heal up
like mass back up that doesn't work
right some people want long-term weight
loss to happen relatively quickly and
then thus for them you don't want to
take two steps forward one step back for
years absolutely especially for like
people who have gone through a big
transformation like this too yes the
thought of doing hyper hypercaloric is
like outlandish it's like it's crazy
what are you talking about
six pounds total right and you're gonna
almost completely if not completely
eliminate all of your diet fatigue and
be ready to maintain cool off reduce
your training then get back in and do a
fat loss phase and then now you're just
going to pair masses and fat losses i'm
going to stay pretty lean all the time
and slowly get jacked over time that's
my absolutely best advice
yeah i agree with dr mike here i would
come at two angles the first one dr mike
already said which is like a nice slow
mass phase is gonna heal those woes and
you won't really gain that much weight
so a definite win-win
i understand now i don't advocate for
this but i've been coaching long enough
to know that people in your situation
tend to be
fat phobic understandably right now i'm
trying to say like you don't necessarily
want to approach any kind of diet and
training phase with fat phobia as like
the starting point that's not a good
place to start at all
but
if you're already there
right like you have to deal with it the
best you can and in that case you could
consider just doing like a very long
extended maintenance phase in which you
whatever you're doing now just eat a
little bit more and then just cruise on
that for a while until some of those bad
thoughts start go up stop start to go
away and the problem there is you just
have to be disciplined to not try and
jump the gun with more mini cuts or more
cuts or anything else you just kind of
have to cruise for an extended period of
time and the good news is a lot of those
evil thoughts will start to go away but
i do but you'll have to kind of work
through some of the negative thoughts
that you're going through at the same
time which is not easy so that being
said that's another option i don't
necessarily kind of
want to start somebody on them as a
cycle with the idea of like let's deal
with this fat phobia and that's where i
think dr mike's suggestion is probably
better because it'll just kind of
expedite sorry expedite some of those
negative feelings physically and
psychologically a little bit faster but
there are people out there and typically
it's people who have lost shitloads of
weight and they're just not receptive to
the idea of weight gain and in that case
you just have to take a very long
maintenance phase until all the evil
goes away
[Music]
ideally if you can nut up and do a slow
mass that'd be great it's technically
the best answer but if you can't see any
more weight on your body because for
whatever reason just maintain this fine
but again it's going to be a little
tougher because it's going to take
longer for your diet fatigue to go away
on maintenance than it will on
a couple of weeks of surplus and you're
like what the fuck was i even asking
about diet fatigue um yeah james look at
the top right hand corner mark bell's
power project is that the most italian
name uh you've ever seen oh hold on
things blocking it
stefano
hey
fucking fuck
not biceps that's what he's thinking
that sounds like somebody from long
island 100 percent that's what there's a
100 chance he's from is it
would you would you say to stefano or di
stefano
so so originally in italian it's
probably stefano but he's almost
certainly from new jersey so it's hey
sal di stefano hey okay yeah
fucking fucks you know he's probably
gonna like meet us in real life at some
point beat us to death but look sal all
all jokes my friend all right caleb
avery is up next
got it
he says hey guys i've been looking into
electrolytes and wondering what kind of
recommendation you would give someone
hypertrophy training who also works
outside and sweats a lot it seems to be
hydrated i seem to be hydrated enough
with clear urine and
uh the backhand skin pinching testing
yeah you gotta be real dehydrated to
fail that one but yeah nice to know
about that uh that's got it that's
pre-contest kind of shit which with
electrolytes um which the electrolytes
sorry with the electrolytes i think
that's what was meant are the
recommendations for things like this you
could give i'm probably drinking enough
water around 100 ounces a day 180 pounds
want to see if you guys any more
specific water electrolyte
guidance thank you uh for the videos
definitely helped so my best
recommendation is just just go get uh
like electrolyte uh squirty drinks put
them in your water so like like uh
gatorade and powerade i'll make
electrolyte drinks that are calories or
calories like the little neo squirts
except they're made by gator power right
sometimes neo has the electrolyte ones
just squirt them shits in there make
sure you get the ones without caffeine
otherwise you're going to be doing a lot
of uh yelling at yourself in the mirror
um so i would just say get those and if
you want to enhance those a lot of times
they don't have sufficient amount of
sodium so it's like a little pinch of
salt in your bottle of water along with
some uh little squirt and then all of a
sudden the electrolytes work plus the
salt it makes it taste a little bit like
salty and sweet which is quite nice it
fills you up a lot and then you get to
retain a lot more water that's my best
bet is absolutely james and i could give
you technical breakdowns but like that
would be stupid and a huge pain in the
ass for you to get almost no marginal
increase on your return
yeah typically like the food that you
eat covers most of like your electrolyte
requirements in most situations now in
this case if you're taking in a lot of
extra water because you're sweating a
lot then maybe it might be beneficial to
do like what mike said maybe consider
using like an electrolyte supplement
there are recommendations that we give i
don't remember them off the top of my
head but in the rp like there's an
endurance uh dieting mini book that we
sell and that has a lot of those like
more specific nitty-gritty things but
for the most part if you're not getting
like cramping and you're sweating
normally like not i'm not saying like
like you're not observing any unusual
changes in your sweating patterns like
you're like it would be unusual for you
to be not sweating at all that would be
something that would be kind of alarming
um if you're not getting anything like
that like you're sweating normally
you're not getting any cramps you
probably don't need to do anything extra
unless this is like a temporary thing
where you're just like sweating your
balls off for a couple weeks and it's
unusual your body will actually kind of
acclimatize to whatever it is that
you're doing if it's something that
comes up somewhat regularly so typically
your eating habits will change
subconsciously just you'll be more
attracted to like salty food stuff like
that or you might season your food a
little bit more than normal so a lot of
that stuff kind of works itself out you
don't have to make a lot of huge
adjustments unless you're having actual
problems like cramping
boom
next up is noah just noah
the noah
person formerly named noah hey doc's i'm
wondering about the experience of
delayed pain after a set i get this in
my quads hams and bodies when i really
hit the muscle hard the pain is severe
and debilitating and kind of creeps up
on me 60-90 seconds after the sentence
i've seen
uh you take people i thought he said
i've seen you people take i was like you
people you people
i've seen you take people to this level
of pain workout videos lying on the
ground growing it they can't stop
hurting yet i've never seen either
of you or jared and that kind of posts
that pain
vomiting yes but not this interesting um
are you just cutting those scenes
um no but to be completely honest
there's like a hundred scenes of us
doing this and i just edited a video
that'll be out in a few months of jared
training with his partner bree and jared
is like lying down for at least half a
video on the ground um
is this level of pain uh desirable for
petrov if yes when in a meso should you
start to feel this kind of pain
throughout or only last week or sometime
in the middle again
if this is desirable should i be
concerned that i never seem to be able
to come even close to this kind of
response in my chest or back
with those exercises i mean two to four
minutes to catch my breath for the next
set but i'm never incapable
this is too much pain for build up so so
my best hypothesis and why this pain
occurs is uh 60 90 seconds works right
into the hypothesis of the following so
um
you produce uh lots of metabolites uh
one of the most prominent ones being
lactic acid in the muscles right when
you actually train so muscle like quads
has the muscle itself and then it has
the nerves the nociceptive nerves the
pain nerves that are sort of all
threaded around the muscle not in the
muscle just around it so it sometimes
takes 60 to 90 seconds for all of that
metabolite to be dumped out of your
muscle which it goes eventually in the
bloodstream and then it begins to fux
with the nerves i have this experience
in my hamstrings profoundly
reliably when i do high wrap or myer up
hamstring curls
i will get off the hamstring machine and
just begin to walk around yeah it's
awful i have to walk around i continue
to have to walk around so i get enough
blood and clearance so that the lactic
acid and all the metabolites go away if
they sequester i i begin to hurt in my
hamstrings so much there's no position
in which they don't hurt and i have
existential levels of pain where i'm
like i don't want to be here anymore one
time i was training at joey sat mary's
gym the lion's den and we had finished
um
uh a bunch of crazy high rep hack squats
and then we went to some leg curls and
after i got done with my light curl was
my last one i laid down on the ground
and i tried to lay on my back because
that was better for the quads but then i
hurt the hams i turned to my tummy i put
pressure on the quads the quads hurt i
was like i'm gonna die here in pain and
no one's gonna remember me it's gonna be
awful now here's the thing generally
speaking the muscles that i get this in
are the biggest muscles that i have that
they're more fast twitch and they grow a
lot and generally if you're doing this
this is a great sign of disruption
doesn't mean you need to target it it's
just a good thing your question of is my
chest and back together sounds okay
listen
speaking very humbly my back is enormous
my chest is enormous they never get it
they never in my back and chest never
get it honestly it's only my hamstrings
that get it and sometimes my quads on
rare occasions really just my hands so
if you have my biceps never get it i
wish they did if you have an incredible
amount of pain
i what i would say is this the following
don't target that pain just train like
you normally train do good rar proximity
hit your volume landmarks and if some of
that pain happens walk it out shake it
out you're great it's at least a very
good sign if your other muscles don't
have pain the question you come back to
with them
is am i doing everything i'm supposed to
be doing am i following the volume
landmarks am i training the muscles as
hard as they can tolerate am i you know
scaling all of my progressions if the
case is like yeah everything's going
well i get good pumps get soreness blah
blah but i just don't ever have that
insane
60 to 90 second post pain i wouldn't
worry about that a single time matter of
fact i would thank god that doesn't
happen
if all muscles uh felt like that after
training i may consider not training
ever again it's just like a little much
uh mostly that's joke not really uh
james what do you think what did i say
anything wrong uh just a quick asterisk
on this i know this is a very semantical
thing but uh when we say pain we're not
talking about like joint pain or like
you know like your bones are breaking or
anything like that it's just the
discomfort from like when you're
training your muscles um yeah
upper body almost never the only one
that i can think of is like delts i know
mike suffers from that deltoid oh my god
it's awful yes dealt upside down so and
it's because they're asked to continue
working even if your arms are on your
side they still stabilize them like turn
off
i think that's the thing where it's like
the the muscles that tent where this
tends to happen it's like your leg
muscles and your delts and that's just
because uh there there is sort of like a
a baseline level of activation that is
always occurring like unless you lay on
the ground your legs are still having to
tense just to keep you upright and
moving around same thing with your arms
your arms are hanging but you're still
tensing them a little bit just to keep
them in place and move your arms around
so i feel like the the areas where
you're going to feel that pain and it's
going to be really annoying is going to
be the ones where you can't really shut
them off and that's usually like your
quads hamstrings and or delts the rest
of your muscles just simply aren't large
enough or i think they can actually take
a true break like your chest and your
back like once you unwrap the bar or the
you know the pull-down handle it's like
lower back tends to do that sometimes
oh back that's true that is true um but
never to the point where you're like
writhing on the ground you just get that
like low back pump and you're like oh
this sucks but you're never like oh my
back right like at least i haven't and i
think too the people who are a little
bit more fast twitch tend to suffer from
this more than people who are um like
type 2a or slow twitch like if you do a
set of leg press for let's just say 15
reps at one or two from fail and you
don't arrive in pain you never will like
that's just not a thing for you you know
what i mean it's and that's perfectly
okay like as long as you get your
technique well your rar is in order like
that's fine you don't need to be in that
like if you're somebody who is um
you know maybe not the just naturally
most jacked person or you don't have the
biggest most type 2x muscles on the
planet then you might not suffer from
that and that's okay as long as
everything else is in order like mike
said earlier you're probably doing just
fine
um all right next up is the anabolic
italian oh another one of my favorite
one of my favorite uh account names ever
the animal italian has now joined the
exclusive rp family hey it's family oh
sorry um dominic toretto from uh fast
and furious
i was thinking more olive garden like
when you hear your family
dude oh true i remember uh he did a
toast in one of the movies where he was
like
money comes and goes my families
and i was like gee whiz you're really
not jewish huh money comes and got you
out of your mind no money is invested in
a differentially conservative and more
extreme investment instruments and
yields in that return the fuck is wrong
with you that's there's only one thing
money's supposed to do moron
i'm sad because
i know that people love the fast and
furious movies i just don't personally i
think they suck
i love it you just had to say that i
hate them moving and i loved i loved
riddick and no one else likes ridiculous
i was like it's amazing
chronicles of riddick is one of the best
movies of all time and that cartoon they
made between pitch black and chronicles
of friday i've literally owned it like
it's i bought it on amazon prime and
every now and again i watch it the music
and the sound effects like that the
bitch the crazy bitch that owes the ship
which she like walks in they're like ah
i'm like dude who
is the brilliant really brilliant person
to make those cartoons out of this world
riddick is one of those just um the
setting is what you love you you love so
good the universe the universe it's so
well built you love it and like the you
know the first one pitch black you know
people some people like some people
didn't is fine but it's like i wish they
would just make more stuff like even if
it's not riddick just make more stuff in
that world in that universe yeah then
that commanders they're all super cool
yeah um all right the anabolic italian
is not generally exclusive rp family
love all your free content so why not
support you guys monitor you thank you
so much anabolic italian hey it's good
to have you one of the family
anyway questions for the docs when
training fire per trophy isn't necessary
and if so how often should you actually
test your one right now
just throw that again
all right let's finish the question this
will be a 20-second answer
is it sufficient enough to estimate
using current working positive failure
for instance if 185 times eight gets you
to failure
uh would that transition one arm be
sufficient enough for programming
purposes should you actually test your
1rm
if you should test what part of that
cycle as a deal or not interfere with
progression also be as accurate as
possible here's the deal the way you
design your motorcycles is last time you
did 185 for eight and this time you did
205 for eight so your goal for next time
is maybe to hit like 215 freight and
program your mezzo like that right like
your meso because it's in reps and load
and the last week is close to failure
sets of you know 5 to 10 10 to 20 20 30
actual working sets close to failure we
get exact reps that's the best possible
specific information you could possibly
have it's like taking uh take an f-15
fighter and have it go as fast as
possible with no no weapons loaded okay
full you know fuel tank only enough to
get it to do one big run
no weapons loaded all the governors off
go it's okay it goes mock 2.5 or 2.3 and
then you're like okay so we know the
f-15 is shaped like this can we reverse
engineer to see how fast it can go based
on its engine power aerodynamics be like
bro we just tested it it just went as
fast as it could it's the direct test we
don't need to infer so what you would be
doing is similar in the 1rm thing is you
have a direct test of your rep strength
exactly the rep range of which you need
it for the next meso and then you want
to reconvert it back to 1rm poisoning
that fucking data stream and then
convert back poisoning that stream again
there's no need to do that it's like uh
you know it's like how do you you know
it's like what is it i just said this
joke in another rp video but i'll repeat
it again um james you know the
psychological school of behaviorism
where they refuse to assume anything
going on inside the mind of the animal
or the human they're just like whatever
you get behavior wise is it the funny uh
this is from stephen pinker uh telling
this joke because behaviorists are two
behaviorists have sex they finish sex
and they're smoking cigarettes and one
licks over at the other it goes it was
good for you how was it for me
it's like look like you don't need that
shit like you know your training is
everything you need to know about your
training you get from every single week
you do it especially peak week where you
really put your pedal to the metal and
you get exact results of exactly how
strong you are showing you exactly how
strong you need to be to meet certain
goals you don't ever ever need to want a
ram test unless you're a power lifter
and they don't need a one run test in
any way just work up to heavy doubles
triples and singles and then you go to
the meat and that's your one around
testing
james yeah so my point was going to be
kind of on that what you just finished
up with there so like um you never have
to do one rm test if your goal is um
just kind of body composition oriented
stuff so you just want to be jacked lean
some combination of those things so the
question though you have to ask yourself
my anabolic italian friend is
why do the 1rm test at all
is the outcome of your is the outcome of
your training to be stronger or is it to
be more jacked right because those are
two different things complete you know
they tend to overlap a little bit but a
1rm test is a direct measurement of your
maximal strength ability uh hypertrophy
training does not necessarily train
maximal strength they couldn't
potentiate it in a long-term periodized
plan but it does not train it directly
per se
so it's kind of one of those things
where it's like if you want to be
stronger maybe because you're in
powerlifting or because you're doing
sport training and stuff like that you
can get a really good estimate when you
actually periodize your way into those
heavier weights without ever having to
test the one alright i think like for
the most part you don't have to test one
rms almost ever even working as like a
d1 collegiate strength conditioning code
you pretty much don't have to do it you
can get what you need
i mean it's one thing to do it as um
kind of like a fun
team thing where people just it's it's
more of like um
i'm not even building activity team
building i don't actually advocate for
this i could at least see our
justification for it i wouldn't
personally do it but i can at least see
getting everybody excited like you know
when you watch videos
yeah doing like cleaning jerks and with
the whole football team or they're
squatting and everybody's behind them
and cheering like that's there's
something positive there that's worth
exploring i personally wouldn't do that
um so but higher perch retraining it's
like
is the muscle are the muscles that i'm
training getting bigger am i maintaining
my size as i'm getting leaner
those are your outcome measurements one
rm is not a direct outcome measurement
of hypertrophy training so just keep
that in the back of your mind it's kind
of a specificity issue like the
assessment that you're doing is not
actually indicative of the progress
you're making in training because it's
just measuring something else
yes you don't need to go look for
another assessment your assessment is
completely internal
yeah
um
all right
scroll back up all the way james please
these are now time for the
non-member questions
just subscriber questions
and up number one is
john and john asks what does a long term
low volume maintenance phase look like
for example you're maxed out natty
transitioning to other hobbies well so
the first thing is you want to write a
needs analysis uh and your needs
analysis needs to be based on like how
many days and how much time are you
willing to spare for the gym that's
probably the most important part of the
needs analysis
and the other part of these analysis is
do you want to lose a little bit of
muscle do you want to stay with exactly
how much muscle you have do you want
some slow gains
once you answer those questions you
design a program to those specifications
based on
like if you're a long-term person you
need to know all of your volume
landmarks already it's pretty simple
pretty straightforward uh one of our
members actually 40 he says mev md to
mev training 3 rar to 2 r 3 weak mesos d
load or not entirely up to how much
fatigue
you've accumulated i think that's a fine
idea
what i would say is in order to save
time in the gym you can just do three to
one to zero rar training you can still
train very hard um and that'll keep it
nice and objective and not let you
backslide or something like that i would
say the volume needs to be at
maintenance volume but you need to
choose which muscle groups you include
and probably use a lot of compound
exercises versus isolations i hate to
see guys doing lat prayers and then
bicep curls like i could just done
underhand pull-ups just called in a
fucking day um and then
as far as deloads and mesos what i would
probably do is get into an auto uh uh
i'll probably appear on a regulatory
almost pure auto regulatory system where
your hobbies and other parts of your
life determine when you deload much more
than the training does like um
so basically like you're like i have a
camping trip in five weeks looks like
that's my fucking active rest and then
train hard for five weeks hard ish train
up until you hit your zero rars in week
four and then at week five you go to
camping trip that's probably how i would
do it games
yeah and i agree with mike and i think
it depends it kind of depends on which
hobbies you have because you might
consider something like crossfit to be a
hobby that you put on the back burner
because you were doing a mass phase or a
maintenance fit or a weight loss phase
so in that case you might find that like
doing the crossfit stuff really wears
you out um and that might look a little
bit different than somebody who is um
getting back to hiking or maybe like my
wife right now is out bear hunting and
that's a seasonal thing right you don't
do it all the time
yeah and like um you have to train for
because you have to carry a heavy pack
you have to you know
go up and down mountains you got to
spend the whole day out there so it
might look kind of different depending
on which hobbies that you do like how
much um how much
allotments do you have to make for
somebody who wants to golf like once or
twice a week like probably not a ton
what i would say is looking back at
forty's suggestion
with these maintenance phases or these
we'll just call them low volume phases
i would say a good place to start is
pick whether you want to be at mv or mev
because kind of in that gray zone is
really not great either way so like if
you want to train anybody doesn't really
mean maintenance phase that's the
problem
by definition trying to improve some
shit yeah and that might just be like um
you might just kind of take it as like a
strength phase or something like that
where you say like okay i want to lift
some heavier weights and i want to get a
little bit stronger and that might look
more like mev training versus a true
maintenance phase to open up other
hobbies would be like okay i'm really
backing down to maybe lifting like two
to three times per week and i'm only
doing a handful of compound exercises
like dr mike already mentioned not doing
a lot of isolation stuff unless you
unless you find like unless you have
like dr mike size arms and if you don't
do some direct arm training that you
lose a little bit of size um but for you
know so it could be a little could kind
of go either way depending on what your
hobbies might be for somebody who's just
doing like hiking because the weather is
nice and you want to get out and hike
what i might say is you could just do
like a low volume strength phase kind of
around mev training make a little bit of
progress and that would be perfectly
fine if you want to do something else
like um rugby or crossfit something
that's just more physically demanding
that will look a little bit more like mv
training where you're really not doing a
whole lot each time you train and then
auto regulating it as mike said is a
really good strategy because at that
point like what's going to be the
limiting factor your mv lifting or how
much crossfit you do per week probably
crossfit
james uh take a look at one of the
answers to john in purple with the s
saber-tooth wallaby he goes why would
you do anything other than lift unless
your hobby is gear
my favorite part about that is lifting
on the back burner because my steroid
use is so hot you're like what oh boy
it's really taking it out of me
yeah all right next up
lastly steroid use i'm looking out the
window right now and there's a big tom
turkey all fluffed up chasing the ladies
all tested out
what's up
the ladies are on baby bar though they
still want it they they're playing hard
to get
so next person is who knows four six
four and then it's our last question for
the day
um
he says i've heard duh i've heard mike
say
that a maintenance phase after mass can
be helpful for us to quote unquote
solidify what may have been quote
preparatory hypertrophy
why are we not concerned with losing
these preparatory gains when we simply
jump from a mass into a mini cut
how do i know when these preparatory
gains are at risk so it's all just nasty
speculation on our part uh it's got to
say these are all hypotheses they're not
theories um we have lots of stuff we
base in theory this is more hypothetical
and we're usually pretty careful to
state that like we're not 100 on all
this but i will say from my experience
and what uh theoretical research i have
read on this is that really hard cuts
risk your muscle in a special way that
mini cuts and shortcuts just don't
so if you just did a mass phase that got
you your biggest ever and then you do a
cut phase to get super lean again you
may end up not holding as much of that
muscle as if you did a mini cut
afterwards then a mass mini cup mass
mini cut because the mini cuts don't
super risk a ton because what risks
potentially risks new muscle mass is
really going back into crazy crazy diet
mode and some bodybuilders have noticed
over the years that like if they hang
out at a slightly higher body weight for
a while they tend to diet down and keep
a lot more muscle than if they just get
there for a little bit and then go all
the way back into contest prep because
mini cut is not risking a ton of muscle
because it's not that nasty like but
honestly if you've ever done a contest
prep or a real serious diet
unless you're managing this through lots
of gear use and even still um the last
four to six weeks is when you see a lot
disproportionate muscle loss we like can
maintain your strength and size quite
well into like the seven percent body
fat six percent even kind of thing four
or five percent body fat once you enter
into that range unless you're
pharmacologically boosting yourself
right out of any kind of muscle loss
which doesn't get risky but smart in
that case you will tend to lose a lot of
muscle and strength then at the last
four or five weeks of a diet you're like
i used to be able to leg press five
plates for reps now it's just four
plates perhaps someone's like it's
glycogen someone else is like it's
fatigue someone else is like it's
psychological and then you know sport
scientists like it's all of those
combined plus your body's permanently
starving to death and will eat anything
including its own muscle so yeah i would
say that mini cuts just absolutely don't
present any of that problem which is why
you don't have to solidify before you do
a mini cut and the mini cut actually
offers some of the solidification for
you whereas if you just go into a deep
contest prep or super crazy diet you may
get away with less muscle gain again
that's hypothesis it could be that if we
did extensive testing all that's just
fluff bullshit it's our best guess as to
how things happen uh given our limited
understanding what do you think james
yeah and even though many cuts tend to
be slightly more on the intense side the
i think it's the duration effect there
where it's just it's not long enough to
actually accrue any serious negative
effects and even if you do a cruise like
a tangible amount of muscle loss or
something like that
um you're going right into a weight gain
phase anyway so most of those losses are
immediately offset and the time again
it's the time scale where it's like you
don't have enough time to cause
a lot of
acute problems to yourself nor do you
have enough time to cause like long-term
shifts in like your settling points and
things along those lines either and it's
pretty much completely offset by the
enormous amount of time that you've
spent over the last um two blocks
presumably doing weight gain so i think
it's kind of a drop in the bucket in
terms of the preparatory hypertrophy i'm
not that i'm not so sure about and when
i say i'm not sure i just i don't know
i'm not i'm not sure if those interfere
on what levels if they would so that i
really can't comment down because i just
don't
i just don't know it's not my wheelhouse
but i do from a practical standpoint um
i think it's mostly just the time scale
of like time spent in hypercaloric
versus time spent in hypocaloric and
what is the net effect over that long
period of time
very well put folks we would love to
continue to give you answers to
questions but the reality is that we
would not love to continue this what is
it then agent smith to neo
uh oh the problem is that we are not
free mr anderson uh james what were you
gonna say you watched the matrix again
and you hated it again
i watched the new one
the uh the most recent one and it starts
off i'm trying not to do any spoiler so
i know i'm the last i'm late to the
trinity died
well it was like um
like halfway like the first half of the
new one you're kind of like oh yeah okay
i see we're doing something interesting
here and then the last half really just
fizzles it really fizzles sucks bro i
wish it was
no
for reasons like this i've been reading
reviews like this or talking to my
friends and they're like just don't
watch it
i i wouldn't go as far as to say is to
not watch it but it's definitely not
like
it's not the best effort
it wasn't it's by by far my least
favorite but um it start the fir the
initial premise is interesting and
there's some cool actors in there like
neil patrick harris is in there and um
uh what
yeah uh
it starts off good it's like you kind of
it kind of you're like oh okay this is
weird i'm into it i'm into it and then
like
and all of a sudden it just like takes
off too fast
in in the in the direction and then just
kind of fizzles
james how much goth slut shit is in
there
uh
intermittently a lot
uh excellent i will be watching it on
mute
yeah um
yeah give it a watch don't say too much
james give it a watch you give it a
watch just for i think you'll enjoy the
first half and then the last half you'll
be like
i also saw the latest spiderman and that
was also okay um but i mean
the latest spider-man is the greatest
movie ever made no he's an idiot um
[Laughter]
but it was fun to see the news to no one
we we are in like a cool cool timeline
where like movies from a certain time
period had x y z actors and then they're
still alive to do the movies 20 years
later like star wars was like that the
guy who played palpatine is in like all
the fucking star wars so crazy isn't
that wild right and same thing with
spider-man they brought back the actors
from the previous gen of spider-man
movies and they're present in the new
one and yeah
that's right that's so cool um but other
than that it was kind of it was it was
fine it was spider-man i will say
that
the um
way that they did the last three star
wars movies the chronological ones
episodes whatever 7 9 79
um
the way they did them specifically the
last well specifically the second to
last one and then the last one
is maybe like
you would have to fumble in the last
play at the super bowl one thousand
times to be that embarrassed
i mean it's
unbelievable
how bad like movie number two it's just
luke skywalker having like a fit
and just like
quitting and just that's it and you're
like i'm sorry who is this about now
it's like it's about rey and what is she
like
she doesn't know last movie like hey
you're sort of nominally related to
palpatine
and the good guys win
yay
it was just awful awful at every fucking
turn i hated it who was what was the
guy's name the guy who who used to be in
the army and then converted to the
rebellion he was helping ray i forgot
the guy dude yeah um he was great and
they took his character nowhere i know
that's what really pissed me off i was
like oh this guy's kind of interesting
because he and him and ray had like a
connection that also went nowhere i was
like is they going fuck or what god damn
it i know they dropped the ball
and then there was like all this
backlash of people like oh why didn't
you like ray because you're you're not
you're you're fucking chauvinist it's
like no she just wasn't interesting
what the fuck are you guys talking about
make one movie about sosokitano and i'll
show you how much of a chauvinist i'm
not we need an ahsoka tano i think
hisokitano is actually getting her own
series well there's like tons of there's
tons of powerful female characters in
the star wars universe so it's like it's
not bad
i mean we could go on like get out of
here you assholes that's just insane
sjw's lost their fucking minds like your
movie sucked go try again it's nothing
to do with your political bullshit it's
just a fucking blue and who is the guy
um
fuck
who is the who is the sith guy i i i'm
not as i'm not as tuned into this star
wars
universe um oh yeah that one the one guy
yeah and then he just dies like he just
gets cut in the fucking stomach with
lightsaber and he gets surprised the big
the super the the guy who looked really
big in the video display that guy oh not
that um um the uh the guy who's uh han
solo's descendant um
kylo ren oh wren yeah he's a piece of
shit just character fizzled out too in
the beginning there's nowhere he goes
nowhere and he's like in the beginning
you're like oh he's this like really
edgy guy yeah you're like let me see you
do some edgy shit it's like reminding me
of an an x-men when magneto was a kid
and he's in the like the ss office and
you're like yeah kill them kill them and
he just doesn't he doesn't and you're
like fuck there's no good reason either
he like got pissed enough to start doing
crazy shit but he just didn't kill
anybody it's like look man if i was a
jew in the holocaust and i had the
opportunity to crush people with magnet
hands
you know what i'm saying hitler would
have to take a second fiddle to me how
many fucking people i killed you know
your fucking mind and that's what i was
like that's why i was i didn't like that
character because they made him so edgy
and then like he just
got soft at the end he was like oh you
suck bro
he was like an anakin you could
understand his bitching because he
eventually you're like okay at least he
becomes darth vader that's pretty sweet
you know movie number two with anakin is
just he's like a 15 year old
he needs like wrestling practice to like
harden his ass up shut up do more
push-ups shut up i don't care what you
have to say but like um you know he just
never got that i guess but you know this
kylo ren is like someone who starts off
with like all right you're edgy and
that's okay because you're powerful and
maybe he'll do cool things with it he
just never does
and then he starts to like they have
this thing where they have this like um
him and and uh and rey have this like
they can see through each other through
the force they can like force teleport
and then they just do nothing with that
yeah ever i thought they was gonna fuse
into like the ultimate jedi or they
here's the thing there's a lot there's a
lot of like
here's the thing like if you watch the
clone wars and you get really into canon
star wars the jedi is actually wrong and
so are the sith they are the force needs
to be unified so people can
you know
yeah the ultimate force master can
recognize darkness and light and use
both to his advantage the thing is like
i literally thought that kylo ren and
rey were going to like
both learn from each other or something
and one of them was going to at least
one of them probably both will ascend
being able to use both dark and light
will become ultra powerful force people
and do good or establish like a new jedi
that are based on like just use the
force and be intelligent with it don't
just sequester the light or the darkness
and they just like
and then what happened nothing nothing
fucking happened i could have written
star wars better than these fuck i know
that sounds like armchair quarterbacking
but either fucking joking um
dave filoni and uh who's that guy that
runs all the fucking star wars shit now
um
[Music]
dave filoni and john favreau need to be
the only people who are allowed to touch
star wars everything they fucking do is
goddamn gold they're the people that
wrote everything they're the guys that
designed the fucking mandalorian uh dave
filoni's the guy that wrote most of
clone wars that's the kind of people you
want doing your shit they don't miss
stop it with this bullshit where you let
some fucking asshole ruin your fucking
goddamn franchise i can't even believe
i'm saying that i think it's because the
ccp got in there somewhere they're like
let's let's revamp star wars a little
bit to
our liking
the giant communist party there's like a
uyghur scene that's deleted you're like
okay
they take all the younglings out of the
third movie and replace them with
wingers
nothing bad happens here
another one that fell short and then
we're out of here uh please i'm i've so
mike already knows my woes on this i've
gone back and watched all the dragon
ball stuff as an adult to just rewi i've
watched it all as a kid and you know and
i watched it as an adult i'm like what
the fuck this is terrible i started
watching gt again folks
what the fuck it's so terrible there's i
mean like 20 episodes in and they're
getting like haggled by space jews and
like it doesn't make any
sense dude dude it's awful the thing is
gt can be summarized in like a no filler
episode that's one episode long
and also all the cool scenes are that
long like there's like five cool scenes
from gt one of them is when like goku
first ascends to super saiyan 4 and he
looks at him like a piece of glass and
it breaks from he was like power i'm
like hell yeah hell yeah hell yeah shit
there's like five episodes of shit like
that and that's it like omega shanron
he's pretty cool and that's it the whole
baby saga is the biggest waste of time
anyone's ever it was awful have you
gotten a babysitter
yes but right now i've i've watched it
in the past but i'm not haven't
rewatched it yet but like what's killing
me is the kid goku okay so if you watch
the english version this is this is some
meta level shit i'm sorry so if you
watch the kid version um they flip-flop
all the voice actors around so now the
guy who votes goku is voicing adult
trunks
and the guy who voiced gohan is now
oh no kidding goku
so you hear the voices and you're like
wait ah ah it's a mind fuck because
you're used to hearing their voice as
like a different character yeah fuck
yeah
it was good that gt got like it was just
like little thing that's actually not
considered canon i guess and then they
just went back to the normal shit which
was fun
all right well on that note thanks so
much guys for joining us we appreciate
you guys make sure if you want a better
chance at your questions being answered
check out their subscription options
they're pretty cool you get lots of
different content thanks for those of
you who have subscribed already we
appreciate you have trouble seeing the
button to subscribe it's right below
each video but it might not be on your
phone it's on desktop only that's not
our call that's the youtube service as
offered currently it's still in beta by
the way this service so but it's cheap
and it's cool and you can get naked
pictures of us if you're in the members
area just kidding but i think only fans
to come um so thanks again for your
great questions we appreciate you guys
as always and we will see you next time
peace