what the am I supposed to say back to
you bro what do you expect like let me
write you let me write you a hall pass
excuse doctors know I'm doctor right
here's an excuse for not being jacked
cuz reasons cuz thermodynamics what are
you hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance puration there are 10
reasons why your muscles might not be
growing and we're going to get through
all of them and help you grow why would
you want bigger muscles to begin with I
suppose we can have a quick chat about
this do you remember that one time you
had a crush it was ninth grade Kelsey
was her name you finally got the coones
to sit next to her at lunch and you said
Kelsey I she's like up up up I'm just
going to cut you off Billy was it he go
yes you know my name she's said yes
Billy but I'll tell you why I know your
name I know your name because my
anthropometry scan revealed that you
were insufficiently muscular for me to
reproduce with Billy and you're
like she's an Android and you were even
more in love but the meat of what she
said struck you right there paralyzed
saying nothing you just lurched slowly
back to your usual seat with the fucking
nerds you sat down and everyone's like
so bil how is it going did you ask F out
our date there's a lot of spit when
Nerds talk and you were like she said I
I wasn't muscular and
no room starts to fade to black but
guess who else is sitting at the table
me cuz I'm a fucking nerd and I'm like
hey wait up wake up don't Fade to Black
I got 10 tips for your bitch ass so you
can get fucking jacked and come up to
that cyborg bitch and be like yo what up
girl shit you trying to you trying to
I'm saying you trying to get with this
and she's like affirmative let's go
reproduce and yep locker room boys
bathroom all sorts of places to do
things uh library in any case 10 reasons
let's get to them number one first
couple are nutritional because a lot of
people ask like what do I need to be
doing in the gym to grow more and I look
him up and down I'm like motherfucker
you built like Harry Potter how much you
eating there's no amount of training
it's going to get you from 120 lb to 150
lb because it's not a training problem
it's a fucking eating problem and unless
you become the most jacked 120 pounder
in the world you got to eat so the first
thing is getting enough protein roughly
a gram per pound per day really really
swell idea because if you eat a lot of
food but it's not a lot of protein
you're just going to get fatter and
you're going be like Dr Mike fucked me
over I'm just a fat piece of shit now
and Kelsey the Android girl from school
still won't interface with me that's
what she calls it strange gram per pound
per day next a sufficient number of
calories what is a sufficient number of
calories don't don't even bother
Googling don't stop typing to chat GPT
don't even ask if you are gaining
something like half a pound to a pound
of weight on average every week to few
weeks consistently you're eating enough
calories to supply all the raw materials
that you need to get jacked but if
you've been training for the last 6
months let's say and you started you
were on 132 lbs and now you're
131.5 how the fuck are you supposed to
be getting bigger you are just not
putting in enough raw materials to get
bigger it's like trying to add an
addition to your house you as you
probably know I'm phenomenally wealthy
like my money actually has its own money
that it invests how's that work if I
wanted to add another Castle to my
property and I hired all the fucking
Builders and the designers and engineers
and they were like we're ready and I was
like yeah by the way uh here's like you
know three planks of wood and like one
little bucket of concrete go go go
they're going to be like look Mansions
are made of slightly more stuff if I
don't Supply them with a raw materials
how the fuck is that going to work where
are they supposed to grow it from so if
you are gaining weight steadily then you
know your calories are straight if
you're not gaining weight steadily
slowly on average then it just doesn't
matter how much you're eating because a
lot of times people ask me this and when
they do interact with me in real life
which is almost never they'll say like
you know I'm trying to like trying to
get jacked I'm trying to work on my
eating but it's tough I'm like no I got
you it's tough for all of us and they're
like yeah like I'm eating like and they
say whatever number doesn't fucking
matter 150 lb kids I'm eating 4,000
calories like oh dope are you gaining
weight like no I'm like ah I got you you
got to eat more and they're like but
it's but it's 4,000 calories what the
fuck am I supposed to say back to you
bro what do you expect I'm like oh it's
4,000 Oh I thought he at 2,000 4,000 let
me write you let me write you a hall
pass excuse doctors know I'm a fucking
doctor right uh uh here's the excuse for
not being jacked cuz reasons cuz
thermodynamics what if it's 4,000 is not
gaining you weight up more food and
there's tons of different ways to do it
you just search on YouTube you know like
how to eat more some shit like that
we've got tons of videos on that maybe
Scott the video guy will even link one
into here more calories enough to gain
weight slowly on the other hand if you
eat a crap ton more and you just gain
like two pounds per week which I have
done you just get really fat now you do
get Jack too but really Ultra Fat so if
you sit down next to Kelsey the Android
she's going to be like you are insanely
grotesque and I hate you and you're like
oh holy shit that that's that's fat
phobic God damn bitch didn't you get the
memo is
2023 but you're still dry so enough
protein enough calories now on to the
training and I'm going to analyze the
training from kind of like uh maybe not
first principles but in a sequential
manner The Logical structure of which is
the first things first which is why the
first thing I'm curious about that
doesn't mean it has the biggest
magnitude of effect but it should be
what you address first in your program
is what is your Technique like because
people will say oh I'm like my chest
won't grow and I'll watch him bench
press and do flies and I'm like fucking
Christ and they're like what I'm like
yeah on paper you're training a chest
but in reality like you're training
mostly triceps and front delts because
you're like you're benching like this
the fuck is going on like arch your
goddamn back get your elbows back really
stretch the PEC so on and so forth
really really good technique control the
weight at all times especially slowly on
these Centric get a deep stretch for
every lift that it's possible to get a
deep stretch with and make sure most
reps look very similar if someone plays
an Instagram video of you lifting it
better sh shit look like fucking replay
except it's just 15 reps and then you
stop and walk off and holy fuck I
thought that was just one rep on replay
that's what you want consistency with
excellent Technique we have tons of
videos on that once you have good
technique then you go to think about the
next level in the hierarchy as it
expands into real world lifting and the
next level is okay you've got great
technique in any given set but how hard
are you going unless you get roughly
around three reps in reserve three reps
shy of muscular failure to where you
can't move it anymore you can go harder
and get better gains a real good way to
tell that you're at least in the
conversation for training hard enough is
that most of your sets in most cases
either distinctly slow down so you're
curling curling curling and you stop and
walk off people are going to be like how
many RS did you have but if you're
curling curling curling and then at some
some point one of the Reps is like a
little slow boom you're in the money how
far into that how many reps Beyond when
it starts to get slow you go is actually
a minor Point there's a very nuanced
discussion there about how close to
failure is good but somewhere near
failure is already so much better than
far away from failure that at least get
there from a TR a troubleshooting
perspective and the second thing even if
your upstone externally slow down at
least internally you should be feeling a
huge asymmetric buildup of resistance
towards the end of your sets so like
when you're curling it easy easy easy
even if it looks easy to the external
observer in the last couple of reps
internally you got to be like holy fuck
I got to oh I got to really push like
the weight it feels like gravity just
multiplied for no reason if at the end
of your sets you regularly experienced
that you got 99 problems but how hard
you go in the sets probably not one but
if you're seemingly just kind of going
through the motions and if you really
try to push yourself close to failure
and you realize you're reling eight reps
in the tank once you fix that you will
almost certainly grow more muscle next
we got great technique each set is
pretty hard not enough sets generally
speaking per any session in which you
try to hit a muscle my take is that
something between five and eight working
sets for that muscle sets taken close to
failure with anywhere between your five
rep max and your 30 rep max weight kind
of no wrong answers there that is at
least a really good guess to make sure
you're doing enough work if you're doing
like this is a real common thing people
will complain that the rear adults
aren't growing and I'm like okay how
much do you train your adults and they
they say well I got a shoulder day like
okay dope what does that look like I
could do overhead press I do seated
dumbbell press I do side laterals I do
Cable One Arm side laterals and then I
go on the um rear ADT machine and I do
three sets of 10 and I fuck off I got it
how many shoulder days do you per week
like well one it's called shoulder day
not shoulder days okay okay okay so you
train a muscle that's like this big that
recovers in like a day once a week with
three fucking sets and you expect it to
grow what are you nuts that's actually
below what you would expect to be even
maintenance volume so if you want a
muscle to grow you got to put in some
fucking work now five to eight sets per
session isn't 20 sets per session but it
sure a shit isn't two or three either so
make sure it's somewhere in that 5 to
eight range something you can recover
from so you're not sore tired session to
session when you have to train it again
but definitely like a solid amount of
training next solid amount of training
in one session is dope but you need
multiple weekly workouts to get your
best results and time and time again all
the literature reviews come in and they
show us one thing that on average and
there are some Nuance here you get
better results training twice a week for
the same muscle than you do just once a
week and in some cases you even get a
better result training that muscle three
times a week than twice a week but twice
a week is what I would consider consider
as a serious attempt at muscle gain so
if you tell me like yeah man my fucking
biceps won't grow and I'm like how often
do you train biceps like well fucking
bicep day like okay once a week yeah
come on man twice a week frequency is is
probably not your limiting factor but
you got to hit every muscle you want to
grow especially the problem Aries you
really care about at least twice a week
that doesn't mean three times is better
there's a very nuanced conversation
about two versus three but the
conversation about one versus two is not
very nuanced yes gigantic prob
bodybuilders can train a muscle once a
week because it takes that long for the
shit to recover but last I checked your
biceps don't look like fucking big
ramy's biceps and maybe you can recover
quite quickly and train them well at
least twice a week and as far as total
number of training days per week for
whole body the everything that you train
my idea of what like a decent effort
looks like a serious attempt is four
times a week training or more and that
means four times five times or six times
a week training total not per muscle but
just for the whole body what does that
mean that means that if you're like yeah
man I'm fucking trying to get jacked I'm
like oh cool you go into the gym I I do
ask that sometimes and be like yeah
absolutely I go to the gym twice a week
you're like twice a week as a beginner
that works but if you are more of an
intermediate you've been training for a
few years and you're really struggling
to get to that next level of size you
got to show up to the fucking gym like
the people you look into the magazines
Chris bumpstead and shit like that Chris
bumpstead doesn't go to the gym twice a
week he goes to the gym four five or six
times a week I don't know exactly what
his frequency is but I bet you it's one
of those I bet you a considerable amount
it's one of those I'm Jewish I don't bet
real many on bullshit like this ever I
only bet on one thing it's the stock
market it's not a bet it's a it's a
statistical abstraction in any case four
five or six times a week if you complain
to me that you're not growing enough and
you train with weights twice a week or
even three times a week and you're
anything other than like a brand new
beginner first year of training try
training more I know it's crazy but
training actually causes muscle
growth what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now next in the this is a
fucking big one point number seven not
enough weak toe consistency is the
fucking killer of gains now here's the
thing if you have baller genetics you
can train like every other week and
still be the fucking the the fucking Big
Man on Campus sweet but first of all
you're probably not watching this video
because too many science words confuses
you it hurts your tiny soft brain but
all I'm I'm just kidding Meatheads stay
calm probably not watching this video
they're also not struggling so they
watch a video about people struggling
and kind of be like oh yeah I remember
never having that experience if you are
struggling that means you can't afford
to be inconsistent was it Scott uh was
it Oscar wild that said consistency is
the last resort of the
unimaginative we talked about this
before yeah the last Refuge Oscar wild
consistency is the last refuge in the
unimaginative dope I love that all the
time in the world for that but you know
of all the many things Oscar wild was a
traveler poet an American hero he wasn't
fucking jacked in the least in the
slightest and so his existence to me is
kind of insanely irrelevant consistency
is king So if you tell me hey I'm having
trouble growing and I'm like well how
was your last month of training kind of
stable everything's kind of clicking or
you got some problem here like well like
mean like I had finals and like family
went on a trip so like last month was
just kind of bad for me you know I'm
like well I solved your fucking problem
bro mystery solved you don't actually
train now when you consistently start to
apply any of these recommendations or
even just your own program then we can
say we can analyze and say okay this is
the thing that isn't working but if
there is no thing to analyze that isn't
working because you're not sufficiently
consistent enough to actually do the
thing it's like telling someone like oh
man like I really suck at math okay like
so you study math and it just doesn't
sort of the concepts don't click we like
I don't really study what the fuck how
the fuck you supposed to say you know
you're not even studying if you study
this shit and then it's hard okay great
you're not good at math fine but if you
start studying math you may realize
you're quite good at math same idea with
training same shit Point number eight
there is a probability that all of these
points are in the very wrong direction
for you the opposite of the truth
because you could be doing too much how
do you know you're doing too much people
say overtraining overreaching it's a
thing I'll say this you know you're
doing too much when you're grinding in
the gym and you're just dog tired all
the fucking time and you might not even
be getting excellent pumps anymore not a
ton of Mind muscle connection you just
feel like the gym is literally a fucking
grind and if you also are kind of losing
Steam and motivation because you're like
I'm not getting bigger I'm not getting
stronger I'm just pounding away at it at
what point is the pounding going to get
some results quote of myself to my
wife we're getting carried away if you
are really grinding and really tired and
you're not getting results you could be
training too much but if you're not
grinding and not tired and you don't
feel totally spent for days and weeks on
end you're probably not overdoing it if
you don't have consistency you almost
certainly don't have an overtraining
problem if you have fucking gnarly
consistency and you're kind of burning
the candle at both ends and it seems
like the harder you work the more ground
you lose then backing off taking all of
your so first of all Point number eight
Del Lo every few months take an easy
week of training or no training at all
when you get really tired do that right
now if you think you're overdoing it and
then coming back slice everything in
half cut all of your volumes in half you
typically do 10 sets of of legs now you
do five do that low volume for a few
weeks you might actually start getting
better gains right away and if you think
okay this is really way too low increase
the set here and there just to get it
just right so that you get really tired
and really sore and then when your next
workout comes up you're completely
healed and ready to go again like
yesterday my chest was sore and now it
is not sore at all triceps are not sore
at all and guess what in a couple hours
here I do my fucking chest and tricep
work I'm perfect so I know I'm healing
on time but for me it's a surprisingly
small number of sets that uh ends up
checking the Box in many instances if
for you could be more fewer sets just
make sure that whatever it is you're
training with start on the low end and
work your way up don't start with
psychotic high and work your way down
because if you start loan to work your
way up you actually get really good
strength gains at least with lower
volumes and potentially some size gains
and as you increase you could be like oh
holy shit I'm growing more but if you
start with too much you actually just
get overreached um and you start to not
accumulate muscle you start to
accumulate potential for injuries and
wear and tear and damage you demotivate
yourself it's just all kind of bad stuff
guess on the side of easier of less
rather than more and lastly if whatever
types of rep ranges and exercises you've
been doing just aren't hitting your
muscles where you think they should be
hit underhand pull Downs just like I
don't feel shit in my lats or my back
it's just mostly my biceps and my
forearms then don't just perseverate on
those don't just be like oh it's fucking
Basics man it works for everyone try
some different shit so if sets of five
to eight on leg presses just kind of
hurt your knees and don't really do much
to your quads even though your body seem
to think it's a great way to train try
sets of 15 to 20 UNL presses with some
with some myette pauses you might do on
set like that and you fucking cook your
quads you're the most pumped you've been
in your life you get sore for three days
and you're like oh oh that's the shit
that works barbell curls aren't hitting
your fucking biceps much switch to
dumbbells switch to cables from behind
the back you make that switch your
entire training career is a lifetime of
guess and check it's a lifetime of
experimentation because all the studies
and all the science and all the bullshit
I talk about on this channel is dope as
a good first guess but your body is
yours and yours alone unless somebody
else owns you in some capacity in which
case call for help maybe you're in a
basement and that's impossible they do
give you Wi-Fi apparently because you
can see this shit hello captors in any
case your journey is going to be yours
and there's going to be some exercises
and some repetition ranges that work
better for you than they work for the
average and others that work worse for
you than they work for the average so
definitely take all the recommend ations
I've said hopefully with a little bit of
oh go that could work and then guess and
check guess and check try some different
exercises for about a month at a time to
really see if they work try your best
with them really try to get the
technique going so if you try barbell
curls and they just don't work try them
for a few more weeks be consistent and
if after a few weeks you're okay this
definitely fucking blows even though
I've really tried to get as much
exercise as I could go to dumbbells go
to machines go to cables and as your
body evolves over time some of the
answers that used to be incorrect may
become correct some of the answers that
used to be like this is man this rep
range and this exercise is really my
shit might become less your shit and
that's where variation comes in is
you're always doing some new exercises
every now and again and you're always
trying some new rep ranges over time
you're going to learn a lot about what
probably doesn't work well for you a lot
about what really works well for you and
then you're no longer plateauing I
haven't plateaued in fuck knows how long
I don't know 15 years because I learned
how to do this guess and check method
and once I learned that even if I make
small gains I make gains all the time
because I'm never standing still and
going what the fuck is wrong I'm always
changing a little bit of something
something to make sure that I'm adapting
to my always changing body in any case
if you need help with any of this
stuff Link in description to the RP
hypertrophy app which is a training app
you can use and it will just allow you
to construct your training in a
scientific manner you check in all your
training it progresses for you it auto
regulates for you it asks you how you're
feeling if you're sore if you're tired
if you're recovered and it
scientifically adjusts everything to
your needs to make sure that all the
stuff I just talked about you can just
have a machine help you with it's like
it's like chat GPT but for your for your
muscles I know that that's that don't
quote me I don't want to open any eyes
suing the fuck out of us for that um and
we also have the RP diet coach app which
can do the same thing that the RP
hypertrophy app does for your training
you can do that for your eating
systematize formalize tell you what to
eat when to eat and to make sure that if
you tell it hey I want to gain like
eight pounds in the next three months it
will fucking hold you to that and make
sure you get all the gains you need so
go click on stuff buy things remember I
have a team of butlers that take care of
a team of Lamborghinis and none of
that's free and please buy things or I
will be a regular person and not a mega
Rich uh guy and I I I can't handle that
and I won't accept it see you next
[Music]
time