hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization it is video number nine in
our 12 video series about how to build
and execute a hypertrophy training
program I am going to be also demoing
the RP hypertrophy app to you guys this
is the app that I just built it just
came out people love it to be honest I'm
recording this video months in advance
so who knows if people like it that
actually are internal team of testers
which is like 20 or 30 people
um it was kind of weird because we were
trying to get uh some feedback from them
but like hey like here use the app and
we were using it ourselves and no one
had really anything to say because we
were like hey like what do you think
they're like I love it leave me alone
leave me alone I want to work with my
hypertrophy app like do you have any
feedback like just just go away and let
me type in these reps and sets and let
the auto regulation make sweet
scientific love to my body or like okay
but if you need a napkin they just get
out of my face I'm sorry
to talk to in any case I'm I don't have
any friends left because RPI purchase
app took them do you want a friend Link
in the description you pay the money
it's a universal program January it's
going to hook you up it's amazing I
built it myself in any case sales pitch
over
progression
every single week that you do the same
exercises
in order to make sure that you are
sufficiently challenging yourself you
have to make progress
a lot of that occurs passively as you
get stronger you're going to be able to
lift more weight or do more repetitions
in any given set word up
but training is hard and it's easy to
get into your own head and start to
doubt yourself and other stuff so what
we like to do at RP is we like to stay
one head a one head one step ahead of
the game and pre-plan your progressions
for you as suggestions for example if
you did a hundred pounds last week for a
set of ten
we think you should either do 105 pounds
this week for a set of ten at least or
100 pounds per first set of 11.
some kind of one little rapper one
little five pound increment should be
the plan and if you for some reason are
too fatigued to hit it hey you need a
deload but if you're not you need to hit
it to make sure you're ensuring little
tiny steps to progress that is the whole
idea of progression
now
you want small margins because you don't
want to accumulate a crap ton of fatigue
you're not showing off you're just
getting a little bit more every single
time
really cool thing
is that the app automatically does this
for you the RP hypertrophy app link in
the description
it does all this for you
you type in your weights you type down
how many reps you got in week one in
week two three four
Etc
it will give you new weights and or new
reps to hit and it'll show you what the
target is
so to demonstrate here we have the
camber bar bench press as an exercise
140 pounds notice there's a little
Target Emoji here it does not appear in
the last videos we did because those are
just week one videos this is week two
right actually week two day one Monday
excellent
the target is 140.
that's your target reps sorry the target
load
after you do all your warm-ups you put
that on the bar and your target reps are
26.
because last time you can scroll back
you just use this calendar function you
can scroll back and shit we'll just do
this now
last time we did 135 for 26 reps and a
first set
so this time this Monday it has 140 for
26 reps
it programs the overload for you so don
are the days of you having to figure out
how much more weight to put on the bar
or to do more reps the app handles this
100 now here's the thing if you want to
change what you're doing you always can
it's always within your hands to change
so it's not like it locks you in here
you can go here and say well actually I
want to fucking do 135
or or even 145 or anything else
and then it will mess with the Reps now
let me illustrate this is a really cool
function
if you don't change a ton like 15 pounds
or 20 pounds heavier or lighter
the app has a predictive matching system
that will keep you progressing still
present an overload relatively more than
last time even if you change some stuff
so let's say you're like you know what
the two and a halfs do not exist at my
fucking gym
I'm just gonna have to do 135 pounds
again because like some guy stole the
two and a half so now we have to order
them again
all right 135 if you think okay well how
many reps of mine I have to do it's 26
reps to beat my PR from last time but if
I go back to 135 how many reps do I have
to I don't know it was mental math what
is a PR you click 135
automatically it changes to 27 reps as
your new Target
because it knows what you did last time
now notice this isn't a Target anymore
because you went off Target but that's
not a big deal if you do this again and
do all the sets at 135 the next week
it'll try to bump you again to 140 and
give you the new Target if you go to 145
instead
24 apps is your Target because 145 of 24
reps is still technically a PR over last
week's 25 reps with 135 pounds
because it's up 10 whole pounds you drop
a rep It's relatively as difficult as
140 would be
if we did 26 reps because the under the
hood math does the work for you this is
a really really cool feature now if you
say look man fuck um I just want to do
High Reps today or some bullshit like
that and you say 110 it just says one
rep in reserve
and then you type in the Reps after that
because it doesn't it can't guess
anymore there's too much variation
between humans too much variation within
humans that if it knows you did 135 for
a set of 26 last week or a set of 25 or
whatever it was if you do 110 pounds or
like 160 plus it can't guess anymore so
it just says hey hey just go like one
rep away from failure and write down
your reps but if you do that the next
time it'll probably recommend like 115
and then it'll recommend whatever reps
you got plus one or the same amount
Whatever Gets a tiny overload so the app
handles all this for you and if it
doesn't know what's going on it'll say
hey just do your best and do it here and
as usual here's the thing if we go back
to
140 which was the recommended
the Reps here is the target reps after
you do the set you say you know what man
I felt like shit fuck I had 25 and it
knows you did in PR later it will tell
you this
but if you felt really great and you can
type in you had 27 it'll register that
and the next week it won't just be like
hey just go back to 26 again it'll know
you did better and next week from
whatever better was it'll challenge you
a tiny bit more and a tiny bit more in a
tiny bit more all through the magic of
Auto regulation
done for you now here's the thing
you want to treat these rep gold targets
exactly is what they are as targets to
shoot for
if you're doing the exercise and it's
like it says 26 reps and you're getting
to 20 you're like fuck don't try to go
beyond failure or cure yourself to get
to 26. you just didn't have it that day
don't worry the app gives you a chance
to not have it that day before it
recommends recovery so you can always
miss a few reps it's no big deal
and look if you missed two workouts of
reps in a row
you're getting weaker it's time for
Recovery phase anyway which the app will
end up recommending to you at some point
when it feels like you need it
if you feel amazing and you're getting
to 25 reps you're still moving like this
you totally can go for 28 or 29 or 30
reps but I highly recommend not just
blowing your load in week two
if the end right before deload hey
fucking fuck it up do whatever go to
failure get a spotter
but in all the interim weeks weeks one
two three four let's say you have a five
week accumulation all the way up to week
four my personal recommendation which is
why it's in the fucking app
is to just get five pounds more or one
rep extra or if you're like pressing 600
pounds 10 pounds more because it
references the original weight 10 pounds
more and then or one rep extra
those little tiny PR's as long as you're
working pretty hard that's the the
Golden Fleece of training that's what
you want that's what creates the best
conditions for muscle growth so you
don't have to show off every time and
just go balls to the wall and be like
the app gave me a goal of 27 reps fuck
that that means 28 no dumb motherfucker
means 27. because the app no science of
shit and if you know more science in the
app you can always override and say fuck
it it's 28 but be careful don't bite off
more than you can chew the app as its
default recommendation is designed to
give you the best long-term progress
period
and if it's way too easy in a certain
set yeah of course do more reps but if
it feels pretty challenging you're like
but I could do more reps you know shit
there's multiple weeks left over so my
best recommendation is just do what the
app says
that's it folks
Link in the description to get the app
you pay money you get the app use it
it's amazing and
in the next video series we are going to
talk about another way to regulate
volume that has to do with workload and
perception and not just someone else and
all that other stuff there's multiple
ways to regulate volume we want to make
sure we got them all covered in our
purchase app TM are uh we've got them
all there so anyway see you guys next
time