so one thing I could never get a clear
answer on early on in my bodybuilding
career was how to target back with
versus back thickness i remember guys at
my gym saying that i'm lat pull-downs
you should go wide to get wide but they
didn't seem to have any real rationale
behind that and most people tend to
think of vertical poles like pull-ups as
back with exercises and horizontal poles
like rows as back thickness exercises I
don't want to explore whether there's
actually any truth to that and if so
what effect can modifying your grip
width and hand position have so first
let's tackle back with I think it's
important to recognize that the
appearance of back width is going to
come from two main factors your lat
development and your waist circumference
the smaller your waist is the better
your v-taper will be and the wider your
back will appear obviously you can't
alter your waist with training you need
a good diet for that so when it comes to
back with we're gonna focus on
optimizing growth of the lats and most
people know including a vertical pole
like a pull-up or a pulldown is
necessary for optimizing lat development
but not as many people know what grip to
use for this purpose so let's have a
look of what the EMG activation data
shows there are three studies I want to
look at here the first comes from senior
relaying colleagues published in 2002
which compared to Close Grip pull downs
and neutral grip and a supinated grip to
to a wide grip pull downs to the front
of the neck and behind the neck and they
found that four mean lat activation the
wide grip options came out on top with
the wide grip pull down to the front of
the neck outperforming the rest however
the study was limited by the fact that
the narrow grip conditions also used
different wrist positions
meaning perhaps activation was lower
with the narrower grip because subjects
were using a neutral grip or a reverse
grip not because their grip was narrow
per se so eight years later in 2010
muscatel improved this experimental
design by keeping wrist position the
same when going from wide to narrow so
they tested wide pronated wide supinated
narrow pronated and narrow supinated
grips and what they found was really
interesting it didn't matter if you went
wide or narrow but both pronated grips
were significantly better than both
supinated grips um so this far it really
seems that all we can say for sure is
that an overhand grip seems to work
better than an underhand grip of it
perhaps both a closed grip and a wide
grip will work just about the same
however this 2010 lusk study had its own
glaring flaw they used absolute loading
rather than relative loading so it's
possible that the reason the over
handgrips came it on top is because it's
simply harder to move as much weight
with this grip than an underhand grip
and then as a result the subjects were
training closer to failure not because
the wider grip is inherently more
advantageous so to settle the debate
once and for all enter this third 2014
study from Anderson natal which compared
three overhand positions
narrow medium and wide this time each
condition used relative loading they
found the medium grip to come out on top
for a few reasons first six rep max
strength was higher with the medium grip
than wide grip and also there was
significantly higher concentric biceps
activation with the medium grip and
there was also a trend toward higher
latin with the medium grip as well now
so based on this body of activation data
if your goal is to make your back as
wide as possible I think that there is a
slight edge to using a medium grip
overhand pull down at about 1.5 times
shoulder width pulled to the front of
the neck however because this EMG
activation data is based on average not
individual results I tend to only use
this type of research as a first
approximation since it can't say for
sure what's going to maximize activation
of your lats on its own so for that we
need to turn to biomechanics now let's
think about it this way when you use a
closed grip you emphasize shoulder
extension by bringing your arm down more
in front of you in the sagittal plane
whereas when you use a wider grip you
emphasize shoulder adduction by bringing
your arm down more to the side in the
frontal plane now of course the lats can
perform both shoulder extension and
shoulder adduction however since most
rolling exercises like dumbbell rows
cable rows and machine rows are already
going to hit the lats primarily through
shoulder extension I think from a
programming perspective when you do pull
downs or pull ups it makes more sense to
focus on training glass through shoulder
adduction which is going to mean using a
wider pronated grip most of the time now
with that said I think many trainees are
under the impression that wide grips
will only train back width and narrow
grips are only going to train back
thickness but this actually couldn't be
further from the truth I mean let's just
take a look at this figure from the
anderson natal paper showing whole
movement activation you can see that the
lats and the traps are both very highly
active in the
pull down regardless of grip position so
while on average make it a slight edge
from a medium overhand grip as long as
you're completing a vertical pull
through a full range of motion with good
controlled technique you're still gonna
see significant improvements in back
width and back thickness using any grip
placement from one to two times a
shoulder width so what about horizontal
pulls like rose most people are under
the impression that vertical poles are
better for targeting back with rows are
better for targeting back thickness now
but this isn't necessarily the case rows
are actually amazing at targeting both
width and thickness and in this study
from Lehmann and colleagues the seated
row outperformed the lat pulldown for
both lat
and trap activation meaning that if your
goal is to have a thicker and a wider
back you really want to make sure you're
including a row in your routine but the
question is is there a way to make the
row emphasize back with or emphasize
back thickness more by varying the grip
well for whatever reason
EMG data hasn't focused on grip width in
the row like it has for a pulldown and
so we're gonna need to rely on
biomechanics to see if there's any
difference and here's where things get a
bit counterintuitive because on a row my
recommendations actually flip if you
want to target back width a closer grip
actually makes more sense because a
closer grip is going to target the lats
more through shoulder extension for
example on a cable row using the V bar a
close grip attachment is going to allow
you to more easily drive your elbows
down and in the Q that's going to
emphasize the lats over the traps and on
the flip side a wider grip is going to
much more effectively emphasize
transverse shoulder abduction and
scapular retraction getting the mid
traps and rear delts much more involved
in targeting back thickness now when it
comes to the bent over barbell row or
Pendley row I think a more medium grip a
slightly wider than shoulder width with
an emphasis on pulling the elbows back
and out at about a 45 degree angle it's
going to provide a perfect blend of lat
and trap recruitment making it an
amazing overall back movement for both
width and thickness and you guys can
check out my technique Tuesday video on
the Pendley row if you'd like a more
in-depth explanation of the cues that I
use there so here is the quick summary
for vertical poles like pull-ups and
pull-downs it seems like a 1.5 x
shoulder-width grip should be the sweet
spot for optimizing back with
that sense activation differences are
small you should ultimately go with a
grip that feels comfortable for you and
that you can feel a mind-muscle
connection with when appropriate and one
that allows you to apply and overloading
stimulus and when it comes to ROS I
think a closer grip will emphasize a
back with more especially if you cue to
pull your elbows down and in rather than
straight back and a wider grip is gonna
emphasize it back thickness more
especially if you focus on pulling the
elbows back and squeezing your shoulder
blades together and to get a nice mix of
both width and thickness at the same
time try to include a free weight
barbell row using a medium grip and
pulling the elbows back at a 45 degree
angle now so try to keep all of this in
context and avoid black and white
thinking simply finding a grip that
feels comfortable for you and that
allows you to execute the movement
through a full range of motion with a
strong mind muscle connection is the
most important thing and then tweaks
like these can help you emphasize and
improve your specific weak areas and
also guys I decided that for the launch
to this video I'm gonna run a quick
flash sale on my back hypertrophy
program which condenses all this
information down into a routine that has
you hitting the back in the gym three
days per week as you guys can get that
for 25% off or $14.99 on Geoff nipper
comm for the next week and before we go
I want to thank Squarespace for
sponsoring this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that have been using to run my
own website
Jeff nipper comm for the last four years
or so and that's where I sell all of my
training programs and I think that their
platform is great I'm actually currently
reworking the color scheme of my website
and going from that teal orange theme to
more of a gray blue vibe but I think
that their website templates are all
very aesthetic and easy to set up and
their analytics app is great for keeping
track of the website traffic online
store sales and pageviews so I use that
pretty much every day and if you ever
run into any issues there 24-hour
customer support is always there to help
so if you're looking to get started with
building your own website or running
your own online store you can go to a
Squarespace calm for a free trial and
then when you're ready to launch go to
Squarespace calm /in Nippert and that's
gonna save you 10% off your first
purchase of a website or a domain that's
thank you guys so much for watching
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video don't forget to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next