if you're currently waking up early to
go train and you're training fasted
you're probably limiting your muscle
growth
Jeremiah wolfhair from Wolf coaching
let's cut to the chase is training
fasted limiting your muscle growth short
answer potentially the long answer let's
get into some Theory before we go there
long story short carbohydrates are used
in a variety of ways first they're
specifically your body's favorite form
of fuel so carbohydrates are stored in
your muscles and in your liver as
glycogen that then forms fuel for your
activities specifically in the context
of lifting glycogen is a key source of
fuel your body also keeps some
carbohydrates around at all times in
your blood this is called blood glucose
you perform best when you have the most
fuel around in other words if you don't
have sufficient carbohydrate around
whether that's as glycogen or as blood
glucose you likely won't be performing
your best and if you're not performing
your best in all likelihood you won't be
giving yourself the best stimulus for
muscle hypertrophy therefore if fasting
reduces how much glycogen you have
around or how much blood glucose you
have available there's a chance that not
eating before you train or being fast at
going into training will reduce how much
muscle growth you see from a given
session so that's the theory probably
speaking that's all well and good but
does any of this actually pan out a
recent paper from 2022 by King and
colleagues tried to determine exactly
what is going on here specifically they
try to determine the impact of
pre-exercise acute carbohydrate feedings
compared to say a water or Placebo
feeding on lifting performance they
performed what's known as a
meta-analysis in a metanalysis you take
all the studies on a given topic and you
combine them in order to get one final
result that is essentially an average a
weighted average of the results from all
the existing studies on that topic to
arrive at a more confident and a more
precise estimate of how much of an
effect does for example in this case
carbohydrate feedings have on lifting
performance the way lifting performance
was assessed was via volume mode let me
give you a quick primer on what volume
mode really is volume mode is simply
defined as sets times reps times weight
per given exercise let's say you bench
100 kilograms for three sets of 10 that
would be 100 times 3 times 10 is 3 000.
now the question with carbohydrate
feeding before training session is
whether or not it increases your volume
mode in a given training session when
training to failure in other words a
cross save a session of 10 sets total
are you able to perform more reps at a
given weight so as opposed to a
measurement of maximum strength like say
A1 rep max this is more of a measurement
of overall muscle endurance importantly
some literature links volume load with
hypertrophy in other words how much
volume you're able to perform during a
given session likely plays a role in how
much stimulus hypertrophy you get and
thus how much muscle you grow from a
given session so theoretically if you're
able to get a greater volume mode in a
given session by having some
carbohydrates before training that would
then enable you to get more muscle
growth from that session so what do they
find well it looks like having some
carbohydrates before training as opposed
to either having water or just having a
placebo meal seems to enhance
performance in terms of volume mode so
on average there was an effect set of
about 0.4 in favor of the carbohydrate
good feeding group relative to the
placebo or control group interestingly
blood lactate a proxy for amongst other
things fatigue also seemed higher when
participants in these studies consumed
carbohydrates before training as opposed
to training plastic the effect of
pre-exercise carbohydrate intake on
volume low performance was only
significant when the fast preceding that
meal lasted more than eight hours when
the fasting period was lower than 8
hours there was no effect of having
carbohydrates before trading session on
volume mode performance that said it
wasn't so much that the effect was lower
when the fasting window lasted less than
eight hours it was more so the fact that
in these studies there was greater
variance in the studies that had fasting
Windows of under 8 hours and thus the
effect as estimate was less precise and
wasn't significant interestingly when
they performed something called a
subgroup analysis what they saw was that
the effect of carbohydrate feeding
before training was more pronounced when
the session included higher volumes so a
higher number of sets per session the
same was true when comparing shorter
duration under 45 minutes and longer
duration over 45 minute sessions the
effect of carbohydrate feeding on
performance was greater when the session
lasted at least 45 minutes here's the
interesting thing though there was no
clear effect of how much carbohydrate
you consumed on performance in other
words the authors were unable to tell
this carbohydrate amount was optimal for
inducing performance improvements within
that session and this leads us to an
interesting question why does having
carbohydrate before a session seem to
enhance volume Road performance well it
could be a variety of things one of them
is that as you train your muscles
glycogen stores get depleted and
eventually get so low that your
performance can be impeded in other
words by trading consistently you're
using up fuel within your muscles like
glycogen and having carbohydrates before
or during the training session can
enable you to keep that elevated as well
as blood glucose which then can help
provide more fuel that goes towards your
performance and improves your
performance another new line of research
suggests that actually part of the
effect may just be hunger mediated in
other words people who train after
fasting typically confined that they're
a bit hungry and that can interfere with
performance whereas on the other hand
when they're not hungry that doesn't
interfere with performance in fact one
study from 2020 showed that having a
placebo meal with nothing as far as
calories or carbohydrates went resulted
in the same performance enhancement as
having a similarly sized and textured
meal that contained carbohydrates part
of the effect here may just be from
having something in your stomach that
keeps you from being hungry during the
session so to summarize it's likely a
combination of two things one is making
sure that you're not hungry going into a
session so they're having some
carbohydrates or any other nutrient
before a session you're making sure that
you're not hungry going into a session
which seemingly can decrease performance
the second thing is related carbohydrate
itself which is that when you've been
fasting for a long time say eight hours
or more your muscle glycogen one of your
body's preferred sources of fuel will
drop steadily and so if you're going
into a training session with sub-optimal
levels of muscle glycogen that can then
impede performance which then feasibly
could lead to worse muscle growth having
carbohydrates before a training session
May kind of be a double-edged sword on
the 1 hand you've got a greater
performance greater rolling mode but on
the other hand that greater volume mode
while it might result in more stimulus
also results in more fatigue and so the
trade-off between stimulus and fatigue
resulting from pre-exercise carbohydrate
feeding needs to be considered carefully
before you go ahead and have
carbohydrates before every single
session The Beneficial effect of
carbohydrates before training also seem
to be more consistent and more
pronounced for lower body sessions
rather than upper body sessions because
the upper body training doesn't burn as
much energy the benefit of carbohydrate
before trading suction isn't as great so
when you're having a session that is
very energy demanding like think high
volume lower body that's where the
additional carbohydrate before a session
might be especially beneficial so what
are some practical takeaways I would
generally recommend against trading
faster if you can right before your
session have at least a little bit of
carbohydrate it doesn't matter how much
you have in fact it looks like even just
having 10 20 grams like a piece of food
oftentimes could be sufficient to get
the benefits of pre-exercise
carbohydrate feeding you don't want to
go into a session being hungry that's
another thing it looks like being hungry
generally impedes performance one other
practical takeaway I would give is that
you don't want to be nauseated going
into a session so if you're going into a
session just having had a huge meal and
that leads to you feeling quite
nauseated during training session and
these two stopping sets before you
actually reach failure because you just
feel nauseated and like you're about to
throw up that's probably not great
generally have your meal about 30
minutes to 90 minutes before your
training session and generally try to
make sure that you get a good amount of
carbohydrate especially before lower
body sessions higher volume sessions and
sessions that generally just take longer
that's the video if you liked the video
please comment like subscribe and I'll
see you guys in that next one
peace
life hack front door bicep if it still
fits into the frame you're not big
enough