52 sets of training per muscle group per
week for your best growth does that
sound unrealistic well that's what a
recent study by andison colleagues found
by doing 37 weekly sets on average for
the quads they saw better growth
compared to doing on average 32 or 22
sets does this mean you should be
training all your muscle groups with 30
or more sets per week for muscle group
probably not they only train their quads
really hard and so maybe training all
your muscle groups with really high
volumes simply isn't feasible in terms
of time or in terms of recovery in this
study they were resting about 2 minutes
between sets so if you're resting for
longer than this each set becomes a
little bit more potent and you likely
don't need quite as many sets as they
did in this study what are my takeaways
from the study well number one try
training with higher volumes than you
usually would and a little bit closer to
failure you may just find that you get
more growth compared to the lower volume
approach you were previously using
number two this really opens up the area
for specialization phases where you take
a couple muscle groups and train them
with more volume than other muscle
groups perhaps all the way up to 30 or
35 sets per week and you might just see
better growth