welcome to the house of hypertrophy
pullovers are an isolation exercise that
can train the ls and they can be
performed with free weights cables or
even machines allow me to present the
findings of two studies at first you may
be confused as to why I'm detailing them
but it will make sense soon both papers
had subjects perform maximum isometric
shoulder extension contractions at
different shoulder elevation angles both
of them indicate the lats display their
highest activity at lower shoulder
elevation angles and incrementally
display lower activ ity at higher
shoulder elevation angles in this event
the usage of isometric contractions
likely enhances its reliability these
findings do make sense as you elevate
your arm and get closer to the overhead
position the ls are going to have
progressively lower leverage here's the
important Point free weight pullovers
are most challenging with the arms
overhead the point where the lats have
their lowest activity as a result it's
been speculated three-eight pullovers
are an ineffective lat exercise in fact
at these higher shoulder elevation
angles the middle and lower PEC regions
likely have decent leverage indeed a few
semg studies report that PEC trist major
middle and lower regions experience
relatively greater activity compared to
the lats during freee pullovers so does
this research conclusively mean freee
pullovers aren't a great L exercise
According to some on the internet their
answer is a resounding yes but I am less
certain because there are other aspects
of the scientific literature we
shouldn't ignore the ls are stretched
well in the overhead position the
rebuttal to this so what if the lats are
stretched the fact it's not going to be
activated much renders this meaningless
however it's worth understanding its
leverage and activity are not going to
be zero it's just limited but limited
activity plus stretch might still
produce a good stimulus for lat
hypertrophy research on the back squat
and glute Max depicts this back squats
are of course most challenging at the
lower portion and at these deeper angles
of hip flexion the gluteus maximus is
stretched well but it has much lower
leverage ability to produce force and
displays lower activity as measured
through semg despite this a paper out of
Japan established deeper Squad screw the
glutitis Maximus more effectively than
90Â° knee flexion squats another recent
paper found back squats mostly to
parallel produce similar upper middle
and lower glute Max hypertrophy to hip
thrusts thus stretch plus limited
leverage and activity may still be a
fine stimulus for hypertrophy maybe
suggesting create pullovers may still be
effective for the ls at the end of the
day if it's an exercise that interests
you feel free to to try it out from a
regional perspective the lower LS are
probably going to have a bit more
leverage versus the other regions at the
overhead position so pullovers might
slightly bias this
region cable pullovers involve a great
stretch of the lat since they attain an
overhead position comparable to freeway
pullovers yet compared to freeway
pullovers cables involve a greater
active range of motion the arms will go
through lower elevation angles which we
know is where the lats have greater
activity thus actual electrical activity
from the lats will likely be greater in
the cable variation indeed there was
this 2022 semg analysis from Spain
comparing barbell pullovers to Cable
pull Downs lat activity was greater with
the cable movement the cable pull down
isn't identical to a cable pullover but
the shoulder motion and resistance
profile are similar enough from a
regional perspective since cable
pullovers involve getting the arms near
the side the upper region will certainly
be involved well but since the movement
is most challenging at that mid position
the middle to lower L regions might be
potentially biased for all these reasons
we may speculate cable pullovers to be a
bit better than freee pullovers but
understand this is hypothetical you
could say since freee pullovers are most
challenging at that very lengthened
position while cable pullovers are most
challenging in the mid position freeway
pullovers have their Edge yet I'm unsure
if this factor is enough to make it
undeniably better than cable
pullovers machine pullovers assuming the
machine sufficiently provides High
Resistance throughout the range of
motion are probably more favorable
compared to freeway or cable pullovers
the high tension throughout the range of
motion means that the lengthen position
is challenging and we have a potential
slight lower lat region bias at this
position like freway pullovers but the
fact we also have high tension at lower
angles where the lats display greater
electrical activity and the portions
where the upper region possesses greater
leverage means we get these benefits too
so if you wish to have a pullover in
your program to best train the ls go
with the machine pullovers of course
this isn't an absolute recommendation
your gym may not have this machine if
yours does but the machine feels off
then go with either the freee or cable
variant what you just watched was a clip
from our Ultimate Guide to building the
L check out the full video here finally
if you're searching for further guidance
on programming to obtain your desired
physique it can be tricky and time
consuming however our high quality
partner the alpha progression app can
help you generate an evidence-based
training program that's 100% custom to
your needs in less than 3 minutes simply
specify the equipment you have how often
and how long you want to train for and
if you want to focus or neglect certain
muscles there are even Advanced options
to periodize your training and Implement
D loads there are over a quadrillion
input combinations on which your plan is
based and with the touch of a few
buttons you can customize things further
through analyzing your past performance
the app provides Progressive overload
recommendations during your workouts to
help you continue making gains the app
automatically generates graphs that
display your long-term progression
thereby saving you time from having to
manually track your progression the link
in the comments and description gives
you a 2-e free trial of all the premium
features and if you like it and decide
to go beyond the link gives you 20% off
a subscription I truly believe the app
is awesome and the reviews speak to
this