exercise snacks ladies and gentlemen the
latest minimum dose hack for you to
implement and make gains health and
fitness and muscle gains and strength
gains in little to no time Dr pack here
let me riddle me
this I am the inventor of the not really
but uh and I don't want this to be used
against me so I did my PhD on the
minimum dose training uh minimum
effective dose for strength specifically
and I am somewhat promoting AKA I'm
Legit promoting the concept of the
minimum effective training dose the
concept of doing as little as possible
in order to make meaningful muscle and
strength gains by promoting the minimum
effective dose concept I am helping
people be healthier therefore live
longer therefore saving lives therefore
saving thousands of lives per day how
many lives did the poor doctor at the
hospital operate
operating AKA cutting that person open
and just freestyling their way until the
medicine kicks in how many people did
that person save one two I don't even
know how many surgeries do they do they
do a day not a thousand though so who's
the real Doctor we are the real doctors
academics are the real doctors you went
to medical school who did the research
for your medical books yep real doctors
we are dying on this hill the intro side
we are here to talk about exercise
snacks exercise snacks are a concept
that I recently became familiar with by
looking at a recent study which uh
looked at the literature on exercise
snacks what actually defines exercise
snacks and so on and so forth but
exercise snacks are essentially short
bursts of activity done throughout the
day without necessarily having a
dedicated training session or a
dedicated exercise session so it could
literally be an exercise snack could
literally be you running up and down the
stairs for 3 minutes randomly throughout
the day and doing that a few times and
I'm here to take that concept which in
the literature literature has been
explored mostly from a health and
fitness standpoint and exercise snacks
have been shown to have positive effects
on health and fitness obviously the type
of exercise snack will determine the
fitness uh improvements that you're
going to be looking at so if you were to
run up and down the stairs for 3 minutes
a few times per day randomly throughout
the day you're mostly looking at aerobic
fitness versus you know muscular
strength or muscular endurance however I
want to take this concept and because
nobody cares about health literally the
video that I put out on health was the
worst performing video people care about
building muscle and some getting
stronger but we're just going to focus
on building muscle today um so we're
going to focus on the two building
muscle and building strength with a
slight emphasis on building muscle and
how we can take the concept of exercise
snacks for you incredibly busy CEO coo
CFO whatever you are grinding individual
who doesn't even have time for a minimum
dose session at the gym so the concept
of exercise next again short birth of
activity throughout the day now in the
context of minimum effective dose
training for hypertrophy and to a
certain extent for strength we know that
roughly three to four sets at a close
proximity to failure um done for each
muscle group per week can be enough for
Meaningful muscle gains and that
includes both hypertropin strength now
how can you take that concept and
actually apply it in real life that's
very simple figuring out exercises with
or without equipment that you can do at
home in between calls during short
breaks that you may have uh from work or
during those 10 minutes of free time
that you have between you know work and
picking up your children from school or
whatever literally any time that you
have in the day keep in mind that in the
literature specifically the concept of
exercise snacks has been mostly looked
at for individuals that are finding it
very hard to engage in exercise and the
the context there is more like General
Health for your you know elder man or
very sedentary individual who really
cannot commit to an exercise program for
whatever reason either physiological or
psychological but we're going to take
this and look at it from a advanced or
at least trained individual perspective
that you don't necessarily need to be
Advanced for this to work or be
applicable to you you could also be a
complete beginner but assuming that you
have a year plus under your belt as far
as lifting let's see how you can utilize
exercise snacks and let's call them game
snacks in order to actually make gains
so no actual food or snacking included
you're going to be snacking on these
games check out the next Gams come on
the first thing we're going to do is
find exercises that do not require a
bunch of warming up or a bunch of
equipment you may have a barbell in
place at your home but you know doing a
barbell back Squad in between calls may
not be the best idea you may be that
based and props to you if you can set up
and do a high effort uh barell back
squat set in your office randomly I know
I had some weights in my office during
the
pandemic which allowed me to do squats
in my office but I digress so finding
exercises that don't require a bunch of
loading and a bunch of warming up so you
can just bang them out now the idea that
you need need to warm up to prevent
injuries and to uh potentiate
performance obviously there is some
truth to it especially for the latter
part but we don't really care in the
context of saving as much time as
possible and still getting some exercise
in cuz you not warming up and still
doing some form of lifting is much
better for your overall health and your
muscle growth versus spending 10 minutes
warming up and then not having time to
do the actual lifting so exercises that
require minimal equipment minimal
loading and can be relatively hard um
with just your own body weight exercises
that don't require much loading and can
be done quickly will mostly be body
weight exercises and I'll just I'll give
you some general suggestions in a second
but if you are legitimately super busy
and you know that for the foreseeable
future your career is only going to go
up and you're going to be busier and
busier and you're planning on having a
family or whatever if you know that
you're going to certainly have have very
busy periods in your life for the
foreseeable future it may be worth
investing in an adjustable pair of
dumbbell or just literally a single
adjustable Dumbo um some resistance
bands and potentially like a dip station
or um that includes a a pull-up bar
finding exercises that require minimal
loading and will allow you to get close
to failure without performing 35,000
repetitions so for example if you are
somebody who's fairly Advanced and very
strong and you can do 70 push-ups in one
go adding um some form of a deficit on
your push-ups and increasing the
Ecentric uh part of the repetition by a
few seconds while adding a pause and
thus halfing the amount of reps that you
need to do in order to get an effective
set in makes sense also opting for
exercises that are super hard even when
you're just using your body weight like
CC squats pistol squats if you're
feeling brave um reverse nauy curls nauy
curls mostly lower body exercise and
obviously things like chin and pull-ups
if you have access to something where
you can uh pull yourself up from those
will be an amazing way for you to get
plenty of stimulus in without the need
for warming up or you know massively
loading them keep in mind that the the
whole idea of exercise snacks is
literally you doing a set or two sets or
a super set randomly throughout the day
you you may not even get in your gym uh
clothes you may just be sitting there
dressed casually as I am now I'm wearing
jeans which you cannot see and if I
wanted to apply the concept of exercise
snacks throughout my day let's say I'm
here for 9 hours a day filming and I
have no time to go to the gym I would
literally in between each video filming
that I'm doing I would do a few sets of
push-ups there's literally a 40 Kil
dumbbell there I could do um a set of
push-ups super seted with a set of bent
over rows and then call that a day and
then do that a few more times throughout
the day obviously I wouldn't be getting
a full body workout in but I would still
be getting something in and something
quite potent for the muscle groups that
I would be targeting so that's another
thing that you need to consider the fact
that it's at home and it's not in your
usual environment and you're not using
gym equipment and gym machines if you
can take that set to failure but like to
actual failure where you're unable to do
another rip despite attempting to do so
and really sticking to it that muscle
group is getting a potent stimulus even
if that even if it doesn't feel like it
psychologically even if you're like okay
I'm just at home how much can I grow my
legs at home you can do wonders at home
even uh with a few sets of Cy squats and
pistol squats day if you take your legs
to failure doing those exercises
although from the outside they don't
look like anything you know heavy or
hardcore you are probably taking a lot
of boxes when it comes to hypertrophy
gains again one to three sets per muscle
grp per week seems to be more than
enough for solid gains um not maximum
gains but solid gains as far as H goes
so taking the concept of exercise snacks
and really telling yourself that the
weeks where you're super busy doing
literally any form of resistance
training just spread throughout the day
even if that's an odd set here and there
that can still amount to something at
the end of the week so the couple of
sets of push-ups super seted with the
dumbell row as I gave an example or even
better if you can do chinups you doing
two sets of chinups in between each call
at the end of the day you could
literally do a total of eight sets of
eight hard sets for your back and bicep
muscular you're actually pushing you
close to Optimal um volume ranges you
never need to get off the gain train
even if you don't have time to actually
leave your home and go to physical gym
again terms of good Supply you can just
use your body weight and other like
heavy objects at your home in order to
make do but if you know that hey I will
be busy and it's likely that I won't be
able to go to the gym more than once a
week or some weeks I won't be able to go
to the gym at all having a set of
resistance bands Buy buying that
adjustable dumbbell taking that quote
unquote Financial hit and buying that
adjustable dumbbell or having that China
bar on your door frame or actually
buying a dip station
those small moves can make a huge
difference for your Gams there is no set
of guidelines as when it comes to when
to perform gain snacks as I just
copyrighted the term in my head so nice
dry person who tried to use it you owe
me money a half a million dollars yep
that's right and I am already suing you
in advance but there's no set um there's
no specific set of guidelines that you
need to follow you can literally do
those sets whenever you want throughout
the day just make sure that they're
close to failure you can use super sets
you can do multiple sets you can rest a
little bit just focus on getting
something intense in it doesn't matter
if you're not wearing your gym clothes
it doesn't matter if you didn't have
your usual routine and it doesn't matter
if you're just using your body weight if
you take those sets close to failure you
can give yourself a tap on the back and
say yo it's not optimal it's not the
best it would have been better if we
went to the gym where the atmosphere
would feel a bit more gains likee but
it's a lot better than nothing so I hope
that for some of you out there the
concept of uh gain snacks of exercise
snacks comes in handy whenever you may
need it and just remind yourself that
just because you're you're not in the
gym and you're at home your muscles
don't really understand that your
muscles just feel that you're there
pounding them and giving them a potent
stimulus that's it for the video more
videos on gains snacks to follow with
ideas exercise ideas equipment ideas and
so on and so forth until then don't
forget to like subscribe and hit the
notification icon I'm hearing doors open
behind me I hope it is Milo wolf and not
and and not an intruder but maybe if
it's an intruder it's what I needed cuz
mood has been all over the place this
week so I can at least take it out on
the Intruder by crying a lot while he's
sitting there wondering what is he doing
with his life and why is he robbing fat
Greeks with a beard and a very nice
Supreme xmf Doom beini that um are
guests at somebody else's house shooting
videos for their YouTube channel that
includes these absurd intros at the end
but hey for the three of you that are
still here you're the real ones you're
the ogs when we have 45 million
subscribers on this channel I will not
remember you come on guys what do you
think this is Charity when I have 45
million subscribers I'm going to be
really really really remembering the
ones that doubted me and Yep this is it
[Music]
peace