Dr pack here real doctor with fellow
real doctor Dr Jeff nard um I think I'm
going to change my stance on who's a
real doctor and just include everybody
everybody's a doctor congratulations Dr
niord thank you thank you so much for
having us here we're going to do the
power move here up you let go first
therefore I win thank you for watching
don't forget to like subscribe Jeff
Nipper uh out handshake G right so we're
here in the infamous Leman College lab
in in the middle literally in the middle
of the full room versus length and
partial study on trained participants
upper body first study ever funded by
big Jeff pm thank you so much and I'm
here to ask you a few questions actually
throw some papers at you and ask you if
they're overhyped underhyped or
appropriately hyped in terms of you know
how much people made them out to be as
far as science communication goes
obviously your thing is science
communication you take a lot of what we
do and you get it out there and some
papers will get a ton of Hive they will
be discussed there's going to be debates
even in people that are not really that
science so starting off with one of the
most s of hyped studies of last year the
52 set study what do you think overhyped
in the sense that uh it got a lot of
negative attention but I think that that
attention came from basically people
straw Manning what I'm going to say is
our interpretation of the study so I
think the way we looked at that paper is
okay the upper threshold for volume is
probably higher than we once thought it
was so the standard advice was 10 to 20
sets per muscle per week for
intermediate to advanced level
lifters and after that you start to see
the inverted U where the you know gains
start to drop off what this new study
showed was essentially you can actually
probably get away with and recover from
more volume than we used to think at
least for the time frame that the study
ran for and that was I think the kind of
like Common Sense takeaway from that
study but what I think a lot of people
latched on to was oh you need to do 52
sets now and that's what the study
showed but I don't think anybody was
ever really saying that or no one that I
saw I know you were um so it was
overhyped in the sense that I think it
was like an overhated study cuz I
actually really like that study and I
think it showed us that if there's a
body part that you're try to bring up
you can probably smash it with more
volume than you used to think and still
be able to recover again at least for a
short time period y for sure definitely
agree it uh got a lot of publicity but
people seem to want to hate something
that seems like an extreme study when in
reality you have so many extreme studies
and so many disciplines um and at the
same time was fascinating as you said we
still haven't found that limit you know
we still haven't found that x amount of
volume is too much in a period of yeah
whatever 8 to 16 weeks cool we agree on
that now second study and not so much of
a study more of a review more of a
glorified block post by the good doctors
Dr Jeff neber atal AKA us and Dr Jeff
nber atal the technique review that we
did essentially the first piece of
literature to look at exercise technique
what does it mean to actually optimize
technique what do you think about that
um I would say properly hyped from my
point of view I feel like it got a a lot
of attention and the reception amongst
my was like really positive like I think
people were really excited I think it
was a good paper I think it deserved the
hype because it's the first study that
actually took a deep investigative
approach to how we should do exercises
like there actually is a
shocking absence of literature on what
proper training technique actually is
and so I think that that paper really
helped fill in that Gap in that sense
yeah I would say it's like it got a
quite a bit of hype but I think it was I
think it was a good study yeah I agree
uh as a scientist I thought it was under
heart because I don't know I thought it
was very interesting that we said hey we
don't know all that but I get that
people don't care about the fact that we
don't know you get me like the main bir
like people saw it and was like okay
yeah these recommendations we pretty
much knew that there's nothing new there
but for me the fact that we don't know
and identifying that is do not but
that's the scientist in me yeah true I
think I think a lot of people actually
learn from it because
I think kind of like the mainstream
advice was go like really slow on the
negative even that just that one thing
we showed that like well slow negatives
is not necessarily better as long as the
rep isn't faster than 2 seconds so like
that alone I think was kind of a novel
presentation even though if you really
wanted to go through the individual
studies you could have figured that out
on your own but until that study came
out no one was really doing that you
know what I mean and then I think we
also condensed the range of motion
literature down pretty well to give like
a practical takeaway that like
emphasizing the Deep stretch actually
seems to be probably more evidence-based
than the standard recommendation of
using a full range of motion so I think
there were like n not not necessarily
novel findings but I think like a new
way of presenting things in the
literature that actually reached a lot
of people so yeah fair enough fair
enough it may be my own bias cuz you
know we know that stuff hey now I know
you are a big rest enjoyer allegedly
resting now while we filming this
between sets allegedly the rest periods
men analysis that was recently
pre-printed currently in review
essentially found that hey with 1 and a
half minutes of rest for hypertrophy
that seems to be enough to on average
maximize outcomes overhyped underhyped
proberly hyped I'm going to go with
overhyped on this one and a half minutes
rest in between sets is not something
I'm necessarily going to implement
myself it may not be the most
evidence-based opinion but I think that
resting for longer periods is just going
to lead to better performance and so
even though I know that's not your study
was measuring and you might see the same
hypertrophy outcomes I just think like
from a practical point of view again I'm
not saying it's a bad study I'm just
saying over hey from the standpoint of
application I'm still going to recommend
to people if they're doing three sets of
eight on squats that they rest 3 to 5
minutes in between those sets for the
best progress overall fair enough for my
end I thought it was under hyped it was
I don't know I like the flexibility
aspect of things because it essentially
showed hey yeah even if you rest for
less than a minute you'll get somewhat
less hypy and not buy a ton yeah but uh
people seemed to not like the fact that
we said hey it seems like one and a half
minutes are enough the study never said
don't rest longer right right right you
know yeah in that sense I think it's
good because I like anything that's
going to get people in the gym and get
them an efficient workout is good so if
this study shows that you actually don't
need to rest 5 to 10 minutes between
sets you can still get gains even if
you're only resting a minute and a half
between sets then that grade people love
having faster workouts but I'm trying to
maximize growth and I'm frankly not
quite convinced even with this study
that a minute and a half of rest in
between sets is going to be enough to
maximize muscle growth I agree that in
the practical sense of things the
recommendation of rest for as long as
you need and but if for any reason you
were to rest for one and a half to 2
minutes and keep that strict I assume
that one you'd get accustomed to the
feeling of resting less if you were used
to rest resting for longer and from a
hyper standpoint yes loads will go down
and stuff but if you're keeping things
consistent and you're adjusting loads
you're still going to see the same gains
I I don't think like if we were to run a
theoretical onee study and we could
control all the variables and the only
variable that we manipulated was rest
periods I don't think that the people
resting less as long as they're resting
one and a half to 2 minutes I don't
think they would make less gains than
other people sure maybe more nausea
maybe the workouts would feel like
and that in the real world could lead to
less adherence to workouts could lead to
less I don't know intensity of effort
over long periods potentially but as it
stands I don't know I'm not convinced
yeah I mean I think it's probably true
that you would adapt to Shorter rest
periods over time as your like
cardiovascular endurance improves and
that kind of thing but I would actually
bet against you on that one I would say
if we did a long-term study what what
you want odm rpk Royal 40 mm you we on
no I so I think if you did a long-term
study 16 weeks M okay and you gave one
group a minute and a half and you gave
another group 3 to five minutes I think
that the 3 to five minutes group would
have higher volume load and don't we
already know that like volume is related
to hypertrophy so like I would just
expect the longer rest period group to
have better
games if we kept hard sets number of
hard sets the same if we Creed for that
I don't think that you don't think
there' be a difference no in 16 weeks I
don't think so no if we what about 3
years
years in in ecologically valid setting
maybe maybe and then you'd favor the
longer maybe but not by a tone okay
interesting but in an ecologically valid
setting where real people are out in the
real world not in a lab control you know
right interesting that's nice that was a
nice discussion next paper seminal paper
amazing paper you've covered it the
proximity to failure meta regression OB
essentially showing that the closer you
train to failure the better that got a
lot of hype it did I'm going to say
properly hyped on that one so there were
two iterations of that paper the the
first release of the pre-print had a
graph where as you got closer to failure
you saw almost an exponential increase
in muscle growth they since retracted
that version of the paper and put in a
new paper that showed as you get closer
to failure you still see more muscle
growth but the slope is much less so
when the study first came out I would
say it was overhyped in the sense that
everyone who was an advocate for
training to failure jumped on and said
look at all the gains you're leaving on
the table if you're not training to
failure but if you look at the current
version of the study where they reran
the stat you don't have as strong of a
case do you right and so what I think
that the study did show though is that
you do need to train really hard and you
do need to get close to failure and I
would even say you need to take some
sets to failure um I definitely don't
think you need to take all sets to
failure I don't think the study as
strongly supports training to failure as
some of the like hit Advocates suggest
gested especially initially but I still
think it's like a very important paper I
think it was a really well done paper
and so some aspects of it especially
though like you must train to failure
aspect I would say was overhyped but I
think the it's really important to train
hard aspect may have been slightly
underhyped and so overall I'd say
properly hyped I agree with you I agree
there yeah yeah I think the fact that it
may have pushed more people to gcheck
their training intensity of exactly that
was good um I do think that some people
took it and run way too hard with it but
it definitely highlighted what you said
like trading close to failure means
really faure not four to five reps I
think if you're regularly leaving four
or five reps in the tank across exercise
you're leaving gains on the table you
were still making gains but you're
leaving whereas I think before that
study I probably wouldn't have said that
quite so confidently honestly because
there are studies that you know show
gains um leaving lots of reps in the
tank especially you know in untrained
lifters but actually it's not even even
in untrained lifters in some trained you
see pretty decent gains in some studies
training fair from failure when you
aggregate the data though you tend to
see as you get closer to failure there's
more growth right Ian yeah yeah I saw I
saw a lot of people get triggered from
that H some people specifically okay
fair
enough we'll see you outside and last
but definitely not least the systematic
review and man analysis by wolf atal
2023 on Rage of motion the be knees the
Jord will even give it an a word for
most red paper or something oh yeah hey
what do you think about that I'm going
to say underhyped just because I think
the study got twisted and a lot of
people seem to think that the paper is
essentially saying that like length and
partials are way better and it's all
that you should do and you know full
range of motion is out length and
partials are in in reality I think what
the paper really showed was that like
length and partials work at least as
well as full range of motion and the
lengthened aspect of a lift is certainly
more important than the shortened aspect
of the lift at least seems to be for
most muscles so again it's one of those
instances where like a lot of the hype
was negative but that negative hype was
based on I think a misinterpretation of
the study or a misinterpretation of what
some people were saying about the study
so I'm saying underhyped in the sense
that if people actually like looked at
the study and its actual findings and
then reported that information there
could be more of that mhm do you know
what I mean yeah I feel you I do think
that because Le partials gained so much
hype the KNE your reaction of a lot of
people is to go against that and that
then created different sort of Straw Men
the claims were not really made and so
on and forth but I think in in some
cases it was underhyped as as you said
but from a different standpoint one it
brought Focus to the fact that hey let's
look into this let's look at lengthed
partials and the stretch in general even
isometrics are low muscling so it
brought attention to Long musings which
is huge from my point of view and uh at
the same time
it's really cool when as as somebody who
wants to get super jacked and wants to
see if we can eat out a bit more growth
sure 5 to 10% more growth for the
majority of people who cares yeah for
the majority of like recreationally
active people but for the freaks this
maybe this study that started something
that could come back to train lifters in
a in a very potent way and we'll see
from our study here as well I think it's
more than just like is this going to
give us five to 10% extra gains it's a
matter of like the study is helping us
actually get the answer to the question
right because up until now the standard
dog was you know full range of motion
whereas now it's maybe well it's not
necess like we're getting a little
closer to the truth right it's not
necessarily that it's full range of
motion it's more so that you need a
range of motion that emphasizes a long
muscle length you know yeah and it's not
like people have this like caricatured
idea of what science is like it's like I
don't know you're in a lab trying to
like inject a guy and turn him into
Captain America when in reality it's
just like navigating toward the truth
right like people this is something that
I get a nice bit it's like oh well if
the science works so well then like why
aren't you as jacked as this guy and
it's like well the science isn't
necessarily trying to do that like it
doesn't even deny that there are like
natural limits or things like this it's
just like trying to get closer to the
right answer to these questions yeah for
sure and when it comes to full range of
motion if you look behind the curtain
and that's the case with many things in
science you you see articles and stuff
but when you exactly with our narrative
review you'd assume that there's a lot
of data on strict technique more lenient
technique but then you look behind the
curtain there wasn't even a definition
of technique similarly here if you try
and find a strong case for why a full
range of motion is the default now
besides things like practicality and
what a functional mumble jumble you
won't find it and as far as the current
evidence goes although limited there's
more of a case for length than partials
that forem and that as a scientist I
find it fast yeah me too nice yeah I
love that paper overhyped or underhyped
their Norwegian frequency project oh
definitely over Hy 10 don't don't get
rest started here n just kidding respect
to the authors the the thing that
annoyed me with this back in the day is
that back in the day you know what year
was that 2015 14 14 you were on the come
up yeah um evidence-based was still so
so new that just being evidence-based
and quoting a study was enough to make a
name so people like in forums redddit
and stuff were referring to the
Norwegian frequency project and
everybody I was like whoa I I was not
jealous but I was like admiring it I
like oh these guys have done this insane
study when I went to look for it where I
couldn't find anything nothing nothing
it was like in a book of abstracts that
the PDF wasn't accessible yeah and I was
like okay guys let's I'm full on behind
the okay there's not enough evidence
there's an abstract some high
but bro can't you even find the abstract
here yeah is is it out yet like have we
ever seen the full I'm not sure if the
that specific one it's been replicated
so on but it but the results weren't
quite as amazing bro it was like it was
worse than some Forum anecdotes you know
how people would quote like the the Jeff
Nipper bulk experiment oh there there
was this guy on Reddit who did this that
and his arms grew yeah like what was
worse than that with that study I'd say
I mean yeah I agree
cuz at least you get some info okay it
was this guy and he did this I I just
want to see the data cuz like if we
could see the data it'd be a really cool
study because it was on experienc power
yeah it was power so like if the data
exists it's cool but I don't know we I
just don't know if I can trust it you
know yeah but nice nice throw by that
was a really good
one that's it thank you so much fifth
ping for the day you know the de Canada
Greece UK we out here baby New York City
repping you know what's on the race to
like subscribe and buy stuff especially
Jeff's
[Music]
books obviously you are one of the main
guys when it comes to science
communication the most hated not really
by you by by me and by I don't know
whoever
else obviously