all right here we are the first workout
of the day of this 8 Hour arm workout
four sets of 10 of Skull Crusher and
four sets of 10 barbell curl start with
the hardcore heavy Basics I love it rich
my
man good technique good range of motion
rich is he super setting maybe he is you
guys see how he slows down to struggle
on the concentric but as soon as he hits
that top position he just kind of lowers
it quickly don't do that you got all the
way up there in the Ecentric phase the
lowering phase is actually very muscle
growth promoting so what you want to do
is you don't have to go super slow but
control on the way down be at 1 second
of control or be at two to three seconds
of control he's letting it slip a little
bit you want the Ecentric phase that is
bonus points for you and if you have to
use less weight so be it you're there to
do a job not to heave weights around
like an idiot