don't train with bands if you want the
most muscle growth what but i thought
bands made us cool and biomechanists
maybe but maybe they have some downsides
here are some ideas to consider no dogma
about when you could be using bands and
maybe how to put a skeptical eye to them
so let's get into it not a very long
chat
here's the thing
especially recently but with lots of
data collected over time lots of
deep theory
it's becoming increasingly more clear
that there may be something a little bit
special
about the bottom end of a rep the very
stretched position
in which the muscle is at a more
lengthened state and then is asked to
contract either eccentrically or
concentrically or even isometrically and
when that contraction that tension under
stretch
is allowed to develop
if much of your lifting is in that range
of motion or at least hits that range of
motion often
it seems like you get more hypertrophy
per every unit of work you do in a deep
stretch versus units of work you do
close to lockout for example that's not
100 for sure but a lot of data and ideas
are really trending in that direction
right
problem
most band setups
load the shortened position so if you're
doing banded bench the bottom is easier
than normal the top is really really
hard the top is loaded preferentially
more now if you use a reverse band
intelligently you can actually get the
bottom to be just as hard as it ever was
but because benching gets easier as you
go up
you might be able to have the bottom as
hard as ever was and the lockout even
harder than in an unbanded condition and
you may think now hold on a second this
is great i get all the same tension at
the bottom and i get even more tension
at the top than normal wouldn't that
make every single repetition of this
lift
more hypertrophic and the answer is
probably however
every single rep is more hypertrophic
but way harder so if you can do 15 reps
at a certain weight with straight bench
that weight
added up to be the weight that you feel
at the bottom but you got reverse bands
on so it's more weight the total amount
of load you're lifting is higher maybe
you're taking that from 15 reps down to
10.
now you got 10 reps and every single one
of them is a little bit more
hypertrophic than the reps you would do
with normal but you'd have to do 15 of
them but however
the amount of fatigue you accumulate
with every single one of those reps is
higher that's why you can only do 10
reps and not 15 because you have to try
the entire rep maximum close not like
really hard at the bottom and a little
bit more of a free ride on the top
and because much of the hypertrophy
maybe not most but more than you would
expect comes from that bottom end we
have to count the number of bottom end
exposures that you get total
if the reps with the reverse band make
you so tired that you're only able to do
10 reps total for the set you have 10
bottom end super stretch exposures that
add up to how much hypertrophy you're
getting not completely add up but more
than the other parts of range of motion
if you just do regular get get rid of
the extra weight get rid of the reverse
bands you just do your regular weight
for a set of 15 close to failure
you get
15 bottom end exposures for hypertrophy
and the same amount of total work total
fatigue
same amount of total work shuttle
fatigue but we're talking about 15
bottom end exposures real big stretch
versus 10 and in many cases logically at
least at a first glance it would look
like that set of 15 may cause more
hypertrophy than that set of 10 because
relative to how much same amount of
fatigue you put in the reps adjust for
that
you get fractionally more exposures at
that deep position another way to think
about it is this
if the deep stretch part is really the
part that grows the most you don't want
to tire yourself out with lockouts
because you want to come into the
lockout easy and get in there and put as
much stress as possible at that bottom
position right so even the reverse
banding and letting you expose yourself
to more overall tension may be taking
fractionally relatively some of that
tension away from where it's hardest and
putting it more into where sorry away
from where it causes the most growth
most growth not all growth and putting
more of the fraction of that total
tension per rep into the upper part the
lockout where it might not be as much
growth promotion
but because you have to use
a lot more weight actually let me let me
change slides yeah so if you are having
to use a lot of weight
and
the load is incredibly hard especially
let's say if you do hack squats banded
or leg presses banded that's a crap load
of force throughput especially in hex
watch through your spine this sp and if
you've ever reverse band hack squatted
its unbelievable amount of weight at the
top it's super hard so you have to have
sort of a choice do i want to
potentially make my reps normal and
experience that hardness mostly at the
bottom where it probably causes more
growth with less total weight causing me
less overall fatigue or do i want more
fatigue but kind of a similar exposure
at the bottom and actually because i can
do fewer reps maybe even less exposure
at the bottom
where the growth promotion is the best
with a higher cost of fatigue it ends up
being that if you look at the stimulus
to fatigue ratio
the stimulus
of doing a set
completely banded
is probably or sorry reverse banded the
fatigue is going to be higher or the
same probably higher because you're
putting more weight on the bar and going
closer to failure for a similar amount
of exertion
but on the other hand or maybe it could
be the same because we could do 15 reps
versus 10 if we took it easy at the top
and really pushed pushing the bottom so
the fatigue would be the same but if we
get more work fractionally at the bottom
in 15 reps going to the bottom every
time with a lot of energy to spare
versus if by the time we're getting to
the bottom we're like oh this top out
was so hard and this is still hard and
now i guess this is hard but i i have to
save my energy to get the number of reps
that i want or i just end up getting
fewer reps what ends up happening is the
overall stimulus is lower so we have a
higher fatigue likely with banded
condition or reverse bands the stimulus
is lower that doesn't add up that might
not be a great idea right
and that even allows
us to say that the banded condition
gives us more total work per rep
yeah that's very possible unlikely to
happen per set because
if every rep is hard it makes you more
tired and less able to do more reps if
you adjust it somehow to get the same
number of reps then
you have to reduce the amount of bottom
end exposure to get more reps and that's
no good right
big time axial fatigue big time fatigue
altogether
for what is perhaps
maybe even more of a stimulus but just
by a tiny bit and that fatigue adds up
and if you try to rig it so that the
fatigue is lower the stimulus ends up
being much lower as well so sfr wise
banning and reverse banding for
hypertrophy because it's kind of the
opposite of what we need to focus more
on the bottom and less on the top may
not be the best answer that is in this
time in scientific discovery this video
is recorded in
march
of 2022 at this time in discovery a few
more inklings are coming together every
few months to show us that actually that
bottom part of the range of motion the
big stretch part is the most important
part so if we're taking a look at bands
and reverse bands and asking
fundamentally what do they do they make
the top harder and the bottom easier
that's probably just not the best answer
for hypertrophy now there are absolutely
contexts in which bands can work great
they're uh sometimes even better than
straight but as a general approach of if
you look at a hack squad and it's
working great for you and it's giving
you tons of growth and you think should
i ban the hack squat should i bend my
bench press should i reverse band them
unless you have a compelling reason
that either obviates directly the whole
problem with not enough loading at the
bottom too much at the top or is works
around it or takes that punch on the
chin for a good other reason you say
well look if i don't ban my hack squads
my knees are toast
my best advice to you is to reduce the
weight and slowly work in and your knees
will be fine they're just not used to
that range of motion but if it's really
prohibitive for you for whatever reason
and the reverse banding banning just
work great and they do have a better sfr
for you
or if it's that's what you have to do
because the other exercises are
inadmissible for injury reasons or
something by all means do it so we don't
want to close our eyes completely to
bands and reverse bands but we want to
at least say hey look it seems like a
lot of hypertrophy occurs from a deep
loaded stretch bands and reverse bands
actually prioritize more of your work
than usual than that standard to be
at the top end
oh gee that's kind of the other
direction of where the literature on hey
more hypertrophy might go this way
bottom end loading you're going this way
with bands if you can square that
somehow by all means use them if you
can't
default to straight weight
and maybe even some exercises and
machines like on a cam machine system
which the cam is designed to make the
shit harder at the stretch and easier at
the lockout you can even try
incorporating some partial range of
motion training in that bottom stretch
position which almost no one ever does
because it's fucking hard give that some
thought
if something is confusing or whatever
shoot me some comments i'll try to get
to them i'll try to talk that shit
see you next time for more insight
you