I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works folks welcome back to the
weekly webinar dr. James here with my
colleague and bless Budd dr. Mike how we
doing
decent how are you about the same about
the same though I did just download doom
eternal which I'm very stoked to uh what
is that it's uh they kind of softly
rebooted the doom franchise at the old
and they've made it like one of the most
hyper violent things that has ever come
to be so I'm very excited to get some of
my my lockdown stressors out so that'll
be fun a lot of the same same real quick
folks we're gonna try something a little
bit new in the coming weeks I'm gonna do
another kind of similar to our weekly
webinar show or I'm gonna tackle just
some very very sports specific questions
so if you guys have questions on
training for sports specifically or
periodization or anything along those
lines you can go ahead and start popping
them into this week's weekly webinar
comments just go ahead and fill those in
and then I will start compiling those
and I'll probably start doing another
web series where I'll answer your sports
specific questions and then I'll
actually do some training plans on the
fly for a kind of strength conditioning
sport periodization type stuff think of
a think bob ross joy of painting style
so I've kind of like a template I'll
build some programs you can watch me do
it I'll answer some questions so if you
guys have any sports specific questions
you want me to tackle for you go ahead
and put them in to the comment section
on this video and I will start compiling
them other than that Mike you ready to
hit things things off you know you bet
all right well we'll get to it
okey-dokey let me begin with Mark
Anthony the famous singer mm-hmm hi dr.
Megan James I'm currently headed back to
school to earn my degree in sports and
exercise science because of a of Jarrod
feather and you guys relighting my
passion that's cool
what is the number one tip that you guys
each personally recommend to your
younger selves if you're redoing your
academics again study very hard get the
best grades you can only 100% as 100%
learn as much as possible and you will
end up that's a tough one because I
would have redone so many things but at
the same time when you think about
redoing things you wonder if you would
have come to the same places that you
have come to be right so I don't know
but I think what Mike said is really
good I would definitely start thinking
about like specific questions that you
want to answer things that actually
interest you rather than kind of going
with the flow I think part of your
getting your education is like learning
how to solve real-world problems things
that actually exist in the world rather
than just I mean a lot of academics is
kind of like intellectual masturbating
so kind of getting yourself out of that
but there is definitely a lot of that
that goes on there's definitely a good
reason for that
but also go to school with the
expectation and the mindset of like
there are some things that I really
would like to do in the real world how
do I kind of go about addressing them
and figuring out how to learn more about
them yep good stuff
number two besides ib+ are there any
other resources books etc that you each
person they recommend for those coming
up in the field of sports and actually
science yes I would recommend you sign
up for the weight ology review James
Kriegers weight ology website it's super
cheap and he does a lit review that is
continually updated all the time with
new studies on a bunch of stuff dieting
fat loss health hypertrophy and it's
just super super valuable
I don't highly recommend that so it's
kind of hard not to shamelessly plug our
books but I will I will plug our books
for sure and then I'll secondarily say
if you read our books we are very
diligent about putting a lot of great
references in those books so you can
look into the reference sections and
there's lots of really really great
textbooks that you can find inside our
reference sections of our books and our
books are pretty great too another
shameless plug is for my book with pompe
and all the bompa books are really good
so integrative periodization and then
any of the other periodization Theory
methodology training all those are
really good
yeah basically all the ones that we
reference every goddamn time are always
good places to start or sure all right
Joseph Heslop says hi guys I always
struggle I'm sure like many to
accurately gauge the feeling of to our
er er er ER and so on to be honest the
only time I'm sure of how many reps I've
left no tank is at zero are like if I go
back down I ain't coming up
I try to be thoughtful and focus on my
muscle connection rep consistency in
general self-awareness but for some
reason I just can't get all right I
follow the RP diet app and my sleep is
consistently good so there are no widely
varying lifestyle nutrition factors
throwing my judgement my question is can
I place a single fed into my motorcycle
for each lift where I max out a
definitive 0ir and then base now cycle
progression 3 RR to R and so I'll for
recently tested max fresh data ok my
first answer would be no but let's see
where we go from that thought about 2
weeks of implementing this about max
test a at the start of another cycle
where the rest of my cycle can be
calculated from the initial max downside
this could mess with us so far due to my
cycle perhaps having each start each
exercising week one or the first set of
0ir and subsequent sets at the
appropriate 3 R er so problem number one
we're just gonna say this now because
you know it's Lester number to get ahead
if you can't gauge 3 RR how the fuck are
you supposed to find the subsequent sets
at 3 RR remember fatigue by itself means
that you almost certainly won't give a
seen reps so for example your zero our
first set might be 12 reps that doesn't
mean that 9 on the second set is 3 RR
right that means it may be 0 IR or a 1
or 2 so this doesn't solve a problem
unfortunately it's not going over so the
zero hour would disrupt the fatigue
accumulation stillness progression which
in pomona cycle all the answers it
wouldn't disrupt that a ton if it's just
1 cent if you were very advanced athlete
I would say it would but I don't think
it's a huge deal it's definitely a deal
it's great that you're considering it I
don't think it's a big deal um James II
also to say about just point a yeah one
last thing is left general you don't
want to start either I mean it general
don't want to start a Meza cycle or a
session doing the hardest thing that's
generally not the way to go about it so
especially on the session to session
basis I mean if you start by you know
day one week one of each each thing like
you basically are training to failure
what are you realistically going to be
doing the rest of the time you're gonna
be doing like kind of this like shitty
sub max training at that point so I flip
it around probably and failing or last
set of an actress exactly and I think
he's come probably coming around to that
here I'm guessing and be okay at the end
of the men cycle where the max set would
be used to calculate the maximum cycle
downside you fatigue at the end of the
meso as you approach you are sore you
are at MRV and the runt max may not be
representative for the next mezzo um
okay it should be but we'll get to that
in a sec also you may not be doing that
exercise in the next measure any we do
to exercise rotation it's very good
point I'm an engineer by trade so I have
an obsession obsessive need to attach
maths you know he's from the United
States we never seen maths in USA to
either say math or mathematics math so
everything and have a hard time listen
to my body though I do tried I would
love to be able to set my mouth like a
lot by doing pro winter calculations for
our our repartee gradations with
successive sets in proximity at MRV
would just help with the on our part
okay you're never gonna get ecologically
valid data for success of degradation so
you can just stop right there so it's
never going to happen
depends on too many variables and it's
different for my little different very
exercise different referee revellings I
think it's just think your time I hope I
communicate my question well Joe you
communicated excellently what I would
Gare recommend for you and we'll see
what James thinks about this is
something that James and I have been
doing ourselves for forever it was sort
of like just naturally do it but we
haven't communicated it a ton to the
public because we like to communicate
theoretically with practical advice but
not get too bogged down until the what
we do because what we do matches the
theory really well but it's a little bit
intricate which is probably just a short
we do talk about everything upcoming a
terrific book but if we made it our
whole thing would just cause a bunch of
questions that needlessly took away from
what's actually going on so here's what
James on our team James and I shoot for
like three to two for our IR on
mesocycle of microcycle one we get
certain reps like 1075 the next time we
do it if we keep the weight the same we
try to add
like a wrap and the next time we do it
if we increase the weight by like two
and a half kilos or five kilos we just
try to have the reps be the same so like
based on you know how fast that updation
occurs basically you're guaranteed to at
least hit three or four hour because
fitness goes up but you know fatigue
goes up as well and then as you keep
adding weight necessarily yourrr has to
the client so unless you were wildly off
like 6rr or like one RA are I sure hope
to god you can tell them to resume those
two if you're like anywhere between two
and four are all you got to do is match
reps if the weight is going up slowly
and steadily or ad reps like one up at a
time when you feel like you can add a
wrap them if you did if you feel like
okay if I do another rep I'm gonna go to
failure and the plan is to re are well
you're just did a good estimate you are
so fuckin at a ramp right so essentially
they bide the matching matching and
beating a protocol or sort of logical
loop all we have to do is try to get a
reasonable guess of our er once and then
the rest of my cycle is a self solving
problem which automatically takes you
lower and lower and lower until you
can't match and then super good point
you know where your movie is because
you're like oh I couldn't match this
week and here's the thing variations
will occur some weeks you know you
matching reps was real like a one-hour
on there's a bad we can get enough sleep
at the next week a more sleep it was
good then matching reps is like again
but you more weight on the bar look more
over perform like that's great but
you're not gonna be able to do that week
after week after week so if you get
anywhere near the two to four rir even
like the fucking two to five hour range
at the beginning of a mezzo inevitably
with rep and more weight increases you
will hit CR and huge benefit you'll
probably hit it really really slowly way
better than trying to target three are
the first week then target two are a out
of the second that's fucking hard target
one are a are like it gets easier as you
get closer to failure but man it's it's
tough to have to think about that all
the time then you end up second-guessing
yourself a bunch like fuck I feel like I
had more wraps like did you hit 10 yes
what'd you hit two weeks ago ten what
about last week 10 what was the weight
then lighter yep this isn't that P
basically a PR within a cycle you
fucking golden either here's the thing
Jamie we got a chuckle out of this one
you get keep getting stronger forever
or self solving problems yeah those are
all really good points a couple other
things I would add so if I was to pick
one of those two strategies I would do
kind of more towards the latter where
maybe you pick one set at the end of the
mesocycle where you're like all right
we're gonna actually go zero you know
all I are really trying to do that
anyway at the end of the mezzo by the
way but like really really going for it
more than you see you really have a good
gauge of what that is but I wouldn't do
it in the beginning also if you were to
put a gun to my head right and I think
Mike would largely feel the same way and
said like how what is the difference or
what is the margin of error and the
impact of that error in assessing 2ir
versus vir or you know it's like oh man
I don't fucking know it's like even if
you're fucking it up you're probably ok
as long as mike mike said as long as
it's not like six rir right so as long
as you're kind of in the ballpark you're
probably doing just fine it's a match or
b thing takes care of all of that even
fucked it up exactly so we you know as
scientists we do like to do quantitative
scaling like would we like to say here's
the cities that we're working with
either the weight on the bar or rir or
percentage of max and we'd like to you
know have numerical representations of
those things but man there's a pretty
big fudge factor there as well so as
long as you're not be like wildly
overdoing it which would be like
training to failure all the time or
wildly under doing it which is like just
leaving so many reps in the tank you're
probably fine yeah
the cool thing is about the match or
beat concept is it's automatically built
in MRV detector that can't fail you so
people will say they use purrrr
then this okay - RRR this week right and
then it'll be like four or five reps off
of their last week's numbers but ability
oh I guess I just didn't get enough
sleep and but then they think in the
back that had maybe I'm just being a
bitch and maybe my true or our
calculation was wrong as soon as you
have your baseline first week of the
Mezo hit all the other weeks are like
you have to match your beat if you can't
you're over MRV right that's it so you
you look at the sheet that's because
people will say like the UH no
regulation you could take you to forum
people say how to regulate everything
everything sorry are
you know a big problem in powerlifting
is when people do the rpe adjust a
training to like way too excessively
whether I got a hit on our p7 this band
chains quality the fuck is that what is
that boom
who knows look on Jeannie rp2 at the
beginning of the movement but there are
p9 at the end of the movement right
right for sure
better ill is like what did you do the
band chain squad last time so as I did
315 with you know blue bands and in six
chains and I did that for a set of five
okay great why don't you do a set of
five this time put 325 on the bar leg
well how do I know if it's right up he
was everything is progressing as it
should be it'll be the right one if it's
not then you will very quickly find out
that it was way too out of a session and
you can at least make the adjustments
versus your sessions being like hard
easy hard easy this sort of moves them
up and up and if you can hang you can
hang if you can't that's a problem
you're gonna have to have by yourself
yeah good question that was an
interesting one very good question
alright Daniel hacker says do you think
there is any use of adding extra
intensity techniques you've got punchers
in the overreaching week before D load
on top of the pre-planned stuff I said
set by erupt weight requirements I don't
mean going over boring something crazy
crazy labra simple example might be
instead of say doing three by 10 8 7
we're certainly and an exercise may be
saying ok instead of that I'm going to
make rep target of 30 reps of this load
instead of just three sets they don't
understand how that well I guess it does
make it a little phase making it like ok
so then it becomes like a giant set kind
of your eye which might make it easier
but we'll talk about that a sec so
another example or like my own it may be
yeah another example may be a set of
walking lunges to failure at the end of
a leg workout they normally would do
them I don't like that because it
reduces a new exercise in both fucks up
your variation and also introducing a
new exercise when you're really really
fatigued can introduce movement patterns
that slightly increase the risk of
injury a giant set of weighted chain we
need chains instead of studs and rough
sets instead of failure clothes for
push-ups
these are just near a few examples but
you see what I mean there's a bit of
Mascis than all of us maybe I'll reach a
week we can allow it to come out just a
bit because we're dealer next week
anyway I would like to further out of
this point would you answer or change
the pen
what phase of the macro secular in I
mean if what you're doing is was a mezzo
three mass phase followed by many cutter
maintenance or mezzo three mess or cut
followed by maintenance with something
or what I'm suggesting that be
appropriate the first one into mezzos
maybe have some utility you know
overreaching you get that third mezzo
yeah probably have more utility in a
mass than a cot and probably more
utility in the later mess over earlier
and then it says in practice the last
week would be capped by an extended
period of time of high-volume training
so it would be right to say that's the
week you really got buck wild arguably
even more so in the previous of regions
to take yourself gmos degree so on my
answer is I think it's probably an okay
thing to do to feed your soul so to
speak but if I was doing strictly what
worked best I would just stick to the
plan
and do more straight shit a lot of times
in my own personal situation I find out
that I'm so fatigued by that last week a
lot of times alter the plan just to do
something different a novel and intense
but it ends up being volume and
intensity wise not nearly as much as
just progressing straight through so I
am NOT a big fan of it but I think it's
fine and just make sure you do it safely
and don't go way way overboard or
something super different and make sure
that whatever translation you make is
definitely more of a stimulus by just a
small margin than what you did and thing
is if you're back to that okay it needs
to be more of a stimulus by a small
margin
why do extra shit that's different it's
fun and that's okay but you've got a
trade-off between fun and effect at some
form yeah I've actually messed around
with this idea of maybe like four or
five years ago Daniel just for the same
curiosity that you have now and really
all I found was that it would just
degrade into fuckery very quickly we're
just like what am I even doing at this
point you know I probably should have
just done more either throughout the
mesocycle maybe I was under estimating
my or excuse me yeah under estimating my
M RV's or maybe I could have just done
more sets of something else like it just
it was one of those things where I
always left feeling like well that was
stupid and seems like I should have just
done what I intended to do it the first
time around so I hear you I definitely
had that same curiosity I have never
been able to implement it in a way that
I thought was Africa
and certainly not better than just doing
more of the same kind of stuff that you
usually are doing so that's kind of
where I left off with my personal
experimentation on that so I would I
would say agree probably not a good use
of your time do you think unilateral
exercises should not be done with many
sets because of the STRs giving us a
time that I think that's the acronym yep
correct I finally get a ton of you
internal exercises mainly flags but my
god they take forever in their harvest
heck I likely could recover for more but
the time it takes to do them do one leg
rest because it's harder the other
arrest again makes you question its
efficacy despite the fact that it feels
hard I think you're good pumps I wish I
know we shouldn't chase volume 4 volume
sake but I just find the despite the
fact that I can recover from more the
time it takes to do more just doesn't
seem to work worth it for me and
practice 2 to 4 cents per leg is the
most I seem to get done have you guys
found this with your suffering clients
overwhelmingly yes Daniel I think you're
onto something really big and that's
what we have to indices the SFR and STR
stimulus to fatigue ratio stimulus to
time ratio and they don't always line up
now there's a meta index called the SF
TR which you could just just it's super
easy to run because you just divide
everything by everything then you get it
and that sort of gives you like a really
like combination of what's the best bang
for your block and debating for your
fatigue exercise but that unfortunately
is not the greatest index using this's a
lot of in between stuff so for example
how many people are really constrained
by both fatigue and time very few
CrossFitters are fatigue are constrained
by to my time people super busy
constrained by time initially so far
under there are movies that fatigue not
even remotely because that's why they
can superset deadlifts a shoulder press
you know and people who are constrained
by fatigue usually are you know higher
you know very involve Oaks competitive
bodybuilders and they can take all the
time they need but you are footed
pointing out a very interesting thing
but I've been to myself the way people
do like why don't you do like one arm
bicep curls and one arm lateral raises
or like one people I've seen people do
and it is apparently very good exercise
Daniel jolly does it the one leg leg
press and Daniel does it because it's
like the only thing that fits him and
the regular leg pressure sucks
I fucking hate all that shit personally
for myself does it fucking takes a
zillion fucking years
and that to me reduces my SFR because I
just get so much central fatigue after
being in the gym for forever I'm like
fuck this you know so even like one-arm
dumbbell rows sometimes I'm just like
god damn what a person yeah yeah I'm
lucky to be strong enough now that most
gyms just don't have one arm dumbbell
rows for me to use in any reasonable rep
range but I'm like thank God because
that exercise it takes a while right and
there's other exercises like so like a
really good exercise is the rear foot
elevated split squat especially if you
have a heel on your front foot I mean
it's fucking baller right
I just don't fucking do it because why
do when I get a tire but I can get on
the like cross do both fuck my shit up
and all of a sudden that's great so I
would say Daniel I think you're making a
proper calculation I would just make
sure you're filling in your volume
requirements or something more time
efficacious so like maybe you get a ton
of the single leg work a decent amount
out of double leg work
don't leave volume on the table period
if you could recover from it and benefit
you should still do it because you want
max gains so maybe that means for you
start with the single leg stuff or start
with the light presses or front squats
or something and then do as many of that
other exercise double leg as needs to
fill in the gaps so if you're only
willing to do 2 or 3 sets on time
constraints of single leg stuff make
sure your double leg stuff is taking up
the slack don't just do like one more
set of a single like stuff you maybe
wanted to take a fuck salient amount of
time and still under hit your volume
make sure that that doesn't happen but
otherwise yeah I think there definitely
trade off though James yeah I tend to be
a little bit polarized on the SFR and
STR work I kind of feel like if you are
you're training for one or the other
right you're training to either get the
most out that you can in the time
constrictions that you have or you're
not as constricted by time so you're
trying to get the best out of your
training that you can and I would say
probably just more distinctly biasing
towards one or the other is probably the
best bet rather than trying to meet in
the middle more often than not there are
certainly times where I could see trying
to find a happy medium is might be
useful but I think can I say something
real quick James yeah I think the sft
are combined index ranking is much
better at excluding completely retarded
exercise than is a ranking effect like
if something sucks
bad on the s FTR it just fucking sucks
like it either doesn't have an s FR that
even brings it into the SDR
side to be justified it's another way of
asking like for how quick this exercise
is is it remotely stimulative to fatigue
the answer is no it's like like
kettlebell swings super quick don't do
shit right like something like that so a
bad sft are bad news a good one if it
could be better SF arse or better STRs
depending on what you're looking right
and so that's just my opinion I'm not
start out that as the correct waste so
to me it's more of like a flow chart
works like is time constricted yes or no
right if it's yes then you go STR if
it's no then you go s fr that's that's
my take on it you don't have you know
take it or leave it but I would say if
you're not constricted by time pick the
ones that are best bang for your your
buck in terms of my muscle pumps
soreness all that stuff don't worry
about the time factor as much um give me
one quick second James this is from an
already-existing rp+ lecture no boy and
if I may share my screen yeah tah-dah
hmm there we go so that's does this work
slide sure
so you asked how high is your MRV right
and then you ask how much time can you
train are you like a lot of for training
if you have a ton of MRV like you're a
college student who's like 18 and you
have cafeteria food and you can train
forever because you're a college student
you have it to do after you do your
homework you just go for high rastamouse
back to it exercises right especially if
you're a hardgainer so college students
are like oh yeah deadlift hyssop or a
safari shut the fuck up deadlift you
asshole you need a big back you don't
need to worry about fatigue you'll never
gonna feel that shift 3 years if you're
MRV is a limiting factor but you have a
lot of time to Train like James was
saying you want to go for high assess
our exercises if you can't train for a
long time but relative to how much time
you can train you don't have to worry
about fatigue ton you have to go for
Str stimulus the time ratio exercises
something like CrossFit and then of
course hi SF TR is if you're constrained
on both but really these exercises
should be like exercises with a decent
SF TR should be your default movements
anyway
if someone's like on a weird novel
exercise that really sucks on this or
really sucks on that you just probably
just fucking sucks and a lot of times
the way you get a real badass of TR is
if you're roasting this magnitude was so
low the time and or the fatigue gobble
up any of the fucking points you get
there so yeah handy graduate yeah and
the good thing is is they're they're
watching this stuff on YouTube right so
folks can pause it and then look inside
shot it and put and steal it from you
and post it on there true just replace
the RP logos I remember James people
used to do that a lot John so you'll do
that based I still take a chart replace
our P with their own like fucking
cocksucker training personal training
and it's like hey he stole leather balls
I love it you guys made it like you
understand what giving credit is never
watching school agers
yes yes it's alright Martin cumaru hits
us with some big rocks
hey Doc shortly after my very productive
offseason where I tried my hand at
metabolite fades low rest 10 to 15 reps
high volume and a superset as much as I
possibly could I was sadly diagnosed
with lactic acidosis expect excess
buildup of lactic acid causing muscle
sprains
and other damage in my knees and
forearms hmm
this has possibly cause permanent knee
damage on the plus side of doctor
started going to detail about the
condition and showing the medical
student with him all the signs of it
because had perfect Anatomy and
definition okay I previously asked
questions about form seizing up after
training to the point of not being able
to move or stretch them and that was
apparently a symptom of that oddly
enough my knees felt completely fine
until I stopped training stop do 2d load
I was not doing any crazy stuff for
example for legs I would superset 250
kilo machine hip thrusts with 3 second
hold and 1 or 60 kilo deficit sumo
deadlifts then superset 250 kilo deep
leg press with 80 kilo Smith machine
squats taking as much weight off as I
needed to keep their upset plus sound so
I was very surprised when my doctor
diagnosed me considering the crazy
should mike and any others do
like higher up lunch it's about superset
with barely in rest between sets I was
quite amused when the doctor told me
that like pressing 250 kilos for 12 reps
was insane you need to calm down with
wait so your doctor is making a
categorical false statement it's not
insane it's something people do
regularly and you need to calm down with
the weight is probably bad advice he's
stepping out of his Lane a little bit
he's completely out of his Lane
yeah acidosis is not caused by weight
it's caused by a proximity to failure in
volume
anyway it was wandering a few already
some some of you know his dealt with
lactic acidosis and if there was
anything you did to help prevent it from
happening in the future I'm taking a
minimum of six weeks off completely for
training as advised by my doctor yeah
absolutely had to get injured it came at
the best time there are closing other
jobs anyway but I was wondering if there
are things they have found two official
to help prevent it from happening again
thank you so I don't know
so unfortunately we'd be stepping our
lanes from what I understand lactic
acidosis is a full-body blood work
effect that is not a localized effect
yeah I
these are joints I have no idea they get
lactic acidosis I think you've probably
been misdiagnosed and I think you should
probably go to a different doctor to see
if they can confirm them I would get a
second opinion and again I want to stay
in my lane here as well but I definitely
given it like the people's eyebrow on
that I don't know what it is first time
I've ever heard of local lactic acidosis
yeah and yeah I'm not sure so honestly I
think that's I would I would go for a
second opinion if it's within your
ability to do that because it seems a
little fishy but I could be wrong I
could be that you know you thought good
you mean you might hear back from the
other doc and they're like yep that's
totally correct and James and Mike are
dickheads so and then there we go but by
the way if he didn't run lab work on
your blood he can't make that diagnosis
so remember that and I mean like I just
wondering how they come across that
because like you could say like oh yeah
we could do a lactate stick on any part
of your body like it especially if you
had just trying it doesn't for
separating tissues though it's I mean
yeah nine out of ten he yeah he didn't
blood work and you were Tito acidotic
that's really bad and probably ticket of
a whole other shit has nothing to the
training but man ten is something fishy
and like I would be curious if it was
not like an arthritis type thing
right yeah that would make more sense to
me but again I'm not I'm not that kind
of doctor so I can't quite say all right
best of luck Martin or let us know
Sam Schneider says hey dr. micha dr.
James I have a question about training
at home I mean all for an endurance
athlete ultra distance running cycling
that dabbles in hypertrophy work I don't
know why the dude muscles are cool even
though they negative on impact my dress
performance lol Oh to think of it cool
I've been working at home with mostly
just body weight exercises I found that
I could generate enough stimulus in my
upper body little issue having my legs
order for story I've tried super sending
squats and lunges into some ungodly
sickening workouts I said we can't get
my quads to quit working that's because
you're an ultra Ashley I know we were
supposed to go closer to failure with a
little rest of these at home workouts
but ever ups are getting into the
hundreds and the sets to last you 30
plus minutes these workouts leave my
legs mildly fatigued the next day but
the brutality that was mentally draining
are doing this that's in this large even
when official yes but mildly and I
simply stimulating my slow twitch fibers
we're doing so yes but you make them be
composed of mostly slick fibers anyway
would it be more beneficial if I could
get the reps down to 50 per upset range
yes and the closer to 30 you get the
better am I better off crying alone on
my couch until I can access heavy
weights I think you should keep doing
you know whatever weights you have keep
training them keep yourself limber but I
would stop at maybe about 50 reps and
maybe you can even increase the velocity
of the movement and do some like jump
squats fold up jumping squats and very
very much watch the volume there because
it could be very fatiguing a nervous
system and connective tissues but
honestly I would just invest you know
now you're probably under some kind of
lockdown or something just invest more
time in the running now is the time for
you to back off the lifting and push the
fucking running and swimming and cycling
like crazy because he could do that shit
no problem and then when you come back
take a little lower volume running
swimming cycling
time and go back to the gym because I
think for someone of your slow twitch
nature if you don't have a lot of
weights at home yeah man I mean like you
need heavy weight because there's
nothing you're just gonna your endurance
is so good you're preventing yourself
from even accessing you're faster
through fibers with some maximal weight
James yeah so I think there's like I
have two suggestions the first one would
be you could try using some some
intensification technique
like I've experimented with this and I
found it to be useful to a point this is
one of those points that might be useful
as a exaggerated mind muscle connection
on some of the movements especially the
quad ones where you're really altering
movement pattern and being like hyper
conscientious of each part of the ascent
and downward part of the movement it is
kind of mentally draining to do so but
it really does fuck your particular
muscles up in a much more significant
way than not another thing that you
could try and doing is modifying from
like if you're just doing regular kind
of squats to something like a sissy
squat which is like I think of think of
Michael Jackson like up on your tiptoes
like hehe style and leaning back
normally I don't really recommend those
because for a lot of people can cause
like knee issues but it does put a lot
of tension through the quads and I had a
couple people recently who I do went on
once with who had them switch to that
and they reported like yeah that worked
really really good so sissy squats is
and may be a good alternative if you're
having a hard time really hitting your
quads in particular even if you have
just like some kind of like a backpack
that you can hold on to or akha weighted
vest or even just like a gallon of water
you can brace with one arm hold with the
other and those might get the job done
so I would say either modify your mind
muscle connection type activities or
maybe try different squat variant and
see if that works yeah very good advice
you'd also try some my reps I don't know
if you're doing that already but once
you get to I once the rep gets gets card
you don't rest for a full amount of time
you just rest for like one of the two
seconds then I keep going to failure
again once you seconds keep going to
failure what did you think it's keep
going to failure but if your first set
is a hundred cheese that's not really uh
[Music]
yeah and there's not much I mean there's
not much you can do to fix it at that
point outside of using more weight or
just doing a different technique
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app all
right yeah I'm Sonya says hey dr. hope
you're doing well on these strange times
first to cook so I clarification about
be swapping leg presses if you happen
remember I do remember this one I said
was getting a lot of raw stimulus but
the exercise selection algorithms
indicating I should change it I realized
that was someone confusing I was getting
a lot of stimulus great pumps and so on
but the fatigue was crazy I was getting
trashed and for the last night so I
didn't gain rep strength oh very good
that was my reasoning great reasoning
that's going to change it
well now I'm forced to ditch like
pressing so it doesn't matter that sucks
and yes by well you'll pick it up when
you come back and yes by leaving like
dr. mike style I meant exactly what
James implied I correct him I should
have said Nikko I know as always going
deep on my feet will wait hiring the
platform for some reason places are very
low changed everything
yeah it makes a huge difference if
you're not used to doing it that way for
sure my favorite thing and people you
know when the gyms are open people hit
me up in they're like man you know I'm
gonna be so it so I'm gonna be in town
and I want to work out like I have
trouble hitting my quads like six sets
later they're like I think I'm dying I'm
like you are dying
number two home training update and some
questions I ordered a barbell a bunch of
plates an adjustable dumbbells so I can
load north of 50 kilos each homes nice
they also goes later super 5 kilos so
pretty much set to run one mezzo as
usual except for quads and chest nice I
do not have a rack in a bench which I
will get if the current situation has
continued for months
I do realize this may sound radical that
I do not necessarily need all that to
have productive training but I figured
lifting makes me happy and this is not
putting in deads in my finances so heck
I why not be equipped yeah also usually
them as a three even or six days a week
frequency my workouts are getting so
long and grueling too by the end over my
trial have some two days but I would
hate the hassle of going to the gym
twice
now I would have the option of one of
them session or gym session for machine
work if I chose to or for slacked I was
really prolonged to home sessions okay a
chest training I have a really hard
couch cushion that I put on the floor
and lie on it allows my elbow all the
way back I choose Robin dumbbell
pressing I could touch dumbbells outside
my chest before my elbows touch the
ground sort of pain to pick up and put
down I do have to use a lower weight to
do this discomfort but I'll take it
instead of no pressing flies with a deep
stretch are also easy that way for upper
chest I serve a slow eccentric deep
deficit push-ups with elevated feet and
a 45-ton weight best brutal but I can
obviously do many other types of
push-ups weighted and body weight my
question is it would be better to have
different higher up range of dumbbell
pressing so I have some exercise
variations for later or seek as much
variety as possible for better stimulus
um I think that you can just pick two or
three different types of push-ups
most of them being deficit various hand
positions and inclines and they will
take care of your chest training so
fucking well that the dumbbell stuff you
can do some dumbbell flyes but I would
either save the double pressing or
introduce a little bit of certain kind
of double-crossing develop wrestling
unless you have a bench test so we're
pretty poorly um and also you know you
might just not have dumbbells heavy
enough to make a difference but I would
say the push ups are such a great chest
stimulus especially if you them deficit
style that you might not need deficits
in my reps right see you like 25 wide
grip push-ups to failure and then you
rest three seconds and you do there's a
manatee failure you can touch like five
and you do five again in a five again in
five you're gonna fucking blow up and
then some other time the week you do a
closer grip pushup and it just fucks you
up so so much good news is upper chest
versus lower chest is such a non-issue
four months of training you can just
focus on just your chest in general do
no incline work at all during this time
when the gyms open back up you can do an
incline specific model cycle James yeah
totally um I think yeah I don't think
like if you wanted to do like some flies
on a day for example for maybe some
higher reps that certainly would be good
in a variety of ways but I don't think
it's necessary either I think what
Mike's saying is like
you can get by with very little during
this time you know otherwise if you can
set it up where you have a variety of
loads and rep range just like you would
in a normal mesocycle that would
definitely still be a good practice I
think that I think kind of the idea here
is with these at home workouts is uh
just don't make it unnecessarily
complicated just do the best with what
you got and you know if you can modify
it and kind of keep the same general
bones of the program that you are
running before great do that that's
great if you have to just do push-ups
and you just have to do like sissy
squats and lunges then just do that too
and that's also fine the goal for the
at-home workouts while you're on
lockdown is muscle maintenance for the
most part and that's very easy to do yep
I was still experimenting with quads I
started doing pistol squats that's
another good one I keep forgetting to
mention those are it's a it's a tough
one to do yes the balance component but
if yes oh he actually hits that up he
says but I wonder if I'm getting much
out of them or they're just difficult
with not much contribution to
hypertrophy I cannot squat as heavies as
I cannot clean overhead press and lower
way back that is heavy enough I can do
that with some weight and put the 45
pound weight vest and have some fun that
way that brings me to what is the effect
of the different weight distribution how
different a squatting sets let's say no
195 pound barbell then 150 plus 45 I'm
best not important just curious I would
say it's almost almost completely
irrelevant James I think it's the only
thing that would really affect is how
the mass is distributed across your body
in terms of balancing and then like very
very very very my new changes in muscle
activation from the from the center of
gravity of the where the wispy placed on
but other than that nothing and then he
says for my last quad session of this
experimental week I tried heel elevated
squats with a very lightweight very high
rep that ruined my day properly keep
doing those there's a great yeah I also
do on a chair especially if someone is
holding the chair front foot elevated
heel rear foot on the chair single leg
squats with two dumbbells one in each
hand and you could even do it just with
no dumbbells but with a weighted vest
those are super super fucked up and you
could sort of do them with twenty
seconds rest between each leg because
you never use you know both legs at the
same time those are really really
intense too between those two just
my erupting regular squats with the
weight you have you should be just fine
those ones always fuck up my glutes
really bad yeah it's hard for me that's
one of those who like just it's probably
anthropometry thing where it's hard for
me to use those as a quad movement cuz I
don't get a ton of quad out of it and
then my ass is like completely destroyed
yeah i understood i realized i realized
how that sound but i'm sticking with it
i says so i'm able to get some really
good at home training the lack of proper
heavy pressing and squatting is when you
start slightly higher volume for chest
and quads a bit higher frequency insane
cluster failure these very high
exercises that go up those thirty reps
as out of a sneaky it's not a mistake
it's exactly what you should be doing i
will naturally as such as i go but I
would appreciate your thoughts I think
that's great yeah yeah don't with the
and this is for everybody listening like
again the goal for these home workouts
is generally just muscle maintenance and
if you're trying to mass during your
homework at this lockdown time maybe
switch to maintenance for a little bit
until you go back to the gym if you are
cutting or maintaining the training goal
shifts from whatever you were doing
really just to muscle retention at this
point which again is very easy to do and
there's been a doctor my wife doctor
wife over here I posted some stuff on
Instagram of things you can do to change
your programs I know that you some other
people that are even working on some
stuff and there's probably more on the
way so just keep that in mind like
muscle maintenance pretty easy modify
and adapt stay the course the best that
you can yeah number three before this
pandemic for ships to close I was do a
massing phase and measure one that I
figured it does I don't I just said I
maintain calm down now they have some
equipment safe to say I'm good to masks
yeah just Maslow if you feel here's the
thing about asking if you have the time
and you have the weights and you have
the technique and a routine to get a
good raw stimulus magnitude will see
sorry all that being said I'm really
excited for the upcoming home training
templates and check out the level of
suffering these workouts will cause I'm
also working on a product that is the
super advanced at home training
templates just for shits and giggles
because I had to make it myself because
now myself and Charlie are training at
home so there's a product in the works
that me
within the week it is a entire block of
eight ten and then twelve sessions per
week and it's gonna suck so if you want
to die
not from coronavirus but from training
that's a good way to go it's gonna make
your your house and ice sweaty meets on
I'm sure yeah
number four what are some of your must
read non training related books I know
there's a broad question but I read all
nonfiction if you'd like throwing some
fiction feel free I got a bunch of books
but I would say that the blank slate by
Steven Pinker and basic economics by
Thomas ol or two books that I think if
you read you'll understand way more
about the world than almost I also have
a Steven Pinker enlightenment now is
really great also better angels there's
another book of his that's really good
and this is actually one of my favorite
books I've read it like a hundred
thousand times and I will keep doing so
it's actually a manga so it's kind of
different if you're not used to that you
read it kind of right to left instead of
left to right they made a movie of the
Tom Cruise uh they made a remake of this
but it's a fucking awesome manga if you
guys ever want something to read it's
really really really really good and I'm
probably gonna read it again later today
now that I know that I pulled it off the
bookshelf I'm like oh I forgot about
this oh yeah what's it called all you
need is kill the movie that they read
they kind of made a movie paralleling
the story it was an edge of tomorrow the
manga is much better in my you know of
course it is but it really is much
better it's really good fucking nerd
mm-hmm I have plenty of plenty of comic
book graphic novel recommendations if
you guys want all right Thomas Jenko ski
and jump off ski says hi docks I know
you're both coping just fine so fuck the
well wishes I love me yep just kidding
clearly maybe old jokin some humor is
more useful online good vibes anyway the
joke was highly appreciated
mmm-hmm definitely okay if someone has
been lifting for over 10 years fucking
around for a few of them ever goes for a
pyramid I'm started
question my curb mass I feel like the
volume you need to effectively go just
really high I started out this current
block after finishing up blocks
maintenance and then cut week one had me
pretty sore from just two cents for most
exercises push-pull legs repeating total
ten to sixteen and most body parts weeks
three and four and subsequent
subsequently up in my food that's trying
to make the scale go up I was
essentially doubling that volume more in
some and feeling barely any soreness
maybe a minimal pomp at best do you
think I was getting more sore at the
start because my calories were lower and
lower than that maybe even potentially
lower annotations to I don't think
that's the case or is it just because
I'm experienced and my body gets
accustomed to high volumes very quickly
maybe and if I'm getting accustomed to
it am I still growing or do I have to
hammer the volume or so longer than
recovering of course so my question is
how close to failure are you going
because if you're not getting closer and
closer to a failure as you go weeks
weeks weeks you can add lots of volume
is still I get sore but if you're
increasing the weight of the bar or in
Cushing the reps and you're going closer
and closer to failure every week
generally tend to get very very sore
continually because you're increasing
the first set stimulus every single time
so before and I think that's worth a
mention yeah dreams
yeah definitely and just with I know
there's more to the questions probably
touch on this but you know just at first
glance to me that sounds kind of like
two things come to mind RAF top my head
is a you might be experiencing some
staleness on some of the movements that
you're using maybe it's time for some
swap out some new movements or to you
yeah you might just be due for a recent
citizen pay recent citizen phase all
around that when you're really not
getting pumps and you can you know kind
of flat like that and your volumes to
seems to be infinite and you're just
that's just like a common either time to
swap out new movements or time to take a
low volume phase and recuperate a little
get you got a low volume face might be a
real good idea I know this is only
thinking extent but I think it makes for
good theoretical discussion on top of
that these such as about 45 minutes to
90 minutes real quick I've tried a
supergiant alternating set non-competing
muscle groups but even though I am in
decent shape I don't get to guest I know
this might be a compromise it is but are
there any solutions to try to reduce
this time the only thing you think of is
targeting one muscle group for each
mezzo and hammering that or falling your
mouse keeping the others I mean that's
good idea
use Becca did nothing but my reps and I
just don't think long-term strategy it
works it doesn't I stopped myself short
of using the word hack because it's
really not where I'm trying to do just
try anything practically thanks so much
guys also I'm worried about those
questions don't apply right now we've
got nothing but time but for the future
reference theoretical discussion
purposes perhaps yes so one thing you do
is go closer to failure that always
works nothing you do is practice which
representing and maybe target the ones
that get you more fucked up and target
less or the ones that don't and also
consider splitting the training into
multiple sessions per day I think it's
some level of advancement that just
works better also think of my muscle
connection and technique and make sure
you're really getting a lot out of every
exercise but especially if you're not a
very fast twitch individual especially
if you're a slower twitch sometimes the
volume of work it takes to get bigger is
really insane and it sort of keeps
growing and in that case it's just
genetics and you have to make some
trade-offs James yeah I agree with all
those points and Tommy already kind of
touched on this but this is kind of the
classic intermediate to advanced and
conundrum is that you might just need to
do specialization phases from this point
on like you might not be able to do if
you're I don't maybe I missed it or
maybe he said otherwise but if you're
doing a whole body mass that just might
be off the table at this point you might
just be accruing too much systemic
fatigue from doing all the other stuff
to really get a super good growth
stimulus for any one particular thing so
I would say it might be worth thinking
about putting you know non prioritized
muscle groups at MV and then really
training the the ones that you want
really really hard so I'm actually doing
that right now I finished my cut we got
back from Thailand I took like a one
week of like a little bit of a cutting
and I just started my arms and delts
focused mass that means basically chest
back legs are on M V and god damn does
that feel good you know how good it
feels to not have to train legs hard oh
my god I haven't done this thing oh my
god I just do arms everyday arms and
delts every day baby I'm on the ultimate
blow bro split my time has come
finally but yeah so you're probably in a
similar situation and you're gonna
probably have to start thinking about
doing that more
Brandon Armstrong I have a question
about a home training due to that gotcha
you guys have already answered a
question on training certificate during
this time period that I'll soon learn
answers anyway however I do want to get
guys thoughts for when I do reenter the
gym what would be the would be best if I
crowbar just smash the glass of the rock
gotcha again I'm not planning on Daymond
ask a real question shitty jokes aside I
was two days shy at the end of masking
phase when you've got closed until the
quarantine Arrangements I will not be
able to okay I lied that was the last
one Jesus Christ planned a band so I
have a plan to do what I can at my very
small flat that involves extremely
limited options four legs and pushing
and nothing to pull until I can get some
bands in eating at maintenance however
when the quarantine is over how would
you guys recommend a structure my ranch
or lifting easing back in is the obvious
answer correct but where do I go after
that you just keep easing until it's
harder yeah that's it I was coming off a
mass phase one my gym closed down with a
plan to do maintenance phase followed by
ten week straight block / mini cuts
before peaking I'm actually testing but
I'll be able to now my current plan for
entry training is to mass again for
truth or eise to try to regain a muscle
memory lose don't do that and a lot for
strength to return to similar levels as
before then amin his face I wouldn't do
that and I would do a maintenance phase
for like eight weeks and you will gain
muscle and lose fat at the same time
because your lifting is so much more
intense that accomplishes both massing
and maintain and you'll you'll slowly be
regaining any lost muscles that point to
so yeah you could after that I plan to
start my straight flock and have a
couple many cuts during time to get rid
of extra fat by the end of this training
cycle and eventually start walking you
know that's totally fine
I'm not too sure about this plan I'm
hoping you guys can help steer in the
right direction I don't know how long it
would be good enough to regain muscle on
strength provided that the core generis
vein ends about mid April or early May
hopefully not me later yeah so yeah
that's ease in so starting to don't eat
it surplus needed maintenance the entire
like sort of eating weeks and then start
with like one or two sets of shit and a
little sorry it'll pump add one or two
cents Gillis or you little pump keep
doing that until you're back to normal
volumes and then a couple weeks after no
volume
as muscular as ever and that yeah I just
keep in mind like your volume landmarks
have shifted as a result of this time
right so when you're training really
hard for a long time they kind of shift
to the right meaning they go up up up up
you got to keep doing more and more at
least your mev does more distinctly in
your MRV as you gain more capacity and
recovery ability tends to do a little
bit of that over time but when you take
time off they shift the other direction
right as you become increasingly
sensitized through training and your
work capacity goes down as a result of
not doing a whole lot right so keep in
mind you can't use the same numbers that
you had been using for the last several
months or mesos or blocks you're gonna
have to shift all those things down very
very distinctly so you might only be
doing you know one or two sets per
muscle group per session when you come
back and that might only go up by one
set or maybe not even might just go up
by more reps the next time you come in
left because you have taken a lot of
time off so just don't assume that what
you you're gonna go back to the same
numbers that you have been using your
numbers have shifted down drastically
and you're gonna have to progress
accordingly yeah le Paulin says hey guys
two quick questions I've been training
for four months to which degree should
have beginner tend to diaper areas
exposing routes outside 2.0 uh I think
your converse on the route sounds too
high 2.0 so I think you should get your
calorie in order your protein your and
eat four to six balanced healthy meals
per day and not worry about much for
anything else yeah and even sometimes
for a beginner it's more about just like
developing good habits
yeah right like weighing yourself
regularly hydrating regularly making
sure that your meals have protein in it
and vegetables and it's like some good
carb sources like those kind of habits
go a long way and then you kind of start
adding on things like okay I'm gonna
think about how many calories or how
many protein like those are things you
can start tacking on as you go but I
think the beginning it's more about
developing good habits yeah at least for
a healthy meal centered around protein
and some good carbs veggies fruits and
like weighing yourself and doing those
types of like just look the kind of just
stuff that you're gonna need to do later
on anyway next question is is a
detrimental a long run for the use of
team most of protein take from soy pea
protein Eissler shakes particularly as
they potentially contain copper or metal
chips lubricants and cleaning or
sanitizing
coming from the attracting a browse I
have no idea I know certainly no studies
were conducted on long term stuff I'm
not even sure how many studies been
conducted on me cleaning and sanitizing
agents and I say that you know the meat
you get at the store maybe has all that
on the meat so I don't think it's almost
certainly not an issue but I don't know
specifically so it's something to look
into
should a smell yeah you can smell do you
want a vegan related question okay so is
it detrimental in the long run for
vegans to obtain most of their protein
intake from soy and pea protein isolates
shakes particularly as they potentially
contain copper or metal chips lubricants
and cleaning and sanitizing agents
coming from the extracting apparatus
[Music]
alright let's see how well I remembered
all that so Mel said vegan omnivore or
otherwise it's probably not great to get
most of your protein from powdered
sources it's probably not in your best
interest to get more than 25% of your
daily protein from soy we just don't
know you should probably think about
trying to get more whole food sources
and I kind of forgot the last one well
we don't know so but that seems to be a
pretty reasonable explanation for now if
you okay I think that's good I think did
you hear that my card could you hear
yeah you make it here
mark Conway says greetings from
newcastle upon tyne indoors Mike and
James such weird verbiage yeah thanks
again for answering last week's question
I'll be sure to relay the numerous
benefits of female physique templates to
my girlfriend to ensure the RPM package
seeds to grow although thanks James for
your advice on the Rogaine I just
started using it myself so we will be
able to delay the inevitable toilet-seat
birdsnest even if not I will consider
using finasteride as it seems to be safe
for the vast majority of people out of
interest is something you have or would
consider using yourself you're balding
reoccurred or organist are you oh yeah
so I think keep in mind you might have
to lag do like a weird you know Baldy
selfie to make sure that it's we're
working for because some people it
doesn't work it works for like 80% of
people for me I had to like actually
take pictures of my head to make sure
that it was working and confirm and it
did so hopefully you're in the same
situation I honestly I don't know what
finasteride is I'm guessing that's like
propecia right or am i I have no I have
no idea to be honest um so if I'm
assuming it's propecia I could be
totally wrong on that I have never
actually looked into it honestly my I
stopped looking into this because my
Rogaine was working for now and you know
it's one of those things at some point
like for me personally I feel like once
the Rogaine is not cutting it anymore
then it's like just you just got to make
peace with it at some point uh that's
kind of my take on I don't know I never
really looked into it I might actually
look into it more now that you bring it
up ya know
next question for mark is actually
pretty short
this week's question relates to training
in our ever-changing fire world I was
very fortunate to have completed the
final week of a five-day male physique
template and at 10 to 20 reps before my
gym clothes there's no estimate look
Mike I just listened to all the great
info you put out in the our podcast
about training home during isolation
based on this I devising a high volume
program solely structured on my trusty
nine kilogram dumbbells my questions of
both of you are should I take it easy
this week in an attempt to emulate my
dealer using the devil's best I can or
should I start the high volume
program this week this is a majority of
loads are going to be significantly
lighter easy answer is take it easy
because it's a fucking deal Lord week I
use the dealer to dealer don't get into
crazy honors remember the dumbbells and
television we planned like we described
me are people outcasts you can fuck
yourself
into the moon so yeah don't just jump
the gun go easy that sounds like a kinky
adult film fuck yourself into the moon I
don't have as a moon it's just so plain
and made of cheese I'm imagining like a
weird astronaut theme I had a really
pastor not nice I had a good I was
leading Charlie's house earlier after
training and I had a good I mean like a
like a European superhero because
Charlie helped me I was really pretty
warm outside and I had to tie my jacket
around my shoulder so Charlie showed me
how to do that and I looked like I had a
cape and he's like look you're look like
a superhero and I was like oh yeah but
like a European super not something like
really out there and violent like
Superman was taking justice into his own
hands it's like more hero as a kind of
it helped you a rate awry you know
figure out your own arrangements and it
really peace negotiation not like stupid
American GI Joe jozek it out good like
Euro like perception of what Americans
think was hero yes Superman he just
basically destroys was forced and his
red white and blue got it that's like
American military same thing they're
actually doing I think the next animated
movie they're doing is red Sun which I
really like that seriously because it
starts off you kind of think like oh man
like the socialist guys are like always
better than the capitalist guys now but
then at the end like it kind of comes
full circle you're like that yeah yeah
thank you though theater dancer who's
been personal I'm looking forward to
making most of a situation and get to
work from home spend more time with my
partner and talking with friends too
close I hope game and watching classic
Marvel cartoons or Disney Plus stay safe
and I hope both you and your family have
a good Corona all of us mark have a good
Corona that's a funny way of my Corona
Mountain well he was really prescient to
that's a nice young man that wrote that
song Mel and I are still like like many
people who are like stupid and so like I
subscribed to ESPN plus and
Mel subscribes to Hulu Plus neither of
us subscribe to the fucking Disney Plus
which covers all of them Bach there you
go I'm gonna do it sooner or later oh I
think we literally subscribe Disney Plus
but we also subscribe to who learn a
different account that's really bad
do you so it's like it's one of those
things where it's like it's so much it's
it's not that much effort but the
thought of like ah I gotta figure out
how to cancel this one and what call
fuck I don't yes enjoy my money economy
Zack drawl back from dealing the
substance after which he is named says
hello friends with the come flu going
around that's pretty good I've heard
that I've heard that's a like not well
don't get me wrong I'm not into the the
over PC camp but I've heard that that is
like now a very like thumbs down way of
phrasing it oh yeah yeah Trump made
their usual ridiculous remark trees like
the Chinese virus someone's like isn't
that racist he's like nah I don't know
he came from China it's a Chinese virus
like yeah asshole your TV came from
China to don't call the Chinese TV dumb
asshole dude you can't like it's like
Trump's immune to criticism at this
point like he's too fucking retarded he
says whatever I know everyone's like
whatever okay you just said those things
that are like wrong or insensitive and
ever just like yeah good to heaven
leading dreams yeah great so great all
right with the country going around our
state has shut down so as many of you
have done I set up a home gym I've also
done a motorcycle that has two day
training up frequency Yahoo any land a
frequency general is good but would it
also follow to reason that
high-frequency could possibly eat a
muscle retention or a deficit yes mm-hmm
one problem I'm running into is the
estimated MeV because Soros has all the
disappeared with the added frequency
what are your thoughts well you're going
to go on pump and the perception of
muscle destruction and also if you're
not getting superstore then you can
probably do more you know me higher than
anything I think for some of these like
and you know that seems to be the topic
of this week's webinars to at home
workouts but I think like if you can get
a pump and a burn going you're probably
in a good good spot right even if you're
not getting super sore like chase the
pump chase the burn if you get that
you're probably and you're doing
properly black
yeah probably doing pretty good
if after the workout your muscles feel
like fucked you're good like if after if
after a quad workout at home you can run
up the stairs and not feel a thing
you just keep training if after a quad
workout like two days from there or one
day you don't feel any Dom's but trying
to get up the stairs like fifteen
minutes after you're like holy shit my
legs don't work that's a good sign
yeah so totally muscle destruction
locally so mad at info I'm just coming
off a dealer and I break as I went from
250 to 230 nice this is likely the last
leg of the diet before I get amped up I
figure maybe is risen due to that having
been a deficit for a bit anyway yeah
Miami B's HL Evans less in general I
started as Mozart 12 and I'm now 14 with
Leela no soreness pumps are suitable and
pushing it beforehand and I've heard
from my boy James my form is good my man
he knew it was coming
right so says you Zack crawl your farms
prize shit bro nope nope still still
form yeah I mean I think like in these
cases too like if the exercise variance
that you're using at 3:00 or at home
workouts just kind of you know you can
get through it but it's not really
disruptive like Mike was talking about
earlier think about adding more reps
adding more sets shortening rest times
adding mind muscle connection like being
a little more conscientious of those
things those are all perfectly
acceptable especially like when you're
using something like you know like a
squat like an unloaded squat variation
like you might have to do a fuckload of
them to really get something out of it
it's probably can't use your same base
mev numbers that you would normally use
in a gym situation where all things are
high SFR or at least higher than home
workout those might not be quite as
applicable might be good like kind of
reference point but you might have to
shift those up a little bit just because
the exercises that you're doing just
aren't as estimates stimulated all right
let's go to the tubes let's do it
[Music]
let us do the random YouTube walk all
right Samuel Turner says we're doing
overhead press before incline bench
increase chest stimulation as the delts
and triceps are already tired it would
not do here is why relatively speaking
the chest EMG would be very high which
is cool and it would make you think all
the chest is being stimulated because
the chest has to start getting activated
relatively soon because the delts and
triceps are already tired the problem is
your repetitions would drop so much that
the amount of total quality percent
chest stimulus declines so if you really
want to fuck the chest up with an
exercise that's really specific to it
train the chest first and potentially if
you're really concerned with a ton of
fatigue from an exercise like incline
press you can get the same amount of
chest activation and stimulus by
training fly exercise first and then the
chest is limiting factor all the other
stuff afterwards so that those are the
two options I would not train a muscle
to become a limiting factor so the other
muscles has to rely on it yes that's
actually how it works so relatively
speaking your chest is more active but
it's active for like six reps versus
like 10 which sucks
yeah I agree totally okay not a real one
but all mini obstacle turn in place is
just another word for quarantine I guess
it was a comment on our video not a
question yeah I mean it's true alright
Rubeus Hagrid was sweet name and he
looks like a cool person thoughts on
daily lunchmeat as protein source sliced
turkey chicken no nitrates and
preservatives well fuck man if there's
no nitrate preservatives a okay with me
James yeah I mean like generally I would
say like heavily processed meats
probably wouldn't be the most ideal
choice as your number one but if it's
just Lex literally just sliced turkey
and chicken like yeah that's the same as
getting check-in our Turkey so go for it
that's fine
all right let's take Mohammed's question
and be done with it be done with it
Mohammed not there says hey Docs I have
a few questions if you don't mind number
one you guys mentioned that it might be
useful to go from him if he'd ever be
even undercut since it can cause
satellite cell proliferation I think yet
maybe which it translates to more growth
on max massing phase how likely is this
to happen no clue
you know it's feasible but if we don't
eat yeah it's it's a feasible thing that
couldn't happen we just don't really
know whether you remember it did so the
MRV comes to you anyway on a cot right
so you will end up doing this anyway so
it might be so you could also it might
be said to that point right if you have
already done years of really really
productive massing right you might have
already tapped into a lot of those type
of gains where when you switch to cut
and MRV comes to you that month that may
not be enough stimulus anymore to
actually have trigger things like
satellites of elevation because it's so
low so much lower than what you could be
doing on mass so those places but I
think as like an intermediate that
option is feasible as an advanced
probably not yeah because do your best
efforts aside you simply won't be able
to produce the raw stimulus magnitude
necessary number two how should a
powerlifter decide between a strength
phase or a hypertrophy phase assuming
there's no competition soon and does the
decision different between different
experience levels and you tell a power
lifters need wiper two phases they're
gonna have to move the bar more distance
which requires more muscle thanks for
the great work so really the only answer
here is a fairly simple one or the main
answer is how you stack up in your
weight class and do you have to
Prometric we have the desire and/or the
ability to move up away class or down a
weight class for example if you were
jacked all shit you know one of the most
jacked guys in your weight class but
you've done a ton of hypertrophy work to
get there but nerely you're not as
strong as some of the other guys and
just that's not a strong yeah you know
what you're not gonna do trying to purge
free work for example a good good what
is a meets appear you guys might
remember him anything is still around
he's a Susan I need pro bodybuilders
fucking enormous and then he
transitioned a panel of T and ended up
breaking the all-time Scott
I got a whole bunch at 181 198 but he
didn't do any high-pressure short at all
he actually just did exclusively
strength work for years and years until
he broke the records because he and all
of us we would never need he was over
muscles for his classes and his mobility
wasn't even good and the specificity was
all wrong
right so contrast that with like let's
take your example of a taller powder
let's say you're like y'all suit you're
not from the United States let's say
you're like a meter 90 and you weigh
like 75 kilos and you're like yeah I'm
your new bunch of strength phases like
okay you're good like never being
competitive like you need to mass up for
sure so then you need to do two to one
or a three to one hypertrophy to
strength so it's really all and then
I'll kick it off the James because this
is area to wrap it up it's needs
analysis based where are you and what do
you need to get where you wanna go yeah
I think you nailed it I think the needs
analysis will really tell you like where
you stack up relative to your
competitors at your weight class so if
for example if you're somebody who
struggles to make weight right where
it's like a legit chore and you really
have to do a really good job with your
recombinant stuff because you drop a lot
to get that weigh-in you probably don't
want to do a total hypertrophy work
otherwise it's gonna push you up and
over into that next weight class
potentially and so you might choose a
lot of strength on the other hand if you
are kind of you know average body comp
or maybe even a little bit less on the
lbm side than some of the people that
you compete against then that you could
make a very strong case and say hey
strength training is fine it's
powerlifting like getting stronger as
always a good idea but you probably
would benefit more in the long term from
putting on some more muscle mass and
filling out your weight class a little
bit more so I think Mike Mike nailed
that one all right well that's it we're
gonna wrap the reminder
yeah one more reminder folks I'm gonna
start doing another series I don't
office going to be weekly or maybe every
other week or we'll figure that out as
we go but it's gonna be just like dr.
James talks on sports and I'll do some
training programs on the fly for you
guys so if you guys have some really
sports specific like that last one from
what's that guy's name something
Muhammad I believe if you have to later
Mohammad nadir yeah if you have
questions like that like really really
sports specific ones about you know
whether it's like rugby or soccer or
powerlifting whatever you can just go
ahead and pop them into this video's
comments and if you want to label them
for me specifically that would be
awesome
and then I will compile those and I'll
have some fun stuff to do if you guys
have some interesting
scenarios like hey I got a competition
coming up in six months and I have some
weird restrictions I have this athlete
I'm not really sure what to do how much
time I should be doing TPP versus SPP
stuff those are all perfect prime kind
of stuff for that talk so go ahead and
pop those in the comment section if you
haven't already done so make sure you
subscribe to the RP Fein
dr. Mike's been going hard on the RP
videos lately I see you I see your
presents pumpkin and some of them
Scott and I are on the fucking ravage
still recording a ton and we're gonna
have videos on tomorrow so watch for
them because there'll be cool training
videos on our team yeah so comment below
make sure you guys subscribe and then we
will be back for next week's weekly
webinar as normal so we'll talk to you
next time be homies