you've got three sets to do after a few
light warm-up sets should you do
Straight sets with the same weight for
all three sets do pyramid sets starting
light for set one going a little heavier
for set two and then do your heaviest
set on set three or should you do
reverse pyramid sets starting with your
heaviest weight and then going a bit
lighter on set two and three well the
advantage of reverse pyramid sets is
that you'll probably move more total
weight that's because you'll be doing
your heaviest set first when you're the
freshest I find this approach is best
for people have both strength and size
goals the advantage of doing normal
pyramid sets is that you'll get your
joints nice and warmed up from set one
to set three I find this approach is
best for older lifters or lifters with
really cranky joints now the advantage
of doing straight sets with the same
weight is that it's really easy to track
your progress from week to week this is
actually what I do personally for this
2023 review of 15 studies actually found
no difference between straight sets
versus pyramid sets for muscle growth it
seems they can all work as long as you
do