here's how creatine is bad for you in
order to find that out you're going to
have to go to your school nurse and have
a ratoff make belief cuz it's all make
belief they have not found any reliable
ways in which creatine is bad for you if
you take 5 grams of it per day for
months on end it's just not a thing next
time folks tell you creatine's bad ask
them how maybe you'll learn something or
maybe they'll just talk themselves into
not having anything to say cuz they
didn't to begin
with hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I've been a professor of
exercise and Sport Science for a while
at am a competitive bodybuilder and
Brazilian juicer Grappler but none of
that matters because today we're talking
about creatine and creatine loves you no
matter who you are unfortunately
creatine comes with some facts about its
use and what it does and a crapload of
myths and I'm sure you've heard a lot of
these myths in the past we are going to
generate some clarity today and get to
the real real about how to take creatine
what it does what the downsides are and
so on Creatine technically helps a bit
with the following parameters one Repeat
Performance if you typically do sets of
10 on Creatine you might be able to do
of 11 or 12 nothing has changed other
than the ability to push a little harder
towards the end it can improve Sprint
performance jump performance and even
grappling performance in repeat style
creatine can help boost your strength a
little bit over time in the 3 to six
repetition range it can also do that and
creatine robustly helps add a small but
notable amount of muscle size to your
body which is dope which is why most
people take it it's got a few other cool
health benefits later we'll talk about
but for now those are its core
proposition of why people take it that's
the reality but there are lots of myths
out there your school nurse may have
told you that creatine is going to
poison you it's coming for you even when
you sleep your dad's 90-year-old Doctor
Who half the time doesn't know who he is
and the other half says creatine is bad
for you your mom I'm not buying you
creatine that's poison you're only 15
years old I she's Jewish congratulations
the Bro at the GNC isn't helping much
either because you come to your parents
and your school nurse and your dad's
90-year-old doctor for some fucking bad
advice and then you go over to the GNC
bro who sells you supplements no offense
GNC and he's like yeah man this fucking
revolutionize your shit bro you're going
to get five times bigger and 18 times
more jacked and this kind of creatine
man I don't usually give it to people
that young because it's fucking more
powerful than steroids which is all
bullshit creatine does not measure up to
Pharmaceuticals but it does work pretty
well and it we'll get to what kind of
Health side effects it has in a bit so
let's get some facts and fiction sorted
before we know more false things about
creatine than we do real ones which is
really the case for a lot of people all
right let's get to Source first where
should you be getting your creatine
other than the store Amazon which is
also a store on the internet but
seriously creatine monohydrate is the
standard it's been studied the most it's
been the most vetted it's been the most
safety controlled everything down the
line other creatines can work creatine
chloride I believe is effective for
example but other creatines don't work
for example creatine ethylester which
used to be a big deal of a few years
back doesn't even clear the GI tra it
does not leave your gut you just shit it
right the fuck out mostly unaltered
which means it doesn't get into your
muscles and it doesn't do you any
goddamn good so buy creatine am of
hydrate is my overwhelming best advice
to you and unless it's fake creatine
creatine is so easy to make usually the
brands don't matter either so just take
the cheap stuff from Brands you know
that sell good stuff I usually buy
creatine from like Optimum Nutrition
because they've been around for like a
generation and the creatine is price
competitively and it's just creatine and
it's all I fucking want no fancy
bullshit now to be completely honest I
just lied to you there I don't actually
use opun nutrition creatine I use a
special blend that they make personally
for me it is infused with diamonds
diamonds darling that's actually what
it's called creatine diamonds Darling by
Dr Mike why because I like to urinate
out an obscene amount of wealth if
you're not into that category don't buy
fancy creatines just get creatine
monohydrate it's the best you're welcome
I just saved you a ton of money what
about the dose okay we have the source
how much creatine do we take anywhere
between 2 to five grams per day is good
for almost everyone unless you are pro
strongman sized then maybe 5 to 10 grams
on occasion is a fine idea almost
everyone including very large 200
something pound bodybuilders can start
with and end with five grams of creatine
per day that's really good there's no
reason to take less there's no reason to
take more in almost any
case some folks will try to get you to
take more creatine than that because
they will allege that you will become
Superman from doing it but they usually
just want to sell it to you and make
more money off of you and want you to go
through it faster so you Reby again
other people will say you take less
creatine you don't need five grams just
two is good it's less toxicity but
creatine does not have an acute or
chronic toxicity enhancement effect it
is just not a concern so fuck them
that's bullshit five grand folks you
heard of here first hopefully not first
but you heard of here anyway what about
creatine loading you get this question a
lot sometimes on the package it'll say
take you know five grams of creatine
four times a day for a week straight
you'll load it up into your muscles and
then you Coast on just five grams a day
for the rest of that time it definitely
works it loads the creatine into your
muscles faster however there's no
compelling reason to load it versus not
loading it if you don't load it it's
just going to take about two weeks for
the creatine to fully fill up it's a fun
ride you don't blo up super quick your
body weight Rises over time your muscles
feel more turgid oo turgidity and stiff
and tone Tony the entire time it's
awesome it's a good ramp in so I would
say just save your money take five grams
a day and in a few weeks you'll be
kicking it and you'll take creatine for
another long time after you don't have
to quadruple the dose some allegations
were at the companies found the research
on creatine loading compelling but not
so compelling they just put it on their
labels because they want to sell you
more creatine some companies definitely
that selfish and shortsighted other
companies are not in any case creatine
loading is some combination of optional
and pointless so I would say just five
grams and you're good to go timing got a
lot of details so far but when do I take
my creatine technically speaking by a
small fraction taking it after your
workout with carbohydrate in it can open
up the whole insulin pathway and the
non-insulin pathway get creatine into
your muscles faster and fill them up
more by a very small fraction and
there's no acute effect of taking
creatine there's a lot of creatine in
pre-workout products got to get my
creatine in except creatine loads into
your muscles literally over days and
weeks and an acute intake of creatine
does nothing to the insides of your
muscle it doesn't boost performance it
doesn't boost anabolism it does diddly
dick timing for creatine thus does not
really matter you can take it at any
time of the day and what I would highly
recommend to you is to take it at a time
of your day that's scheduled in
regularly so that you don't forget if
you start missing creatine doses here
and there the intramuscular
concentrations will fall and then you
will pay the price for not really using
your creatine properly you have to be
consistent when you take your creatine I
do mine every morning with my vitamins
and shit creatine nmn powder vitamins
minerals Etc CBD oil and I'm fucking
golden every morning it's the same
ritual whether I train or not creatine
probably shouldn't be tied to your
workout because first of all there is no
effect there that boosts creatine
absorption by any uh margin that you can
go home and and really really uh get
excited about but probably you don't
train every day and creatine should be
taken pretty much daily to keep those
concentrations growing at first and high
after that so you know I wouldn't tie
the creatine to the workout I would just
kind of take it in the morning and yes
you can dry scuba but then have a gulp
of water after that if you want you can
mix creatine into your shake the night
before there are concerns that the
creatine breaks down and there's no
longer available but uh that takes
probably a week or more for creatine in
water solution to break down to a
meaningful extent so it's not a big deal
if you put your Shake in the fridge and
you insist on putting creatine in your
shake if you put your Shake in the
fridge the night before something you do
it workout that's totally fine but then
again I wouldn't take creatine with a
shake I would just take it in the
morning so you can be nice and regular
with it all right what about health
there's all these Health downsides right
I mean my school nurse isn't totally out
of her mind do you believe that maybe
multiple studies so far have confirmed
or rather gave us huge huge ideas that
creatine is neuroprotective that is it
protects the Integrity of your nervous
system making you healthy in your
nervous system for longer which me means
you are probably more intelligent for
longer in your life among other things
it is cardioprotective so it is good for
the cardiovascular system reduces the
chance of various cardiovascular
diseases and it also seems to enhance
bone health here's how creatine is bad
for you in order to find that out you're
going to have to go to your school nurse
and have a ratoff make belief because
it's all make belief they have not found
any reliable ways in which creatine is
bad for you if you take five grams of it
per day for months on end it's just not
a thing so you don't have to worry about
it creatine's fucking amazing next time
folks tell you creatine's bad ask them
how maybe you'll learn something or
maybe they'll just talk themselves into
not having anything to say because they
didn't to begin with and by the way
watch out for this one they may be
mistaking creatine for creatinine
creatinine which is a totally different
thing is a byproduct of kidney function
and if you have a lot of kidney function
sorry it's a it's uh something that
comes out of your muscles regularly and
if a lot of it appears in your urine a
lot of it appears in your bloodstream
then your kidneys are malfunctioning as
one candidate mechanism among 50 others
if it's insanely High your kidneys are
almost certainly malfunctioning because
when they do your kidney screens when
you go to the doctor yes your
90-year-old doctor will even do this
creatinin is something they measure and
some people and guys I wish I was lying
but I'm not are so fucking out of it
they don't even know that creatinin and
creatine are not the same thing so
they'll be like oh creatinin is too high
it's bad oh yeah and then later their
son wants to buy creatine they're like
what are you kidding me kid my doctor
says I'm dying from this stuff get in
the car it's two different things and
creatine does not have some kind of
delarius effect on the kidneys or on
creatinin it's just not related
everything's going to be fine creatine
is good for your health period if you
follow the plan of our simple Science
Diet we guarantee you'll see results or
your money back how can we make this
promise well we've spent over 10 years
researching and experimenting with real
diets and real people using them which
means we really know how to get this
process right for basically everyone as
part of our offer at no extra expense to
you you'll receive the RP gyf free at
home workout routine eight userfriendly
eBooks about the science of diet cooking
techniques and all necessary Basic
Fitness knowledge together with detailed
guides on meal preparation and
strategies for maintaining a healthy
diet while away from home if you're
ready to change your body click the link
in the description of this video to get
started
but maybe you shouldn't take it all the
time some folks have hypothesized
including me that you need some time off
for creatine now I've looked into the
literature and it doesn't seem like
exogenous creatine coming in from
outside of the body interferes with
endogenous creatine production in a
meaningful way that is creatine you make
yourself naturally because you do make
some doesn't seem like there's a lot of
evidence for any kind of interference
effect but I will say you don't always
need creatine if you're in a maintenance
phase and you're just kind of chilling
and let your body heal up you don't need
creatine like what do you need the
superpower for active rest phase like
really you're going to bring your
creatine uh on your fucking vacation and
also vacations two weeks of active rest
one week of vacation you don't need to
take your creatine so I come off for
most of those times um and that means I
can uh have creatine in my program when
I need it when I'm gaining muscle when
I'm losing fat and I take breaks of it
just out of convenience and to save
money which means Judaism powers
activate hey you know how superheroes
power up they're like and then they're
like super saiyan superhero Jewish
superhero guy the powering up hurts and
scares him my allergies oh no I've got
this terrible burden of superpowers aay
anyway saving money that's a fucking
superpower okay Mike fine creatine's
great but it makes me gain a shitload of
water weight what the fuck is up with
that here's the thing in the vast
majority of cases creatine actually
brings water into the muscle bringing it
out of the extracellular compartment
around it which means it's intramuscular
water gain that you get from creatine
shit up to 5 pounds in some cases and
not subcutaneous gain not the shit that
makes you seem watery so visually it
makes your muscles pop more which is
amazing gaining five pounds on Creatine
visually comes really close to gaining
five pounds of actal muscle it's a look
that you want that happens for the
average person even happens for almost
all people some people seem to complain
that creatine makes them bloated in the
subcutaneous way if that's the case I
would experiment with some things but if
it's still the case consider dropping it
out one or two weeks before your
bodybuilding show if you compete to get
that extra crispy look but I will say
most people should keep creatine in for
the show because it'll blow you up in
the best way possible inside the muscles
and not underneath the skin what about
stomach issues some people say dude I
love this I want all the creatine I just
can't fucking handle it it fucking
wrecks my stomach well creatine doesn't
reliably cause stomach issues in any of
the studies that they've done about it
and they've done a crap load but some
people get stomach issues from all kinds
of weird shit if creatine seems to be
bothering you I would try a few things
one make sure it's your creatine
supplement and that's something else in
your diet because sometimes you take a
bunch of supplements together and you're
like it's the creatine but you stop
taking the casine protein and your
stomach feels fine and you're like fuck
it was the caseine so try a few things
next try changing the brand maybe the
brand is adding some bullshit in there
you don't like you get a more pure brand
something like Optimum Nutrition some
shit like that all of a sudden you're
feeling just fine and everything's hunky
dory and maybe you can change the type
of creatine there are a few types and if
one of them's not doing well maybe you
can go that don't choose the brand that
doesn't work so take ethylester and
completely remove it from the equation
give this a thought you don't have to
take creatine if you get stomach issues
whatever most people don't get stomach
issues from it and if they think they do
it's usually not the creatine so let's
wrap all this up if you're a beginner
you probably don't need creatine it's
probably just not worth your money if
you're an intermediate creatine is great
and I would enjoy it for a few months
here and there and come off for a few
months here and there just to Coast or
make some gains without it put it in
kind of as a special superpower towards
the end of a muscle gain phase you know
uh last six weeks of a muscle gain phase
last 68 weeks of a cutting phase
creatine can be really awesome and of
course more than that if you like and
for the advanced folks creatine is
highly recommended for best results I
wouldn't skimp on it you should probably
come off during maintenance and active
rest and not take creatine or at least
consider it and really monitor the look
that creatine gives you to make sure the
subcutaneous water isn't being affected
cuz if you compete you'll have to know
that and you'll have to pull the
creatine out which is a really really
good idea if you want more information
about other supplements what to spend
your money on what to not waste your
money on just Google RP strength
supplements or Dr Mike is Rell
supplements we got tons of videos for
you click on things buy things like
things love me please God see you next
time
hey