I'm 100 connect the exercise I know
exactly how many reps I need to get I
know exactly how to move the bar and I
know that I've been getting stronger
over time better than doing random shit
every now and again
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's topic is
addressing the benefits
of trying to for at least a while longer
than you may have suspected sticking to
the same exercise in your muscle growth
program instead of trading out exercises
and going from one to another super
quick it might be a good idea to stick
to the same exercise for a little bit
longer than you have suspected or done
before and I'm going to offer you five
good reasons to consider this
first is technique Improvement if you
practice the same exercise week in week
out your Technique can get better
especially if you're mindful of it
especially if you're trying to get in
better a better technique I know what I
need to feel I know how I need to move
every set I record on video or every
other set I look at it I go oh my chest
could be up more I improve my technique
which means a week upon week upon week
of technique practice you get better and
better and better at that exercise which
means your stimulus goes up your fatigue
goes down your mind muscle connection
improves and everything gets better it
becomes a better exercise you do bent
rows for the first time you're like you
do bent rows for the tenth time and you
completely connect with everything
you're a betro technique God that helps
if you're always changing exercises you
could just kind of suck a technique for
all of them forever but if you spend
multiple weeks sometimes multiple month
strings of doing similar exercises you
get really good at them and your body
can remember that semi-permanently
months later you come back two or three
sessions in you're as good as you ever
were and then the next eight sessions
you can expand to be even better
next point
you can really discover
confirm or rule out what is a good fit
exercise for you as far as stimulus to
fatigue ratio for example if you try and
exercise just once and you're like and I
don't know if this is a good exercise or
I don't feel like it is well hold on a
sec your Technique relatively to how
that exercise could be done for your
body proportions was that that great you
just don't know it's like you try a food
once you go to some restaurant or I try
the fries and you try them and you're
like that's okay you're like yeah but
like the regular Chef wasn't here or
there's a batch of older fries he went
at nine o'clock everyone knows they make
their fries at 3 P.M every day and when
they're fresh they're amazing you know
at least try it one more time so if you
try and exercise a few times in a row
you can really figure out if it's the
right fit for you so
if you did it only once I wouldn't
conclude a bunch
if you did an exercise eight times and
it sucked every single one of those you
can kind of more confidently be like you
know one arm rows are just not for me
man I really try them and someone's like
we should try this shut the fuck up I
tried it all damn it I was here for
eight fucking weeks straight doing one
arm rows trying to get my technique as
good as possible watching acne next
videos fucking damn it to make my
technique better and it is nothing works
like okay maybe you can still later on
your life try one arm Rose but for now
it's totally cool do they off of them
because you did the due diligence of
going through and really trying it out
another thing is sometimes
trying the exercise in three mesocycles
in a row or two metal Cycles in a row
while changing other things there's a
wise idea because it could be in certain
contexts the exercise isn't good for
example you had a mesocycle where you
did tons of heavy dead lifting
stiff-legged deadlifts good mornings and
cable rows with a curved back
and then you tried bent rows for the
first time because someone said look Dr
Mike said that rows are amazing try them
you try them they cooked your fucking
lower back your lower back was limiting
factor every time and you're like dude
this exercise sucks like I'm trying to
feel the rest of my back it's just a
spinal erector move maybe but if the
next mesocycle you didn't do a whole lot
of hip hinging not a lot of heavy back
work especially for your lower back you
stuck to Bent rows because I'm gonna
give them another dude do chance maybe
it's because my other exercises were not
so great choices to meld together with
the Metro you tried the Metro then and
you're like oh my fucking God my pulling
complex and my spinal Erectors are
failing at roughly the same time or like
my spinal reactor still have some juice
in them I'm feeling an actual pull it's
an amazing exercise thank God I didn't
quit now I know two things I know that
the bent row is a great exercise and I
wouldn't have known that if I quit early
and two I know that the best way to get
the most out of borrow about rows is not
to overwhelm my lower back with other
fatigue so if I'm gonna choose to use
barbell rows in a mesocycle in a program
I'm going to also make sure that I do a
little bit less lower back work and all
the other exercises and that's how I can
get the most movement that is something
you can only get if you really try and
move the variables around to accommodate
the exercise try to make it work it's
like a marriage if you're the first
fight you ever have as a married couple
you just get divorced instantly after
like teacher really try to work it out
that's why if you try to get a divorce
and uh you know the first thing they'll
tell you is have you tried couples
counselor you're like no usually legal
team will be like you got to try that to
make it more convincing for everyone
that you really tried to work it out
it's tough to say it's an irreconcilable
difference if you didn't try to
reconcile it so in a sense what I'm
saying is you've married to various
exercises or not so if you're gonna date
the barbell bent Row give it a few dates
to let it show you some of its skills
get it into a situation maybe dinner
date are bad maybe it's better at
Putt-Putt golf take it to go pop up Golf
and then at the end of Pop walk off you
say hey hey Barbara Monroe what do you
want to do and it's like I didn't know I
kind of just yeah why don't you give me
that body Barbara and it's like shut up
just get the fuck off of me and it's
pepper sprays you and you're like
fuck that's it then bet Rose didn't work
Point number three
measurement of strength Improvement the
number one way by long shot
of being able to tell if you're gaining
muscle is are you improving a repetition
strength over time
on various exercises if you do one
exercise here and three months later you
do it there and three of us later do it
here and there it's really difficult to
conclude it for progressing but if you
do it for 12 weeks straight and you
really get good at it and start to
progress progress progress you can be
like wow I'm gaining another thing is
during a fat loss phase if you have a
similar exercise in if you start
dropping off strength on your squats
neurologically you're really proficient
at it at that point that means you're
probably either accumulating a shitload
of fatigue which is bad you can do stuff
about it or you are actually reducing
your muscle size and that's really bad
you can definitely do something about it
if you always have a new workout new
exercises unless you're really good at
tracking you look back all the way to
your notebook but then it's different
conditions so it doesn't even apply very
much you are have a really hard time
being able to tell am I really
progressing or am I regressing so it's
another big benefit
number four
psychological momentum
as you build your rep strength and as
your Technique improves it builds
confidence with the lift hack squats
went well last time this time your
Technique was better your neurological
abilities were better your rep strength
went up and you're like fucking yes and
you get the hack squat train rolling or
the barbell bench train rolling and
these mini PR's happen all the time and
it fills you up with fucking the
psychology of momentum I'm fucking
unstoppable that's a big deal you want
to go into the gym like a freight train
and blow through all of your exercises
if you have session after session after
session where it's exercises you're just
getting really fucking good at the feel
is better and the strength is improving
that's a huge gym motivator if it's
random shit all the time it's not as
much of that effect and a big deal is to
learn how to push really close to
failure a lot of people in their
intermediate years have a problem where
they're not going close enough to
failure if they pushed it harder with
good technique they could get more
results no better way to find out how
close to failure they are than to put
whatever on the barbell row and do it
eight weeks in a row and put five more
pounds and five more pounds and try to
get the same reps try to get the same
reps you really got to wake up your head
you really got to practice good
technique and you can grind into failure
using that momentum to your advantage to
really fucking just
screwdriver your way into those sets and
Reps so someone says hey do you think
you're getting the most out of barbell
rows you're like yes 100 fucking yes I'm
doing it every fucking thing I'm 100
connecting the exercise I know exactly
how many reps I need to get I know
exactly how to move the bar and I know
that I've been getting stronger over
time I know I'm getting at this and only
failure can stop me that's a pretty good
way to trade better than doing random
shit every now and again
what do you get when PhD Sports
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders
the most effective muscle growth
training app ever made
get yours now
[Music]
lastly a big benefit is the conservation
of variation you may only have like six
exercises at your gym that you train at
because it doesn't have infinite number
of machines that are your best go-to
chest exercises have the highest
stimulus to fatigue ratio if you burn
through all six of them in the same six
weeks
okay what about the next six what about
the next six at some point a few months
later you'll have used all of your chest
exercises there will be nothing novel
instead what you want to do is focus on
just a few of them at a time get really
good at the milk them out three months
later you can change away and do another
exercise or another set of three
and three months later that first set of
three used will be so refreshed you'll
have been so not exposed to it that
you'll be really sensitive to growth
it'll be super friendly on your joints
it gets you an ability to hop skip into
kind of infinite variation your body
forgets the last time you did anything
it's like if you eat a whole bunch of
Chinese food for a while and you have a
whole bunch of Mexican food when you
come back to Italian food a few months
later it's gonna be like wow man pizza's
fucking great we haven't had pizza in
Forever this tastes amazing versus like
if you have pizza every week or twice a
week at some point they have a pizza
doesn't taste that good anymore and
sometimes it's really good to have
phases of specific work on exercises to
save the variations that you have of
other exercises for later when you can
benefit from more variation
now
taken all this in context or reasons why
you should try to maintain the exercise
and keep it the same for longer than you
might have thought at the end of the day
however if an exercise has definitely
lower stimulus to fatigue ratio than
another
you have enough variants to trade them
in
just trade them out I would say at least
do an exercise unless it's physically
hurting or joints for about a mesocycle
you know 48 weeks and then deload and
then if that exercise definitely sucks
dick compared to another one you for
sure have in the tank just switch if
you're doing pull Downs assistive
pull-ups were amazing you were doing
pull downs and you were just like
this kind of blue and a sister pull-ups
are there and there's tons of other
variants you could use and you just want
to use assistive Pull-Ups for sure do it
for some exercises this kind of
stainless will build up over about one
mesocycle so sometimes for shoulders
biceps stuff like that you can do a new
series of exercises every single
mesocycle every month to two months
other exercises you can keep in for two
or even three mesocycles or even longer
at the end of the day let your body
decide if you still have momentum if
you're still getting stronger if your
joints still feel good and your
Technique is improving just keep the
exercise in you'll get free variation
later down the line is a big bonus and
great results while you're doing it
if the exercise is like joints aren't
feeling that great you fucking hate it
you have 10 other exercises you could be
doing or why the fuck are you doing this
one just give it a one mezzo good
college try and if it's not good by the
end cut it out for a while go back to
the good stuff and get that muscle
growth folks thank you for tuning in see
you next time