hey folks Dr Mike here from Renaissance
periodization and today's BS topic is
the idea that weight training is bad for
weight loss you will hear this
relatively Often by the female sex and a
quote that sounds something like this
um what I like lift weights uh I feel
like I'm pretty big
how's that for vocal fry
boom
and here's the thing there's not
a situation where that's not totally
wrong it's got a little tiny bit of
truth to it which is much how this BS
really starts when many people start
training with weights their muscles take
on muscle damage and begin the growth
and repair process and that
leads to a situation called tones of the
muscles which is when a bunch of
different stuff but mostly water enters
the muscle itself and that intramuscular
water expands the muscle and can even
jack up your body weight in just a few
days of weight training about five
pounds more than it normally is
but that makes you look more jacked and
shapely and it's no way adding any body
fat at all it just makes you look more
muscular right away by a very very small
margin
any weight you gain beyond that initial
five pounds of intramuscular bloat is
just because you're in a caloric Surplus
which happens to some people
automatically when they start resistance
training or training with weights
because some people they start training
with weights they get extra hungry they
eat more food they gain weight much of
that weight is muscle but if they really
go to town eating food they can gain
even some fat and then weight training
absolutely prevents them from losing
weight and could cause weight gain and
it's no good but just about as many
other people
have no hunger response whatsoever to
weight training and that just doesn't
happen for them and they don't gain any
weight now here's the thing if you're
trying to lose weight it's a good idea
to track your calories anyway or track
food amounts or whatever maybe you use
the RP diet coach app from RP or
something like that maybe many other
great apps and then if you have control
of your diet which you really should if
you're trying to lose weight
that part where the weight training
makes you hungry unless you overeat
doesn't happen because even if the
weight training makes you a little bit
more hungry you simply stick to your
diet eating mostly healthy foods the
hunger goes away at some point and it's
not a big deal your muscles continue to
grow your fat stores shrink even more
and you turn out
to both be able to lose tons of weight
while weight training and also get that
Sleek sexy awesome Wonder Woman type of
shape going instead of just looking like
a deflated skinnier bag
version of yourself
so that's probably the look you're going
for not the deflated bag one the Wonder
Woman style even if you don't know so
weight training is totally cool to do
expect a little bit of a five pound bump
when you start then when you start your
fat loss diet control those calories
lower them over time
get the body weight you want weight
training will just make the body you
have more muscular and way less fat you
will look a trillion times better people
will come up to you in the street and
try to get to know who you are because
you look like a goddess ladies and like
guys well you should sure should hope
weight training makes you more jacked
because that's what you want with your
body in most cases so here's the thing
Amanda
it's not the weight training that's
making you heavier it's the food so
instead of putting down the dumbbells
put down the fork JK Amanda if your
name's Amanda total respect folks give
that some thought like subscribe comment
if you want more nerdy stuff see us in
our members channel for just a little
bit of extra fee Lamborghinis that I
collect personally are not free
unfortunately if they were I would never
have a member site and also there's the
team full ROM Forum where you get expert
advice tons of free programming and by
free I mean included in the price of the
service and I answer all questions
personally and as well
you get your videos reviewed and your
Technique improved see you here see you
there see you everywhere in any case see
you later