hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization weekly tips you want them
i got them weekly tip number eight is in
the realm of recovery and it is tips for
falling asleep at night
if you want to fall asleep at another
time i can't help you but at night oh
boy do we have some tips for you i think
we have 12 holy crap it says weekly tip
but uh gee get 12 so much value and for
free here we go
how do you make sure to stack the deck
in your favor to have the highest
probability of falling asleep at night
if you do all these things
notice i didn't say 100 because you
could do all these shits and still be a
fucking insomniac
but here are some good tips that don't
involve any kind of drugs or benadryl or
anything that's for you and your doctor
to talk about just lifestyle stuff that
can at least slightly increase the
probability you'll fall asleep at night
and have a good night's sleep here we go
first and this is kind of an old one but
it fucking works
is work long and hard during the day and
become tired one of the greatest books
i've ever read is how to stop worrying
and start living by dale carnegie i
would highly recommend you read it it
takes like i don't know three hours to
read it's an amazing book it's written
in like back in 1940s or some shit
hilariously anachronistic verbiage in
there
yeah he doesn't say scientists he says
research men i mean holy problematic
christ it's incredible but one of the
things he says in there is a really good
cure for insomnia which is like a whole
chapter is actually just doing fucking
hard labor so whatever it is you're
doing whether it's physical or mental
grind you'll make a shitload of money
you'll get all the great stuff that work
comes with and then when you hit the
pillow you'll be out right a lot of
people who struggle with insomnia also
struggle not not doing anything not ever
not everyone tons of people who
workaholics can't fall asleep but a lot
of times if you're not working super
hard up that shit especially physically
and voila magic
number two point so first of all work
hard get tired point number two lower
your thermostat if you're able to in
your residence
to a temperature in which you are only
warm under a blanket under the warm
blanket you use to cover yourself so
basically like if you get out of the
blanket go to the bathroom you're like
holding your dick to pee you're like
holy fucking shit i'm gonna die of
hypothermia out here that really highly
enhances your ability to fall asleep but
something weird about humans and
evolution that when it's cold outside
and you're really warm it really does
put you to sleep to a huge extent so
give that a shot
next one avoid huge meals before bedtime
a lot of times they can give you a lot
of physical energy blood sugar that just
keeps you awake and on the other end
don't go to bed hungry okay so one of
the best things you can have is like an
hour half an hour before bed you can
have a high protein moderate fat lower
carb meal it satiates you you're not
super hungry but you're not super full
like if you eat a ton of food before bed
sometimes you can't like turn onto one
side or the other because your stomach's
in the way bad deal you have like burps
coming out don't eat too much don't eat
too little if you go to bed hungry it
sucks if you're fat lost dining you may
say hey hold on a second i'm hungry all
fucking day of course i'm hungry at
night stack your nutrition in such a way
that you're the least hungry of all the
times in the day before you go to bed
it's a really really good idea
point number four avoid training later
at night if you can if you put down your
last set of dumbbells at 10 pm and
you're trying to fall asleep at 11 pm
you might still be jacked up this is for
a physiological reason there's all sorts
of fight-or-flight hormones that
physically gets sort of secreted into
your blood uh why when you're training i
mean it's a fucking war out there right
iron brothers so when you're training
your fight-or-flight hormones are
elevated and they physically keep you
awake that's their job and then they
don't go away right away they all have
half lives and a lot of times half an
hour hour hour and a half even two hours
they're still in your bloodstream not as
much as during training but way over
baseline and that could be enough to
make sure you don't fall asleep so
ideally if you can train six to eight
then you can train eight to ten your
training partners like which one works
for you
knock it out six to eight you'll have
more hours before you go to bed you may
actually fall asleep easier that way
point number five avoid psychological
arousal later at night which means stay
the fuck away from online arguments
later at night i have a rule where if
i'm sort of getting ready for bed and
some idiot asshole responded to me on
instagram with a bunch of wrong dumb
shit i don't even look at it i'll make a
note to myself like
like own that asshole later tomorrow and
then tomorrow i'll see the note be like
ah i have to ruin someone's day on
instagram don't do that shit late into
the night because you get so pissed you
won't be able to fall asleep real life
arguments i highly recommend not having
before you go to bed so if you're having
a dispute that's domestic don't come
home at 6 pm be like honey sit down for
the next 30 minutes we're going to argue
and then we're going to get a divorce
and i'll go to sleep right
and as far as arousal uh look you know
if you're going to look at porn at night
at least not before you go to bed
otherwise you know get all sexual
actually here's one if you're texting
some special someone you found on tinder
and you're like oh yeah let me see that
shit she's like yeah preview you're like
oh my fucking god if you don't know
before you go to bed you're gonna be
laying in bed like
so take care of business like god
intended and make sure you're not super
aroused either anger wise or sex wise or
anything else before you go to sleep a
lot of people actually make that mistake
number six blue light filter on your
phone or on your screens or no screens
about an hour before bed uh blue light
tends to keep the human body awake and
if you put the filter on that shit it
works pretty well uh you can do the
steve hall of revive stronger
filter blue light filtered glasses and
make everything look yellow which kind
of makes you feel like a cyborg which is
really sweet i was on a flight once
wearing them and like the everything on
the flight you know i'm trying to fall
asleep everything looks you know yellow
and a couple of people ask me who i was
and i said of course i'm a cyborg ready
on a mission to save the earth i was
summarily escorted off of the airplane
at 30 000 feet
point number seven
boring shit so you read boring ass
muscle literature or any other kind of
books you've been meaning to get to that
your friends are like hey read this book
it's really great like here's this
article from the atlantic monthly and
you're like
and you're like that's kind of
interesting but uh if you really can't
fall asleep if you've given it 15 20
minutes and you're restless just sit up
in bed start reading the article with
your bullet filter on or just you know
an actual book or why don't you do this
watch one of my boring ass lectures like
advanced hypertrophy concepts and tools
she'll bore you into sleep within five
minutes give that a shot it works really
well remember we used to take biology in
high school and you'd fall asleep trying
to read the textbook might as well put
that shit to your advantage he has a
two-edged sword actually both of them
are benefits
if you don't fall asleep you learn some
shit if you do fall asleep you fall
asleep it's amazing uh it's not what you
want to do cause like what when you fall
when you go to bed you can't fall asleep
what do you want to do
jack off again
watch netflix and fun stuff go online
and find arguments that stuff is going
to keep you awake more and it also
arguably accomplishes nothing but boring
stuff that's educational uh it's a
win-win either way right point number
eight
make your room nice and dark some folks
sleep with light because they're still
afraid of the dark your boy right here i
don't fuck with the dark i don't fuck
with vampire movies zombie shit shit
freaks me the fuck out uh my friend and
i tried to uh he's actually the the
lawyer for rp we tried to watch the doom
movie the stupid ass one that came out a
little while we made it halfway through
and they were like fuck that monster
start coming out i don't want that shit
uh anywhere near my mind when i was
trying to fall asleep but in any case i
have a night light jk maybe you'll never
know um if you you know the darker the
room generally the better unless you're
freaked out then make it light enough
the way you're not freaked out point
number nine
make sure you're sleeping in a place
that is quiet
or has white noise right because like a
trillion white noise apps whales and
shit jungle noises waterfalls you can
put on your phone or any device and they
fucking stay on for multiple hours or
all night or put in ear plugs right
sometimes earplugs are awesome i have
like this whole protocol from when i go
international for speaking gigs and i
sleep on planes whether it's like the
lightback seats in business class or
more commonly the regular seats and
economy i have this whole thing where i
put in the fucking earplugs and like
people are literally arguing in front of
me on the planet i can't fucking hear
that shit it's awesome quiet under white
noise is a big deal if you have regular
noises to keep you awake you can do
something about it
including going downstairs knocking on
people's doors shut the fuck up or break
your legs i have done that on a few
occasions actually i'm not proud of it
but it did work
this is an obvious one point number 10
no stimulants later in the day okay
later half of the day don't take
stimulants okay if you're like oh yeah
post workout coffee and then you're up
at 2 am
that's your problem that's an easy fix
number 11 second to last
set an alarm for when you have to wake
up the next day maybe even set two
alarms just in case so you're not
worrying about missing am shit because a
lot of times you got a big interview in
the morning you have to catch a flight
you could be excited or anxious but like
oh fuck i sure as hell hope i don't
oversleep this we'll set two three four
fucking alarms if you're completely
insane charge your phone or set it on a
charger and then uh you don't have
anything to worry about if you're
worried when you're trying to fall
asleep it's a bad deal so don't worry by
setting multiple alarms you'll be good
right
lastly
once you're tucked in and you've done
all this shit hopefully and you're ready
to fall asleep
do not try to fall asleep no i'm not
going to paraphrase yoda
there's no such thing as trying to fall
asleep fuck whatever you look like all
right try to fall asleep go you're like
like really close my eyes hard enough
i'll fall asleep it doesn't work at all
you can't try to fall asleep what you
can do is do all these strategies and
then you just close your eyes and let
your mind wander and all of a sudden i
tend to notice this my mind wanders and
i'm sort of in charge of the thinking
process and as i transition into sleep
weird shit happens in my thinking where
i'm like am i watching a movie and all
of a sudden i'm asleep
ta-da
hopefully you found this video useful if
you haven't i'm sorry i'll try to do
better next time and next time next week
i will see you with another weekly tip
peace