all right what's up everyone so I'm here
with my mom yesterday we went for a
workout together I think that was
probably our first workout together in
like six years yeah so anytime that I
post a photo of my mom on my Instagram
or Facebook I get a bunch of people
commenting with a bunch of questions so
I thought it'd be really cool to bring
her in to this video and we'll overlay
the workout clips with just a short
interview the first question I get asked
a lot mom is how long you've been
training because you obviously have a
very impressive level of development so
how long have you been at it
well I've certainly been active my whole
life it's just that when I was in say
junior high high school it was more
about sports teams that I played on from
there I started strength training but it
was when your one and a half years old
at the suggestion of your father I
decided that I would take him up on his
request to go to the gym with him one
night and I distinctly remember him
saying please come do weights with me
you don't like it I promise I will never
ask you again and so I agreed to that
and went and obviously it became a way
of life for me when you first started
training what did your training look
like like the split and then what is
your split look like now so first when I
started training of course it was more
about working the opposite muscle groups
so one evening would be biceps and
triceps chest back in all those sorts of
routines but I've moved away from that
for quite some time now to be truthful
it's more for me I go and I do a full
upper body workout and I may throw some
we're dealing with that and then do you
know a low body workout and go karting
with that as well possibly I do that
generally you know two days for upper
body and two days little body
so you're probably training each body
part two maybe three times
WB that's a little better yeah in the
gym four or five
yes I'm per week as well okay yeah and
then every day probably you're doing
something active right oh yes there are
very few days that I'm not venturing
into being involved in activity on some
level but a lot of the cardio that I do
of course especially in the summertime
is on its side whether that's bike
riding which I love it's probably my
favorite running hiking loved hiking so
yeah I try to get as much material
happening outside as often as I can when
the weather is cooperating I think you
said before the workout you did a seven
kilometer run or something all right
yeah it for me to go around seventy
kilometers and then go training that
would be right your thing and the truth
was I was so pumped after doing homework
a with you I just want to go run another
70 kilometres and I probably could have
done that without it sounding boastful
but it is something that I've done for
such a long time that I'm definitely
able to you know do a lot of cardio and
enjoy it it's not like I'm doing that
it's a chore I actually enjoy the cardio
training and certainly if I'm doing it
on V because like a lot of people on the
Internet are afraid that if they do
cardio they're going to lose all their
muscle it's like a classic thing but
you've obviously shown that that is
nothing to really be afraid of I want to
talk about your diet for a little bit um
she obviously maintained like a very
impressive level of leanness your around
the first question do you think the
amount of cardio that you do plays a
role on that and then also what does
your diet generally look like so it
would be a typical day for you so I mean
definitely the cardio plays a role in
that and probably why I do so much of
the car
to be truthful because my Florrick
intake is not super long if I'm like
right now I'm at a weight that's a
little heavier than I love being so with
those extra you know four or five pounds
on that means that my caloric intake is
higher so that would be anywhere from
seventeen eighteen nineteen hundred
hours a day but I'm still doing the
cardio and strength training which helps
keep me at this level of fitness if I
want to lean it which I generally do
over the summer months then yeah I'm
going to have to cut my calories back a
little bit but I rarely eat less than
fourteen fifteen hundred calories a day
because my activity level is high enough
that I'm still able to consume that
amount and still drop those three or
four five pounds which I plan to do
again in the next months because your
caloric intake is always relative to
your body weight
why is your typical body weight range so
generally and the you know during the
summer months when I like being a little
leaner I my weight would be one hundred
seven hundred eighty nine pounds but
during the winter months when I'm not
being as mindful the calories are a
little higher and my weight then would
be anywhere from 112 113 I'm like I said
I'm more comfortable when I'm at the
leaner mouth but you know yet I enjoy
life as well and so for me having that
extra piece of cheesecake once in a
while or that little chocolate and then
certainly like incorporating that in and
having a lifestyle that you can live
within you can enjoy life without
feeling that you always have to be oh I
can't have that I can't have that and
that's just a bit salicin chicken
definitely in terms of the macros like
you you say you need a high-protein diet
and then with carbs and fats
how do those look or do you usually just
focus on overall categories more often
like focus
overall calories but I find when I'm
trying to share those two extra pounds
be more mindful of the mackerels
certainly helps me in that capacity I
try to have about 100 grams of protein a
day I do 20% fat and then the rest of
carbs and because I am so active
cardiovascularly I need the carbs in
order to keep the energy high and so
I'll go back to the training just for a
little bit so now you're running an
upper lower split about how many
exercises are you doing her body part
sometimes you start going to the gym and
like I may just do a 8 kilometer run
inside so while I'm at the gym doing the
strength training have a little more
time so I'll do a little more on those
days I'm going to work about 4 exercises
per body part so for biceps I would do 4
exercises so that could be don't go
bicep curls it could be cable curls it
could be preacher curl and so then I do
the same for the other muscle groups as
well if I'm incorporating my cardio at
the gym a little pressed for time on you
three exercises or muscle but it's
always three or four exercises or body
part right and then do you do multiple
sets per exercise just one set for an
exercise and then moved on to the next
one
sometime in the Aries so I may do for
example to volcano curls and do to
barbell curls and then don't or I may
decide to split up where I do you know
four different exercises even though
four of them are for
okay so you're usually doing probably
four sets per body part per workout
right at your neck probably two or three
times per week and then what do the reps
usually look like well when I was
feeling the powerlifting of course it
was a little different because that's
when I was trying to get stronger and as
you know I only did that for a short
period of time the reps were lower than
so five six reps per exercise I'll say
my preferred choice of repetitions would
be anywhere from ten to fifteen and
generally I will stick with the twelve
mm-hmm and you ever go up above that
like you ever do any burnout or you can
say like a twenty to thirty rep range no
once in a while I do yeah generally no I
tend to stick more to what yeah you
enjoy doing I finally I'm doing 20 30
reps I just get bored with yeah I gotta
get out of here as crazy
I don't get fall out of that generalized
press you just say that for your cardio
sure yeah literally I was just going to
ask you a little bit of both the
powerlifting so I think you did too
powerlifting nice right okay and did
very well obviously and probably could
have been on the world platform if you
wanted to but I know that you kind of
have moved on from that so first of all
why is it that you decided to try out
powerlifting is it something you'd
recommend it to other people and then
what is it that sort of led you out of
it
it was I think you know my interest in
doing it was seeing you do it to be
truthful and I saw it as an opportunity
for me to do take on a challenge that I
had never gone with fitness on any level
really other than to be part of the
sports team or to set my own goals and
challenges and reach those I've never
done it on a competitive level and you
know the stage for me is not something
that I've ever entertained doing or felt
driven to be a Pirtle but our thing
didn't taste me a little bit so when I
knew that I was relatively strong for my
weight so I saw it as an opportunity to
I suppose shine a little bit and just
see how much I could push myself to
accomplish that extra what I found
though is that in order to get stronger
it meant heavier weights I'm not 25 so
for me it became the challenge on my
joints and to have my knees hurting my
hips hurting it just it wasn't worth it
to me so I'm delighted that I did it and
I you know performed well with it and
got some recognition and the reward of
that was lovely but to continue doing
something like that and have myself set
back in terms of mobility from you know
injuries at this point of my life no
absolutely not worth it so I very much
gone back to the regular routine support
a big tree and a lot of people ask me if
you've ever competed I think people
assume that you do just because you do
have that look but you I guess it's just
not something that you value in and of
itself and you do value being fit and
living a healthy lifestyle and of itself
so that's sort of what you gotta ask
your attention to right and I mean I
respect anyone who has chosen to take
the stage because I recognize the
intensity of it the the challenge of the
perseverance that comes with that to
actually you know get yourself stuff to
stage level for me I've never felt I've
never felt that I have discipline and
you know I do I mean I've been trained
for such a long time but I never feel
that I have the discipline or the desire
to take it to that level so even though
I admire people who do it it's not an
aspiration of mine and I'm not sure that
it will be no I just go ready to nursers
ya know I mean I think that's cool
because a lot of people feel when they
get enthralled in fitness that that has
to be the end goal and you have to get
on stage but I'll tell people that that
that doesn't have to be inside your
goals according to what's important to
you you don't if you don't value getting
on stage then that probably shouldn't be
a huge shoot for because like you said
it is a really difficult thing to
achieve and it does require a lot of
sacrifice off sometimes so even though I
you know taking on Fitness from a
personal level of course as you know
it's also been professionally a career
for me and always to my clients it's be
your best you know choose a lifestyle
that you can live with and you know just
be your healthiest best and both from
cardiovascular health as well as health
but yeah it's living a healthy lifestyle
like you say it doesn't have to be
staged necessarily for everybody so
we'll wrap it up here hope you guys like
that workout footage she kicked my butt
as per usual ah ha not sure she succeeds
are usually my shoulders are a little
bit sore no okay so before we go I just
have one more question if you were to
recommend say one piece of advice to
someone who wants to make this a
lifestyle and something that they can be
successful with across their entire
career their life or whatever what would
you say to them say someone who's
relatively new getting into this don't
don't try to do everything at once
sometimes people think that
if there started training or cardio has
to be good or diet has to be good baby
steps baby steps and keep building on
that and I've seen so many people go
from here to here and just because
they've done it in small stages
I think Burnett happens quickly when we
try to take everything on it once so you
know I consistency for me it's always
about being consistent with it being
persistent with it and if you're doing
that and you're definitely going to
achieve the results that you're looking
for a long term and in your 20s you're
going to be you know living a certain
lifestyle and wanting a certain thing
and as you're going to you're 30 or 40
to 50 60 whatever that is to be your
best and what you value in being a
healthy person a fit person is going to
change because what I value now in being
50 year old is different than what I
wanted when I started training yet 27
and a half years old yeah that's really
worth it and I hope when I'm 50 I
shouldn't be on that level too or short
I'm show you um so yeah actually bonus
question um people on my histogram are
wondering if you're natty I ask Fred
without bars like society veneers
anything on steroids is another thing
you need your natural yeah definitely
natural I have never tapped into
anything like even your creatine and I
don't know the only thing I do a little
of is the way you so yeah
outside of
I've never tapped into any sort of
supplementation and not that I think
that's all that either it's just that
I've never felt that I need to do that I
eat healthy I make sure it's the
vitamins yeah yeah I just say it
jokingly I'm going to see you take a
multivitamin would be yeah we heard you
just focus really on the diet you know
healthy foods and all that sort of stuff
so yeah alright guys so that's going to
wrap it up thank you so much for
watching if you enjoyed the video don't
forget to like it also subscribe to the
channel if you haven't already and I
will see you in the next video