hello everyone your favorite doctor AKA
real doctor not a physician favorite
real doctor the pediatricians the
physicians Dr pack here today to talk to
you about the biggest hypertrophy scams
out there now obviously keep in mind
that by scams I do not mean literal
scams but rather things that are quite a
bit overrated and sometimes may be
distracting you from what really matters
you may notice the wolf coaching LEDs
behind I am in the wolf's cave the wolf
laboratory AKA Milo's AKA Dr Wolf's
studio so the first thing that is highly
overrated is being pedantic about
exercise technique and minor alterations
to exercise Technique we recently
published a narrative review on
optimizing training technique in order
to maximize muscle hypertrophy and
things look relatively simple as long as
you're emphasizing long muscle lengths
controlling the Ecentric without that
meaning that you have to do super slow
entric and keeping overall repetition
duration around 2 to 8 seconds you're
solid being extremely panting and paying
attention to minor body alignment
changes your grip width being slightly
wider or slightly narrower and not going
based on preference or whether you have
your thump over or under the bar those
things are likely not going to make any
meaningful difference to your
hypertrophy gains it's common to see
people talk about things that you can
substantially change to when when
performing your exercise in order to
really boost your gains but in reality
as long as you're lifting like a quote
unquote regular person you're most
likely fine now if you want to take it a
step further and make sure that you're
absolutely maximizing everything you can
in order to make even more gains then
the guidelines that I just proposed
which are relatively simple are probably
ticking most if not all boxes it's very
unlikely that you're leaving any any
games on the on the table if you're
biasing long muscle lengths somewhat
controlling the Ecentric and spending
around 2 to 8 seconds per each
repetition keep in mind more research is
needed we are on it training technique
the first training technique study
coming this summer at the moment even
the definition of training technique is
not really clear in the literature if
you want to learn more about that check
my previous video the link somewhere
here or in the description below editor
I leave it up to
you
another big hypertrophy scam is the fat
grip uh attachments that you may have
seen people use when performing bicep
grills essentially those fat grips are
supposed to further activate your biceps
and your forearms and allow you to get
more gains but one the one study or the
couple of studies that are out there
have actually showed worse results as
far as strength goes when using the fat
grips which makes sense because it does
limit your grip strength and
additionally there are no studies
looking at their effect on hypertrophy
there is one study looking specifically
at muscle activation which we know is
not a great proxy for hypertrophy
whatsoever and at the same time the idea
that making it harder to grip the bar
will somehow enhance your muscle
hypertrophy potential for your biceps
makes absolutely no sense as long as
you're taking the biceps close or to
momentary failure you're definitely
covered keep in mind again that this
ties to our previous scam and that is
being pedantic about exercise technique
as long as you're taking those basic
boxes it is very unlikely that having or
using fat grips is going to make any
difference to your hypertrophy if
anything it may hinder your hypertrophy
because again your grip may be the
limiting factor before uh your bicep
actually fails now do I think that they
are the worst thing in the world that
you can do for your gains no if you
really
enjoy holding gripping that bar H
phrasing and really going after it be my
guest but if you see somebody in the gym
telling you yo you got to use this mad
bicep pump or mad feeling then be very
skeptical and this brings me to the next
Point feeling the muscle or how an
exercise feels just because an exercise
may feel better than another exercise
that is not necessarily the best
reasoning to select that exercise make
sure that you've selected an excess that
allows you to work at long muscle
lengths that allows you to Target the
muscle that you're trying to Target
effectively and obviously Factory in
personal preference but just because you
did an a body weight ab exercise at 20
reps in reserve and you really felt your
core burning but you didn't go anywhere
near muscular failure just because it
feels good or you can feel a great pump
or a great mind muscle connection that
is not the first thing that you should
be looking at so it is highly overrated
to go solely by feel assuming an
exercise doesn't take all the required
boxes you see that a lot especially with
things like AB training people doing
certain exercis just because they feel a
nice burn but then when you actually
observe them they end up doing multiple
repetitions sort of like a cardio
workout leave plenty of repetitions in
reserve and from a hypertrophy
standpoint that doesn't leave them
anywhere and on the topic of how an
exercise feels we often hear the term
Peak contraction or really focusing on
the squeeze which is again somewhat of a
scam when it comes to maximizing your
hypertrophy gains really emphasizing the
shorten position for any muscle group is
probably not the best idea keep in mind
if you really like feeling that pump and
really squeezing the muscle makes your
day and you're training so much better
be my guest but the data is pretty
compelling uh against short muscle
lengths as a way to train now obviously
I know a lot of you are not going to do
just partials at Short muscle lengths
but for a lot of people emphasizing that
squeeze emphasizing that Peak
contraction
may take away from the time spent uh in
the stretch and may even subconsciously
or at least push them to really
emphasize that position potentially
leaving some gains if anything you don't
really need to emphasize the squeeze if
you like to do so please be my guest but
be careful you need to get that long
muscling training going even if you
decide to use a full range of motion and
not exclusively partials at long muscle
lengths last but not least and we semi-
covered this on on a previous video
periodization for hypertrophy the idea
that you need to meticulously pre
pre-plan your training um know exactly
what you're going to be doing in 8 weeks
having a very specific progression
pattern adding x amount of weight or a
set or a rep every now and then the idea
that that will lead to Greater
hypertrophy gains versus just making
sure that you're pushing yourself hard
in the gym and that you're adding a bit
of weight or the extra rep or the extra
set here and there based on your
performance and based on you know what
whatever else is happening in your life
obviously if you like to pre-plan your
stuff be my guest and if that allows you
to stick to your plan then that may
allow you to make even greater gains in
certain situations however the idea that
you need to periodize or that
periodization is a Surefire way to
absolutely significantly boost your
muscle hypertrophy gains is simply not
Based on data and from what we're seeing
in practice it's not really panning out
to be that way making sure that you're
at a close uh proximity to muscular
failure doing enough training volume so
10 plus sets per muscle group per week
for maximizing hypertrophy um at the
same time having a technique that takes
the boxes that we mentioned those things
and and doing that consistently those
things are far more important and will
allow you to make pretty much maximum
muscle gains don't worry too much about
whether you know exactly what you're
doing in 12 weeks you don't need to
pre-plan Del loads take a week off when
you're feeling like absolute and
it's really as simple as that finding a
way to be consistent over a period of 10
years and obviously things like
nutrition and sleep also need to be
taken care of it's the combination of
those variables that is going to get you
maximum hyperic gains not any magical
periodize plan or progression pattern
overall we are here big science is here
to tell you that science is actually
telling you that things are much simpler
than we often see sure you can go wild
and periodize use fat grips be pedantic
about exercise technique really focus on
how you feel the muscle at the PE
contraction and focus on the squeeze
even doing these things is not
necessarily going to massively harm your
gains but at the same time it's not
going to add much if anything and in
some cases if we're talking in the
context of absolutely maximizing gains
it may be taking away from your gains
that's it another day of bringing the
truth to light another another day of
real # science here making things simple
making things as nistic as possible
nothing means anything just lift the
weight and you'll grow but joking aside
keep in mind consistency over everything
else unless you're being an absolute
 with your exercise selection and
your exercise performance that's it for
me to all the real doctors out there we
appreciate your service we clap for you
every day to all the Physicians out
there stop using the term it's 2024
enough # cancel the Physicians #
academics are the real doctors don't
forget to like subscribe hit the
notification Bell send me your personal
home address so I can come and
personally ask you for money ideally in
cash so I don't have to declare it to
the tax authorities which we are really
really correct with and yeah see you
next time
w