I analyzed every single Sam silic
workout so far this year he's done 460
total sets he trained his triceps the
most at 25% of total volume and his
glutes the least at only 1% he also
trains to failure 96% of the time but if
you ignore his forearm work that number
increases to 98% I do think most people
would run into recovery issues with that
much failure training but Sam seems to
be doing fine with it his most common
rep range was a tie between 4 to 7 reps
and 8 to 12 reps I think this is great
for hypertrophy his range of motion was
very inconsistent he'll usually start us
at pretty close to full range but then
lose range of motion as he fatigues I'd
personally rather see him get the target
muscle into a deeper stretch on more
exercises and even though several things
aren't optimized Sam clearly trains very
hard and is super consistent which are
the most important things in my book