folks we are here dr james dr mike how's
it going
um
before we got on the air we were talking
about metallica and i just found out
that james loves the songwriting process
metallica has oh he loves the
documentaries about metallica and he
likes mostly metallica's biggest hits
that you hear on the radio god so cringy
because mike and i were i was i watched
uh some kind of monster recently again
for the second time now
ten years or whatever later and i forgot
how cringy it was so we were laughing
about that dude i got to tell you um i
did the thing
where i i accidentally overreached my
forearms from doing yard work just
just doing stuff around the house and um
my god i can't do anything today like
it's been like three days since it
happened and it's just been like so
tight and so sore and like everything i
touch is just like sending shock waves
on my arms and i had to do my heavy
bench workout today which is like bench
some dumbbells like typical
you know international bench day kind of
stuff but then i also had to do some
like curls and stuff and i was just like
oh my god
my fucking forearms they're taking
forever to heal it's like once you cross
that threshold on forearms
it sucks it takes prepare yourself man
dude i'm so i'm i'm hurting i'm hurt now
even just doing barbell like bench i was
like oh my arms
well
i got a vr system
and
i haven't like an oculus
oh like your calculus quest too
and i i definitely haven't been
watching vr porn
at all
and it's definitely not pretty fucking
sweet at all
so i'm over each forum wise too i feel
you on that so you got the calculus
oh yes that actually goes on the cock um
i don't know what my cock sees but
apparently a lot because it really likes
it because it's getting it's getting a
workout
people like how is vr how are the colors
and stuff like i don't know i put it on
my cock it works so far it'd be sweet if
like normatec and oculus did like a
mashup and they made the calculus so
then it actually like does like the
pressure on your wiener and then you get
the full
full
experience you know
i was i was giving that some thought
why not spend a couple minutes here so i
was giving this some thought i thought
okay like
uh
in a lot of these videos it's like it's
obviously almost all pov because
non-povr is strange because you feel
like you're just a dude standing in a
room with you
why am i here why is no one
acknowledging me
but uh any if they do acknowledge you
it's even weirder oh my god you know i
think like okay so like it would be
really cool if while the guy was banging
you could feel like the banging in your
dick right like the normatek would do
this or whatever but then you're like
you know i'm kind of feeling my own swag
when i'm banging it what if the guy's
being too hard or what if he like stops
and switches positions when you're about
to not like
you know what i'm saying you just gotta
go for it you just gotta go for it at
that
that's when that when the porn companies
are like come on guy what else do you
want here
you want a fucking juice in this thing
or not get a good gig
and then
cleaning cleaning cleaning
when i we have another story i think i
think this is what we would call first
world problems
like it's beyond it's future problems
it's like if 20 years ago people were
like what really that's a problem you're
like oh i mean yeah the future is really
cool but yeah semen still comes out and
i don't know what to do after
i would love to try and explain that to
somebody like in the past like abraham
lincoln like
so i know you're dealing with the civil
war stuff right now but man in the
future this calculus it's a mess
so bad i know you've got it bad but look
it's terrible
uh
yeah i was trying i was talking somebody
out i mean who about
like how how men deal with uh the
post-coital state
like and especially like
post masturbation it's not like you sit
there and you're like
ah
usually i'm just like ugh
there's like people on my computer
screen yeah dude i don't want to see you
people oh
get away from me the appeal of of porn
stars instantly
drops from the greatest thing ever to
like i would rather not see that go away
to like full existential crisis like
what was i doing why
yes also and i was the same same
conversation i was like you know when
guys
hook up
the average response i think is like
that with physical actual people too
like if you hook up after a party and
after you do the deed you're like so
uber
instead of like i want to know your soul
get out of here nobody wants to know
shit about you joe rogan had a stand-up
bit about that but like you should for
guys like you should always just bust a
nut before making any important
decisions because it always like if
you're horny like it always just points
you in the wrong direction oh yes
oh yes
all right
so speaking of things that are actually
training related let's go to our first
question aska uh daniel brown fresh off
of writing all those books with tom
hanks as the actor and the
you know the
catholic everything oh the da vinci ones
or whatever it's called the da vinci
code
there must be
so many porn knockoffs of the da vinci
code
da vinci cock
[Music]
we gotta actually do some work today
we've been just talking about dicks for
the last like 10 minutes already we got
to get going here that one is great
because it's not even clever
those are the best
all right lost like 5 000 subscribers
do they talk about fitness at all or
just
the thing is i'm trying to think of
other ones i can't because that one's so
good
it's the best instantly it's like
winning the olympics on your first try
of a sport you're done that's it go home
enjoy
all right daniel brown i can't even read
his name anymore
oh good focus focus
focus
i'm gonna i'm actually taking a flight
later to everybody sitting next to
someone and they're like what do you do
for work and i'll be like well my
colleague and i we did work earlier
today i'm looking for investors in a new
movie a new series of films
are you interested
is there's an adult spoof of the davinci
code there oh i have all kinds of ideas
about the name no no we already have a
name no we got that
it's covered all right
daniel brown says hey docs how would you
recommend programming in cardio for the
benefits of actually improving
cardiovascular fitness in terms of
frequency slash duration etc which also
focus on specific heart rate zones as a
measure of productivity
thanks in advance so i'll give my two
cents and then james probably do a
better job so one thing is you have to
pick the modality because the modality
is important now if the medaille is not
important to you cross training is
probably best where you know like swim
twice a week and then like elliptical
twice a week and then jog twice a week
or something what that allows you to do
is to spread the local fatigue around so
that you can only generate systemic
fatigue and great cardiovascular
adaptations but like you know your feet
don't start hurting too much from
running too much your shoulders don't
beat you up because you swim too much so
if overall cardiovascular fitness is
your goal i would actually recommend
using multiple modalities maybe two or
three
you know as access allows and
convenience laws and then frequency and
duration
i mean it depends on how far you want to
take this thing i would say at least
three to four times per week
uh as far as frequency as a start but
serious folks who want to be very
cardiovascularly fit just some sort of
cardio g five to seven times a week and
one of those being it's kind of like a
very very easy quote-unquote workout
where you maybe just jog for five
minutes at the beginning of the day and
then cool off a lot of people who do
very high-end cardiovascular fitness
especially athletes they don't actually
take a whole lot of days off because
cardiovascular adaptations specifically
local muscular adaptations to cardio um
they they recede real quick so you don't
want to really like ever
it's not like lifting where you look at
four days a week like you may get
something you may just like the first
day back after three days off is like oh
my shins are blowing up what the hell is
have i never done this before so that's
something to consider and as far as um
duration and intensity etc my easiest
thing would just be to start at
something that feels pretty challenging
that after five to ten minutes you get
pretty winded and you're like fuck this
i can't do this anymore and then slowly
work up as your body adapts right
because that frequency duration example
we can't actually give you a broad range
of definitions of what those ranges are
like oh 20 minutes x x y z because like
some people are in such bad shape two
minutes would be terrible for them other
people for them you know an hour would
be insufficient and one thing i'd say is
a really good thing to throw in there is
um intervals are really great that
doesn't mean hard intervals that means
like you run around the block right well
you can't run around the block because
you'll gas out after one block so what
you can do is like uh jog half a block
and then walk the other three quarters
or whatever so jog a quarter then walk
walk walk jog walk walk walk jog and
that can allow you as you're walking
you're still like recovering and by the
time you reach the next block you are
ready to to do a little run again and
then what you can do later is increase
this the pace of the run and then maybe
you can add in one of the quarters of
the block also jog and eventually you're
jogging the whole thing and eventually
you're jogging miles but it's all
adjusted and remember deloads are still
important so you know every four to
eight weeks you should take at least
half of a week of very very easy
training
maybe do more swimming and things like
that to offload your joints you're going
to feel much better coming back and then
you start working back up james
wow really good answer also i'll just
throw a couple other things in that i
think are important so like mike said
for most people um you have to you have
to consider like kind of building up a
little bit so a lot of people are like i
want to get into cardio well it's like
you don't just throw somebody into a
really really hard hypertrophy program
if they're not currently lifting weights
right so it's the same kind of idea
where you would want to start if you're
not doing cardio you want to start doing
something real easy maybe two times a
week relatively low intensity once you
kind of get built up to like i'm a
cardio person like some cardio or
something that i do very regularly um i
would recommend and this is kind of in
the context of i'm assuming daniel that
you are also doing a hypertrophy program
i think pretty much everybody who
subscribes to this channel is
hypertrophy focused in some capacity so
i would say within a hypertrophy program
you know two to three times per week is
pretty good just like how we recommend
using different rep ranges like 5 to 10
10 to 20 20 to 30 there's kind of like a
it's a proxy for intensity same thing
kind of goes here with the cardio it's
not a bad idea to have some kind of like
low intensity cardio a more moderate
intensity which is kind of like what dr
mike was talking about with the maybe
not the hardest interval training ever
but that would be like lactate threshold
training or kind of like um moderate
intensity interval training and then if
you wanted to do something harder like a
high intensity interval training that
would also be good and that's probably
about what most people can manage maybe
two or three times a week especially
when you start adding in the more
moderate to higher intensity stuff
because the recoverability becomes a
limiting factor and the systemic fatigue
becomes a limiting factor for your
weight training so that's where that
comes into um another couple things to
consider is the modality as mike said
some are more joint intensive like
running
some might fuck up other aspects of your
training so i so like in terms of like
um what's a really good cardio modality
god damn the rower is really good you
can do it in a variety of different
intensities it uses a shit load of
muscle mass but
forget about back training or
deadlifting within the next two days you
know that's out of the question so
trade-off there right is it a good
cardio modality yes is it going to
impact your ability to do your weight
training yes so think about things like
that i'm a really big fan of um
the assault bike you can use a lot of
muscle mass you can do interval training
on it and it's all concentric so there's
no loaded eccentric which is where you
get a lot of the actual structural
damage so that's a really good one where
you can kind of you can go pretty hard
on it and it's pretty low impact for the
most part aside from like the systemic
fatigue um yeah so that's usually where
i would start if you have somebody who's
like i i want to do hypertrophy but i
also want to be cardiovascularly fit as
mike said have a variety of activities
and try and um
pick modalities that work conju well in
conjunction with your existing training
plan and then use different intensity
zones you can he asked if you can use
heart rate you can heart rate's just a
proxy for intensity so that is something
you can use you can also just look at
like how fast you're going the power
outage you're going uh how many
intervals you did the distance that you
covered the time it took to completion
all those things are kind of intensity
proxies that you can use those will work
fine too
michael asked coaching
michael is coaching i don't know all
right
he's got a pretty good ocean good little
bot going there what's up what's up
michael
says hey jen quick question you
generally recommend following up a
massing phase with a maintenance phase
which should be focused a bit more
around strength training rather than
hypertrophy to give the body a bit of a
break so my question is exactly how much
of a focus should the strength training
take are we taking talking straight up
five by five type of situation or just a
bit more focused on the compound stuff
with fewer isolations
i'll be following it up with a mini cut
and then another massing phase got a
long ass off season ahead of me if that
plays any role on that note what sort of
training focus should be done during the
mini cut so training focus should be
just all around training to make sure
you don't lose muscle
and the big quintessential thing you
have to have is a reduction in training
volume and then much more secondary is a
reduction in the repetitions because you
want to sort of refresh your body to the
metabolite stimulus it's often a good
idea so i'd say like mostly sets of five
to ten reps if you want to do five by
five that's really cool but what james
and i would probably say is don't pursue
strength at such a high level that you
beat yourself to shit joint wise in your
um you know your maintenance phase and
then
all of a sudden you come back and you're
kind of like
uh
you know i'm really sensitive to
hypertrophy but my elbows are falling
off my body so i'd say like you know
very low number of sets sets of mostly
five to ten reps mostly compound stuff
um and then just enough volume to keep
your muscle on your body and after that
you're fucking
uh good to go and
you know that's for maintenance and then
for mini cut the training is actually
very similar you just raise the volume
just a little bit because mini cut is
hypocaloric it produces a catabolic
stimulus you have to raise muscle uh
your volume just a little bit but as low
as volume as will keep your muscle on
your body and the training focus should
again be whole body because you want to
prevent muscle loss james
really good yeah and so when we say like
a strength focus we're not talking about
literally like training for strength to
improve your one rep max so that that's
like maybe um a little bit more
contextual it's strengthened in the
context of a hypertrophy program meaning
like you're doing the heaviest lifting
for this particular macro cycle or
however you want to scale it another
thing that michael you might want to
consider um so i'm wondering so it says
you're doing a maintenance phase after
your mass which is fine but then you're
doing a mini cut after that you might
consider just taking either some like
active rest if you just need to
alleviate some fatigue if that's the
issue because otherwise i i don't see
why you would need a maintenance phase
in between you could just go into mini
cut and then do another mass phase
presumably unless you're just like
really worn out um and in that case you
probably don't need to take like a whole
mesocycle of strength training to get
that effect you could probably just take
a week or two and then go into mini cut
and then go right back into massing so
you might just be lengthening this
timeline unnecessarily for yourself a
great point james i in this structure
actually it's absolutely true i would
recommend an act of rest and then a mini
cut and then you get started unmasking
yeah
all right next up is lord vader
i don't think that's actually him in the
in the thumbnail
what is that's red as far as i can tell
red with some kind of shape all right
yeah
yeah
[Music]
hey guys
we're glad to hear you talking about
adductors and how they're underdeveloped
and how and how when they're undeveloped
you can have skinny looking legs when
huge from the front i have this exact
problem solid quad ham development but
my inner thighs are lagging causing that
skinny appearance for the front not much
info on developing adductors that i can
find just a lot of bodyweight stretch
stretching types of exercises i train
like two to three times per week as well
as having done several specialization
blocks for quads i mostly do compounds
but it's not growing my adductors is
there anything you can recommend other
than sumo deals or widestand squats so
that's a good start um that i can use to
overload my editors to get them growing
thanks for all the great infrastructure
so i'd say two other things just all of
your quad moves i would switch to
slightly wider stance toes pointed a
little bit more out that would be a
really good beginning to that i would
also do plenty of
variety of lunges and a really great
adductor blast though it's not intended
for that is the bulgarian split squat um
which just fucks up your adductors more
than actually fucks up anything else i
would do a lot of those uh well you know
by a lot i mean you know an appropriate
volume you can recover from and then in
addition to that you can go and do the
which is the good girl machine um but i
would say that's kind of uh last resort
um that exercises raw stimulus magnitude
is just really not
super high and it also means you have to
do another exercise where if you do like
lunges you get glutes and quads and
adductors and they really fuck up your
adductors so i'd say more lunging
more split squats and then any time you
do quads i would take a wider stance uh
than you would prefer and then i think
that preferentially trains your
anatomers in most cases so much that you
don't need anymore and if your still
need more volume i would say you can add
in one to two times a week you can have
the good girl machine
yeah really good recommendation there i
was thinking along the same lines i was
going to say you know you might just be
like really really dialed in with your
technique on kind of the flexion
extension pure sagittal plane movement
so i would try and use exercises that
open up your degrees of freedom a little
bit and as mike said lunges variations
of split squats and things like that
just have a little bit more of that like
kind of side to side component which i
think will help you uh hit those a
little bit better you might just be like
anthropometrically built or your
technique is just so rock solid at
hitting quads and hams in that very
sagittal plane movement that you're just
not getting a lot of stimulus on the
inner part of your thigh so in order to
do so you have to use movements which
are i hate to say it this way but kind
of a little bit less stable and require
a little bit more kind of side to side
less purely sagittal plane movement so
as mike said those are really good
recommendations
all right uh donald
malestine
i was going to read that as a molesting
but
molestine
my last name
says hey doc's uh former obese and i'm a
former obese
phrasing i can't i guess yeah i'm
looking at that i think you forgot
person in there but no worries um i'm a
former obese and every time i bulk i
feel like i put on more fat than muscle
even though i'm training hard and smart
at least i like to think i do and
gaining a very low rate so my question
is are former obese people more likely
to gain fat mass on a lean bulk i can
actually stop you right there and say
the following formerly obese people are
just more likely to gain fat mass no
matter what
because you can't get obese without at
least some decent genetics for it like
if you take like the average super
skinny korean kid for example and be
like hey get obese like he is going to
try to try and he's going to get like a
little pudgy and it's going to be like
that's i can't eat anymore i'm going to
kill myself did you take the average
texan ha ha
access taxes and they're like oh watch
this shazam i'm obese it just took me a
year to gain 500 pounds just like that
so
yeah if you if you have been obese
before it means you're more likely to
become obese again for one reason is
because you have some of those fat cells
that you grew still around but the other
reason is just the same genetics that
allowed you to become obese at first
allow you to you know at least um
uh from a facilitatory perspective can
do it again and then he asks or could
this be something else like water
retention almost certainly water
retention has evolved many times during
bulking and actually at the end of a cut
in the beginning of a bulk
people who are formerly obese tend to
store a lot of water
you'll be able to tell water from fat if
you grab the tissue that's involved if
it jiggles a lot and it's really soft
it's a lot of water if it doesn't jiggle
as much but it jiggles as much as fat
does but you squeeze on it and it kind
of squeezes back and it's really hard
you're like okay well that's actually
fat there's a lot of wiggle room to a
lot of nuance but
another thing is like if you gain
seemingly a lot of fat at the beginning
of a mass but then as the mass goes you
actually look kind of a little bit drier
and you seem to not gain much that's
probably body water
but if it's something that you start out
a bulk pretty lean you're lean for a few
weeks and then over time you really
start to get much fatter then it's
probably fat
um and then he says thanks keep up these
amazing q and a's so donald you know
best of luck to you you just have to do
your best and it's good that you're
doing all the all the right things um
you're all everyone gains fat when they
gain muscle um and for especially
advanced athletes most of what you gain
out of bulk will be fat and not muscle
um you know people say oh you know i'm
up 20 pounds after my contest weight or
whatever deep into the off season like
motherfuckers didn't gain 20 pounds of
muscle i didn't even gain 10 or 15 it's
like maybe five right so it's okay to
gain
predominantly fat after that you take
the fat off and then you restart the
process and you get what you get
james yeah and this you might have kind
of a
shitstorm genetic situation too where
you might not be like the most muscle
gain prone genetics either you know so
you might kind of have a situation where
you're prone to putting on a lot of fat
mass and just don't have the greatest
muscle gain genetics in the world so
there's i mean the you you're dealt the
cards that you got right so it sounds
like you're you're you're smart like you
obviously got a lot of the weight off
and are in a place where you feel
comfortable doing mass phases and then
cutting back down so to me it sounds
like you're doing everything right
you're conscious of the fact that maybe
you're gaining a little bit of extra fat
mass than then seems reasonable and so
you're taking it at a slow rate and
honestly i can't really think of much
better to do at that point like you
might just have to have more firm caps
in terms of body composition on where
you want to end your masses if you find
that you get too fat too quickly
comparatively to our recommendations and
that's okay but it seems like you're i
mean otherwise it seems like you're
doing everything right i would just keep
doing what you're doing and just know
that like yeah this just might be the
cards that you're dealt but you can
still be leaner and more muscular than
you are now it's just going to take a
little bit of extra effort
yeah i wish it worked super super
awesome
yeah anyway sometimes
sometimes just the cards you're dealt
you know and you just got to do the best
with what you got
yeah
yeah all right so
dr
mcbungle nuts that's a real person
that's definitely not a fake profile
yeah
i hate these fucking youtube names all
right
dr mcbunglenutz asks us
i'm interested in building muscle and
building conditioning cardio slash
stamina for basketball
a very simple approach would be to take
a six month block of training and focus
on building muscle hypertrophy stop
training then another six month block to
focus on building conditioning running
when i focus on building conditioning in
order to maintain muscle i will train at
all body parts at maintenance volume
first question does a lot of cardio and
general conditioning for sport change
the mv landmark in any meaningful way
compared to what the mv landmark would
be when doing a hypertrophy training
maintenance phase without intense bouts
of cardio and training for conditioning
for sport for example if my mv for quads
during hypertrophy training maintenance
phases six cents would it be maybe
around three or four sets because of how
hard the legs would be worked during the
conditioning cardio training or could it
be higher for any reason which i can't
think of yes would be higher for any
reason which you can't think of that
reason is if you do primarily cardio
especially more um less on the high
intensity interval spectrum like sprints
and more on the conditioning that
involves like longer durations lower
intensities your maintenance volume
would actually have to be higher because
it has to counterbalance the catabolic
stimulus so instead of maybe six
sets it could be eight cents or
something like that so that's the first
thing i'd say um and then
he says perhaps to
pacify the gods of gains for the sin of
not training a person for your round one
do more sets i also figure this depends
on the body part upper body mv would not
be affected like lower body correct um
unless you're doing a provided cardio
and then upper body maintenance volume
would probably be pretty similar but
because you're expanding a lot of
calories
you'd have to raise your calories from
commentary so i wouldn't forget about
that and then my second set of questions
relates to maintaining the cardio i just
achieved last six months during the next
six months i spend focusing on gaining
muscle
seems to me that maintaining muscle and
making great conditioning cardio stamina
gain is much easier to do than just to
maintain conditioning cardio stamina and
make great muscle gains
in other words hypertrophy training at
maintenance volume would bring down
my cardio
i wouldn't bring down my cardio
running training mrv very much as well
as the interference effect would be
negligible but cardio running and
training mv would bring down my heparin
for training mrv by a significant margin
yes that's true
as well as the interference effect would
be more of an issue is my hypothesis
true yep probably if this falls my
question is here if so can you talk
about why this is if a
question does not actually end if it's
true then it would seem to be a fool's
errand to try to maintain your cardio
while focusing on building muscle unless
you absolutely need to perform your
sport at that given time and then of
course you need to maintain your
conditioning james is getting pissed how
can i decide the right baseline of
cardio to do while i'm focused on muscle
building so that i'm not completely
losing all of my cardio gains while
feeling good uh that i'm making good
amount of muscle gains and not spinning
my wheels trying to train both so my
simple short answer is the following to
your last question is what you want to
do is you want to reduce your cardio by
maybe half of what you normally do and
increase your uh your
training on the hypertrophy side to
enough to grow and then what you need to
do is consistently
through your performances and rpes of
cardio
every week you're going to assess am i
losing any cardio ability or is my
cardio ability staying the same and if
your cardio ability is staying the same
like your your mild time is the same or
just as a very easy example
um then you're doing clearly enough to
keep it and then maybe you could try
lowering the cardio a little bit and if
it takes a hit then you have to raise it
back up and by that way you find your
maintenance cardio volume it's very easy
to find you just start cutting your
cardio down until you start to get worse
and then you bring it back up and
wherever you calibrate to where this is
where i don't get better or worse that's
maintenance level for cardio and then
what you have left in your systemic
fatigue
for like systemic volume allotment is
you a lot towards hypertrophy training
as needed that may be the case that you
rise up to between
halfway between your m ev and me and mrv
as hypertrophy training and you say well
how do i get all the way up to my mrv it
seems to be impossible because i do so
much cardio like i can't hit my local
muscle mrvs and the answer would be
that's correct and that is the
interference effect systemically um
literally shown to you like this is why
you're too you're too tired to do all
this stuff you can't do it all
so you'll have to understand that well
for my level of cardio maintaining it
takes so much work that i'm literally
inhibited for making gains by recovery
alone so that's my answer james
yeah so
there's a little bit of context here
that's important to note so it depends
you know okay so he's talking about
basketball so that was right in the
beginning yeah so
the interference effects of doing any of
these things right uh for basketball
is only significant if you are trying to
pursue them to their maximal extent
independently right so here's what i'm
saying is like if you are trying to grow
your legs as much as possible
then your question of like does
maintaining uh my cardio regiment
interfere with my ability to do that yes
but
the missing piece of this puzzle here is
that you never would do that if you are
a competitive basketball player you are
always going to have elements of your
sport practice your cardio and whatever
kind of um body composition related
strength or muscle mass uh
training that you are doing that's
always going to be part of the milieu of
your training and as you said you're
going to be kind of dialing them up and
down a little bit accordingly depending
on your needs analysis and your goals
but just for an example so
like
is it uh
if you are somebody who is like a doctor
mike
and the question is um
would i would my mv change to for for my
legs so that they don't decondition if i
add cardio yes
what about for your kind of intermediate
basketball player i would actually say
no why because you're not actually
pursuing maximal leg size you're nowhere
close to your genetic potential for
maximal leg size so i would say you're
probably relatively unchanged so if you
do cardio is it going to enhance your
ability to achieve an mv only if you're
doing like sprint interval type stuff um
you know along those lines so if you
take your average basketball player
soccer player rugby player baseball
player etc pick and choose whatever you
want
you would have a hard time making a case
to me that their cardio whatever it is
that they're doing whether they're
emphasizing it or kind of just doing a
maintenance volume is truly limiting
their potential in any one of their
other fitness areas because they're just
not that well developed in any one of
their other fitness areas now if you are
somebody who is more biased so let's say
you are a basketball player who really
relies on being strong and powerful and
that's part of your game and you execute
that as part of your tactical strategy
as a basketball player then you could
probably make a case of saying like you
know i have to kind of strike the right
balance here with my cardio because i
need to be that really fast agile guy
and when i do cardio i really feel like
i start slowing down a lot okay
i can accept that right if you're kind
of a more just normal kind of
well-rounded player i would have a hard
time
accepting like oh you know i'm doing the
an mv amount of conditioning is that
really going to impact my ability in the
offseason to put on more muscle in my
legs like
nah
you could probably do just fine why
because you're an intermediate which is
totally fine and you're in a sport that
generally um
favors well-roundedness like you have to
be both skillful tactical strong agile
and enduring to some extent so you can't
the reason i was getting kind of pissed
and not i wasn't actually pissed but the
reason i got the skeptical eye when mike
was talking was because i think the way
that you're framing the context of the
question is like if i'm trying to pursue
any one of these things to their fullest
capacity well it's like you never are
going to do that as a basketball player
you're always going to accept that
there's some level of compromise on each
one of these things that are inherent
you can still dial them up and down but
you're never going to not do cardio
you're never not going to do weights
you're never not going to be playing
basketball so i can't pursue like lead
growth to its fullest extent at any
given time unless i'm not a serious
basketball player and at that point why
did we frame it in the context of
basketball so you see what i'm saying so
it's kind of one of these like silly
arguments um but overall i think if
you're an average
you know intermediate player um
you will have to adjust some of your
numbers accordingly but to say that like
um
uh
my mv of cardio is going to
significantly impact your like mrv for
your other body parts i'd be like eh is
it going to impact it yeah is it going
to like cut it in half no you're
probably going to have to make some
adjustments but they're not going to be
massive
alright well said james very well said
dr mcfungled outside didn't mean it when
i said your name is stupid this is
stupid that's the point right so no
offense
all right
fiona
oh
theon e
very simple question very simple answer
hey doc's does neck training for size
increase the risk of getting sleep apnea
in the future it does but you have to
have some genetics to get sleep apnea
you probably also have to have some body
fat in most cases um
and uh you know it's your neck has to be
objectively quite large in order for you
to be candid for apnea there's a lot of
genetic variation about that so i have
like roughly a 22-inch neck and i just
don't have sleep apnea i got super lucky
i know people with 18 inch necks 17 inch
necks that have full blown cpap required
seat sleeve sleep apnea so i would say
if you
whatever risk you have of sleep apnea
with genetics and body fat lifestyle etc
if you have a bigger muscular neck
absolutely increases your chance for
sleep apnea yeah
yeah agreed
all right next up is
with the big letter s
it's like superman except very few
people can pronounce his whole name
it's a bird it's a plane it's it yes
they are
anyway he's here
um hey doc simple question do i count
r-i-r-r-p-e on the first set or the last
set or all of them combined and then
just take an average thank you for your
great content so um usually
uh
it depends on so it says count which
means uh to me that you're doing things
and then you're trying to assess
afterwards what the rpe was um i think
uh another way of training is to try to
target one in advance but in either case
what james and i probably prefer is all
sets have their own independent values
and you don't have to average them you
just look at them all together uh like
uh that's it so you know it's kind of
like saying you know how many grams of
should i count grams of proteins carbs
or fats in my meal you count them all
like should i average them like no no
like what about calories is that kind of
an average like yeah you could actually
use that also but all three numbers
independent independently wise so for
example
and here's why we don't average them
uh if you have
some are rpes like let's say an rpe
eight average over the course of five
sets uh but it's all eights okay eight
average and every single set was eight
versus you have a situation
in which you have rpe of like a few
sixes at the beginning a few eights in
the middle and then around eight in the
middle and then a few tens at the end
average is still eight but those ten
rp's at the end are gonna cause way more
disproportionate fatigue so even with an
eight rpe average
condition one where it's eight for all
of them is going to be way less
fatiguing than condition two where just
two of the sets are p10 so uh because of
that sort of exponential rise of fatigue
averaging doesn't give you a very good
picture um it's kind of similar to
saying you know like here's a country in
which you know there's a population of
two people and they make one makes
thirty five thousand dollars the other
makes forty five thousand dollars
average income of forty thousand okay
here's another country one person makes
zero dollars and the other person makes
eighty thousand average 40 both
countries have the same general like
economic situation like no they don't
not even close
so
so i wouldn't average them i don't think
that i think that actually washes away
important data i would just collect one
at a time and then look it over and see
how that matches your goals james
yeah absolutely so uh sergey you would
take you just do it for each individual
set um
kind of looking at them as like a
collective or averaging them is useful
in things where it's kind of difficult
to assess so like for example would be
like a sport practice activity you might
say we're shooting for this activity
we're shooting for an rpe of seven or
eight but there's going to be times when
you're active there's going to be times
when you're resting so we're kind of
just broadly speaking it should be
roughly this hard right but for sats for
hypertrophy training you can just
they're very easy to assess and you can
look at them as individual like
components right you say for each set
i'm going to look at the difficulty and
then i'm going to either
log what happened or like mike said in
the beginning what we prefer to do is to
shoot a target for yourself and then try
and match that across all the sets and
usually that means your reps or weight
that you're using might have to change
to match that rir which is the preferred
way for hypertrophy training but yeah so
like the way that you're doing it might
be like if i'm coaching some rugby guys
and we're doing a drill i might say like
here's what we're going for today guys i
want you to set a pace for this drill
that's like an rp of 8 out of 10 which
is pretty hard um but you wouldn't do
that for like a weight training session
or for even just for like one exercise
grouping like a bench press you would
treat each in set as an individual set
all right and next up is
make sure we get this right
uh urui
nagbi
r-o-e-e
oh there he is okay
so
uh rui says hey docs thanks for all the
quality information of course our
pleasure are there benefits to taking a
de-load for a specific muscle group or
squat bench deadlift lift i've seen this
in the gym
uh last week and it's been on my mind
ever since uh there are absolutely and
uh you saw somebody like dead deloading
his his dead left and he was like oh my
god
calculus equations and
shit what does it mean
all right so there was um
what's that guy forgot his name there's
a guy that makes like um physical memes
on instagram he makes like memes and he
actually posts them places and one was
like i was having a dream last night
that i was making out with garfield the
cat what does this mean if you can help
me please
so um
yes and usually it's good to do not
holding loads but what we call recovery
half weeks where for half a week of
training uh however many sessions you do
in that half week be it one or even
three
for that muscle group or that lift you
just take like half of the volume half
of the reps etc sometimes half the load
and then a half week later you come back
and you start progressing uh as if it
was you know a week or two before that
and uh that's totally a terrible
strategy it's a very good strategy if
like
you know you really fucked up your
progression on a muscle and you assumed
the mrv was really high but it wasn't it
was like the rest of your body's fucking
golden but your biceps are fucking done
like you don't have to deload everything
for that you just have to deload your
biceps and because local fatigue tends
to be very easy to get rid of versus
systemic and because systemic fatigue is
really easy to reduce if it's just
stemming from one muscle group just a
half week is often good enough i'm not
saying it's always good enough but i
think half a week is usually very good
so what you do is you would deload just
your bicep workouts maybe you would deal
with your back a little bit to really
take the onus off all the pulling work
your biceps are doing everything else
you would train normally and then you
would come back and start with a little
bit of a lower volume maybe two thirds
of what you left off because you're
going to be a little bit more sensitive
to volume but you can start your weight
progression back where you started it
from rar is back where you started or
left off from and then everything's good
after that
yeah so roy two one thing to just watch
out for
the reason the way that people fuck this
up and it sounds kind of goofy like how
do you fuck this up well the reason is
that they will kind of pick and choose
muscle groups and just deload them for a
week and then kind of pick and choose
another one the next week and then pick
and choose another one next week and
then essentially they're just kind of
like in a state of constantly
overreaching various muscle groups or
systemically overreaching when the
reality is is they probably could just
benefit from taking a full deload and
getting a nice clean fresh start so what
you don't want to do is be like whoa boy
that leg session like really wore me out
i'm going to deload legs this week and
keep training upper body and then
surprise you're going to have some
really great upper body training
sessions that week and you're like damn
i had some huge pr's and now i'm like
really overreached on my upper body i'm
going to deload that this next week and
you see what i'm saying it kind of goes
into the circular thing so it's okay
when you kind of um
you overreach on accident that's what we
call non-functional overreaching like
you didn't mean to do it it just kind of
happened on accident you're like fuck
now what do i do that's when taking
those half weeks or those kind of mini
deloads can be handy so long as that it
allows you to stay on the trajectory
that you set for yourself what you don't
want to do is this like constant like
auto-regulation circular deloading all
the time kind of thing
because then your stamina is always high
and that's really bad yeah
all right ahan
locker
all right
hey guys love the channel i was
wondering about rar we know that within
5 to 30 reps training for the same rar
let's see 2 ir produces equivalent
hypertrophy up roughly that's right true
in those cases but if two reps of an
eight rep max
weight produces more tension
okay if two reps of an eight rep max
weight produces more tension
than two reps of a 20 rep max weight
if we do six reps at two rar aren't we
further away from our max ability to
produce force failure
then we
then if we do eighteen reps at two rar
my reasoning is that the first scenario
our muscles still have the ability to
crank out two more ups with our 8rm but
second scenario while the rr is the same
our muscles only have the ability to
crank out two more reps
with our 20 rm uh i'd say that's a quite
valid concern potentially theoretically
so what basically uh hana is saying is
that relative to the number of reps
you're doing uh two rar eight reps is
actually uh significantly further away
from failure than two r
from uh you know so like 20 reps or
something i will say there's two things
that come to mind initially one
is it's it's been i think pretty well
illustrated that
yes everything is roughly equivalent but
you got to go a little closer to failure
when you're training at lighter loads
than when you're training at heavier
loads to get the equivalent hypertrophy
so i think because of that sort of
discovery or that observation
your
cer sure your assumption is actually
correct and vetted and and that's what
one of these things were like you can
grow real well from three or four rar
with your 10rm but like three or four r
with your 30 rm might actually not be
ultra hard and you're like i don't know
i felt like i was really just getting
into it here so i think it might be i
think what you're saying could very well
be true and it's also supported by those
observations um another thing is uh i
think studying this is incredibly
difficult because
that close to failure with just slightly
different reps and load gets to be so
nitty gritty that detecting the
differences becomes almost impossible
from a research perspective so i would
say like if this is something that you
observe in your own re your own training
like you know yeah 3rir for sets of 30
just doesn't cut it for me go a little
harder and then make that adjustment
yourself i just wouldn't be um looking
out for literature to confirm this exact
thing that you're saying anytime super
soon because gee whiz you know um the
error on rir for estimates for most
people is already bounded outside of
this thing you're trying to discover um
it's like trying to you know see
something with a like a microscope and
the resolution's just like bigger than
or
smaller than the thing you're trying to
see
you might see something here and there
but nothing reliably so if you make a
very good point i think it's probably a
correct point but i i think our
observations actually support that idea
yeah
one thing to add like mike said rar
already has a litany of errors and then
when you start getting into the like
what is my 20 rm or what is my actual 30
rm you have to actually wonder like what
was the limiting factor for them even
doing that assessment more often than
not it's just like they're got out of
breath they're just pissed off that
they're having to do this ridiculous
thing you know and i'm dead serious like
if you ask mike mike and i to do a 30 rm
like machine curl you get to about 20
reps and be like just like i can keep
going but i'm at my wit's end of this
stupid activity this sucks um
that kind of stuff so again it's like
riddled with all these weird errors and
so when you are assessing you know
something like
3rir with your 20rm like the margin of
error on that is just so
crazy and goofy it's an interesting
thought experiment uh ahan one thing to
consider too is that within that five to
thirty reps we say you know there most
of them assuming the rir's between four
and zero are roughly equivalent it does
seem that a biasing on the heavy side
does give like a non-statistically
significant slightly
more a better stimulus
and that's only significant in the sense
of like accumulating large
volumes of those reps so
although 5 to 30 you know we say any one
of those sets is roughly equivalent you
know if you're biasing a little bit more
on the heavy side you might be getting a
slight advantage in terms
for the same rar in terms of growth
stimulus it's not a statistically
significant effect more often than not
but you could say there's a potential
practical effect there and big surprise
that it holds out in the real world like
you see lots of people getting really
big and strong powerlifter is a great
example lifting with relatively heavy
weights so it holds up i wouldn't um
perseverate too much on these rir type
questions just because mike said they're
hard to measure they're riddled with
user error and it's just not something
that we can do really reliably
[Music]
lots to say
last
but absolutely possibly least because
this question could sound i don't know
yet
um is your boy and that's just called
you boy that says what your boy oh there
it is
so
he asks
i'm going on a bulk for the first time
in my life after cutting from 200 pounds
to 145.
i want i obviously want to minimize fat
gain but i also like to at least keep up
my cardio
is it possible to eat slightly more on
training days four times a week and eat
regularly on rest days the days i do my
cardio and thus being a slight surplus
by the end of the week
uh and get almost maximal gains so so i
can't tell you about almost maximal
gains but if you eat a little bit more
on your training days and you need a
little bit less on your off days as long
as your net surplus
uh over the week oh sorry you're not
calories over the week your average per
day calories over the week are in a uh
surplus then you're gonna gain muscle um
i just
would uh
this is one of those things where
normally this wouldn't be the answer but
if you're going to do something like
this where you pulsating your days a lot
i would absolutely log your shit
uh pretty meticulously to make sure
you're actually in a surplus
because you could spend weeks being like
i'm in a surplus and then you haven't
gained any weight you're like just
kidding that's why james and i are
really not big fans of
uh you know the idea that you can gain
at like point two percent of your body
weight per week or something shit like
that like how the fuck you could spend a
month training and all of it disappears
in waterway fluctuations um yes and then
you're like i guess i did a month of
nothing so whereas you if you gain a
little too fast
you will find that out in two or three
weeks and then you can easily bring that
down and then be in a good position so
um
so we should a new term a minimum
detectable surplus
that's not a term we're not gonna have
that but uh but there's there's a
concept there that's really true so make
sure you're on that upper end uh you're
above the surplus line that's detectable
versus below because if you know if
you're consistently presenting a surplus
daily it becomes pretty obvious pretty
fast that you're in a surplus but if you
do a lot of highs and lows then that
surplus could be so low
or so not a surplus that you could be
spinning your wheels for weeks and have
no idea james
yeah i absolutely agree with mike on
that one the other thing i don't like
about i mean you can you can do this and
as long as it's done like you know it's
a reasonably um
fine i think it's fine um where it
becomes unreasonable is where you see
really big peaks and valleys and the
pulsatility of your daily intake so this
is where you could probably fuck this up
is where your rest days are really low
and your training days are really high
and then you can actually get into a
problem of like you might actually just
be getting like real fat
on some days of the week unnecessarily
and uh not actually offsetting it enough
on those on those rest days so i would
just be careful of any like really big
sways in your daily calories now it's
you should pair it to your activity
levels and that's fine so it is normal
for you to maybe have a little bit more
on your training days a little bit less
on your non-training days that's
perfectly fine what i don't want to see
is like
you know
humongous deltas of like 3 000 calorie
change across the days because then at
that point you might run into some other
problems
you know another thing real quick james
while we're on the subject
is
if you want to put your best foot
forward
your boy
i feel strange um
sort of recalling that but um
the best real is or one of the
realizations to make that's pretty
important is that the best gains you're
going to make theoretically
is through a rather consistent small
daily presentation of a surplus your
body swims in that shit there's no
counter signaling um your your body and
muscles can really settle into the idea
like okay lots of food around this is
good and
you know muscle growth curves last
several days if one of those is a high
day very high and one of those is a very
low
the growth curve gets muddled a bit
because on the low day it's going to be
like oh fuck this i'm reducing my shit
apparently we're starving and there's
some amount of that growth you can't
make up with another high day some of it
you can some of it you can't so you know
if you're serious about bulking
you could do five surplus days and two
deficit days
you can do you know
uh sorry uh yeah so six and one uh but
but four and three
uh
g you know especially if it's
interspersed
um
it's it's rough and it's if you wanted
to get as jacked as possible i would say
don't do that
um a consistent presentation of small
surplus is probably marginally better
than an average presentation of a
surplus with lots of positivity through
the week with deficits and surpluses
yeah i totally agree uh dr mike i know
you have a time limit so i think or
should we start wrapping this one up i
think that's it
i think that was uh did you wanna
there was a a bit of housekeeping and dr
mike i i'm sorry i was looking at my
phone earlier because i just remembered
that i had to scott our sound guy
reminded me to make an announcement and
hopefully you can clean this up a little
bit for me but the q and a's going
forward are going to be on a new kind of
system that we're using on our youtube
channel we're going to start introducing
the subscription channel mike you want
to start talking about that a little bit
and yeah so this will be the last q a
going forward that's just going to be on
our general youtube channel the next q
a's are going to be on our subscription
channel and i'm going to pass it over to
mike so he can talk a little bit more
about more about that in some detail yes
so i think what we're probably going to
end up doing is we are going to end up
answering just a few questions from the
general q a from just general folks on
youtube
and then most of the questions we answer
uh we're going to start doing these um
you know
probably at the same frequency maybe a
little bit more often but we're going to
answer mostly member questions um and if
you're going to want to join a
membership soon that'll be an option
like literally within a couple of uh
well actually by the time you see this
it might already be an option or if we
should within a couple of days and it's
going to be cheap cheap cheap like like
for sure less than 10 and maybe in some
cases less like around five or less
dollars per month
and then you instantly are in a pool of
people which there's fewer of you to
compete for best questions still the
same uploading system but we're gonna
switch to answering more member
questions uh and fewer questions from
the general audience and we're going to
see how that goes we're always flexible
to changing back or modifying but we'll
probably still take a few questions here
and there from general folks but members
are going to receive priority kind of
like people do when their q and a's like
patreon members receive priority
basically james and i are porn stars and
we need your money so uh that's how we
started this episode and that's how
we're gonna end it on porno
yep
okay so thanks for uh bearing with us
guys we'll probably have some more
announcements on that to come in the
near future but uh scott came to me and
was like don't forget to make the
announcement so i don't want to get on
his bad side he is a uh
a terrorist yeah um all right folks
thank you so much for joining us for the
great questions as always dr james dr
mike we're signing off for this one see
you next time