what should you eat before during and
after your workout to maximize muscle
growth and body composition this
question refers to what's called parry
workout nutrition which just means the
timing of nutrients around a workout and
let me start by saying that while i will
be giving detailed meal examples in this
video it's important that we start with
what the science actually says about
this question in the first place why
does periworkout nutrition matter at all
well in a now infamous paper titled
nutrient timing revisited aragon and
schoenfeld quote challenge the classic
view of post-exercise nutritional intake
with respect to anabolism and many
science lovers took this single paper to
be the nail in the coffin for the bros
now outdated anabolic window concept
apparently nutrient timing didn't matter
after all well it turns out many of the
science guys may have jumped to
conclusions a little too quickly because
even in this very paper the author
suggests that pre and post exercise
meals shouldn't be separated by more
than three to four hours or maybe five
to six hours if you eat a large
pre-workout meal let's just meet in the
middle and say four to five hours
between the pre and post-workout meals
is the true size of the science-based
anabolic window so the periworkout
window definitely matters but it matters
more for some than it does for others
it's more important if you're leaner
because you have a lower nutrient supply
it's more important if you're on lower
total calories because you're at a
higher risk of muscle loss and it's more
important for those who do higher volume
bodybuilding style training which
depletes more nutrients than lower
volume power lifting workouts now before
we hop into the specifics there's a
future video that i'm trying to make
that i really need your guys help with
so if you go to jeffnipper.com forward
slash muscle iq you'll find a
bodybuilding and fitness iq test that i
made that'll take you about five to ten
minutes to do and i'm doing this because
i want to see how much you guys have
learned from me over the years and to
test and see how smart you guys really
are so there's just straightforward
multiple choice questions and i think
it'd be a very cool future video to see
how well you guys do and we can go over
the answers together so please do me a
huge favor and go to jeffnipper.com
forward slash muscle iq and take five
minutes to do the test okay let's get to
some meal examples
all right so the pre-workout meal is the
single most important meal of the day in
my opinion that's because it'll
ultimately determine how effective your
training is which ultimately drives
muscle growth and there are two main
purposes of the pre-workout meal the
first is to fuel the workout primarily
via carbohydrate and the second is to
provide an anabolic environment during
training primarily via protein now when
it comes to the macros for the
pre-workout meal i am for about 1 gram
of carbohydrate per kilogram of body
weight ideally coming from a lower
glycemic carb source plus a serving of
fruit this combination of carb sources
will provide more sustainable energy
through the workout since different
carbohydrates use different transporters
meaning different rates of absorption
and more sustainable performance during
training i'll also aim for about 0.5
grams of protein per kilogram of body
weight and 0 to 20 grams of fat
depending on how close the meal is to
the workout itself because dietary fat
slows digestion down meals eaten closer
to the workout should contain less fat
and meals eaten further from the workout
should contain more fat which brings me
to the next question when should we eat
the pre-workout meal well up front i was
a bit surprised to learn that 33 percent
of you don't eat a pre-workout meal at
all because you train fasted and that's
okay and i'll have some advice for you
guys here in a minute first for the
other 67
eating 1 to 1.5 hours before training is
usually ideal because if you eat the
pre-workout meal too close to training
the food might still be digesting and
that can cause you to feel lethargic or
bloated on the other hand if you time
your meal too far from training you're
on a higher risk of having low energy or
feeling lightheaded so that's my sweet
spot but sometimes it's just not
possible to wait an hour or an hour and
a half after eating because of time
constraints sometimes you're just forced
to hit the gym on short notice in which
case you'll want to focus on eating a
lower calorie meal with faster digesting
foods and by the same token if you know
you're going to train more than one to
1.5 hours after eating you want to have
a higher calorie meal and prioritize
foods that digest more slowly okay so
let's start with a pre-workout meal
example based on 175 pound roughly 80
kilo male who plans to train in about an
hour to an hour and a half based on his
body weight and the macro targets that
we laid out he'll want about 80 grams of
carbs 40 grams of protein and 10 to 15
grams of fat so for this meal we're
making a good old bowl of protein
oatmeal so basically cook 80 grams of
oats and mix in one scoop of protein
powder i use pe science select protein
which is a blend of casein and whey and
it mixes really well with oats now full
disclosure i am sponsored by them and
shout out to my girlfriend stephanie for
the cake pop flavor idea top the oats
with a sliced banana half a tablespoon
of peanut butter and a pinch of cinnamon
which may help keep blood glucose levels
more stable into the workout and a
sprinkle of sea salt especially if you
sweat a lot during training and you can
see the full calorie and macro breakdown
of the meal here which of course you can
tweak to fit your body weight and total
daily calories oh and if you wanted to
make this meal vegan you could just
easily swap out the whey casein blend
for a vegan protein like a pea and brown
rice blend if it doesn't give the right
consistency in the oats you could just
drink it separately as a shake next
let's look at a pre-workout meal for 120
pound or 55 kilo female who will be
training a bit later so in roughly two
hours again based on her body weight
she'll want about 27 grams of protein 55
grams of carbs and 10 to 15 grams of fat
and because this meal is being eaten two
hours before training it'd be smart to
have a bit more fat than usual and a bit
more fiber than usual to slow down
digestion and ensure nutrients are still
available for fuel into the workout so
for this meal we're doing four ounces of
salmon a medium sized sweet potato a
mixed green salad with some light goat
cheese plus some apple slices with
cinnamon and here you can see the full
calorie and macro breakdown for this
meal as a third example let's consider
someone who's in a rush and needs to
train within the next 20 to 30 minutes
and hasn't eaten for hours they should
definitely eat something but if they
have a big meal they might feel bloated
or sluggish so in this case i'd
recommend something light and quick like
a whey protein shake and a banana these
nutrients need to be absorbed quickly so
we don't want much fat or fiber and here
you can see the full macro breakdown for
this quick snack on the fly all right
but what if you're one of the 33 percent
who trains fasted well let's remember
the two reasons why pre-workout
nutrition matters in the first place to
fuel training performance and to create
an anabolic environment when it comes to
fueling the workout yes generally
speaking having at least some amount of
carbohydrate before training will
benefit performance however i know from
my coaching experience that some people
simply will perform better when they
train on an empty stomach that's usually
because they train very early in the
morning and either don't have the
appetite or feel sick and nauseous if
they eat right away this isn't a deal
breaker world record holding power
lifter russell orhy trained fasted for
years while i think he's recently
switched away from that he was still
able to reach truly elite level strength
and size without a pre-workout meal
however if you are planning on skipping
the pre-workout meal then the
intra-workout and post-workout meals
suddenly become much more urgent so on
that note let's cover intra-workout
nutrition or what you should consume
during the workout itself
now up front i'll say that infra workout
nutrition definitely isn't required for
everyone especially if you've already
had a well-timed pre-workout meal but
there are a few circumstances where it
does make sense if you train fasted if
you're in a caloric deficit and already
very lean if your workouts last longer
than an hour or if you're an elite level
trainee trying to optimize every little
detail and if any of these apply to you
i definitely recommend having some kind
of liquid carb source during your
workout such as gatorade kool-aid or
tang to fuel performance as a general
rule of thumb i recommend 0.5 grams of
carbohydrate per minute of training
starting about 30 minutes into the
workout so if your workouts last 90
minutes you'd consume 30 grams of carbs
starting 30 minutes in however if you're
cutting and you'd rather not waste that
many carbs on liquid sugar then even
just 5 to 10 grams of carbohydrate can
go a long way for stabilizing blood
glucose and turning a bad workout into a
good one and if you do train fasted or
just want some extra anabolic insurance
you can optionally add 5 to 10 grams of
eaas or essential amino acids or if you
don't want to drop any extra cash on
eaas just sip on about 10 grams of whey
protein
okay so the urgency of the post-workout
anabolic window has definitely been
exaggerated by some gym bros remember
that there is in fact a four to five
hour window bracketing the workout
meaning if you ate your pre-workout meal
one hour before training then train for
an hour you'd theoretically still have
two to three hours to play with for
getting in that post-workout meal on the
other hand if you ate your pre-workout
meal two hours before training and then
trained for two hours you should get
your post-workout meal in as quickly as
possible so same as with the pre-workout
meal i recommend consuming 0.5 grams of
protein per kilogram of body weight
post-workout so if you weigh 180 pounds
or 82 kilos you'd want about 40 grams of
protein carbs are relatively less
important in the post-workout meal
because you no longer need to use them
as an immediate energy source and most
typical weight training sessions don't
actually deplete as much glycogen as
some bodybuilders lead on anyway plus
research shows that any lost glycogen
should be replenished within 24 to 48
hours as long as you're eating some
carbohydrate at some point after
training however because rates of
glycogen resynthesis are at their
highest within the first few hours
following training it would be smart to
include at least some carbohydrate in
the post-workout meal especially if you
do full body training or two-a-day
workouts where you'll be hitting the
same muscle again within the next day or
two assuming you have plenty of carbs to
spare then one to 1.5 grams of carbs per
kilogram of body weight is a good target
however when cutting you may be more
limited on carbs in which case something
around 0.5 grams per kilogram may be
more appropriate and i'd recommend
including another serving of fruit in
the post-workout meal as well now when
it comes to fats i don't think they're
as big of a deal in the post-workout
meal simply because rate of digestion is
of relatively less importance the
workout has already been fueled and
there's typically no major urgency to
get those nutrients absorbed as quickly
as possible still if you do find
yourself on the outer edge of that four
to five hour anabolic window it wouldn't
be a bad idea to keep fats down below 10
to 20 grams just to ensure digestion
isn't slowed down excessively under most
circumstances though this isn't
something i personally nitpick over too
much okay so let's look at three
optimized post-workout meal examples up
first again we have our 175 pound or 80
kilo male with a post-workout macro goal
of 40 grams of protein 80 grams of carbs
and 10 to 15 grams of fat this is a
post-workout meal i'll personally have
very often so i'll mix up a bowl of
extra lean ground turkey jasmine rice
low-fat sour cream low-fat shredded
cheese and sriracha and then i'll have a
sun gold kiwi as my post-workout fruit
source for obvious reasons
and a mixed green salad to hit some
veggies and if you need some extra
protein you can add a glass of milk or
just some extra ground turkey as needed
to your protein target and here you can
see the total calories and macros for
this meal the second example is the 120
pound or 55 kilo female lifter and she
could do something like four ounces of
chicken breast or a protein equated
amount of tofu as a vegan option with
300 grams of baby golden potatoes a few
steamed brussels sprouts a small handful
of salted pistachios and 100 grams of
mixed blueberries and raspberries and
these are the calories and macros for
this meal and then finally let's cover
someone who trained fasted and has to
drive back home or go to work before
they can have their next meal in another
hour or two in this case i would
recommend having a protein shake right
after training plus a serving of fruit
like a banana or some grapes and
depending on your total carb intake
perhaps a couple rice cakes as well so
this would be the total macro breakdown
for this quick post-workout snack and
then they would have their first whole
food meal a couple hours later and
before you guys click out i want to tell
you about a very important announcement
so over the last few months i've been
beta testing and helping customize in my
opinion the best nutrition and macro
tracking app the industry has to offer
i've been working on it with two of my
good friends and sports nutrition
experts greg knuckles and eric trexler
the app is called macro factor and it's
finally available on apple and android
the app was designed to be smarter than
any other nutrition app out there most
apps will set you up with some pretty
unfavorable macro suggestions when you
enter your goals especially if you lift
weights and want to build muscle whereas
macro factor gives you the most
fine-tuned macros possible for your
specific goal activity level diet
preferences and so on based on the
latest scientific research macro factor
has a massive rd verified food database
including a very fast barcode scanner
that auto-populates the macros and
calories for you and unlike every other
tracking app i've used it also
accurately reports micronutrients like
vitamins and minerals as well as
omega-3s omega-6s cholesterol and so on
and one thing that was really important
to me in helping test the app is just
how customizable it is you can give the
app full control to create a customized
plan just for you with the coaching
option where your plan will be adjusted
and updated every week or if you prefer
to self coach you can use the manual
option to tweak the targets to your
exact specifications you can also adjust
your numbers to be higher or lower on
training versus non-training days
integrate the app data with your fitbit
and dozens of other health apps and
there's even an ai describe feature that
allows you to add foods using your voice
which cuts down on a ton of tracking
time one some gold kiwi and then i add
that to the plate and there it is so you
guys can get started with a free seven
day trial by clicking the first link in
the description box below and using the
code jeff to help support my work here
on the channel i really think you guys
are gonna enjoy it and that's it for
this one guys don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
i'll see you guys all here
in the next one