but you only go back to the Grind diet
from the chill diet you were doing once
you're damn good and ready and not like
man I could still use a few days of the
chill diet but let's push don't push any
harder than you think is sustainable but
challenge yourself and this pattern of
grinding and then chilling grinding and
then chilling grinding and then chilling
letting the fatigue of dieting come up
and then come down come up and then come
down can work well for weeks and weeks
and
weeks hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength the simplest diet ever video
series part three the last video in the
series adjusting to challenges in the
diet process there are four kinds of
challenges we're going to talk about
today that you might encounter in
attempting to do a fat loss diet one is
hunger and diet fatigue which are pretty
gnarly two is the question of how long
you should diet for because people say
like I'm doing a diet you ask oh how
long have you been doing this one
they're like I'm not so sure I just do
it until I look better and then giant
question marks appear and I have no idea
what's going on we're going to talk
about how to train and stay active
during your diet which is a big deal
it's not all just diet and then of
course what to do after your diet
because yeah once the diet ends we can
tell you when it ends but what do you do
after let's take each one in turn when
you don't eat enough calories by
definition you have a caloric deficit
you don't need enough calories to
maintain your weight you lose weight and
fat which is an amazing thing and that's
the core proposition of something like
the simple Science Diet but
unfortunately your body hates doing this
even though it's good for you your
body's not programmed to like this
process and your body will let you know
of its disgruntled nature in three
different ways one is increased hunger
two is reduced daily mental and physical
energy and three is disrupted
sleep all of these things together are
called diet fatigue and they're a big
deal and we need to attend to them and
understand how to reduce diet fatigue
after detecting it and knowing it is a
problem in other words after a few days
or weeks or months of dieting on the
grind diet the tough part of a simple
Science Diet you'll start to experience
the following effects which are termed
in total again diet fatigue hunger
energy problems and sleep disruption
let's take a look at what these look
like hunger can reflect itself in a few
ways one is that your simple Science
Diet portions used to be very filling
you're eating the meals like oh this is
great but lately you're feeling like you
could eat a lot more not good another
thing is you start to fantasize about
food a whole lot the kind of foods
you're going to eat when you're off the
diet and commercials for junk food hit
normally you look at a burger kin
commercial you're like n that looks
greasy I don't know have like half that
burger but nowadays after you're really
hungry you're looking at it and you're
like wow those people in the commercial
have true happiness I wish I was one of
them then you know you're pretty hungry
at a deep level what about energy you'll
notice at some point after grinding a
diet for long enough you could run into
a couple of things one is that you're
notably slower both mentally and
physically I'm right now as recording
this this in a huge deficit and I feel
like I'm aware of what I'm going to say
just about half a second before it comes
out of my mouth not good luckily I
haven't said anything too crazy yet
mentally you're slower physically you're
slower and just have less oomph and you
can tell another thing you may notice is
you kind of just want to sit down all
the time instead of stand and when
you're sitting down instead of sitting
you want to lay down really low energy
your body will let you know when you're
burning a lot of fat for a little too
long and diet fatigue is too high by
really reducing how much perceptive
energy you have you can also notice that
doing even simple tasks like taking out
the garbage can seem insurmountable
normally you're sitting on the couch and
the wife here we go take out the garbage
Morty your name's Morty in this by the
way why wouldn't it be and normally if
you're not dieting you're like all right
Sherice right Scott the video guy
Sharice that works a name it's a name
that exists and you go and do it it's a
nuisance cuz you should have never
gotten married and the garbage just
piles up like legal fees what it's a
nuisance but you get it done no problem
you get up off the couch do it no
problem and someone is interviewing
after like hey was that tough you're
like why is there an interview guy in my
house but no that wasn't tough if you're
dieted down enough if your diet fatigue
is high enough when she's like hey um
you okay to get the garbage really quick
and then we'll go out like we were
planning and you're like sure honey and
you look at the trash can and that movie
effect Scott you'll know what I mean I
talk about like the distancing effect
what's that
called I forget you know what I'm saying
let zoom out zoom in at the same time
and the trash can looks like it's 10
miles away it looks like it's bolted to
the ground and weighs a ton and you're
like oh God I got to get up off the
couch walk to the trash can get the
trash out walk to the garage to put it
in the actual dumpster walk all the way
back but no it's not over yet cuz I have
to replace the trash bag with a new bag
which means I got to get under the sink
and bend down and then going to poof the
bag up that seems insurmountable if it's
starting to seem insurmountable and it's
part of a pattern and you're grinding
through the diet yeah your diet fatigue
is really high and another one lastly is
you just often feel brain dead at work
and at school and that's not cool
because those are really really
important thing so if your energy levels
are low enough you're going to have to
do something about it
lastly is sleep three ways this can
present one is you have trouble falling
asleep because you're so damn hungry
that's annoying you lay down you're like
let's go to sleep I'm going to count
tacos jumping over a fence no waight
sheep oh but Lamb's really good damn it
and then you're still awake cuz you're
hungry thinking about food you may be
able to fall asleep but you might toss
and turn more at night one of the
reasons this happens is as you become
more and more diet fatigued your
Baseline level of fight ORF flight
hormones in your bloodstream elevates
hormones like cortisol and when you have
a higher than normal amount of fight ORF
flight hormones you kind of tend to
fight or fly in your sleep a little bit
more tossing and turning waking and
going back to sleep low quality sleep
that makes you less well rested and
impedes further abilities to burn fat by
a huge margin which is really bad
because sleep is critical to the fat
burning process and another way this can
present is you go to bed at night no
problem you sleep quite find no problem
but you wake up really early in the
morning you're supposed to wake up at
7:00 you're wide awake at 4:00 in the
morning and you can't go back to sleep
and you feel this nervous energy that
means that you're in a pretty bad way
and it's time to do something about
reducing this diet fatigue so this kind
of diet fatigue when it gets bad enough
for you to say okay I'm definitely
experiencing this and it's not just
tough it's very tough I'm really taking
a hit on Hunger I'm really feeling the
low energy and my sleep is really in a
bad place you have to make a change the
simple Science Diet has two diet modes
the grind diet which is tough which may
acuru some Diet fatigue for you and the
chill diet which is more food and much
easier at this point when you feel
really really messed up it could take
you a week to feel this it could take
you eight weeks to feel this switch to
the chill diet and you're going to feel
way better especially after a few days
of eating it if you're still losing
weight and youve switched to the chill
diet just keep chill dieting for as long
as you like you're still losing weight
and now it's easy but if if you feel
pretty damn good again after a few days
or even a few weeks on the chill diet
and you want to get some more real
hardcore fat loss going you can give the
grind diet another shot switching back
and forth as your body allows you
between the chill diet and the grind
diet is going to give you your best
results sustainably because you never
push it to Red Line too long until you
fall off the wagon this is best done
especially if you're honest with
yourself and you push hard until you
give up on the grind diet but you only
go back to the Grind diet from the chill
diet you were doing once you're damn
good and ready and not like man I could
still use a few days of the chill diet
but let's push don't push any harder
than you think is sustainable but
challenge yourself in this pattern of
grinding and then chilling grinding and
then chilling grinding and then chilling
letting the fatigue of dieting come up
and then come down come up and then come
down can work well for weeks and weeks
and weeks but not forever so let's chat
about how long this kind of diet should
be so how long should you diet for
there's a wide range you can use the
simple Science Diet to diet for as few
as four weeks on end and see really good
results you can also diet for as long as
12 total weeks and get even crazier
results shorter than four weeks probably
won't give you the sustainable results
that you're looking for you diet for
four weeks some cool stuff happens
unless you make some pretty scientific
adjustments you're going to regain a lot
of that weight but more like six and
more like eight and more like 10 Etc
weeks really puts s Dent into stuff on
the other hand if you diet for longer
than 12 weeks we highly encourage you to
switch to the chill diet as your
Baseline daily diet just the chill no
more grind technically the diet's over
and every now and again every few days
take one of the meals replace them with
a super tasty meal cheat meal so to
speak keep it in moderation but fun
nonetheless here and there especially if
your body weight is staying around the
place where you like it and then you can
totally have a few meals here and there
after that no sooner than about eight
weeks after your last grind diet ended
you can begin another cycle of grind SL
chill to do another four to 12 weeks so
basically you diet for 4 to 12 weeks as
soon as you stop you go to chill diet
only with some cheat meals thrown in if
you like do that for at least 8 weeks to
really reduce diet fatigue both
physiological and psychological and then
you can start another 4 to 12 weeks of
chill grind dieting really hammering in
the the results really getting good fat
loss don't get too attached to the scale
after you're finished with a phase of
dieting and you go to chill plus some
cheat meals it's okay to regain a few
pounds when transitioning but after you
regain a few pounds in about a week or
two the scale should be pretty flat it's
the longterm multiple cycles of grind SL
chill multiple four to 12 week Cycles
specifically 8 to 12 week Cycles over
the course of many years that are going
to give you really really drastic
results no one diet is going to make you
get into perfect shape now to get the
best out of the long term let's talk a
little bit about how to exercise during
your simple Science Diet here's the
thing you can do any kind of physical
activity that you like and the simple
Science Diet will work but lifting
weights between two and four times a
week and you can do more if you like but
two to four is a real good sweet spot
for many people is going to give you a
huge upside how it's going to build
strength it's going to improve your
health it's going to build a lot of
muscle and because it builds a lot of
muscle it makes your physical shape that
you get after the diet much better as
you get leaner so instead of you getting
leaner and people are like are you sick
you look skinny they're like damn you
look amazing are you going to compete in
a fitness competition that's what you
want to hear and training with weights
and building that muscle is critical for
that process now in the description
you'll see that we have a link to the RP
hypertrophy app you can use one of our
pre-loaded templates we have multiple
templates of two days a week three days
a week four days a week training to get
started anytime you like with that but
if you train at home with only very
limited equipment we have the RP gym fre
templates and they are included free of
charge in your simple Science Diet
bundle that you can also purchase in the
description which is really kind of
amazing now that's for the training the
lifting part there's the physical
activity part at Baseline that we've
talked about in these previous videos
getting at least oh 10K steps a day
maybe 10 to 12,000 steps a day on most
days is a huge Advantage because it
makes sure that your body is humming in
the background and burning extra body
fat just a little not to make you too
fatigued but just enough to make the
diet really enable to do the work and
because you track your steps daily
hopefully you can get a strep tracker
like I have that's like $20 from Amazon
or you can just have your phone in your
pocket all day many people do your phone
every single cell phone track steps
anyway the fact that you know your daily
steps holds you accountable to being
active even if you're a bit low on
energy and if you're doing a few of the
grind days in a row on the simple
Science Diet you're going to feel what
low energy feels like and you're saying
I have 8,000 steps right now get up Mike
get up off the couch do another 2,000
steps go check the mail go walk the dog
come back and you'll be done for the day
it'll be good you check boox enough days
of I got at least 10,000 steps a day and
I did the diet I was supposed to you
will see results all right the diet's
over you got your results what do you do
after the diet because this is a really
big deal if you want results to last
most people skip this part they'll do a
diet they'll be successful they'll come
off the diet and giant question marks
appear and then they're back to being
fat shortly there after no good we
already covered a little bit of this so
just a few extra details you can diet
for anywhere between 4 and 12 weeks no
wrong answers and here dieting means
that you're using a combination of the
grind and chill diet but with no
off-plan junk food strict eating once
you're done with dieting you switch to
the chill diet and on occasion you could
have some junk Foods no big
deal you're going to wait eight weeks at
least to really drop physiological and
psychological diet fatigue because the
body needs to recover dieting is hard do
I have a diet for you you can just do
diet and diet and and diet and diet and
diet and you know a year later being
shredded to the bone no nobody has that
diet I can't wait for biotech to invent
it it's just not here yet here's the
thing dieting is hard so in between Diet
phases you need to give yourself time
for maintenance and relaxation where you
regain maybe a few pounds and then
Flatline after that if you don't give
yourself those breaks you're going to be
pushing harder than your body and your
mind can handle and that's going to lead
you to quit and rebound and just eat
snacks and cookies and cakes and gain
back a bunch of weight this is one of
the most reliable insights from research
on dieting you push people too hard they
rebound 99 times out of 100 do you get
zero bonus points for grinding all of
your diets into a pulp and then
rebounding out yes but you get negative
points because you're canceling out the
results that you have imagine you get a
95% on a test and you think that going
the extra mile and dieting even further
gets you
105% but in reality the diet fatigue you
create makes you rebound and you regain
10 L pounds after the diet because of
crazy two weeks after you're just eating
everything in sight you're completely
inactive because you burned out you look
back on your test grade it's not a 95
anymore it's a 75 you cost yourself
retroactive problems that's a big deal
we're living in a culture fueled by
movies and Hollywood and and
motivational stuff and fitspirational
 on Instagram and Tik Tok that
pushes the average person to go a little
bit harder so it really rewards that
like do it grind go that extra mile and
it's great for the average person but if
if you're watching this Channel and if
you're ready to invest in your fitness
journey or continue your fitness journey
you're already not the average person
and some of you myself included push way
too goddamn hard to often and pay the
price for it do the diet take the chill
time after because if you don't you're
just going to break into pieces and
you're not going to have much Fitness to
speak of even though you suffer that
entire time lastly we have some links in
the description for you the top link
doesn't just give you access to the
simple Science Diet as long as you pay
us of course I'll get to that in a sec
it gives you the whole beginner bundle
for folks that are starting into fitness
or getting a refresh into fitness or not
beginners at all just want a simple
approach to get their Fitness in order
we have a lot of stuff we have in this
this is what you get when you buy the
one thing of course you get the simple
Science Diet which is the topic of all
three of these past videos we value that
at about a 100 bucks you get the RP gym
free workout plan which we also value at
about 100 bucks 200 so far we throw in
the understanding healthy eating book
which is about a $20 value the
Renaissance kitchen e-cookbook the
something sweet e-cookbook both of those
are together about 50 bucks we have two
PDF guides in there for you a meal prep
tips PDF guide and an on thee-o eating
guide together they're about $100 value
we have Mr Nik Shaw's CEO's fit for
success book included with that which is
about an $18 value as we counted curious
number and we also have multiple ebooks
called the Made Simple series
they break down fat loss dieting muscle
gain dieting they break down how to
train with weights for strength how to
train with weights for hypertrophy and
everything in between made Ultra Ultra
simple for you all of these ebooks are
included in this bundle all of them
together we estimate that's about a $100
value so we got
200 about uh let's see 260
360 oh 400 this is close to $500 of
value I sound like a super salesy
marketing person right now I
I'm not did you were you convinced by
that I wasn't you get all the
stuff for 99 bucks for hundred
dollars the simple science side itself
is $100 you get everything else in this
list for free which is pretty
sweet is it like buy now you have to buy
limited offer not really but I just
think this is really awesome stuff and
as far as objective value for your money
we're trying to hook you guys up because
you guys are the and we really give
a about your goals that you're
achieving if you're interested in a more
advanced plan that tailor the diet
around your workouts and is really for
exotic levels of leanness and
muscularity the RP diet coach app is
also linked below if you want to click
on that if you're interested in growing
real serious muscle the RP hypertrophy
app is also linked below if you've had
some success but you really would like a
coach we have some of the best coaches
in the world working for us at RP
strength and that team of coaches is
just a click away for you also in the
description and lastly I'll say this say
saly mic Switched Off real world mic
switched on if you're not into buying
stuff no big deal I'm going to see you
guys next time for more always free
always educational and sometimes maybe
if I get lucky funny videos on the RP
strength channel to keep you guys
informed jacked lean and maybe even
tan click on stuff buy things if you're
interested if not seeing the next video
either way see you the next video I've
been Dr Mike see you next time
a