Guinness tastes like sh and apparently
that's the least manly thing I could say
because there's a ton of you in the
comments we F wrong with you bro
Guinness in these veins
baby hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance
periodization today's topic is how
alcohol consumption affects your muscle
mass and your strength
gains Scott the video guy will very
likely throw up our video on alcohol and
fat loss right over here so please by
all means click that will take care of
that it's a bit of a different
discussion I really wanted to split
these two discussions I didn't want like
one discussion of just alcohol and
fitness because there's so much to cover
so we're just going to be talking about
how alcohol affects your ability and
likelihood of success with trying to get
stronger and more jacked the two most
important things in this world if you're
keeping track here's the deal alcohol
presents I think at least four problems
for muscle and strength gains problem
number one is that it interferes with
recovery alcohol consumption especially
the high
rates increases the systemic fatigue
that you
experience and it prevents systemic
fatigue that you create in your training
from falling off as fast between
sessions between
weeks so instead of you training for a
few weeks and you're fatigue climbing
like this if you consistently consume
higher and higher amounts of alcohol
your fatigue climbs faster so whereas
normally week three of a program you'd
be hitting big PRS if you're drinking
much more than you usually do you may
not be hitting big PRS you may just be
scraping by hitting smaller PRS or even
tanking and not hitting any PRS at all
so it's definitely a thing that
absolutely happens alcohol is the
opposite of a recovery modality as an
anti-recoverin sleep and oh yeah I'll
drink six beers no no no that last part
is the opposite of what you want
psychologically alcohol can really help
you unwind but there's a physical cost
there which is why most serious athletes
either don't drink or only drink at
specific times or just don't drink much
or have insane genetics that are
alcoholics I'm sure there's a few next
really big concern with alcohol is it
interferes with sleep this is a huge
problem for muscle growth and Recovery
because sleep is ultra Ultra powerful at
making you bigger and stronger alcohol
reduces sleep quantity and typically
sleep duration especially if you have it
well into the night which is kind of how
a lot of people drink alcohol you know
like you drink alcohol in the morning
people say you're a deric piece of shit
who should get a job thanks Dad but um
if you drink it at night people are like
hey great you're successful and you're
drinking it at the socially appropriate
time problem is it costs you sleep and
sleep is the elixir of strength and
hypertrophy recovery so bad deal there
for
sure if especially you consume quite a
bit of alcohol a little party night that
consumption of alcohol can reduce the
quality of the training session you have
the next day especially if it's in the
morning but really throughout that whole
day so it's really really not ideal to
consume substantial amounts of alcohol
the day before a bigger workout for you
so that is an acute concern with alcohol
consumption and lastly if shit wasn't
bad enough
already alcohol through a variety of
mechanisms causes a decrease in muscle
protein synthesis which means that it
actively contributes to making you less
Jack than you could have otherwise been
without it that's a bad deal and it's
weird right because culturally like
tough guys who have muscles and look
like popey drink beer but the reality is
if they drank less beer they would look
even tougher and more like popey that's
what you're
into so yeah rough it's rough alcohol
sucks for muscle and strength it just
fucking blows however you still want to
get fucked up because you know what I'm
saying you're in that time in your life
you love a drink or two or five or seven
and that's okay because the
following eight point guide is my way of
telling you look sure go ahead and drink
but try to integrate a couple of these
eight points into your plan drinking
plan if there is such a thing drinking
is when you don't have a plan
motherfucker yeah wait hold up hold
up I'm like fucking drinking on job here
can you ask meish this is a Serbian
product what that
brother tastes like misery it's mineral
water it's not alcohol this is what you
drink the day after as you wallow in
your own Despair and look upon the
record of a once greatly aspiring but
never actually Great Eastern European
facade yes I was born in Moscow Russia
I've done that before in any case you
want to
drink but you want to do it in such a
way at least have the tools the
knowledge to be able to do in such a way
that minimizes the drinking's negative
impact on your swole and strong Journey
it's International sign for bench press
right here how do you do it couple of
tips these are all marginal tips you can
apply them halfway and get half the
benefits you can apply two or three of
them or you can apply all eight the more
you apply them the less of a delarius
effect alcohol will have on your
strength and your muscle size the less
that you you apply them the more the
alcohol has full effects so it's all on
you to make that trade-off no value
judgments drinking sure shit a lot more
fun than lifting weights and being
jacked in most cases I do admit so
number
one straight Liquors no mixes or use
diet mixes mixers Scots mixers mixers
mixers I Haven haven't been doar in a
generation so uh yeah
like don't drink you know full fucking
meaty beer what's that shit called uh
Stout Stout whatever the fuck Stout's
what Southerners call you when you're
big hey man look pretty stout um what's
that shit they make in Ireland taste
like piss as black or
whatever
I think you're no no no it's this
particular brand Guinness
Guinness tastes like
shit and apparently that's the least
manly thing I could say because there's
a ton of you in the comments me like
fuck's wrong with you bro fucking
Guinness in these veins Baby Guinness
has a lot of calories and only a small
fraction of that is through alcohol so
try to drink some shit that doesn't have
a ton of calories other than one that's
PRI of alcohol so like you know like uh
vodka diet Coke I know it's bit of a
girly drink but it's going to have less
of an effect on the rest of your shit
because you don't have to have a ton of
junk calories which make you fat and
don't contribute to recovery nearly as
much you can eat more in Whole Foods and
thus have better results for getting
jacked so on and so forth so not a huge
super important thing for strength and
size as much as it is for fat loss but
absolutely something to
consider next drink on a slightly more
empty stomach this means you get drunk
with less alcohol thus less calories and
less deleterious effects on the rest of
your physiology that alcohol imparts
including reducing potential for muscle
growth and strength gains got to be
really careful with this because if you
drink on an empty stomach your tolerance
can be half of what it usually is and
you can really scoot out the other end
and have a bad time so do do be careful
but the purpose for drinking normally is
to feel the sensation ofun drunkenness
and if you can accomplish this with less
Total Drug uh then you're kind of
winning in this case so give that some
thought as well Point number three is to
have a few as few drinks as gets the job
done and I have this little chart here
that it's a you if you if you're a
repeat viewer of the channel you maybe
recognize it from our alcohol and fat
loss video but as like a you know couple
point scale here you start drinking at
first you're feeling it then you're
tipsy then you're what I call in the mix
this is where all the fun happens this
is the reason people drink is to get
into that zone where you're vibing good
Buzz going everyone's friendly you're
friends with everyone you can still make
sense with your mouth movements and then
after that everything really just is no
more fun as the alcohol goes up the fun
actually Peaks and then goes down so
after you're in the mix you get drunk
which can still be okay then you get
sloppy which is annoying for your
friends then something I call college
night if you've been to college you know
what I'm talking about it's when people
throw up into carpet um and then the
last one is Hospital trip
so the
ultimate fatal conceit of the college
freshman is thinking that the amount of
fun you're going to have is linear in
proportion of how much alcohol you
consume it turns out it's a very
distinct u-shape distribution that ends
at uh you know what for many people is
are three to six drinks um three drinks
is if you're a girl sixish drinks if
you're the typical guy much north of
that 10 12 drinks or whatever is you
have a fucking problem instead of having
uh the most fun so give that a thought
there is an illusion especially when
you're drinking like more will be better
once you're coasting and you're having a
fucking good time just like drink like
drink per hour or something or every 45
minutes or some shit and Coast it out
don't slam the shit because then you're
having more of the negative effects on
your body and uh for no more extra fun
look if there was more fun to be had
I'll hell fucking yeah drink more but
the good news is is that it just doesn't
take that much drinking to maximize how
much fun you get out of
drinking next one this advice is is
painful for me to give because I don't
actually agree with it although it's too
it's true on the technical Merit is to
take it easy and uh you know when I was
partying various points in my life I did
this and I still regret
it in in my soul in my heart I'm a
dancer when I get alcohol ruen or
whatever I don't need alcohol for this
but I dance and I mingle and I run
around and I do crazy shit and it's fun
and I'm terrible at all those things but
I think I'm having a great time so I
love doing it but the reality is a
shitload of crazy P psychotic raver
dancing does not make for good recovery
or good leg workouts the next day or
even two days later so if you really
interested in maximizing your athletic
journey and strength and size in that
world but you want to drink with friends
you want to go for a bit more of a
lounge type of feel so you know drink
dance a bit chill a little bit but don't
go crazy and dance the night away
because that absolutely will fatigue the
shit out of you again I
don't go dance the fucking nightway you
know what I'm saying you're in your 20s
and 30s and you sad fuckers and your 40s
that are watching this Jesus
Christ what do your kids think about
this in any case you know have fun but
but if you have a powerlifting meat
coming up in three weeks and you really
give a shit about it but your friends
talk you into coming out you don't have
to do a break dancing exhibition unless
you're very good at it or South Korea
same thing by the way okay number five
eat plenty after alcohol puts you into a
catabolic muscle loss state in many
cases and if you eat plenty of food
afterwards not only does that food taste
good but it shuts down the catabolism
boosts the anabolism lets you grow some
muscle or at least save it if you drunk
enough I highly recommend Taco Bell they
surprisingly in what is a crime of the
21st century No Doubt will not let you
walk through the drive-thru apparently
you're drunk G can get hit by the next
person and that's a liability for Taco
Bell I think it's all bullshit and we're
getting our lawyers on this but Taco
Bell tastes great and it sure as shit
makes you bigger and stronger is that
true I don't know it sure as hell makes
your anus bigger and stronger through
resistance training you'll figure it out
number
six stop drinking two hours or more
before you go to
sleep
training for muscle
growth is never going to be the
same tougher to actually do than to say
because normally you go to sleep when
you have your last drink and you look
around and the world Fades to Black and
you go to sleep wherever the fuck you
were on you know Hill and State Street
in the middle of Campus Collegetown USA
just wake up at 9:00 a.m. someone steps
on your face cuz they're going to class
oh shit I'm alive typically how it goes
but if you can arrange for it be a
little bit more intelligent and have a
little bit more foresight hilariously
I'm I'm laughing at myself for the
foresight thing because one of the
predictable effects of alcohol on the
thinking process it reduces your
foresight but if you're an experienced
Drinker just not totally an idiot like
me you can you know when you guys Le
here this is an important thing when
you're leaving the party or the club or
the bar or the hang out stop
drinking people will go and hang later
together with friends like a little
Afterparty don't drink the Afterparty
you're already buzzing just let that
buzz wear off have some french fries and
dip it in cheeseburgers whatever the
fuck people eat after they get out of
the bar couple hours later couple good
things happen one you'll be ready to
sleep the alcohol won't be in your
system as much you'll get a much higher
quality sleep because going to sleep
when you have a ton of alcohol in your
system is like kind of wasted time as
your your body's not sleeping sleeping
nearly to the extent that it would be if
you were alcohol free or much more
alcohol free if you gave it two hours
the other thing is you could be getting
lucky and then the two hours could buy
you like less whiskey dick which helps
if you plan on using it consensually of
course Point number
seven a big question people ask is for
some reason I've receive this question a
ton I'm in college I powerlift or I do
hypertrophy training and I when's the
best night for me to drink and when's
the best night for me not to drink
because I've had people be like look
like I'm in college I'm trying to enjoy
myself I'm in a frat or whatever and
like before they give your frat brothers
a blowjob contest we all get drunk and
when is it a good time to do this and
when is it like less good time to do
this so I'll straight up clear the air
for you one is do not drink the day
before your heaviest hardest sessions of
the week that's fucking obvious so if
you have like heavy squats Monday don't
drink Sunday don't drink Sunday anyway
first of all it's God's day second what
the fuck is wrong with you do your
homework God damn
it but another question comes up of do I
want to drink before my rest day or
during my rest
day yes if you drink on the same night
earlier that day you had a hard workout
this drinking does absolutely interfere
with some of the adaptations that are
coming your way from that workout for
sure but it's worse to drink before a
workout the night before because really
reduces your stimulus
ability so in my calculations I'd say
that if you're going to pick a time to
drink let's say once a week I would say
the the last day of training for that
week before the rest day is the best
time so let's say you
train um Monday through Saturday six
days a week Saturday night is your
drinking night because then Sunday you
don't have to go to the gym you don't
have to perform you can peel yourself up
off the ground take 10 Advils or
whatever because you have the world's
worst hangover use Sunday to recover and
do a bit of homework and then Monday
you're feeling way better you can hit it
than gym super hard if you train Monday
through Friday and you don't train on
weekends then well yeah Friday night is
a great time to drink Saturday night's a
little better because it really gives
you one day of rest and Saturday was the
day of rest but if you want to drink two
days a week Friday Saturday is great if
one of these motherfuckers to Drinks
like Thursday Friday and Saturday and
you go ham the entire time you know tell
you're psychiatrist about that later
when your life is a fucking mess I'm
half kidding in any case yeah that's the
deal so if you have to slot in at some
point
drinking before a rest day ideally also
on a rest day but if you don't have that
many rest days sequentially before rest
day is best so that you can drink come
home sleep it off wake up have a
breakfast throw up your breakfast and be
on with your day without any hard
training being that day because training
hard after night of drinking you're
going to quickly discover is on average
quite
bullshit
lastly drink as few times and this
sounds pedantic and kind of Parental
drink as few times during the week and
or month as
possible um I don't know if this is
wisdom or not me just like thinking I'm
on a high horse here and about to say
some stupid shit uh there is a lot of
fun to be had with drinking and college
and all that bullshit and just going out
with your friends if if you're not a
college student if you're just you know
27 years old and living in Manhattan
like a young Scott the video guy if
you're in the oh boy Q memories um if
you are in that sort of demographic it
is it's important to understand
something that most of us have to get
quite a bit older to understand that uh
while it is fun to drink with your
friends really really really fun times
don't happen as often as F times that
are kind of mediocre you don't want to
be the person that drinks three nights a
week and one of those nights is a Smash
Hit the other nights are just like you
with three other people at the bar
you're like Jim how are the kids he's
like good like God damn what the fuck am
I here right so I would say a good tip
here is pick when you're going to go
wild with your friends and do that
sparingly like two amazing nights uh a
month is like pretty good time and um
you know God did invent weed for a
reason so you can use marijuana to get
high with your friends when you're not
drinking and that's a shitload better
for your health and interferes with
muscle strength and fat loss way less so
I'm absolutely not advocating for
marijuana consumption on YouTube that's
might not be so legal but give that shit
some thought don't do anything stupid
have fun take this all pretty easy and
if uh this is confusing have a drink and
see if it makes any more sense comments
questions below subscribers what's up
new subscribers how are you guys this is
channel is always this weird welcome and
uh see you guys next
time