hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and a way that you can
make your next muscle gain phase better
is to get leaner before you actually
start it what but I thought that the
gains come from the gains not from the
fat loss you're completely correct and
to that end I will not be discussing the
p ratio in this presentation used to
think back in the day for not overly
convincing reasons that if you got
leaner the amount of sorry the fr action
of muscle you gain versus fat on your
way back up during massing favored
muscle so that if you were started when
you were a leaner you were going to gain
more muscle than if you started when you
were fatter lately a lot of it due to
the excellent skeptical work by Mr or
sorry Dr Eric Trexler Mr grag Knuckles
we have a bit of a realignment to say
well you know it's just not really very
certain if the p ratio behaves as it
once claimed as a matter of fact it's
more likely that there's not really a
difference in P ratios anywhere in the
teens of body fat and maybe even mostly
through the 20s of course when you're a
30s and 40s of percent body fat all
kinds of wacky stuff can happen that
point you're probably not even the very
healthy and health needs to be number
one nobody really cares how much muscle
you're gaining at that point but the p
ratio we're going to put that aside
because there are at least let me count
them five other reasons why starting
your muscle gain phase a little
leaner and not trying to Rock It Up in
body fat super quick can be really
really good for the productivity of that
muscle gain phase and for other reasons
which are maybe in some cases as
important to you like the psychological
so here we go first assessing where you
need to focus if you never get very lean
on a fat loss phase and you start
blocking up it can be very difficult to
tell where your problem areas are where
you should be coming up is your back the
weak link is it the lats is it the chest
is it the shoulders is it the biceps is
it the triceps well if you look like a
fucking blob it's kind of hard to tell
but if you get nice and lean well call
it 10 to 12% body fat for males and
something like 18 to 20% body fat for
females you're going to be able to see a
whole lot of what's going on and be like
aha side delts triceps that's my focus
because compared to my biceps and front
and rear delts that seems to be the lag
but if you were much fatter it would be
very difficult to tell first small
benefit second Hunger and fullness you
guys all know the tragedy of trying to
gain weight and having to stuff yourself
and feeling sick and all that other
stuff well if you get very lean before
you Mass up you're fucking hungry kind
of all the time and then you don't have
to stuff yourself to hit a surplus you
actually eat amount of food you feel
quite good with and you automatically
hit your Surplus you can enjoy regular
food a ton you can Mass up relatively
clean cheap foods like rice and beans
and chicken and all that stuff you don't
have to go out to eat all the time
because you can't eat the shit anymore
because you started out too fat and now
your hunger signaling is meh and in
addition to that when you have Che cheat
meals when you're leaner they're extra
special super fun and you love to eat
them and they're a blast versus cheat
meals when you're massing and you're
really fat they just kind of sweating at
Olive Garden and chewing really slow
people don't know if they should call
the police or animal
control Point number three when you're a
leaner your endurance for training that
is your ability to breathe in a way that
is normal between sets recover your
breathing better not be limited by
cardiovascular effort during the sets
especially for higher reps is going to
be way way higher if you are leaner to
begin with leanness is a huge factor in
endurance I've tested this out of myself
about 100,000 times if you're leaner
your endurance is better so your
training effect can be better as well
especially if you start to gas out on
things like higher rep squats presses
rows leg presses hack squats lunges if
you're pretty fat leg training
especially can be fucking hard and you
know that you're really just limited by
your cardio so your legs are actually
getting the short end of the stick if
you're leaner you can push your legs
further and the rest of your body
further by recovering more completely
faster between sets and within each set
being able to have the limiting factor
be your muscles thus being very
stimulative hypertrophic to them versus
the ending is set because you're
breathing so fucking heavy your quads
are like hey bro we're still good but
your lungs are like fuck that rack the
bar I'm going to go ahead and die of old
age number
four oh this is the J the the fucking
this is the reason why most most of us
train if you are leaner when you start
to bulk you're in this position where
while bulking a month in you're still
pretty fucking lean you have chest veins
and you're fucking eating burritos I
mean life just doesn't really get much
better than that the motivation to keep
gaining is also really high not only you
having a fucking great time someone's
like hey you ready to add five more
pounds or 10 more pounds to your frame
you're like absolutely if you're already
fat you got love handles porn off
someone's like five more pounds of bulk
you're like man fuck I want 50 negative
pounds bulk so I don't have to be a fat
piece of shit anymore but if you're lean
while you're gaining it just makes
gaining really fun and really enjoyable
from an aesthetic perspective and lastly
number five a physical Comfort
perspective being heavier sucks dick
guys trust me I'm 5'6 I weigh 250 I'm at
the top of mass phase now I can't even
fucking sleep normally anymore fucking
CPAP machine on the way or whatever I
luckily got out of the having to use one
for bodybuilding for now and G whiz is
just really close it's awful good thing
is I'm still fairly lean may maybe it
doesn't look like that right now who the
fuck knows but I'm around 10 perish body
fat I know let's hear the comments about
how I'm not really 10% I'll just shoot
you a DEA and you'll shut the fuck up
actually the a DEA is on my Instagram
feel free to check it out so in any case
a shit talking aside being leaner is
helping but you at some point just
getting heavier sucks but if you are 250
lbs and you're 10% body fat you feel a
shitload better than if you're 250 at
30% % body fat you should rather just be
in the low 200s at that point you'll
have all the same muscle as otherwise
you won't have as much scale weight but
you will physically feel a 100,000 times
better you'll sleep better you'll move
better you won't be sitting at your
parents picnic and sweating on the
fucking hot dogs being heavy blows dick
and if you can be leaner you don't have
to be as heavy fat also insulates
especially from heat so if you're living
in warm environments or your gym is a
warm place if you're bulking and if
you're fatter your life's just going to
fucking blow 10 different kinds of dicks
unless you manage to curtail a lot of
that fat gain gain slowly get a little
leaner and then everything will be much
better so the goal here is to get more
folks not everyone there a lot of the
situational more folks to mass no higher
than about 15% body fat if they're male
cut down after that to go to 10 to 12
and restart the process or something
like 25% body fat if you are female and
spend your time generally between 20 and
25% fat if you can stay in that window
for your bulking and your cutting you
may have a better time a more effective
time and a more enjoyable time let me
know what you think in the comments like
subscribe and I'll talk to you guys next
time