[Music]
[Music]
right moving day
again again goodbye one of these u-haul
zone it feel like this is like the third
time because like we moved Stephanie and
I me into my new apartment in Canada so
how you guys will know I'm Canadian
I live in Kelowna British Columbia so
today we're moving everything out of my
current apartment or at least was up
there into our new apartment which is
closer to downtown it's a really nice
spot really excited about it and I
figured I just picked up the camera and
do a vlog today
rashon it's basically a really big part
of the team right now so he's committed
to doing one to two videos for me every
week for now I'm gonna be continuing to
edit and produce all the science explain
content he's gonna do either one
lifestyle blog sort of like this one
today and or one
formative content like a standalone
video where I'm kind of like explaining
some topic or whatever so yeah today I
just wanted to bring you guys along and
I hope you guys sit back relax and enjoy
the block this is the first time I've
ever had it because we don't have any
spoons or any knives or anything so I
got to eat it with the peel I guess you
don't wash it you just eat it right most
of the time I do just to get some extra
fuzz off this is actually my first time
ever trying this a lot of people have
done the key challenge now and I feel
like most people did it with the peel no
way harder with the peel hmm that
totally changes the flavor and
everything not to offend you Jeff
because I eat way faster than you I
could do you forget double the amount if
it was like peel here's an easy
alternative just kind of eat around it
like that 240 I a meal I don't know I
can't produce it out of my body
how much room are we looking at we're
actually getting pretty low on room and
so I think we're gonna have to make two
trips maybe we could still get that
stuff oh yeah for sure we can I think
I'm just gonna finish this off
ha freeze
yo guys place is completely cleared out
now it's just a matter of putting
everything back in place at the new spot
boom
alright so guys were here in the new
place check it out yeah well we were
taking care of the rest of this stuff
stephanie was here basically putting all
the stuff away so you actually made a
lot of ground
yeah so basically this is like the main
living area right here over here and
then alright so we're gonna finish
putting all this stuff kind of together
do you have a mission for tonight I'm
gonna get everything yeah that's crazy
you did that fast so we're just gonna
get a little more situated here just
kind of chill for the night it's been a
bit of a long day moving and then
tomorrow we're gonna go back out so I'll
catch up with you guys tomorrow and
we'll hit it then hey what's going on
guys welcome to the next day I got a
really good night's rest last night and
we've put some things together a little
bit more so we've got the couch in its
proper place got the desk over here
that's true and I hope I hope get the
bed put in place a little bit right so
basically today I've just been kind of
like doing some odds and ends work and I
just finished reading a part of
November's if you have mass and I read
this piece on training to failure and I
just wanted to quickly summarize that
for you guys I'm training to failure is
something that I'm personally really
interested in in terms of a topic
because I think it has really important
implications for your training
programming so I'm gonna lay the camera
down over here and I'll quickly talk to
you guys about this piece in this
month's issue of mass all right so
training to failure
this is a topic that I think in the past
I've kind of flip-flopped on a little
bit because on the one hand you have the
argument that goes like if you train to
failure too early on in your workout
then you'll accumulate a lot of fatigue
and that will ultimately limit the
amount of total volume that you're able
to do in that workout so let's just take
for an example say you have three sets
of eight to ten reps to do on the bench
press and let's just say 225 pounds so
you go in you do your first set and you
go to ten and that's all out to failure
so you couldn't have gotten another rep
on your next set you're not gonna be
able to do ten reps again you might only
get seven or maybe eight reps even
assuming you take that set completely to
failure on your third set you might only
get four or five rows so the total rep
volume there would be ten plus seven
plus five so say 22 total reps whereas
if you left a rep or two in the tank on
your first set you wouldn't be as
fatigued four sets two and three so you
might get say nine reps on your first
set and then eight reps on your second
and eight reps on your third total of 25
total reps so you've got 22 or 23 reps
versus 25 reps you get more volume by
not training to failure on the other
hand you have some people that say that
in order to activate a full spectrum of
motor units and fully activate those
larger higher threshold muscle fibers
you need to take sets to failure or at
least sufficiently close to failure so
as to activate as much musculature as
you can
and if you don't do that then you're
missing out on some potential growth and
I think that in the scientific community
you do have people arguing on both sides
and as for me I'll just leave my own
personal opinion out of it but we'll dig
into the present study which is a 2017
study that took ten trained young male
subjects which was nice because on
average they actually had eight years of
training experience which is quite rare
for a lot of exercise science research
and they took them through three
different protocols because the study
only had ten subjects they used a
crossover study design so basically
every subject ran through all three
protocols and the protocols were
separated by three four week washout
periods where they weren't running any
protocol so as for the three groups they
had one group that was doing a
high-volume training protocol to a
failure they had another group that did
high-volume
but not to failure and then they had a
third group that did low volume also not
to failure so the high volume to failure
group did three sets of ten reps on the
smith machine bench press and smith
machines squat and all of those sets
were taken to failure so they did ten
reps with their ten rep max the
high-volume not to failure group did the
same thing except they only did five
reps with their ten rep max so basically
for every set they were leaving five
reps in the tank so it's taken to say in
RP at five instead of an RP of ten in
order to match volume they did six sets
of the benchpress and six sets of the
squad so volume was matched one group is
going to failure the other group wasn't
and then the low volume not to failure
group basically did three sets of five
reps with their ten rep max so they
measured a bunch of different stuff at a
bunch of different time points but I'll
just focus on sort of the main ones and
so for performance they measure
counter-movement jump maximum height in
a counter-movement jump and this was
sort of like proxy for his general
overall performance they also measured
mean propulsive velocity on the smith
machine bench press and smith machine
squat so basically they took a set load
and saw how fast the subjects could move
that load at different time points they
also took a bunch of blood samples and
measure
a bunch of stuff in the blood
importantly for recovery they looked at
creatine kinase levels which is sort of
an indirect marker of the muscle damage
and they also looked at things like
growth hormone testosterone cortisol
ratio and so on so they measured all
this stuff at different time points so
they took a bunch of measurements before
the training session they took more
measurements immediately after the
training session then again six hours
after training 24 hours after training
48 and 72 hours after training so this
was an acute study design so that is to
say they weren't looking at long-term
changes in strength and hypertrophy over
time but rather just sort of a
short-term snapshot of these different
acute variables following a training
session which can give us clues as to
how it is people recover in response to
different training protocols so what
they found was that both the high volume
and low volume not training to failure
groups didn't see a whole lot of
differences really the only significant
difference I think was that growth
hormone was higher in the high volume
not to failure group than the low volume
not to a failure group but that was only
immediately following the training
session so not much difference in the
not to failure groups however there were
quite a lot of differences between the
group training to failure and the groups
not training to failure so what I found
to be most interesting was the
difference in performance between the
groups so for the not to failure groups
the only performance measurement that
was affected was the counter-movement
jump and that was only affected
immediately after training whereas in
the failure group the counter-movement
jump and the squat were impaired for 24
hours following the training session and
the benchpress was impaired for 48 hours
following the training session also
creatine kinase only took 24 hours to
return to baseline in the non failure
groups whereas it took 48 hours to
return to baseline in the failure group
and there were some other measurements
that were kind of important to look at
as well and they're too fleshed out in
the issue in a little more detail but
basically everything is pointing towards
the idea that training to failure takes
a lot more of a toll on the body and as
such takes a lot longer to or at least
I spent longer to recover from than not
training to failure so now with this
study it seems that we have pretty
convincing evidence that even when
volume matched training to failure
causes significantly more fatigue and
significantly more of an impaired
performance than not training to failure
and in the piece Erick highlights an
earlier 2016 meta-analysis which showed
that there were no really significant
differences between training to failure
versus not training to failure in terms
of strength and hypertrophy and this
actually wasn't dependent on the
exercise type so isolation versus
compound movements or training
experience so in terms of practical
takeaways from this it seems to be the
case that if you can get very similar
strength and size gains from training to
failure and not training to failure and
not training to failure allows you to
recover better perform potentially more
volume and at a higher frequency you
should use training to failure more
sparingly that isn't to say that you
should never train to failure or it
doesn't have a place in one's program I
think that a lot of people could benefit
from training a little bit closer to
failure in fact I think a lot of people
do underestimate how many reps they left
in reserve and sometimes people just
need to push themselves that little bit
harder to get those extra results that
they're looking for but with that said I
think that that mentality should be used
intelligently and perhaps more sparingly
for some and in the piece Erick gives
the recommendation that you should save
failure training for isolation exercises
only and you should save it for your
last set of your last exercise for a
given body part also in an unreleased
interview that I did with dr. Brad
Schoenfeld he sort of paid lip service
to the idea that you can periodized
failure training kind of like anything
else so you can have blocks of training
where your training very intensely and
you're taking a lot of sets to failure
and you can have other blocks of
training where you're focusing more on
volume and maybe taking West sets to
fail okay so that covers most of the
science that was covered about failure
training in this issue of mass hopefully
that was informative for you guys I'm
gonna finish this pre-workout
I'm gonna head for a push workout so you
guys seem to have been enjoying the
edits that rashon has been doing for the
channel so we're gonna jump into and
edit very soon for this push workout
that my friend Pat and I are gonna get
into so I will catch up with you guys in
the gym see Riley says yeah
set me free Jimmy definitely no other
choices when I lay down and go to sleep
I keep on hearing voices little woof is
in my head main issue fatal oil Dinah
baby pick you push these little team is
living
hey creepy notre-dame ISIL is above them
are sleeping that subtle breathing in
the closet every single evening doc you
never see me again looks can be
deceiving and then you hear the sound of
the Trump will be saying
yes
here we come
[Music]
yeah if we come
Hey
here we come