welcome to the house of hypertrophy
we're dissecting the scientific
literature on how you can develop and
evolve your side doubts but first here
are some fun facts about the doubts you
never knew if we combine the front side
and rear delts the deltoids are actually
the biggest muscle in terms of volume of
the upper body being bigger than the
pectoris major and latissimus dorsi
furthermore although we typically
consider the delts that consist of the
front side and rear heads it's actually
possible for us to divide it into seven
segments in fact a piece of text dating
back from 1734 appears to be the first
to document this in more modern studies
the precise way researchers divided
deltoid can differ some use origin
insertions or functional data
nonetheless these studies arrive at the
notion of seven doubt segments here's
how an analysis by Brown and colleagues
depicted the seven segments based on
each segment having distinct Origins and
or insertions
looking at muscular individuals with a
low level of body fat the segments can
somewhat be seen though there's no
unanimous agreement I think we can
generally consider D1 as the front head
D2 and D3 as the side head and D4 to D7
as the rear head we'll reference these
segments more throughout the video and
in future videos at the house of
hypertrophy nevertheless the doubts are
a pivotal muscle for enhancing a
physique many hypertrophy enthusiasts
and of course competitive bodybuilders
wish to acquire capped 3D delts across
the interwebs there's no shortage of
information on how to develop the delts
or any other muscle but in this video we
aim to cut through the noise and provide
Crystal Clear information derived from
the current scientific literature on
what you need to know to grow those side
delts
how effective are compound exercises
such as overhead presses bench presses
and rows for developing the side delts
we'll also be examining the utility and
execution of shoulder abduction
exercises like lateral raises and
upright rows
let's Dive In
there currently aren't any studies
directly comparing different exercises
for Sitel hypertrophy fortunately we
still have solid literature from which
we can infer hell to effectively develop
this ideals before analyzing this
literature we need to know about the
principle of neuromechanical matching to
optimize growth of a muscle we of course
want to highly activate it with an
exercise however how does your central
nervous system so that's your brain and
spinal cord decide what muscles to
activate during an exercise think about
it the biceps brachialis and brachial
radiolis are three muscles that can Flex
the elbow joints but in any elbow
flexion exercise how does the brain and
spinal cord decide to distribute
activation across the three muscles it
appears your brain and spinal cord
preferentially activate the muscles with
the best leverage during a movement this
is known as the principle of
neuromechanical matching the nervous
system matches the recruitment of
muscles to their mechanical advantage or
leverage what on Earth is leverage
leverage in this case refers to the
muscles moment arm a muscle's moment arm
is the perpendicular distance between
its line of force and the center of the
joint it moves a longer moment are means
a muscle has a better mechanical
advantage and potential to generate
movement
think of a heavy door imagine you're
pushing this heavy door at different
points we can think of the moment arm as
the distance between where you push the
door and the doors hinges if you push
the door close to its hinges it's
difficult to open the door since the
moment arm is small if you push the door
further away from its hinges it becomes
easier to generate the required torque
to open the door because the moment arm
is longer
thus longer moment arms enable greater
torque and so once again the muscles
with the best leverage that is the
longest moment arms in any given
exercise will likely be the once most
highly activated why have I just
described all this it's because we have
solid research exploring the leverage
the deltoids and numerous other muscles
have for different movements from this
we can derive conclusions about how the
side delts may be most effectively
trained
foreign
a range of compound exercises in their
training program and vertical presses
including overhead presses handstand
push-ups and machine overhead presses
are a category of compound exercises
that heavily train the delts but how
effective are these for developing the
side delts all vertical presses involve
elbow extension so we'll train the
triceps but in so far as the shoulders
if you're performing vertical presses
with a narrower to moderate hand spacing
you're predominantly performing shovel
deflection if you're struggling to see
how shoulder flexion occurs ignoring
movement at the lower arm reveals this
it's also evident vertical presses
involve shoulder flexion at higher
angles but how effective are these
vertical presses which predominantly
involve shoulder flexion for side delt
hypertrophy there are a few muscles that
have leverage for the movement of
shoulder flexion and the side tails are
one of them also it appears both
segments of the side delts have leverage
for shoulder flexion however the front
delves are the muscle that tends to have
the greatest leverage while the side
delts leverage tends to be be a whole
lot less very generally the front Del's
Leverage is mainly three to four times
greater thus following the principle of
neuromechanical matching the side Tails
will be activated to some degree but it
likely won't be sufficient to
substantially trigger side dealt
hypertrophy rather the front delts will
see the bulk of the stimulus what if you
perform a Vertical Press with a wider
grip or even with the dumbbells on
either side of your head you're now
predominantly performing shoulder
abduction eliminating the lower arm
shows this also this shoulder abduction
is at higher angles there are a few
muscles with leverage for the movement
of shoulder abduction including the side
delts and both of its segments have
leverage for it at higher angles of
abduction both the front and side delts
appear to be the ones with the greatest
leverage and they both have fairly
comparable leverage thus these types of
vertical presses where shoulder
abduction predominantly transpires will
better activate the side delts
indicating it presumably will deliver
great side dealt gains in the long term
as as well as front delt gains of course
but will it be enough for truly maxing
side dealt hypertrophy in the long term
I'm going to speculate probably not I
think to truly up to my side out
hypertrophy we'd want an exercise where
it solely has the greatest leverage for
carrying out movement at a single joint
before analyzing what exercises achieve
this let's quickly dissect how effective
exercises like the bench press and rolls
are for side tail development
[Music]
horizontal presses are another category
of compound exercises that include the
bench press push-ups and machine chest
pressing variations and these can also
involve some degree of shoulder flexion
thus the side delts will be stimulated
to some degree with horizontal pressures
but it will most likely be quite trivial
since we know the front delts are the
predominant shoulder flexor on top of
this horizontal presses involve shoulder
horizontal flexion if you're struggling
to see this ignoring the lower arm
reveals this
the picturesque major is the muscle that
largely has the greatest leverage for
shoulder horizontal flexion the side
Tails actually appear to have no
leverage whatsoever for this motion
rather they have leveraged the shoulder
horizontal extension shoulder horizontal
extension can occur with horizontal
pulls which include exercises like
barbel rows cable rows and Australian
pull-ups more precisely shoulder
horizontal extension predominantly
occurs when using a wider grip with
these various rows thus this will train
the side delse but it likely won't
trigger notable side dealt hypertrophy
because numerous other muscles have
greater leverage for shoulder horizontal
extension such as the rear delts which
seemingly have up to three times The
Leverage for shoulder horizontal
extension versus the side delts narrower
grips with horizontal pulls
predominantly involve shoulder extension
and the side doubts do not have leverage
for this whatsoever rather we know it's
involved in the opposite movement that
is shoulder flexion
[Music]
thus far we've established various
compound exercises can stimulate the
side delts of notes vertical pressures
particularly vertical pressures
performed with a wider grip or with the
dumbbells either side of your head are
likely going to be great for Sitel
hypertrophy but as alluded to I'm
skeptical it will be enough to truly
maximize sided hypertrophy long term
presumably we want an exercise where the
side delts largely have the greatest
leverage for carrying out movement at a
joint what exercise can achieve this you
probably guessed it lateral raises tons
of lateral raise variations exist you
can perform it in different planes no
I'm not talking about airplanes but
rather the plane of movement lateral
raises can be done in the frontal or
scapular plane you can vary the bends
you have in the elbow and hips you can
perform it with a neutral internally or
externally rotated upper arm you can
also perform it with different equipment
dumbbells machines and cables
foreign
how do various muscles contribute to
shoulder abduction at different stages
in the frontal and scapular planes in
both these planes in the initial
abduction stages 0 to 30 degrees the
supraspinatus tends to have the largest
leverage followed closely by the side
delts and then the front delts in the
middle abduction stages from 31 to 90
degrees the supraspinatus is leverage
rapidly drops off and the side delts
display the greatest leverage with the
front delves fairly close behind in the
final stages of abduction Beyond 90
degrees the supraspinatus has barely any
leverage while the sidel and
particularly the front delt especially
in the scapular plane see increasing
leverage at this stage as alluded to
when dissecting overhead presses that
involve predominantly shoulder abduction
earlier the side and front delts appear
to have fairly comparable leverages
other muscles like the infraspinatus and
teres minor have much smaller leverages
throughout all stages what does all this
information mean for lateral race
execution strictly speaking this data
may suggest lateral raises in the range
of 30 to 90 degrees of abduction may be
the best way to isolate the seidels
since below 30 degrees the supraspinatus
are highly involved while above 90
degrees we appear to get relatively more
involvement of the front delts however I
think for most people performing the
exercise roughly between 0 to 90 degrees
is perfectly fine the exercise is still
very challenging Beyond 30 degrees which
is where the side delts have
predominantly the best leverage when
directly comparing lateral raises in the
frontal to scapular plane it's evident
the leverages of the muscles are more or
less similar some may be wondering about
the traps no not those traps I'm talking
about the trapezius the traps will
naturally be activated during shoulder
movement there's currently no data I'm
aware of that can inform us of how trap
involvement May compare between
different lateral raise variations
nevertheless feel free to experiment
around with the different planes and
even variations to find your preference
interestingly quite a lot of people
actually report that lateral raises in
the get a plane feel better for them
foreign
variations such as dumbbell lateral
raises enable you to use internal or
external rotation as opposed to the
standard neutral upper arm internally
rotating your upper arm with lateral
raises likely enhances recruitment of
the rear delts while externally rotating
your upper arm likely enhances
recruitment of the front delts in fact a
2020 EMG analysis by Curry teller
supports this if you followed the house
of hypertrophy for a while you actually
know I'm critical of surface EMG studies
since it has numerous limitations and
there are examples where it simply fails
to predict muscle hypertrophy outcomes
nevertheless I think these EMG findings
are pretty logical and using surface EMG
to compare subtle changes with the same
exercise may be potentially more
reliable compared to using EMG for
comparing different exercises
nevertheless I'd recommend individual
stick to a fairly neutral on position if
the goal is triggering Max side delt
hypertrophy
[Music]
some individuals may like to slightly
Bend at the hip during lateral raises
some may also like to have a slight Bend
in their elbow I'm unaware of any solid
research that provides insight into
whether these provide any meaningful
benefit or not I will mention it's
likely that excessively bending the
helper will only further enhance front
delt recruitment so avoiding excessive
elbow bending is probably sensible if
the aim is to Target the side delts
ultimately feel free to experiment with
bending at the hip or elbow to examine
what you prefer
please
lateral raises can be performed with
dumbbells machines and cables and that
are even lying and leaning variations at
the end of the day these fundamentally
all involve shoulder abduction and thus
are all going to be great for evoking
sidel hypertrophy it's currently not
clear if any other subtler differences
between them could impact hypertrophy
one potential difference relates to
resistance curves dumbbell lateral
raises involve fairly minimal tension in
the initial stages of abduction while
cable lateral raises involve more
consistent tension throughout the
abduction range of motion so the side
tails are loaded more at the stretched
position remember the supraspinatus is
highly involved in abduction in the
initial stages but the cytos are still
going to be involved well in these
initial stages the reason I bring all
this up is that in recent years the
literature indicates that exercise that
train muscles in a stretched position
tend to build a muscle faster there
currently aren't any studies
demonstrating this with adults but some
individuals have used research looking
at the operating range of the side doubt
sarcomas to speculate this muscle should
indeed benefit from stretch however I
believe there are a range of limitations
with research looking at the operating
range of a muscle sarcomas to the point
where I don't think it's that useful for
informing us on whether a muscle will
truly grow more with exercises attaining
a stretch nonetheless hopefully we get
future research examining how the side
delts respond to stretch it's possible
that cable lateral raises could very
well be slightly better this is not to
say dumbbells are useless again at the
end of the day these all involve
shoulder abduction and thus are all
going to be great for developing the
side delts in fact with the dumbbells
you could experiment with partial range
of motions in that initial position you
won't be able to attain as great of a
stretch as you can with cables and we
know the supraspinatus is also going to
be trained well in this range but this
somewhat lengthened side dumbbell
loading might still be great for
developing the side delts for example
we've previously analyzed this study by
Pedrosa at the house of hypertrophy
which found that partial range of motion
leg extensions in the initial position
which far from maximally stretches the
quads but still trains them at a more
length and position produced overall
greater quad hypertrophy versus full
range of motion leg extensions so
perhaps partial range of motion lateral
raises in that initial position are also
great another option is that you could
perform your dumbbell lateral raises
normally with repetitions to failure and
then immediately perform additional reps
with a partial range of motion in that
initial position feel free to experiment
around if you prefer to keep things
simple just select whatever lateral
raise variation you prefer once again
all of them fundamentally involve
shoulder abduction finally within the
same program or across many months of
different trading Cycles you can of
course vary the type of lateral raises
you train with
lateral razors are one of those
exercises where you're never going to be
lifting super heavy loads trying to go
heavy can result in people using
excessive momentum with poor technique
don't be afraid to use lighter loads we
have a multitude of studies
demonstrating that provided you're
performing repetitions to or near to
failure reps between 6 to 35 can be
similarly effective for building muscle
moreover you don't need to worry about
trying to increase the loads you lateral
raise with every session week or even
couple of months progressively
overloading through increasing the
number of reps you perform across
workouts with the same load can be
perfectly fine we've previously analyzed
the 2022 study out of the USA that found
across eight weeks progressively
overloading through increasing the
number of reps you perform with the same
load was as effective for building
muscle to progressively overloading by
increasing the load you use with a
certain rep range another alternative is
to use slower repetition tempos the
current evidence suggests individual rep
tempos in the range of 0.5 to 8 seconds
can be similarly effective for building
muscle so as opposed to training with
higher rep ranges with fairly normal rep
speeds you could use the same light load
but perform the reps with a much slower
control Tempo again feel free to
experiment around and find what you
prefer
if you're looking for further ideas
about constructing a high poetry program
the alpha progression app can help it
has a custom workout generator that
deploys training variables based on
meta-analyzes and reviews from their
scientific literature plus it's very
flexible specify your training
experience the equipment you have and
how often and long you want to train for
edits to these custom workouts can still
be made allowing you to individualize
things the app also has a massive
database of exercises and it provides
visuals displaying your long-term
progress the link in the comments and
description gives you everything on the
app completely free for two weeks and if
you like it and go beyond the link gives
you 20 off a subscription we don't just
partner with anyone at the house of
hypertrophy so rest assured the app is
quality
[Music]
there's actually another compound
exercise we've yet to mention that is
likely highly effective for developing
the side delts this is upright rows
which involves shoulder abduction
typically up to 90 or slightly more
degrees their currently aren't any
studies directly comparing lateral
raises to Upright rules for direct sidel
hypertrophy so it's not currently clear
how they may compare it's possible
upright rows since it involves
significant scapular elevation that will
highly recruit the traps is slightly
less effective for the side delts but
this is very much speculative if you
only had to choose one for the side
delves to ER on the side of caution I
think lateral Raiders are probably going
to be a better pick but in the real
world training muscles with multiple
exercises can be perfectly viable so the
upper row is an exercise some people may
consider some of you may be thinking
isn't the upright row a dangerous
exercise the guys over at E3 rehab have
done a tremendous job summarizing the
actual scientific literature surrounding
this topic I'll leave links to their
videos in the pins comment but let me
speed through the main points upright
rows are believed to call shoulder
impingement here's the top right of the
body we have the humerus and the
acromion which is part of the scapula
the space between the two structures is
called the sub of crow meal space and
within it are various tissues like the
supraspinatus tendon it's still upright
Rose through involving shoulder
abduction with internal rotation narrow
the subacromial space and result in the
supraspinatus tendon being compressed
causing damage by the acromion however
multiple lines of research would
question this and even question the
whole notion of impingement as a theory
firstly we'd expect the upper area of
the supraspinatus to be frayed and
damaged via compression from the
acromion but a number of analyzes find
it's predominantly the underside that
shows this secondly there are very
generally three acromion shapes that
people may have flat curved and hooked
we'd expect people with a hook shape to
experience more shoulder problems due to
increased frequency of impingement but
the data does not support this related
to this in those with subacromial pain
smaller acromiohumeral distances do not
appear to be associated with that pain
thirdly there have been speculations
stemming from a 2011 paper that if you
do perform the upright rows perform it
to no high higher than 90 degrees of
abduction however this appears to be
misguided rather it seems the smallest
distance between a supraspinatus tendon
and a coraco acromial arch occurs
between 40 and 75 degrees in most people
at 90 degrees it actually seems the
supraspinatus tendon is no longer in a
position to be compressed some of you
may be wondering about the internal
rotation with upright rows fascinatingly
the same paper indicates internal
rotation actually seems to increase or
have no effect on a chromial humeral
distances thus opposing the idea that
internal rotation makes things worse
given this information if impingement
was the enemy we would want to avoid
abducting our shoulder to 40 degrees in
all instances and plain lateral raises
in whatever plane you're performing it
would be dangerous fourthly some have
used the fact that upright roles mimic
the Hawkins Kennedy test a test used to
diagnose impingement as evidence that
upright rows are dangerous however this
test actually has poor specificity and
has been described have little
diagnostic value Fifth and finally
shoulder decompression surgery which
involves shaving down the acromion and
other structures to increase the
subacromial space should reduce pain and
enhanced shoulder function due to
reducing impingement however a solid
amount of literature suggests this
surgery fails to provide clinically
important benefits over Placebo surgery
and pain function or health-related
quality of life as described in a 2021
paper the impingement theory has become
Antiquated that is outdated and we would
also recommend to abandon the term
shoulder impingement as it refers to
this mechanical Theory so in summary
there simply isn't any strong evidence
to support the idea that upright roads
are dangerous and we have compelling
days of challenging the impingement
Theory as a whole
when combining the front side and rear
heads the delts are the largest muscle
in terms of volume of the upper body
fascinatingly we can actually divide the
delts into seven segments there's no
unanimous way to describe these segments
but we may consider the front delts to
be the first segment the side doubts to
be the next two segments and the rear
delts to be the remaining four segments
many compound exercises will train this
idealse most notably vertical presses
particularly ones which involve wider
hand spacing that necessitate shoulder
abduction will likely be quite effective
for growing the side delts moreover
upright rows are another compound
exercise that will most likely be very
good for growing the seidels many fear
the upright row is dangerous but we
analyze the range of studies that would
question this as well as the whole
impingement Theory generally I do think
if the aim is to maximize Saito
hypertrophy some kind of lateral race is
going to be helpful there are tons of
lateral raise variations it's currently
not clear if any particular one is truly
Superior it's possible that cable
lateral raises could be slightly better
as this more effectively loads the side
doubts in a stretched position but at
the end of the day they are all likely
going to be highly effective for
triggering Sitel hypertrophy since they
all fundamentally involve shoulder
abduction in their approximate 0 to 90
degree range which is where the side
delts tend to have the greatest leverage
so feel free to train with your
preferred lateral raise variation and
execution if you're interested in the
breakdown of the science of how often
you should train a muscle feel free to
check out this video or if you're
interested in the science of rep ranges
for hypertrophy feel free to check out
this video