we're going deep into the scientific
literature on what the most important
stimulus for building muscle is along
the way the scientific research on many
other fascinating topics will be
intertwined in our search for what
stimulates hypertrophy searches to burn
pump soreness Blood Flow Restriction
Training eccentrics acute spikes in
anabolic hormones the effects of
antioxidants like vitamin c and e High
ribs low ribs failure training and range
of motion
[Music]
distance training throughout history
from ancient India we have accounts of a
piece of exercise equipment noted in
writings thought to be compiled between
the 3rd Century BC and 3rd Century CE
ancient Chinese artwork from a time
period I don't know shows weightlifting
activities
from ancient Egypt we have these tomb
paintings from around 2000 to 3500 BC
depicting individuals lifting weights
moreover ancient Egyptians knew in 1700
BC from poliomyelitis that not moving at
all produced a decrease in muscle size
but it is only in the last 50 to 70
years that deeper insights into the
stimuli behinds muscle hypertrophy have
been discovered thanks to the rise of
scientific research
by the end of the video I'm confident
you'll have a thorough understanding of
what the current scientific research
says on the stimuli behind muscle
hypertrophy before diving in I want to
mention that in the upcoming year I'll
be releasing free Ultimate Guide videos
on developing each major muscle group
right here on YouTube my aim for them is
to be comprehensive and in depth like no
other before these videos its first
extremely helpful for us to know what
precisely stimulates hypertrophy as this
will strongly relate to exercise
selection recommendations
in the description and pinned comment
there will be in-depth timestamps to the
parts and subparts of this video Let's
Dive In
we'll go into serious depth on what
mechanical tension precisely is later
but for now think of it as the tension
generated by a muscle's fibers does this
fiber tension stimulate an increase in
fiber size and subsequently whole muscle
size
intuitively it would as if we
substantially reduce the tension
produced by muscle fibers like done
during immobilization or when in Space
the whole muscle decreases in size as
early as the 1970s researchers
hypothesize both active and passive
tension are stimulators of hypertrophy
active tension is the actual contractile
Force produced by the muscle fibers
while passive tension is the force
produced when the fibers and whole
muscle are stretched there were four
types of studies linking active and
passive tension to hypertrophy
throughout the 1970s to 1990s all of
these studies were conducted on animals
and I want to preface this by saying I'm
personally opposed to unnecessary animal
studies but as much as it's unfortunate
to see the following Studies have all
been pivotal in understanding muscle
hypertrophy the first type was studies
that cut the tendon of usually the
gastrocnemius meaning this muscle could
no longer carry out plantar flexion this
resulted in the supporting soleus muscle
being overloaded and exposed to Greater
active tension during normal movement in
response to this the studies
consistently find the Soleus experience
substantial hypertrophy therefore
linking increased active tension to
hypertrophy the second type of study had
a limb immobilized while the muscle was
placed in a stretched or shortened
position these experiments find muscle
size decreases a lot less when the
muscle is immobilized at a stretched
versus shortened position therefore
indirectly linking passive tension to
being anabolic the third type of study
involved attaching weights to a wing of
chickens to produce continuous
stretching of their muscles doing so
results in hypertrophy of the stretched
muscles finally the fourth type of study
was virtually the same as the third
except it used a spring-loaded aluminum
bar to stretch the muscles of chickens
doing so again results in hypertrophy of
the muscle
but if we carefully think about these
four types of studies and this was
discussed in future research none of
them truly proved tension per se is
stimulating hypertrophy could it not be
the events before active tension like
the electrical signals metabolite
accumulation or even damage that is
truly stimulating the hypertrophy in
these studies
we'll thoroughly explore metabolite
accumulation and damage soon but the
research in the last 20 years provides
us with solid grounds to believe it is
truly tension per se stimulating
hypertrophy a 2019 Danish study found
that when inhibiting the active Force
generation from muscle fibers but still
allowing electrical signal input to them
activation of a key protein complex that
signals muscle growth failed to occur it
was only when active Force generation
from muscle fibers was enabled did
activation of the key protein complex
happen this suggests it is the active
force from fibers that stimulates
hypertrophy Norther electrical signals
the same researchers also established
that when equating Peak tension between
eccentric contractions which involved
active and passive tension and pure
passive stretching which would not
involve active tension only passive
tension activation of the key protein
complex was the same so this is evidence
that its total tension regardless of
whether it's active or passive that
stimulates hypertrophy
another 2008 study out of the USA found
that when keeping electrical input to a
muscle constant positioning the muscle
at a length that allowed it to generate
higher active forces resulted in greater
activation of a key protein involved in
signaling hypertrophy so this study
again demonstrates how it may indeed be
tensioned per se that stimulates
hypertrophy a 2001 Canadian study found
a linear relationship between Peak
tension and activation of a key protein
involved in signaling hypertrophy
finally in the last 20 years or so
researchers gradually accumulating on
how precisely these forces can activate
key proteins involved in hypertrophy it
turns out that within and around muscle
fibers are mechanosensors that can
detect active and or passive tension and
then convert the tension into a
signaling pathway that stimulates muscle
hypertrophy all of the key proteins
explored in the previously mentioned
studies are involved in the signaling
Pathways we'll explore what these
potential mechanosensors could be soon
but this overall evidence for further
strengthens the idea that tension per se
is what stimulates hypertrophy
in humans papers suggest that protocols
that presumably involve higher
mechanical tension results in Greater
muscle growth signaling and long-term
muscle hypertrophy moreover in human
studies that presumably equate
mechanical tension between different
protocols muscle growth signaling and
long-term muscle hypertrophy tend to be
the same so its clear solid research
suggests mechanical tension is a
powerful stimulator of muscle
hypertrophy but are there any other
stimuli
I've previously had a shorter video on
metabolic stress and hypertrophy
although we'll mention things noted in
that video we will go into greater depth
here with extra topics metabolic stress
refers to the buildup of molecules
produced by reactions related to energy
production within muscle fibers these
molecules are called metabolites and
famous examples include lactate and
reactive oxygen species
the accumulation of multiple metabolites
is associated with pain and burning
Sensations during training so it's
certainly logical to feel these pain and
burning Sensations must surely be
related to hypertrophy moreover the
accumulation of metabolites is closely
tied to the pump which is a temporary
increase in muscle size so it's
certainly logical to think this plays a
role in promoting long-term true
hypertrophy the oldest research I could
find exploring the role of metabolites
in hypertrophy comes from 1995. one of
the papers found that concentric only
training produce similar quadriceps
hypertrophy to Eccentric only training
concentric only training is known to
produce much higher metabolic stress
than eccentric only training so the
authors hypothesized metabolic stress
was heavily involved in producing the
muscle growth seen by concentric only
training while perhaps mechanical
tension or even damage caused the growth
with eccentric only training the second
study by the same research team found
holding continuous isometric
contractions produced greater quadriceps
hypertrophy than holding intermittent
isometric contractions The Continuous
isometric contractions produce
measurably more metabolic stress leading
the researchers to hypothesize it was
the metabolic stress causing the greater
hypertrophy with continuous isometric
contractions
however both of these classic studies
didn't truly isolate metabolic stress
and prove it was stimulating hypertrophy
concentric only training still involves
High mechanical tension and the
continuous isometric contractions due to
the training variables used in the study
would have likely generated more
mechanical tension than the intermittent
contractions the authors did allude to
this limitation in the paper
moving forward to the early 2000s
emerging research demonstrated that
Blood Flow Restriction Training with
very light loads can be highly effective
for producing muscle hypertrophy
nowadays despite some believing Blood
Flow Restriction Training is useless or
others believing it is superior to
normal training the research
consistently finds Blood Flow
Restriction Training with light lows is
as effective as heavy load training for
building muscle
in case you're unaware Blood Flow
Restriction Training is where a cough
applies pressure to the upper part of a
limb completely restricting blood flow
from the muscle to the heart and
partially restricting blood flow from
the heart to the muscle as a fun fact
Blood Flow Restriction Training
originated in 1960s Japan by
yoshiakisato yoshiaki SATA was at a
Buddhist Memorial where during mass his
leg became numb due to sitting straight
back while kneeling on the floor he
noticed his calves had pumped up and he
said it was a similar sensation to what
he felt during intense calf raise
exercises this experience paved the way
for Salto to experiment over the ensuing
years and develop katsu training which
is what he called The Blood Flow
Restriction Training
back to our discussion performing High
rep's net failure with Blood Flow
Restriction will result in significant
metabolic stress and some speculate it
this metabolic stress causing the
hypertrophy produced by Blood Flow
Restriction Training they believe
mechanical tension must be low since
Blood Flow Restriction Training involves
using very light loads however as
detailed in this great 2017 USA review
study this is based on an incorrect view
of mechanical tension getting their
failure with light loads including Blood
Flow Restriction Training will
absolutely create high overall
mechanical tension the metabolic stress
with Blood Flow Restriction Training
might just be a byproduct of the effort
required to get Nair failure to create
this tension not the cause of
hypertrophy again we'll go into depth on
what mechanical tension is a little
later for the time being just know it
seems incredibly likely Blood Flow
Restriction Training would produce
muscle growth through mechanical tension
having said this there have been three
studies finding Blood Flow Restriction
Training produced preferential growth of
slow twitch muscle fibers over fast
switch muscle fibers fast twitch muscle
fibers have greater growth potential and
numerous studies indicate normal
training results in more fast versus
slow touch fiber growth and so some
speculate the preferential slow twitch
fiber growth by Blood Flow Restriction
Training cannot be related to Mechanical
tension and might be due to some
metabolic stress mechanism but I'm very
skeptical this is true two of the three
studies involve blood flow shoots and
training with a very high training
frequency one involved Blood Flow
Restriction Training for seven
consecutive days while the other
involved training for 5 days in a week
the problem is Central fatigue can be
present days after training especially
when muscle damage is high despite
previous speculations that Blood Flow
Restriction Training produces minimal
muscle damage we now know there's
research indicating performing reps 2 or
net failure with Blood Flow Restriction
when you're unaccustomed to it which
applies to both studies produce a
substantial muscle damage the issue of
training while Central fatigue is
present is you have a lowered ability to
recruit those fast twitch muscle fibers
thus the preferential growth of the slow
twitch fibers in those two studies may
not be because slow twitch fiber growth
was enhanced via some metabolic stress
related mechanism rather it might be
because fast twitch fiber growth was
compromised due to training sessions
being performed with Central fatigue
what about that third study finding
preferential slow twitch fiber growth
with Blood Flow Restriction Training it
had untrained subjects train Blood Flow
Restriction with reps to failure three
times per week for six weeks given the
subjects were untrained Central fatigue
may still have been present in a lot of
their training sessions so again perhaps
their findings reflect compromised fast
twitch fiber growth furthermore another
2021 Australian paper found that in
well-trained individuals training a
range of lower body exercises with Blood
Flow Restriction three times per week
for nine weeks preferential slow twitch
muscle fiber growth did not occur
so does all of this really mean
metabolic stress plays no role in
hypertrophy in 2013 Brad schoenfels from
New York published a comprehensive
review of the potential paths by which
metabolic stress could promote muscle
growth five paths were noted the first
is metabolic stress and fatigue directly
necessitates more muscle fibers getting
recruited and therefore exposed
attention the second is training that
produces High metabolic stress is
associated with temporary elevations in
anabolic hormones like growth hormone
igf-1 and testosterone and this might
promote hypertrophy the third is that
high metabolic stress could increase
myokines that promote hypertrophy like
interleukin-6 and decrease myokines that
limit muscle growth like myostatin the
fourth is that reactive oxygen species
in metabolite could play a role in
promoting muscle growth the fifth and
final one is that metabolic stress is
closely associated with a pump as we
already know the pump is swelling of
muscle fibers and this swelling might
actually activate certain osmoreceptors
that go on to promote growth yet all of
these five paths have notable problems
with the first one about metabolic
stress resulting in more muscle fibers
getting exposed attention it still
indicates its tension per se not
metabolic stress directly that
stimulates hypertrophy with the second
one we nowadays have several studies
consistently finding temporary
elevations in anabolic hormones from
training are not associated with
long-term muscle hypertrophy the
increase in these anabolic hormones may
be simply a result of energy usage and
be unrelated to signaling hypertrophy
with myokines the evidence is simply
inconsistent on whether metabolic stress
truly increases growth promoting
myokines like interleukin-6 and
decreases myokines that limit muscle
growth like myostatin with the fourth
and fifth ones there exists alternative
evidence suggesting reactive oxygen
species and fiber swelling may not
promote hypertrophy
further areas of scientific research
question the power of metabolic stress
to produce hypertrophy 400 meter running
and sprint cycling can produce
comparable lactate in metabolite
increases to weight training yet these
things do not promote hypertrophy
anywhere near as effectively as weight
training long term a 2021 Brazil study
had subject showing leg extensions with
these variables one condition rested
passively between sets while another
condition restricted their leg with a
cough during the rest intervals which
led to Greater overall lactate
elevations versus the first condition if
lactate has additive effects on
hypertrophy this second condition should
seem more hypertrophy yet quadriceps
growth ended up being similar between
both conditions after eight weeks of
training two other papers had two
conditions one condition involves
subjects training normally with sets of
reps to failure the second condition
also involves subjects training with
sets of reps to failure but once
completing this they had the train to
limb blood flow restricted with a cuff
for three to five minutes this Blood
Flow Restriction wrap the metabolites in
the muscle and if metabolites were
additive for hypertrophy this condition
should see more hypertrophy yet after
eight weeks both studies found muscle
growth was not enhanced when applying
the Blood Flow Restriction after
training one of the papers actually
found it reduced muscle growth in the
women's subjects so crystallizing this
section there's no strong evidence
metabolic stress is a potent driver of
muscle growth and it doesn't appear to
have additive effects on hypertrophy
[Music]
I've also previously had a shorter video
on muscle damage and hypertrophy
although we'll mention things noted in
that video we will again go into greater
depth here with extra topics substantial
muscle damage occurs in the following
days after performing intense exercise
you're unaccustomed to delayed onset
muscle soreness is considered to be a
symptom of muscle damage in a scientific
literature and it's common for
individuals to believe soreness is a
strong indicator you've stimulated a
muscle well interestingly it isn't
entirely clear if muscle damage is truly
what independently causes delayed onset
muscle soreness there are many
candidates on what causes soreness and a
lot more research is required before we
can be certain of the relationship
between damage and soreness besides
soreness it's frequently believed in
muscle growth directly occurs because
exercising creates micro tears in the
muscle your body responds by healing the
micro tears and making the muscle bigger
these two videos with a combined in
their 40 million views both put forth
this idea but what does the literature
say on the role of damage in muscle
hypertrophy it appears the hypothesis
that damage could stimulate hypertrophy
comes from research in the 1990s it was
noted that eccentric only training
produces significant muscle damage but
also notable muscle hypertrophy so it
was speculated damage could cause
hypertrophy it was also widely believed
during these years and in the subsequent
years their eccentric only training is
superior to concentric only training for
overall muscle hypertrophy concentric
only training produces much less damage
nowadays the evidence is very much mixed
there are actually more studies than not
finding similar overall hypertrophy
between eccentric and concentric only
training furthermore it's essential to
recognize eccentric training absolutely
involves High mechanical tension as
eccentric only training involves
contraction and stretch at the same time
both active and passive tension will
occur to high amounts some research
directly links to overall tension
produced during eccentric contractions
to muscle hypertrophy signaling thus its
entirely plausible eccentric only
training is stimulating hypertrophy via
tension itself and damage is just a
byproduct
but does this really mean muscle damage
plays no role in hypertrophy in 2012
Brad schoenfeld from New York the same
researcher who performed a comprehensive
review on metabolic stress a year later
published a comprehensive review on
muscle damage and hypertrophy four parts
were noted between damage and gains the
first is that damage results in an
inflammation response and various
inflammatory cells have been linked to
muscle hypertrophy the second relates to
satellite cells this one requires a
little bit of explaining but it's highly
interesting muscle fibers have nuclei
called myonuclei and the myonuclei are
crucial for directing the formation of
the proteins that ultimately make muscle
fibers bigger each myonuclei is believed
to oversee a certain amount of space
within muscle fibers term the myonuclei
domain but there is a limit to the
amount it can oversee call The myonuclei
Domain ceiling as a muscle fiber
increases in size the myonuclei domain
increases until it hits its ceiling
limiting further muscle fiber growth
from here additional myonuclei would be
needed to enable further fiber growth
this is where satellite cells come in
they are found surrounding muscle fibers
and Confused to muscle fibers and donate
nuclei resulting in an increase in my
nuclei which increases the muscle fiber
growth capacity this is where damage
comes into play muscle damage appears to
cause a significant increase in
Satellite Cell Activation so perhaps
damage can ultimately increase the
number of myonuclei muscle fibers have
thereby meaning greater muscle fiber
growth potential
the third path is that damage May
potentiate igf-1 production and igf-1 is
involved in signaling hypertrophy the
fourth and final one is that damage
causes muscle fiber swelling note this
swelling isn't the pump that occurs
during training rather it's swelling in
the fiber days after training due to
damage but the mechanisms by which the
swelling could create hypertrophy are
hypothesized to be the same that is the
swelling activates osmo receptors that
go on to promote hypertrophy
yet all four of these paths have notable
problems there is conflicting evidence
on the role of inflammatory cells in
hypertrophy the events by which
inflammatory cells are thought to
contribute to hypertrophy May indeed
occur in the absence of damage with
satellite cells training that does not
produce muscle damage can still cause
significant satellite Cell Activation in
fact aerobic training can activate
satellite cells in data indicating
muscle damage May potentiate satellite
Cell Activation this may potentially be
related to repairing the muscle fiber
and connective tissue damage nor
increasing the number of myonuclei in
fibers as for igf-1 production not all
Studies have actually found damage is
associated with greater igf-1 production
and as discussed in the metabolic stress
section several studies indicate
temporary increases in anabolic hormones
with training do not correlate with
long-term hypertrophy finally with
muscle fiber swelling also as discussed
in the metabolic stress section
alternative data exists implying
swelling may not be causative of
hypertrophy other lines of scientific
research further question the importance
of muscle damage for stimulating
hypertrophy a 2011 USA study assigned 14
untrained men into a pre-trained or
naive group The naive group performed
eccentric exercise on a leg cycle
ergometer for 20 straight minutes at a
somewhat hard exertion level measured
using a subjective scale three times per
week for 8 weeks the pre-trained group
did the same thing but they had a
three-week ramp up phase before their
eight weeks where they gradually
acclimatize themselves to the training
program should due to this
acclimatization phase they ended up
experiencing little amounts of damage
and saunas across the training weeks
whereas the naive group experienced much
higher damage and soreness levels across
the training weeks yet hypertrophy of
the quadriceps ended up being comparable
between both groups another 2016 study
from Brazil found after untrained
individuals performed a single training
session myofibular protein synthesis
expectedly increased fascinatingly
however this increase in myofibular
protein synthesis did not correlate with
muscle hypertrophy rather it seems it
was directed towards repairing the
damage induced by that single training
session as the same subjects continue
training for some weeks which resulted
in them experiencing less and less
damage as your body produces adaptations
that make you resilient to muscle damage
it was only then the myofibular protein
synthesis increase after training
sessions correlated with muscle
hypertrophy rephrasing all this this
data suggests after an initial workout
that produces High muscle damage the
myofibular protein synthesis increase
afterward is largely directed towards
repairing the damage not increasing
muscle size but after a few weeks of
consistent training which allows the
body to produce adaptations that reduce
the damage experienced then the
myofibular protein synthesis response is
strongly directed towards increasing
muscle size
various lines of evidence suggest
excessive muscle damage may also be
counterproductive for hypertrophy for
example a 1999 USA study had men trained
eccentric bicep curls with these
variables and found signs of damage and
swelling persisted for seven days after
the session but once it subsided muscle
volume actually decreased to 10 percent
of what it was before training and it
remained at the smaller size for
numerous further weeks this might be
because excessive muscle damage causes
partial or total Destruction of
subpopulations of muscle fibers Marathon
running has also been documented to
cause significant muscle damage yet some
data finds Marathon running decreases
muscle fiber sizes furthermore if muscle
damage had additive effects on
hypertrophy we would expect using
trading variables that enhance damage to
produce more growth but this isn't the
case higher repetitions likely cause
more muscle damage but we know they are
similarly effective to lower Reps for
hypertrophy short rest between sets like
likely cause more muscle damage but
short rest between sets of exercises
recruiting large amounts of muscle
masses actually sub-optimal for
hypertrophy finally some individuals
have speculated damage and soreness may
be involved in hypertrophy based on
research and antioxidant supplementation
that includes things like vitamin c and
e some studies but not all find that
antioxidant supplementation reduces
damage and soreness after training and
there are some studies but not all again
finding antioxidant supplementation
reduces muscle growth in the long term
thus some presume this is fair evidence
showing damage and soreness plays a role
in hypertrophy yet this data simply
isn't sufficient to prove it is directly
lower damage and soreness causing the
lower hypertrophy some other Factor
could be involved in fact it's very
possible antioxidant supplementation
reduces the increase in capillaries that
comes with lifting weights and this
matters as these capillary increases
with training seem to be important for
sustaining muscle growth long term
therefore the potential reduced muscle
growth with antioxidant supplementation
might not be due to reduction in damage
or soreness but instead may be a
reduction in capillary adaptations that
usually come along with training but
also remember that I noted not all
Studies have actually found antioxidant
supplementation reduces damage soreness
or long-term muscle growth
so crystallizing this section there's no
strong evidence muscle damage is a
potent driver of muscle growth and it
doesn't appear to have additive effects
on hypertrophy
foreign
[Music]
outlined so far it appears mechanical
tension is probably the primary
hypertrophy stimulus there simply isn't
compelling evidence that metabolic
stress and muscle damage are powerful
drivers of hypertrophy let us now dive
deeper into what mechanical tension
precisely is as this can likely help us
understand why certain training produces
the results it does I've come up with
five depth levels to explain mechanical
tension from the simplest to the most
in-depth descriptions at the first level
the most simplest description is that
muscle tension stimulates hypertrophy
going deeper into the second level we
know muscles contain muscle fibers it's
the tension generated by muscle fibers
that can be detected by mechanosensors
which are present in and around muscle
fibers once these mechanosensors detect
this tension they convert it into a
signaling Cascade that results in the
formation of the proteins that make
muscle fibers larger going deeper into
the third level how precisely do muscle
fibers generate great force and what are
the mechano sensors that detect this
Force fibers can produce Force actively
or passively through their Force
generating units called sarcomas active
forces occur when the myosin heads
extend out from the myosin filament and
attach and pull on actin filaments
towards the M line
passive forces occur when Titan which is
actually the largest protein discovered
in the human body stretches though it's
worth noting that extracellular Matrix
which surrounds the muscle fiber can
also produce passive forces when
stretched mechanosensing candidates that
can detect these forces include Costa
mere related complexes that actually
link the sarcomere to The extracellular
Matrix filament which is a protein
located at the Z discs of sarcomas Titan
itself as it potentially has parts that
can sense tension the myonuclei of the
fibers and stretch activated ion
channels interestingly the
mechanosensors that detect either active
or passive forces could be different the
cost of Mir related complexes and
filament might only detect active forces
while Titan the myonuclear of muscle
fibers and stretch activated ion
channels may only detect passive forces
now these are just some of the
candidates and more research is needed
overall before we can make more
definitive conclusions on mechanosensors
in any case once these mechanosensors
detect tension they go on to activate
one of the many possible signaling
Pathways involved in forming the
proteins that make muscle fibers grow
ing deeper to the fourth level is clear
to see during an exercise we'd want to
recruit as many muscle fibers as
possible and have those individual
fibers Produce High respective forces
yet and this is the key point to the
fourth level we also want that tension
to be produced for a decent duration
merely having high levels of muscle
fiber Recruitment and force output from
the fibers for a very brief duration
isn't great for stimulating hypertrophy
this is demonstrated by the fact that
one rep max training that's lifting the
heaviest loads you can for a single rep
simply doesn't produce much if any
hypertrophy despite it involving high
muscle fiber Recruitment and fiber
forces this is likely because the
duration of tension is too short to
meaningfully trigger the mechanosensors
going to the deepest fifth level we so
far know during an exercise we want to
recruit as many fibers as possible and
have those fibers Produce High forces
for a sufficient duration yet and this
is the key point to the fifth level this
all needs to be done within a given time
window let me explain this with another
example compare performing one set of a
30 second maximal isometric bench press
contraction to performing 30 one second
maximal isometric bench press
contractions evenly spread throughout
the full day both are maximal isometric
bench press contractions so involve high
fiber Recruitment and forces from the
Vipers and both involve a total of 30
seconds of very high tension at the end
of the day but which do you think is
more effective for stimulating
hypertrophy probably the first one the
one set of a 30 second maximal isometric
bench press contraction as it involves
all the tension within a given time
window which is probably more favorable
for triggering the meccano sensors
having the duration of high Recruitment
and fiber forces spread throughout the
day and not in a given time window is
presumably not as effective for
triggering the mechano sensors optimally
so we arrive at our final overview of
mechanical tension during an exercise
we'd want to recruit as many muscle
fibers as possible and have the
individual fibers Produce High
respective forces for a decent duration
and this needs to be done within a given
time window the forces from the fiber
can be active and or passive which get
detected by mechanic sensors that
convert the tension and activate one of
the many possible signaling Pathways
involved in forming the proteins that
make muscle fibers grow
so during an exercise how do we ensure
High mechanical tension overall many
assume training with heavier loads is
the only way to achieve this indeed this
is why some speculated that Blood Flow
Restriction which involves using light
loads isn't causing muscle growth
through mechanical tension but as we
alluded to this isn't a correct view of
mechanical tension let's explore why the
characteristics of muscle fibers
generally lie across a spectrum on one
end are fast twitch muscle fibers that
are large High Force producing but very
fatigable these fibers have the greatest
growth potential as alluded to when
discussing Blood Flow Restriction
Training a while back on the other end
are slow twitch fibers that are small
low Force producing but highly fatigue
resistant these fibers don't have the
greatest growth potential muscle fibers
are recruited sequentially when the
muscle needs to generate low forces only
slow twitch fibers need to be recruited
but as a muscle needs to generate
progressively larger forces or as it
fatigues while trying to sustain a given
Force output those faster twitch muscle
fibers eventually get recruited this
sequential recruitment of muscle fibers
is known as henerman's size Principle as
its eelwood Henneman who first
discovered all this during his
pioneering research in the 1960s from
this its clear heavier loads as it
instantly requires higher muscle forces
to move the load Produce High muscle
fiber Recruitment and it would only
increase as you near failure also many
of the individual fibers sustain
relatively High forces throughout all of
this lighter loads including Blood Flow
Restriction Training as it initially
only needs low muscle forces to move the
load would only require slow twitch
fiber recruitment but the key point is
that as you continue performing reps and
air failure with this light load you
eventually recruit those faster twitch
muscle fibers many of the individual
fibers sustain relatively High forces
throughout all this too therefore the
last few reps just before failure a
weather duration of exposure to overall
High mechanical tension would be similar
between light and heavier loading this
is more than likely why both light and
heavy loads have been shown to be able
to produce similar muscle hypertrophy
when reps are performed nail or two
failure this is also more than likely
why training nail or two failure with
whatever load you're using is more
favorable for hypertrophy than training
further from failure now I should note
very light loads even if you get nail or
two failure probably won't be optimal
for stimulating hypertrophy this is
because two high rep numbers likely
generate excessive within session
Central fatigue that inhibits your
ability to effectively recruit and
expose those faster twitch muscle fibers
to tension very heavy loads aren't the
most optimal for stimulating hypertrophy
per set either as the duration of
overall High mechanical tension would be
too brief we alluded to this point
earlier when noting how one rep max
training doesn't build much muscle at
all
mechanical tension being the primary
hypertrophy stimulus might have another
training implication there's an ever
increasing number of studies finding
that training muscles at stretched
positions is powerful for building
muscle we have a whole video detailing
the research behind this exercises that
train muscles in a stretched position
likely involves significant contribution
from both active and passive forces and
this might potentially explain the
greater hypertrophy myosin and actin
interact to generate active forces while
Titan and the surrounding extracellular
Matrix 2 generate passive forces
remember different mechanosensors might
detect either active or passive forces
so ensuring both of these are high in an
exercise may have additive effects on
signaling muscle growth
passive forces from Titan while the
muscle is producing active forces might
also be greater versus passive forces
from Titan while the muscle is not
producing active forces emerging
evidence alludes to this you see calcium
influx into the muscle fiber is what
fundamentally permits myosin and actin
to interact to generate active forces
but these calcium ions with active
tension might also interact with Titan
to make it stiffer too allowing it to
generate greater passive forces these
greater passive forces are probably more
effective at triggering the
mechanosensors this could explain why
passive forces with no active tension as
done when static stretching isn't very
effective for stimulating hypertrophy in
humans but passive forces combined with
active forces as done in exercises
training muscles at stretched positions
are highly effective though extreme
static stretching itself can probably
build muscle for example this recent
German study found that performing this
cough stretch for one hour every day in
humans did produce significant
gastrocnemius growth
I should mention although I believe the
evidence suggests these things about
active and passive tension being
additive could very much be the case
otherwise I would not have detailed it
it's 100 not a confirmed definitive fact
further research is required to validate
it but for the time being I'm
comfortable speculating that what I've
described may be what's going on
before closing out this video I think
it's worth presenting some speculative
hypertrophy models it's evident
mechanical tension is the primary
hypertrophy stimulus and I don't think
it's completely crazy to speculate
mechanical tension could literally be
the sole stimulus behind hypertrophy
other things like metabolic stress and
muscle damage May simply be a byproduct
of training opposed to this although we
noted there aren't any strong
categorized paths by which metabolic
stress or damage promotes hypertrophy
nor is there strong evidence that more
of them is better or additive this
cannot definitively prove they play a
zero percent role in hypertrophy perhaps
both metabolic stress and muscle damage
at very low levels are involved in
hypertrophy with no further benefit
Beyond these very low levels thus
virtually all types of training pass
this threshold explaining why more of
these things aren't associated with
great hypertrophy furthermore we cannot
rule out that future research will will
find some categorized path by which low
levels of metabolic stress and damage
relate to hypertrophy finally it is also
possible that exists other stimuli that
play a small role in hypertrophy that
have yet to be thoroughly examined in
the literature for example some studies
find training in hypoxic environments
that's environments with lower levels of
oxygen produces more hypertrophy than
training a normoxic environments that's
environments with normal oxygen levels
now hypoxia and metabolic stress can be
related but hypoxia itself could be a
direct stimulus for gains dissociated
from metabolite buildup yet it's
essential to note a number of opposing
studies find no difference in muscle
growth between training in hypoxic and
normoxic environments making the overall
link between hypoxia and hypertrophy
unclear
mechanical tension seems to be the
primary hypertrophy stimulus there
simply isn't compelling evidence
metabolic stress or damage are powerful
drivers of hypertrophy it's possible
small amounts of metabolic stress and
damage play a role in hypertrophy and is
also possible other stimuli yet to be
properly assessed in the research could
play a role in hypertrophy future
research is needed to validate whether
this is true or not recall our final
overview of mechanical tension was as
follows during an exercise we'd want to
recruit as many muscle fibers as
possible and have the individual fibers
produce higher respective forces for a
decent duration and this needs to be
done within a given time window the
forces from the fiber can be active and
or passive which get detected by mechano
sensors that convert the tension and
activate one of the many possible
signaling Pathways involved in forming
the proteins that make muscle fibers
grow ultimately getting to or close to
failure with a wide range of loads
achieves High mechanical tension
moreover it's possible that exercises
that train muscles at a fairly stretched
length of superior for hypertrophy since
it involves both High active and passive
tension as always the references to the
studies mentioned in this video can be
found in the description whether you're
curious about reading further into
anything mentioned in this video or your
skeptical of anything I've said I highly
encourage you to check out any of the
references I'm always up for a
discussion if you disagree or want
anything clarified further in the
comment section all the best if you've
made it here I have a free ebook you
might like The Ultimate Guide to bench
pressing for strength and hypertrophy
with more than 100 scientific references
from technique to training variables to
comparisons and other fascinating
science we cover it all grab it through
the link in the description or comments
[Music]