some bodybuilders have popularized the
use of ice baths after training to
promote recovery little do they know
maybe they should have just chilled out
instead welcome back soon to be Dr Miler
wolf here professional Wim Hof Hunter
checking in at the wolf coaching HQ and
today we're talking ice baths let me
give you the purported benefits of ice
baths are you ready enhanced recovery
reduced pain improve impr circulation
boosts mood and maybe even improves
resilience whatever that means but today
I'm not here to dispute any of that and
in fact cold water immersion AKA ice
baths do seem to have benefits for
Recovery overall however when we're
lifting when we're eating we're not
really about just optimizing recovery
we're actually after optimizing muscle
growth so what's the effect of an ice
bath after a session on muscle growth
and here's the problem multiple Studies
have now shown worse muscle growth when
taking an ice bath after a session
versus just chilling out instead how
much of an effect does this have well
this is where a metanalysis by Pino and
colleagues comes in really helpful in
this metanalysis they included eight
studies comparing one group taking a
nice bath directly after training versus
one group training and then just
chilling out afterwards here's what they
found when participants just trained and
chilled out afterwards didn't engage in
cold water immersion they seemed to
benefit from resistance training and
gruesome muscle on the other hand when
participants trained followed it with
cold immersion they still grew
potentially but a lot less when you
directly compared training and not
engaging cold immersion to training and
engaging in cold water immersion
afterwards there was a small effect in
favor of not taking a cold bath or a
nice bath after trading so Case Closed
ice baths are the worst thing ever for
hypertrophy and you should never do them
peace not so fast herey caveats first as
you saw in that earlier graph even if
you do take a nice bath after a session
it's possible you still see some growth
so even though it's reducing your growth
it's not going to be killing your gains
altogether secondly ice baths can still
be helpful after training in certain
Niche scenarios I'll give you a very
Niche example there's a lot of data that
ice baths after training or cold water
immersion like taking a cold bath can be
helpful for recovery after training and
in certain cases this is all you really
care about for example I recently did a
leg day challenge where I need to do 26
sets of quads in about an hour and I was
relatively unprepared for
this keep it
rolling keep it going
go holy
so after the session I was wrecked I
could foresee the Doms the next day
being insane and so what did I do well I
actually did some cold W immersion after
my session and lo and behold it did
actually at least subjectively help out
so in certain cases you can definitely
use coldw immersion but just keep in
mind that it's a double-edged sword
it'll reduce your muscle growth but it
will likely enhance recovery too for
this reason because it enhances recovery
while keeping muscle growth to a minimum
there's going to be certain very Niche
situations where you might actually want
to use it for example some hyper
endurance athletes might actually want
to do some Lifting for protective
effects for injury or for neuromuscular
adaptations or any other number of
reasons but not actually want to gain
muscle and they also want to enhance
their recovery and so in this situation
doing some ice baths or some cold water
immersion after the lifting session can
benefit them in two ways one they still
get to lift and get the overall benefits
two they get the recovery benefits of
ice baths or cold for immersion and
three they don't gain the additional
muscle mass that might actually impede
them within their sport next up if you
only use cold water immersion pretty
rarely it's likely not going to impede
or kill your gains right like if say
once a month you take a cold bath or an
nice bath after a training session
there's a good chance you'll still see
really solid gains across the whole
month however if this happens too
frequently that's when issues start to
arise and the final caveat this was
looking at ice baths or cold water
immersion right after training it's
unclear what impact if any ice baths
have a muscle growth if you do them far
away from the session so with all that
anti- I bath Wim Hof hater propaganda
out the way how would you perform ice
baths if you still wanted to do them
well here's how generally you'd want to
immerse yourself in cold water could be
an ice bath could not be an ice bath for
about 10 to 20 minutes at a temperature
of about 10 to 15° C or about 50 to 60°
f try and do this immediately after a
session if it's for Recovery or for
blunting muscle growth purposes I guess
if you still want to do them ideally do
them rarely for hypertrophy and do them
far away from training not immediately
after a training session as a fun fact
here's how cold water immersion or ice
baths immediately after a session seem
to interfere with muscle growth first
they reduce blood flow to the areas that
you just trained which is a Bad Thing
secondly they seem to perturb
inflammatory and mechanistic growth
pathways that were involved in the
overall hypertophy response so that's
all the science on cold water immersion
broken down for you let me give you a
few quick takeaways generally ice baths
or cold water immersion after a session
is no good I would avoid it for
hypertrophy if you can and still want to
do it do it far away from a session
ideally rarely and reserve it for when
you feel like you need it that's the
video if you like the video please
comment like subscribe and I'll see you
guys whm Hof haters in that next one
peace
little do they know maybe they should
have just chilled out
instead that thing falling or I
tripping might be tripping me checking
whether purported means what
I think it means it does mean what I
think it means very cool