and i would eat three to four hundred
grams of protein a day up to 1.5 grams
of protein per pound of body weight i
may even go closer to 1.3 grams right
now one gram of protein per pound of
body weight 0.82 grams per pound of body
weight 0.75 grams 0.4 grams times your
body weight 1 gram of protein for every
1 pound of body weight a lot of people
will say that it's actually not true
protein intake of one point two grams
kilograms dead wait wait wait wait wait
protein point two no i said one point
six didn't okay obviously there's a lot
of conflicting information about protein
out there so in this video i wanna
condense all the best science-based
information down to give you a final
answer on every protein related question
you've ever asked first when it comes to
general health the world health
organization recommends just 0.8 grams
of protein per kilogram of body weight
or 0.36 grams per pound so an 80 kilo or
roughly 180 pound person would only need
about 65 grams of protein per day this
is pretty hard to miss on a typical
western diet i mean this ground turkey
and rice bowl with a glass of milk has
65 grams of protein and that would have
me covered for the day however this
recommendation doesn't consider weight
training and many protein experts have
called for an increase given the
abundance of evidence showing health
benefits with higher protein intakes and
the sports nutrition research is
perfectly clear and showing that this
amount of protein simply won't be enough
to support much less maximize muscle
growth for that goal we'll need more now
just how much you need depends on if
you're bulking cutting or doing a recomp
phase and these ranges apply to both men
and women if you're bulking your body is
well fed meaning it's much less likely
to break down muscle tissue as a fuel
source there are plenty of carbs and
fats to burn first for this reason you
generally need less protein when bulking
here the best research recommends 1.6 to
2.2 grams per kilo or 0.7 to 1 gram per
pound per day and here we can see the
trusty old 1 gram per pound rule holding
up pretty well as a high end figure so
if you weigh 180 pounds or 80 kilos
you'd want something between 125 and 180
grams of protein per day when bulking on
the other hand if you're cutting your
body's not only getting fewer calories
from food you also have less body fat
and less glycogen as fuel reserves
therefore your body is much more likely
to break down muscle tissue as a source
of calories to offset this the best data
suggests increasing protein intake while
cutting to 1.8 to 2.7 grams per kilo or
0.8 to 1.2 grams per pound this time we
can see that the classic one gram per
pound rule sits in the middle of the
range if you're already very lean and
training very hard you'll want to air
toward the upper end and if you have
more body fat and are training more
recreationally the lower end will be
plenty thirdly when on a recomp phase
you're trying to build muscle and lose
fat at the same time while setting your
calories around maintenance intake so i
think most people can simply use the
same protein figures as when bulking
because at maintenance you're also at a
low risk of muscle loss as long as your
training is on point however there may
be some advantages to going a bit higher
on a recomp phase especially if you're
in a slight deficit or more advanced in
the past i've used this sliding model as
a guide for recomp because it uses lean
body mass instead of total body weight
making it more individualized especially
for those who hold more body fat however
the extra step of subtracting your body
fat did confuse some people so these
days i've come up with a simpler
solution via researcher eric helms if
you're overweight or obese you can
simply aim for one gram of protein per
centimeter in height so if you're six
foot or 183 centimeters tall you'd want
around 183 grams of protein this works
shockingly well especially if you're at
a higher body fat the answer to the
question how much protein can you absorb
in a single meal is all of it your body
can absorb an enormous amount of protein
in a single meal more than you could
even comfortably eat but absorption
simply refers to the passage of
nutrients from the small intestine into
the bloodstream just because protein is
being absorbed doesn't mean it's being
used to build muscle so the real
question is how much protein can you use
in a single meal and this is where
there's some controversy the earliest
research suggested that 20 to 25 grams
of protein in a single meal was all you
needed to max out the anabolic response
and going above that didn't do anything
extra for muscle growth however i'm
skeptical of this figure first on the
anecdotal side there's a huge
intermittent fasting community who seem
to be getting plenty jacked from just
eating one or two meals per day with
upwards of 50 to 100 grams of protein
per meal does seem unlikely to me given
their muscularity that most of that
protein is going to waste for these
folks second more recent research has
challenged the idea of a 20 to 25 gram
upper limit this 2016 study showed
higher muscle protein synthesis with 40
grams of whey versus 20 grams of whey
after a full body workout in this 2016
study showed greater muscle protein
synthesis from a meal of beef containing
70 grams of protein versus 35 grams of
protein so the amount of protein we can
use per meal isn't clear as of now but
it's likely higher than we used to think
and regardless i think that your protein
intake per meal is clearly much less
important than your protein intake per
day
now despite this most experts do still
suggest that spreading your protein out
across three to five meals is likely
best from both a digestion standpoint
and for keeping muscle protein synthesis
high throughout the day still if you
were to eat two meals or six meals
instead you will still build muscle as
long as you're hitting your daily
protein target i just suspect it might
not be quite as optimal protein quality
is partly based on the amount of the
amino acid leucine leucine is very
important because it is the so-called
trigger for stimulating mtor which then
triggers new muscle growth so let's take
a look at how much of different protein
sources you need to eat to hit 3 grams
of leucine which is a decent ballpark
figure for maximizing the anabolic
response to a meal so in the table here
you can see that whey protein comes out
on top and just 29 grams of whey protein
you'll be getting three grams of leucine
and for just 145 calories you can also
get 3 grams of leucine and 40 grams of
protein from chicken breast and that
would only cost you about 200 calories
moving down the list here you can see
that you need to eat over 2 000 calories
worth of whole wheat bread to hit 3
grams of leucine so it would take this
much bread to give you the same anabolic
punch as this scoop of whey protein
powder and as a general trend animal
sources of protein are higher in leucine
than their plant-based counterparts
especially per calorie however this
issue nearly goes away once we introduce
vegan protein powders like soy pea and
brown rice isolates which also offer 3
grams of leucine for less than 200
calories but leucine isn't the only
factor that matters for protein quality
because even the leucine will always
spark the new muscle growth you still
need the other eight essential amino
acids or eaas to actually build the new
muscle for eaas we use something called
the diaa score where the higher the
number the more eaas that are in that
protein source once again you can see
that dairy and animal proteins come out
on top but a very important caveat is
that these tables all refer to proteins
being eaten in isolation in the real
world people combine various different
foods and are almost guaranteed to get
enough leucine and enough eaas by simply
getting enough total daily protein so
this isn't something i personally
nitpick over and it's why i think
protein quality is actually much less
important than many people realize it's
also why leucine bcaa and eaa
supplementation usually isn't necessary
as long as total daily protein is
sufficient however vegan lifters should
be a bit more strategic by either airing
toward the higher end of protein ranges
and or supplementing a high quality high
leucine protein supplement such as
so-called vegan whey which combines pea
and brown rice protein to give it a
similar amino acid profile to whey
protein many people still believe that
if you don't eat protein within 30
minutes after training your entire
session was wasted but this idea was
debunked years ago in reality as long as
your pre-workout and post-workout meals
are within roughly four to six hours of
each other you'll be maximizing the
anabolic response to training a possible
exception to this would be if you train
fasted in which case you should try to
consume some protein as soon as you can
after your workout perhaps a more
important but less discussed timing
variable is consuming protein before bed
this study from my friend joran
trommelin and his colleague luke van
loon described priestly protein as an
important protein feeding opportunity
they suggest consuming roughly 40 grams
of protein before an overnight fast to
improve overnight muscle protein
synthesis this is personally what i aim
for granted to other longitudinal
studies that directly tested consuming a
slow digesting casein protein either
before bed or in the morning found no
significant difference after eight to
ten weeks however both of these studies
had subjects consuming a very high
protein intake overall in the range of
two grams per kilo or about 1 gram per
pound once again highlighting that as
long as total daily protein intake is
sufficient these specific timing factors
are much less important there are also
no legitimate safety concerns around a
high protein diet in healthy individuals
according to this gigantic position
stand from the international society of
sports nutrition there is quote no
controlled scientific evidence
indicating that increased intakes of
protein pose any health risks in healthy
exercising individuals and the amount of
protein recommended in this video has
been shown over decades to not only be
safe but actually have health benefits
even going way above the recommendations
here as high as 4.4 grams per kilo or 2
grams per pound has consistently
reported no harmful effects so by far
the most important factor is total daily
protein intake if you're looking to
optimize further you can pay attention
to how you distribute your protein
throughout the day with three to five
meals most likely being the anabolic
sweet spot these two factors alone will
yield more than ninety percent of your
potential results however protein
quality can be worth keeping in mind and
protein timing may have some benefit
from an optimization standpoint
especially if you train fasted or if you
have a really long overnight fast and
before we go i want to quickly shout out
my ultimate guide to body recomposition
this is a 267 page book that covers
everything on nutrition for muscle gain
fat loss and specific strategies for how
to do both at the same time it includes
sample meal plans and tons of examples
for both male and female lifters when it
comes to setting up your macros cardio
supplementation sleep and plenty more so
if you're looking to take your nutrition
to the next level you can check it out
at jeffnipper.com and use the code
protein to save 25 off so that's it for
this one guys don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
i'll see you guys all here in the next
one