okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique tuesday where every week
we're gonna break down the lost art and
science of training technique for one
specific exercise this week we're going
to be looking at how to use the skull
crusher to maximize triceps development
as the name implies the triceps has
three heads a lateral or outer head a
medial head that runs down the middle
and a long head that sits on the inside
of the arm and really beefs up the
appearance of arm mass from the back and
when doing biceps poses now i would
argue that when it comes to the overall
mass of the triceps as a whole the long
head may be the most essential for
creating that overall appearance of arm
size so the primary function of all
three heads is elbow extension basically
straightening your elbow out since all
three heads cross the elbow joint
however the long head also crosses the
shoulder joint and as such can assist
with shoulder extension this is why when
you do exercises like lat pullovers
you'll often feel a pump in the back of
your triceps as well as in your lats now
this has a few important training
implications dr brad schoenfeld has
previously argued that because the long
head will be more stretched in shoulder
flexion
exercises with the arms more overhead
will target the long head in a greater
position of stretch other research has
shown that 90 degrees of shoulder
flexion may be the sweet spot for
optimizing muscle activity of the long
head and as you can see with the skull
crusher we're looking at just about 90
degrees of shoulder flexion perfect for
hitting all three heads but especially
the long head now before we get too deep
into this movement i think i should say
that to really make the most of your
triceps training in general i would
recommend including three types of
exercises one where your arm is more
overhead such as an overhead cable
extension or skull crusher one where
your arm is down at your sides such as a
tricep press down and a third where your
arm is back behind your torso such as a
kickback and that way you'll hit all
three heads from different angles and
the long head in particular at various
muscle lengths okay back to the skull
crusher so you want to load the bar with
moderate weight somewhere in the 8 to 20
rep zone to avoid over-taxing the soft
tissues of the elbow you have the option
of using the straight bar however i
really prefer the easy bar here because
the semi-pronated grip almost always
puts less strain on the wrists you want
to position the bar at the top end of
the bench and pick it up with a shoulder
width grip using your lats to pull the
bar up overhead you can hoist the bar up
from your lap but if you can't pick it
up from overhead off the bench that's an
indication that the weight may be too
heavy now another excellent option is
the floor skull crusher one advantage
here is that you'll be able to load a
bit more heavily since the starting
position will be a bit higher and you
don't need to worry about dropping the
bar off the bench if you do happen to
fail a wrap it also puts a check on your
range of motion since each rep will
touch the floor behind you so you can
ensure that each and every rep is
exactly the same preventing progressive
cheating and ensuring progressive
overload but not everyone wants to lie
on the gym floor so we'll be doing them
on the bench now similar to the bench
press before you begin the first rep you
want to ensure that your shoulder blades
are retracted and depressed to enforce
upper body tightness and shoulder
stability you want to push yourself back
on the bench so that your head is
slightly off the top end which will
allow you to more easily clear your head
on the way down you want to initiate the
first rep by moving the bar back over
your face which will help pull tension
into the long head and maintain constant
tension throughout the range of motion
one 2017 study found that training in
the mid-range of motion keeping constant
tension on the triceps led to nearly
twice as much triceps hypertrophy than
training through the full range with
tension being lost at the top now these
results could be in part due to
differences in relative loading between
the groups however as pointed out by
greg knuckles in the mass research
review a nearly two-fold larger increase
really jumps off the page limitations
aside so for this reason we're going to
be starting each rep with the bar
slightly back while maintaining a slight
bend in the elbow at the top of each rep
to help keep constant tension on the
triceps without cutting the range of
motion too short you want to begin the
eccentric by lowering the weight back in
an arc rather than straight down to your
forehead which will increase overload on
the triceps by increasing torque at the
elbow joint and when viewed from the
front on your elbows should be
comfortably tucked in and locked into
place so they shouldn't be excessively
flaring out or in as you extend the
elbow although depending on your
specific skeleton some degree of flare
may be necessary go as low as your
mobility will comfortably allow but as a
minimum standard your forearms and
biceps should be making contact at the
bottom of the eccentric initiate the
concentric by squeezing your triceps to
move the weight up and slightly forward
while pressing the middle of your hand
into the bar your shoulder should stay
reasonably locked into place during the
concentric as we want movement of the
bar to come from pure elbow extension
not shoulder extension excessive
movement at the shoulder we'll just get
the lats and pecs more involved reducing
triceps activation so the most common
error that i see here other than just
going too heavy is dropping the weight
down to the forehead rather than
lowering it back in an arc which as i
already said decreases tension on the
triceps by reducing torque at the elbow
also more people seem to experience
elbow pain when lowering the bar down to
the forehead and of course if you do
happen to drop the weight or go too far
down well you'll actually crush your
skull which contrary to the name isn't
an ideal way to perform the exercise now
another really common error is having
too much movement at the shoulder this
usually stems from just going too heavy
because movement at the shoulder will
get other muscles involved again
reducing overload on the actual triceps
i want to quickly mention the dumbbell
skull crusher as an alternative here
since you can train each side
individually which can help prevent
strength and size asymmetries and
possibly help get your shoulder into a
more comfortable position when it comes
to internal or external rotation and
really figure out what position gets
your triceps firing the best however the
barbell variation may allow for more
steady and incremental load increases
from week to week and a more consistent
technique pattern as well and as i said
in addition to horizontal pressing i
think it's best to hit the triceps with
the shoulder in various positions to
optimize overall development of all
three heads and as always you're going
to want to keep technique at the
forefront by controlling the negative
and maintaining a mind-muscle connection
with the muscle you're actually trying
to target now i know i'm going to be
uploading this one on christmas so i
hope that everyone's having a great
holiday so far as a christmas gift to me
what you can do is go ahead and hit the
thumbs up button give this video a like
especially if you've been benefiting
from the series so far and i'm just
going to say that i'm going to extend
the sale that i've been doing on my
eight-week arm training program that's
currently 30 off and i'm going to leave
it at 30 off for the next week um so if
you're looking to take your arm game up
a notch you can grab this program for
13.99 on my website so thank you once
again guys so much for watching don't
forget to leave me that like as my
christmas gift subscribe to the channel
if you haven't already make sure you
check out the last video on bicep
training and i'll see you guys all here
in the next video