something like eight sets of quad work
per week on a strength program is like a
lot of work I mean that's like full on
well into that maximum adapter volume
that's meat potatoes work where on the
other hand that might just be a little
bit above what maintains your quads for
hypertrophy and something like 16 sets
of quads for that same person is totally
possible and close to Optimal for muscle
growth but 16 would just not even be
survivable for a week on strength
training it's just a huge discordance
there the optimal volume for strength
training is here the optimal volume for
hypertrophy training is here and if you
try to mix the two there's going to be
some middle ground in which you're not
getting the best of either one and the
reality there is that for best results
you probably really can't do both
optimally at the same time