I can only lift the 40 from here to here
but I can lift the 80 from here to here
shouldn't I get the 80s cheat a little
bit to get to this mid-range and then
pump out reps and then put it down if we
say we lift the 80 from here to here
that can be the same amount of internal
muscular Force as the 40 from here to
here but the only reason the 80 is
liftable from here to here is just a
leverage Advantage your muscles are
pulling just as hard at that stretch
position the internal Force generated
per fiber is ultra high with the 40 from
here to here just as high as the 80 from
here to here and here's the real kicker
muscles seem to grow even better when
they produce maximum internal per fiber
Force at a stretched position stretch
plus tension seems to cause more growth
than just tension without a stretch