welcome back Dr Mila wolf here today PhD
in sports science with wolf coaching
today we're reviewing natural hyperopes
train we've had it back and forth online
but I'm not acting bad faith I'm going
to be reviewing his videos and seeing
whether or not I agree with his
technique from a sport Science
perspective for hypertrophy let's break
it down hello YouTube and welcome to my
top 10 hypertrophy list as you can tell
I have a pretty decent physique I'm
fairly big so I think I have some good
things to share with you
guys movements that stood the test of
time but that I wish I could go back in
time and start doing earlier because
they truly gave me a ton of G that
lighting is very loyal list it's that
these list are the best for everyone but
I do think that for hypotrophy they are
top tier in a sense it's like training
Straight Out The Shed in here they might
actually give you a ton of results as
well in terms of the way the list is
structured it's quite simple there are
10 lives in there and are ranked in
order of importance so when I look at my
physique today so these are top 10
exercises as recommended by natural hyp
if I took it away from this list would
result in me looking worse so in a sense
as B said himself if I was stuck on an
island quick cave here you can't really
determine causality right like there's a
million things happening in your life
right now that are more influential than
which excise you picked is the
difference between a close grip bench
press and a medium grip bench press
really large enough to be able to detect
within the context of your life right
could you really say you've grown your
chest more over the past two months
because you switch to close grip versus
medium grip when your sleep stress
nutrition and other factors all change
as well as your volume your frequency so
many influential variables are at play
the determining causality from your own
training in terms of results is actually
a lot more challenging people realize
with a gun to my head and I was thought
okay you can only do 10 movements these
are the 10 movements that I would do at
my number 10 I have french press but a
surprised that a French man would have
the French press in his list I believe
that it is a great movement for the long
of the tricep I agree The French Press
is great and it is the inclusion of The
French Press into my program that made
me love training this body part to me
most of my this is great I love it came
from The French Press and I love to do
them with a dumbell now the issue with
the dumbell is that you run the risk of
developing tendonitis which I've had and
when that happens you're stuck you Cann
spam the movement and a movement that is
not spammable will not get you much
gains but I have found ways around it so
for example if you have a cable Stack
The French Press with the cable stack is
s tier it is the best way to do French
Press you could I don't think there's
any evidence to suggest that doing The
French Press with the dumbbell is going
to cause more 10 nus than a cable what
have you equally I love The French Press
I refer to it as the overhead extension
but it's the same thing I think it's
great I think it lengthens the long head
of the triceps more which as you can see
in this video here results in more
hypertrophy so overall I agree I don't
agree with t stuff but who cares sping
hair so you could also if you wanted
just shift your torso angle so as to do
the French press behind the head like
this with the shift I find also that it
makes it much more comfortable it's a
very simple barbaric movement but if you
have never credit I encourage you to do
that now for my number nine I have Roman
deadlift they were never a priority and
I regret it Romanian deadlifts are great
I really should change my gains
especially in the arring department by
focusing so much on deadlifts there's a
reason why many people nowadays say that
the dead as much as we've had it back
and forth about power building and
deadlifts potentially not being optimal
for growth I do generally agree that
rdls are better for hypertrophy than
straight up deadlifts right they will
lengthen the hamstrings more they will
generally lengthen the glutes more so
they are a better exercise for
hypertrophy especially when you consider
that most people perform rdls with an
Ecentric whereas they perform
conventional deadlifts without an
Ecentric so I actually agree isless hopy
I disagree with them but I do agree that
for bodybuilding if you do 80% of your
volume with deadlift and 20% with the
deadlifts you're not doing things
properly if your goal is hypertrophy
that's fine deadlifts because the if
your primary goal is hypertrophy you
probably shouldn't
be or if your only goal is hypertrophy
rather so the easiest way to make sure
that this never happens is also to do
deadlifts on the side at this point I do
both and I find that this is the best
way to progress on the pattern number
eight might be a surpris some of you
guys because as you know I was the no
shoulder guy for a long time now I try
to grow my shoulders and the LI that I
use for that is the override press that
is at number eight I think is this an
overhead press or a br press crial
pressing you are short changing yourself
you really should be doing it Lal raises
are good addition but they're not enough
so to me they are vital and is why they
made their way into that list because
any and every shoulder gains I've made
in the past three to four months I've
made Solly by spamming over press as
much as possible so this is my method
and this is why I think that you should
do them as well now so I think overhead
press is a great exercise I don't think
it's a must include right like he made
it seem like it was a must I don't think
it's a must I think you can get the same
gains doing cable front raises some
later raises and some M work right I
don't think they're essential but I do
think they're a great exercise and I
think if I were to construct a hyper
program unless someone had a preference
against it or someone had pain doing
over press I would typically include it
for hypertrophy so again I agree now
what I would thought you for this is to
find the St that you like when I do an
over press my grip is here it's within
the shoulders because it's what's
comfortable same for you find the grip
that you like the most it could be a
snat grip it could be behind the head it
could be with dumbbells it could be a
neutral grip I don't care as long as
your arm does this you're good then for
number seven I agree this is excellent
I've been doing the longest not quite
and it is dumbbell rows I absolutely
love dumbell rows so I would just bend
over on top of two dumbbells and roll
the two dumbbells at once doing
something like this and it grew my back
and not just my back it also grew my
postular chain because guess what this
is the only exercise I did for poster
chain the only one and when I started
deadlifting I think it was two years
afterwards so two years of doing RS like
this the first time I deadlifted I
picked up 275 for five with good form it
wasn't really my first time dead think
oh so I don't think and this isn't the
this but I don't think 275 for 5 is
anything to be like impressed by like
I've seen untrained people do that so I
don't think dumball rows necessarily
cause them to be strong in the lift but
the dumball row is absolutely fine would
I pick it as an exercise to Target your
whole posterior chain no and I think
rdls will do far more to G your glutes
and hamstrings and Alors than dumbbell
Rose ever will but I think for the upper
back and midback the dumbar row is
excellent right like you're going to put
on a lot size it's not the best exercise
ever right it doesn't have the best
resistance curve like most back
exercises it'll be hardest in that
shorten position and I think lengthen
partials do circumvent a lot of that
issue and I think potentially right
anecdotally that's why people like
cheating on row is because they still
get that length in position and they
kind of are not limited by shortened
position strength anymore but I would
say just do length and partials instead
cheating will add more fatigue for not
much additional benefit in this case
versus doing L and paral
so I don't disagree with him I think the
dumb row is a fine pick my arrings my
bootes and my low back now that I'm more
into body building and I want a more
focused approach I do them with only one
arm by posting myself I made a video
about that it will be in the pin comment
if you know how to do your dumb R
properly it is an amazing movement
because you can f every fiber of your
upper back stretching and this is one of
these lips where when I see people tell
me that it's good my answer is you're
not doing Dum R properly or you haven't
found your style yet there are so many
ways to do them that at this point I do
think for most people dumbbell Rose are
slightly better than barbells mostly
because it's down to execution right
like when a lot of people do B rows they
will put the bar down at the bottom and
not get that stretch whereas with
dumbbell rows most people do get a full
stretch on each rep and thus get more
hypertrophy right so that's a great
option I will say they might be a little
bit less time efficient by having to do
both sides and both sides actually being
relatively tiring your session duration
might increase a little bit versus doing
bilateral dumbbell rows right where
you're not supported by a bench you just
bend over and do some rows with both
arms at the same time I think that's
going to be a better option the other if
you're not doing squats or at least a
heavy KNE flection which is squats are
great you're not going to get big legs
or at least not as big as they could be
meaning that I don't buy into the idea
that you could get massive legs from
lunges and from knee extensions I'm not
a purist I'm not saying man L Bar you
can do SSB you can do hack squats you
can do Bel squats I do not care but
please do your squats for me my legs are
massive admittedly I think his legs are
fine I wouldn't call it massive although
damn all right Charlie um I don't think
you need to squat to maximize lower body
size I think with with a split Squall
variation with a lunge variation with
anything that allows you to get deep
knee flexion and or deep hip flexion in
your training you'll be just fine I
think you get the same hypertrophy doing
length press leg press sorry I think you
get the same hypertrophy doing leg press
and AAL and other exercises and skipping
squatting allog together versus needing
to do squats so while I agree that
squats are great they're not a must do
exercise within hyper training nothing
really is not defined at all just
massive HS but all of that I got I got
from squats I never did a leg experience
my legs actually I take it back I had
already 26 to 27 inch squats my legs
were already that big when I started
implementing other the methods and I
encourage you to also have at least one
type of squat in your list now for
number five we start to get into my
favorite movements of all time that I do
all the time and I've done for pretty
much forever oh man I'm a cur bro it
should not be a surprise I'm absolutely
obsessed with biceps to this day if you
look at my the technique here is not
that's for a reason if it were to be
that more and more people started for
example as they treat our compounds you
would see more and more people with
massive arms actually find your style of
fuel that you like and you will find
that it will it will give you tremendous
reason first things first the execution
on that clip of curls is going to be far
from ideal for hypertrophy and that's
based on 20 to 25 studies now showing
that more lengthen training we actually
get a stretch in the muscle group is
superior to for hopy to more shortened
train and so I would not recommend the
technique he was using here I think
curls are great I think you should do
curls in your training I don't think
barbell curls are going to be the best
option I think typically cable curls
allow for a better resistance curve
allow you to get a deeper stretch
incline curls can be great specifically
when coupled with length and partials so
as to actually make that bottom position
challenging I think it's fine for what
it's worth though I don't think he has
particularly outstanding biceps I think
his physique is reasonably well balanced
and I think people often fall victim to
the idea that symmetry is this all
elusive thing whereas if you actually
speak to bodybuilding judges if you
actually competing in bodybuilding you'd
realize that at least within
bodybuilding symmetry is a lot more of a
range than Target and and like you know
the whole spider physique thing is a bit
silly to me results as long as you do
them properly of course now for number
four is a li that shouldn't really be on
the list because I only started doing
them three years ago but in three years
it made such a difference in my physique
and it impressed me so much with the
gains I got that if doing pullovers or
doing something wrong and I firmly
believe that because the technique is a
problem here which is the point of body
building of course every lift does that
but there is something almost magical
about pullovers it's the technique is a
real problem I think that the depth is
it's like if he was quarter squatting
for hypertrophy right my bro you can go
a lot deeper than that so for
hypertrophy go a lot deeper than that as
I mentioned earlier lengthen training is
better than shorten training for
hypertrophy and the dbo pullover
specifically is already designed to put
the most tension in that lengthen
position and to allow you to get a
stretch in your pecs and in your lats so
why wouldn't you just go deeper the
exercise is great and I think as far as
like if I had to pick one exercise for
the lats I would probably pick the dbo
pull over or the barbell pull over but I
think as far as technique goes once
again like with curls I I think it could
be a lot better rip cage expansion until
you experience it you don't understand
it so I recommend that everyone try I
don't think there's anything to rip cage
expansion I think it's just your serus
anterior lats and PE getting bigger go
back in time and force my younger to do
a lift it would be pullovers because I
firly believe that if I started doing
pullovers the first day I got dumbells
my body would not look the way it looks
now my physique would be on another
level but that is not true for number
three because number three is actually
the first lift that I ever started doing
and that is situps I was obsessed with
situps like many young men I wanted a
sixpack so every night I remember in my
bedroom I would put the radio on and I
would put my feet underneath the the
thing speaking French now for some
reason have I again it's
approach and to me if you not doing a
form or another of isolation for your
abs you are show getting another type of
stupidity but one that you will actually
regret because AB isolation is free guys
please do it right I I've seen many of
these lists from many I agree and I was
sadden to I think AB isolation is a
great idea to go back to a time where
were actually obsessed with abs the
shredded brow don't have the Monopoly on
app development we can take that back as
well for number two I have Pull-Ups so
you'll see that number two I agree and
in fact I think that direct AB training
is a little bit slept on especially by
people who are not at Lane like you can
get bigger ABS that will be more
visually impressive even at higher body
fats even in the off season right if you
train your abs directly and grow them as
a muscle they will be visible and more
impressive even at 15 or 20% body fat
often times for males so do it if you
want bigger ABS two number three number
one are all in the same vein these are
movements that I've done forever and I
think were the most instrumental in
developing my physique pull-ups are
still the king of upper back builders in
my opinion if you want bigger lights do
your pull-ups if you want to better def
find upper back area your pull-ups if
you cannot progress anymore because
again the technique on these pull-ups Is
Not Great get a full stretch GP there
are so many ways to do pull-ups that you
will always find a method or another to
squeeze more gains out of them my back
before I started doing pull-ups and
after I started doing pull-ups is night
and day I used to have a fridge back
where my back was like this and when I
started doing pull-ups finally and I was
out of my power pullups are great I
think that they don't have the best
resistance curve ever and I typically do
prefer pull Downs for length and
partials but I think pull-ups are great
rules D rules and pull those you're good
you got your upper back gam covered
throw a hip hinge into the mix like an
RD and you're going to have a massive
pitball back and then we move on to the
number one never heard the Pitbull Back
That is not even really a lift but to me
when I thought back and I I question
myself interestingly I don't think rdl's
really grow your upper back I think they
will grow your rectors which do extend
up your spine so I guess technically
they might go upper back a little bit
but I think that's a different type of
growth than most people think I don't
think Rd or deadlifts will really grow
your lower traps or your mid traps or
your ROM boards or anything like that so
just my two cents myself and I looked at
my body I was like all right look at
what you look like which lift if you
took it away would make all of this melt
and the answer was obvious to me
push-ups push-ups made the single
biggest difference in my physique I did
this a rest day and the big mistake and
a regret that I have with push-ups is
that I turned my back on them because at
some point I discovered bench press and
I was like well so long push-ups I found
the best better variation you suck now
and I was I think push-ups are great
don't get me wrong but I think using a
deficit push-up where you deeper stretch
and your triceps from d and chest will
be a lot better the traditional push-up
the way most people do it is not that
great in my T there is a reason why if
you follow my novice program I have you
do push-ups more often than I have you
to bench because to me this is the type
of mov that is instrumental people talk
about building a base building a base
and usually what they mean is get a
Fourplay dead L that's not a base to me
that's [ __ ] a base to me is getting
proficient at push-ups getting
proficient at pull-ups that's solid base
if you get these two in ERS I don't
think proficiency hugely impacts how
much muscle growth you can get from an
exercise right like even when you're new
to an exercise I'm not sure you need to
be super proficient on it before you can
grow muscle from it level in
bodybuilding the biggest mistake you can
make is turning your back on the basics
I see many bodybuilders do that and
they're making a mistake if you got most
of your gains from something never stop
doing that thing you can refine the
approach and add other things on top of
it but never ever shun them because
again you all regret it if you look at
the movements I would like you to also
not focus necessarily on the variation I
presented but rather on the par on this
I think it's true I think focusing on
movement pattern versus the actual
exercise is a lot more helpful there'll
be small advantages between different
you know variations of that movement
pattern but by and large they will save
the same purpose all of these are
necessary none of them are negotiable
people talk about the big three the big
five [ __ ] all of that the bare minimum
for a bodybuilding program is a big 10
it doesn't have to be these movements
but it has to be movements that Target
the muscles that that list covers and
that is going to conclude this video now
Bor us to actually select other people
or the that we would like to hear from
I'm going to take things a little bit
differently today I would like to hear
from my fellow Frenchmen people that
have well that's the video we actually
agreed on a lot more than I thought I
think that by and large with his
emphasis of you know the pullover you
know the over extension on The French
Press as he called it I think I agree
with lot of stuff I think the technique
was not as good as it might have been I
think the use of the term spider
physique and other like political videos
is a bit unnecessary but I think that
overall he's not terrible here so I'd
give him like an 8 out of 10 so solid
fun fact by the way I do speak French so
even when he speaks French I can
understand them that's the video if you
like the video please comment like
subscribe leave a comment down below and
let me know who else you want to see me
PhD and Sport Science react to and I'll
see you guys my viewers in that next one
peace
[Music]
oh