hey folks it's me Dr Mike Israel and I
am here to talk to you about mistakes
that I've made in my life just kidding
that could be another fun very long
video
intermediate training mistakes if you've
been training for oh three to six years
or so relatively diligently with weights
what sorts of mistakes are common to
make and if you're a beginner watching
this or if you're intermediate watching
this if you're an advanced person who
coaches intermediates watching this
there could be some gems in here that
you could avoid and it'd be really
really uh really awesome because then
you could do a good job at coaching
people and coaching yourself without
making these mistakes what are they I
have six that make the list the first
one is very very Ultra common and it is
kind of almost everyone makes this at
some point when they transition from
being a beginner to an intermediate one
of the big sort of
inflection points there is you can no
longer make the same gains so for
example beginners can just add five
pounds to the bar and still do sets of
five for like months and as an
intermediate you may try to do that sort
of thing and typically where it took you
three or four months until you just got
tired and needed a break you were still
hitting PRS as a beginner now after two
months you're not tired you don't need a
break but you physically have stopped
making PRS because your body doesn't
adapt as fast anymore it's more
challenging to adapt you've already
adapted quite a bit you're an
intermediate welcome and you have to now
realize that beginner games are gone
some people will program hop
trying to find those beginner games
again but they're gone forever well
unless you stop training recess and all
of your games then you can repeat
beginner games but it's really just
getting the gains back gains
so a lot of people
will just assume people they'll assume
that they progress just as well and
continue to run into high levels of
fatigue and shitty caps plateaus in
their PRS and what they have to
understand is that the same rates of
progress are not around anymore and it's
time to adapt here's one way in which
you can adapt if you like to run two
months or eight weeks of successive
training until you take a deload or a
break
as a beginner you used to do that and
you'd put
five pounds on the bar every single week
and you could just hit PR's PRS all the
way through now you can't do that
anymore try this every other session put
five more pounds on the bar and every
other session just do the same reps you
did last time with the same weight just
try to get the technique a little bit
better better mind muscle connection a
little bit better external technique and
really high quality reps right so you
have a challenge week and a Mastery week
a challenge week and a Mastery week and
that way you only progress instead of
all let's say 40 pounds to the whole
process you may progress only by 20
pounds but it's actual progress because
remember 40 pounds is an illusion you
can't progress like that anymore in two
months because you would hit these Mega
plateaus you get Ultra fatigue you take
delude weeks in the middle of your plan
it throws everything off so just as long
as you're realistic and you understand
now my ability to adapt isn't as high
anymore you don't have to just continue
to assume you can make beginner gains
and do a sad face when you find out that
your whole program is fucked up all the
time uh that's the deal that's the deal
next another mistake is very poor or no
focus on anything regarding the stimulus
to fatigue ratio so beginners will just
do the same exercises they were doing as
beginners all right now they're
intermediates and they don't understand
that sometimes those exercises don't pay
off anymore or even their techniques
could use some work for example
if you bench with a relatively narrow
grip as a beginner it's amazing stimulus
for your packs great for your triceps
great for everything shoulders don't
hurt it's awesome
as an advance as an intermediate
individual you might continue to do this
and then you're like man you know I'd
really want more PEC growth I'm already
doing all the stuff for PEX and someone
could say well do your pecs get really
pumped or really sore from when you do
those closer grip bench presses and they
go uh I don't know I've never paid
attention to it ta-da
as an intermediate lifter you have to
start to learn how to
figure out your body and listen to its
signs and symptoms its trials and
tribulations you could say and say okay
this technique really gets my pecs going
but this other technique doesn't I'm
gonna try this technique this technique
really doesn't feel great for my
shoulders but this other technique feels
incredible that way you start to alter
your techniques even Ultra some exercise
selections Ultra some rep ranges so that
the amount of muscle stimulus you get is
awesome High stimulus and a low fatigue
especially your joints and connective
tissues this is something you have to
start paying attention to because it's
worthwhile for you now as a beginner
every exercise every everything every
rep range is all right answers it's not
all right answers anymore some of them
are wrong answers you have to find the
right ones by listening to your body
number three
sticking to limited exercise numbers
this especially is true if you come from
a beginner culture of very limited
exercises now just generally pretty good
beginner culture because you don't need
that many exercises to do a good job as
a beginner also if you constrain
yourself to just a few exercises as a
beginner you can to put all of your
learning into just a few exercises to
keep things simple for you and it makes
you a master of those few exercises and
of their core basic exercises like
squats process pulls Etc you can easily
Branch out and become a master of a lot
of other stuff so it's actually a good
idea to do very few exercises as a
beginner
maybe you'll do like you know two total
exercises per muscle group for the first
year that you train right when you train
quads it's either lunges or squats
that's it different wrap ranges
different Arrangements sometimes not
much difference you just make gains
as an intermediate you're gonna have to
realize that some exercises will start
to get stale on you the stimulus to
fatigue ratio if some exercises might
start to fall off and you have to try
some new exercises because they're in
the gym you're already very competent at
your old exercises they're now starting
to become very stale and all these other
exercises are now good for you to use
because you're an intermediate so not
only do you are you ready to use them
because you have a great base of
Competency in the core Basics but you're
also need to use them because all your
core Basics just don't work as well as
they used right
so
a lot of people
could go out and try to hack Squad and
could lead presses intermediates or
could dumbbell press instead of barbell
press and it would be great phenomenal
movements and they should be trying them
on occasion to regularly test them out
to see which exercises and what
techniques have a really good stimulus
to fatigue ratios keep those in the
rotation
start to build up their exercise
repertoire as intermediates really learn
about their bodies and which exercises
are best but a lot of people don't do
that because oftentimes they come from a
cultural background of low exercise
selection we're doing their cultural
background like if you're raised you
know Ashkenazi Jew that means you're
stingy on the exercises watch me get
canceled for that one Israel okay
no not culture culture training culture
so for example if you started with a
program like starting strength that's
what culture it really is
starting strength is like five exercises
in it which is fucking sweet for
beginners but as you become intermediate
you may realize that okay low bar squats
were pretty well for me
but not as well as they used to and
honestly my hips are kind of irritated
and my quads don't really feel a fucking
thing anymore
and you try some high bar squats ah
different exercises illegal but higher
immediate now you're not a beginner now
it's a good time to try that try those
in the rotation see how they feel okay
they feel great put them on the back
burner after a few months try leg
presses try hack squats that doesn't
mean do everything new and everything
crazy and every day a new movement still
one to two exercises per muscle group
per session
multiple sessions through the week so
that's like two to four exercises per
muscle per week but you know you might
be learning five or ten exercises are
really good for you and slowly sampling
from that list that's a good idea
keeping needlessly constrained
constrained to just a few exercises not
wise because they might not be ideal for
you or it just might be stale or you're
just missing out on other perfectly good
variants
another one
extremes of volume and Reps in reserve
intermediates know how to train now
fundamentally but they don't really know
the landscape of what works best for
them because they just exited the
beginner phase of everything worked so
now people get drawn into different
arbitrary directions some people go fuck
I want my beginner be gains back but
going back to number one that's a stupid
idea I'm gonna do German volume training
psychotic amounts of volume zero
progression just boom right up to high
volume bad idea other folks will just
really take the low road and say oh man
I'm just going to do like five through
one five through one's not a good
intermediate hypertrophy or strength
program because the volume's so fucking
low it barely stimulates you at all sure
it'll keep making you stronger
neurologically for a while but it's not
ideal in the least
well so what's the answer well the
answer is you start learning your body
you start learning how much volume you
can get a nice stimulus from while still
recovering for your next session good
pump bit of soreness and then the next
session comes Monday was your first
session second session is Thursday by
Thursday you're completely healed and
you're strong and ready to go and then
you hit it again with a certain volume
which isn't also not so little that you
barely feel it and not so much that next
Monday you're still basically broken and
you can't use your legs and you're like
I'm supposed to do legs today but I'm in
a wheelchair
not the middle ground but somewhere
between Ultra extreme and Ultra easy
that's the right part for you so start
close to easy and if it's too easy do a
few more sets next week and if it's a
little easy do a few more sets and
eventually you'll build up to a volume
that is the right volume for you
and as a beginner you don't have to
worry about shit like that because you
do minimum volumes and everyone benefits
to a huge extent but as an intermediate
you need to start exploring that
landscape and not going to arbitrary
insane extremes and just doing rational
shit right because your gains depend on
it and if you're going to think about
anything
might as well be gains as a direct quote
of Albert Einstein that's right along
with many of the others on the internet
there are also direct quotes of his for
real for real
problem number five that people run into
all the time and bad habits that they
have
is in the opposite of the spectrum
they a lot of intermediates want to
pretend they're Advanced people
and what they do is they try to get
really crazy on the Mind muscle
connection
and they pick exercises like yeah man I
can really feel my lats Contracting
and someone's like have you been getting
stronger on this exercise over time and
they're like it's not about how much
weight you lift man it's about how much
tension the muscle feels thanks Frank
Zane but on a serious note
as an intermediate you need to be very
concerned with with good technique
getting stronger over time and really
pushing the progression
good technique set of 10 and 100 pounds
next week good technique set of 10 to
105 pounds good technique next time set
of
12 and 105 pounds and so on and so on
and so on every time getting closer to
failure and as failure looms you still
have good techniques still have good
technique earn your progressions that
way you really learn how to train
fucking hard two benefits one during
learning how to train hard you train
hard and you get great results
two is the way that we Define mind
muscle connection
the perception of a high degree of
tension to the muscle and or the
perception of a profound deep painful
burn in that muscle close to failure
both of those rest on your ability to
push hard right now feeling my bicep
that is not the Mind muscle connection
that's just kinesthetic awareness yay I
have a bicep and I can feel when it
moves mind muscle connection has to be
with heavy loads under control
or with lighter loads really fucking
close to failure someone's like are
using your biceps like yes fuck burn
them off of me or something I fucking
hate them
so in order to even qualify for the Mind
muscle connection to be validly used you
have to learn how to train hard
and if you skip to the Mind muscle
connection
without learning how to train hard all
this bullshit if you're like I feel my
lap no no no you fear a lot Contracting
that's not the fucking point you're
supposed to fill your lap with a
shitload of metabolites in it or an
unreal degree of tension pulling it
apart every single way that's my muscle
and you have to do a lot of intermediate
training of progression
slowly moving Unstoppable Into the Fire
of close to failure training that's how
you learn how hard feels and how hard
feels on each of your muscles then you
can start to pay attention to my muscle
connection and actually pick good
exercises for it as opposed to bullshit
where you can just feel the muscle but
it's not feel with heavy load or very
close to failure because that exercise
might be shitty for generating both of
those
boom you gotta earn that shit
best analogy I have to come up with
people who pretend have a mind muscle
connection when they're too weak and too
out of touch with their bodies or have
never trained hard enough to really
understand what that means is me I'll do
this for you right now actually watch
this ready I bring all the old laptop
and I am a hacker watch this ready
preaching a file protocol all right
we're in we're in fellas wait I was just
doing this on the keys randomly oh it
looks Advanced but I don't know what the
fuck I'm doing just like almost all
hackers and movies don't know what
they're doing and they're doing random
shit and people of the gym that think
they're hitting Lots with this one weird
bullshit but they've only been training
for three years and they actually don't
know how to train hard enough to hit any
muscle
so if you like Pilates or whatever and
you like feeling the muscles working
sweet that's not mind muscle connection
so fuck that
number six
lastly it's a big one
as a beginner you can do a lot of
pre-packaged programs where it's
verbatim sets wraps everything written
out for you Cookie Cutter and you can
get a great result because you're a
beginner it's not that hard to give you
a great result
as an intermediate you have to
understand that now Begins the era of
pre-packaged programs no longer being
ideal you're gonna have to Thoughts with
them a little bit you're going to have
to alter them at the margins because you
have a unique knowledge about yourself
you have some limitations and some very
good abilities and you have to design
and tailor even if it's a little all
programs to match your needs so for
programs that's five sets of five but
you know you can't recover from any more
than three sets at your current time do
three
if it says five sets of five but it's
the last week and you know like I can
easily recover for more then you do
seven right already changing things at
the margins
this program says overhand pull-ups but
you know those just hurt your elbows and
if you knew neutral grip they don't have
your elbows at all and you can do a
shitload of reps the answer is neutral a
beginner would probably just do what it
says but immediate you have to start
thinking for yourself if you want the
best results
the alternative of course is to do the
programs exactly as they're written
obviously know during the time that
you're doing them that they're
sub-optimal and you know how well I
really shouldn't be doing these overhand
pull-ups because they fucking hurt my
elbows thought the program says look if
the program designer could talk to you
he'd say wait hold on that horse your
elbows are yeah he's not gonna say well
just harden up he's probably gonna be
like
just you can do another pull-up variant
and you can say why didn't you put that
in your program because beginner program
dummy you just took somebody's beginner
program and using it as intermediate so
don't do that
good intermediate programs like the ones
we have the custom Training templates at
RP that was a weird cough
they are Auto customizable which means
you design them with some structure we
provide and then you pick the exercises
you can pick how to do the exercises too
good programs for intermediates and
advanced are just architectural layouts
onto which you build your beautiful new
um
Mega City
yeah it's the perfect City no crime no
hippies
especially no hippies no coffee shops
either because those attract too many
hippies
I'll see you guys next time