so for most things fitness-related
shortcuts generally aren't worth taking
if you want to lose fat a slower cut is
better at preserving muscle than a crash
diet if you want to build a proportional
physique it's probably going to take
years of consistent lifting however when
it comes to the bench press there are
four things you can start doing right
away that are gonna have an immediate
impact on your max strength now I
already discuss the importance of a
proper lifting arch in my benchpress
technique Tuesday video so I'm gonna
skip that here still if you're not
setting up at least some kind of arch
when pressing you're leaving a ton of
gains on the table and I'd recommend it
starting there before moving on to the
other four steps now if you'd rather use
a more moderate arch that's fine
especially if you have muscle building
goals and you'll still benefit from
these four steps okay so the first step
is to fix your bar path or the path the
bar takes when viewed from the side now
on the other to power lifts the squat
and the deadlift it's good lifting
advice to keep the bar path as vertical
as possible ideally the bar should move
up and down in a perfectly straight line
centered over the middle of the foot and
I think this has led many lifters to
assume that you should also use a
vertical bar path on the bench press
which isn't true
now to maximize strength on the bench
press you should be pressing the bar
back toward your face and then up not
just straight up and in order to
understand this we need to cover some
basic biomechanics first now with the
bench press the pecs and front delts are
contracting to perform a horizontal
shoulder adduction basically where you
bring your arm across your body like in
a fly but that's not the only movement
pattern here unless you're doing a
guillotine press or you lower the bar
straight down to your neck there will
also be some degree of shoulder flexion
occurring where you raise your arm up
like in the front raise and you can see
here from the side angle that your arm
is raising up in the bench press similar
to how it would in a front raise except
with less range of motion if we rotate
this video of the front raise so my
torso is in the same plane as the bench
you should be able to see that the basic
movement pattern is exactly the same
okay next we need to cover some really
basic physics so when you unwrap the bar
it should naturally come into position
over the shoulder joint this is because
the front delt doesn't need to do any
work performing shoulder flexion as
there's no horizontal distance or moment
arm between the
are the shoulder joint so this is where
you should start now let's look at two
different lowering scenarios on the left
we're lowering the bar straight down
like Anna guillotine press and on the
right we're lowering the bar down and
slightly forward like you would in a
traditional bench press will obviously
be stronger benching with the technique
on the right because it reduces the
total range of motion the bar has to
travel however it does pose a problem
during the concentric phase of the
movement because we've brought the bar
so far forward we've now created a
moment arm between the bar and the
shoulder this means that the front delt
has to work much harder to bring that
bar back into balance over the shoulder
again you can think about it this way by
bringing the bar forward you're
basically forcing yourself to do a bit
of a front raise so when getting the bar
off your chest you should shove the bar
back first to reduce that moment arm
between the bar and the shoulder as
quickly as possible
this way once you hit the sticking point
a few inches off your chest your front
delts don't need to work nearly as hard
to overcome that shoulder flexion demand
and this back and up technique is also
going to strengthen the pecs more since
it emphasizes horizontal shoulder
adduction over shoulder flexion that the
toughest points in the press now let's
contrast this with lowering the bar down
and forward but then pressing the bar
straight up when you press the bar
straight up off your chest you keep that
moment arm in place and your front delt
has to work extra hard to move the
weight up and you'll be much weaker if
you bench press this way data from dr.
thomas mclaughlin found that not only
did the biomechanics make sense it also
plays out in the real world
he found that while most ventures did
correctly bring the bar down and
slightly forward in a smooth arc on the
descent only elite level ventures drove
the bar back and then up whereas novice
lifters tended to press the bar straight
up first and then slightly back now
putting this into practice I'd recommend
filming your sets from the side to get a
close look at your bar path and you can
use an app like iron path or Dartfish to
track this easily if you're pressing the
bar straight up make a conscious effort
to press the bar back first and then of
course this might feel a little bit
awkward at first you want to get to a
point where it feels natural for you
that for me I like to cue this by
thinking about pushing the floor away
from me well I simultaneously drive the
bar
and up off my chest okay the second step
is to take a wider grip on the bar
wherever you're currently gripping the
bar
you should try gradually easing your
grip out by about one fingers with every
workout over the course of the next few
weeks most of the world's top bench
press errs press with a max legal grip
width with the index fingers all the way
out to the grip rings although this may
not be comfortable for everyone
they'll typically be stronger with a
wider grip up to a point for a few
reasons first a wider grip is going to
mean a slightly shorter range of motion
secondly a wider grip is going to make
the midpoint and lockout portions of the
lift easier since the pecs won't be
quite as contracted basically a wider
grip means there's going to be more
stretch on the pecs to contract more
forcefully throughout the range of
motion and thirdly it's generally easier
to maintain a tight upper back with a
wider grip as it tends to force you into
a bit more scapular retraction and
depression giving you a more stable base
of support throughout the lift alright
so now that you've fine-tuned your
technique the next step is to simply
benchpress more frequently and whenever
people tell me they want to get their
bench press up the first question I ask
them is how often they're currently
bench pressing per week they'll usually
say once or twice a week and I'll then
say you need to bench more often if you
want to get better at any skill let's
say shooting free throws you probably
think that shooting more often is gonna
help you get better at shooting free
throws now practice doesn't always make
perfect if you're just practicing bad
habits over and over so practicing more
might not actually help much unless
you're actively addressing those
underlying issues while practicing and
that's why we covered technique first
but once you're practicing smart
focusing on improving your technique
that's when practice really does make
perfect and although I've personally run
very high frequency bench programs where
I've bench four or five times a week you
do have to be more careful with
overtraining by keeping volume and
intensity quite low on the individual
training days now so I think benching
three days a week is gonna be the sweet
spot for most people and you can easily
set that up with a daily undulating
periodized design where you focus on
slightly different adaptations each day
this type of setup was shown to increase
one rep max strength in a DOP study from
dr. Mike's or toes for example running
with a setup like this we would focus on
hypertrophy on day one with sets of
eight reps power on day two with lighter
speed work
and then strength work on day three with
heavy sets of five now you could also
optionally add in a heavy atop set
before the hypertrophy work on day one
which is going to be my fourth step here
I think top sets are a great way to get
comfortable with lifting a heavy weight
on a regular basis which is going to
improve confidence in your ability to
lift heavier without frying your
recovery
I'd recommend adding one heavy top set
somewhere around 90 percent of your 1
rep max for 2 to 3 reps before backing
off and doing your main work for that
day and you only need to do this once a
week ideally before your latest lifting
day and while I definitely wouldn't
recommend maxing out on these top sets
regularly because a strength is specific
if you want to get stronger you got to
get used to having some heavy weight in
your hands on a pretty regular basis ok
so guys if you're looking to put all of
this information together I'd recommend
checking out my benchpress
specialization program which I'm going
to knock down to 50% off for the release
of this video so for the next week if
you're looking for a complete training
program to take your benchpress
strength to the next level you can go to
Jeff nipper to calm and take advantage
of the discounted rate for the next week
this program uses an upper lower
training split with the benchpress being
prioritized three days per week with a
DUP set up and the feedback on it over
the last year or so has been amazing so
I'll have that as the first link in the
description box down below and also a
lot of the info in this video came from
the how to benchpress definitive guide
over on a stronger by science.com which
I strongly recommend giving a read if
you haven't already so I have that link
down below as well so that's it for this
one guys don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
[Music]