protein shakes they definitely work
there's a couple different types of
protein shakes you can take the very
fast digesting whey protein for
post-workout the quality of the way
whether it's concentrate isolate or
hydraulic it it doesn't matter for all
practical purposes that you're concerned
with it just doesn't fucking matter if
you're physically made of actual money I
got a electron microscope scan by the
way and the doctors were baffled because
it seems I'm actually made of teeny
microscopic $100 bills that's the kind
of stacks your boy is working with then
only way Hydro touches this body because
if if it's not the best I don't even I
don't even look at it you show me
concentrate oh I Dr that but for almost
everyone else you people no offense of
regular means any kind of way is totally
fine so way is great especially for
post-workout or int workout around the
workout window