when you talk to people about the
science of healthy eating a lot of times
they'll say things like well you know I
can go online and find a study to
support anything you think milk is good
I can find a study that says milk is bad
it's all up in the air but unfortunately
that's a misunderstanding of how the
scientific process works it turns out
that science Works based on the sum of
the evidence and it's very difficult to
do you have to take all of the studies
at the same time and look at the net
perspective that they offer into what
the structure of healthy eating actually
is because if you just go one study at a
time you can just cherry pick accidental
studies write Studies have error rates
and then you find all kinds of things
just aren't true and then balance you
could be looking at the one percent of
studies in a field that say one thing
whereas 99 say something completely
different so if you look at everything
you end up with a ton of data but that's
really good because that means we know a
lot about healthy eating