guys I figured I'd show you my breakfast
Robin and I are on our way to
Newfoundland today to visit some family
and friends and for my cousin's wedding
decided to take the spinach and zucchini
out of my egg whites this week just
because I've been having so many salads
lately that just the volume of
vegetables kind of sits in my stomach
and it's honestly making me kind of sick
in the eggs so if you do something for
so long you get sick of it
so I just switched it up so it's just
ham and onions in here with processed
cheese slice and then a strip of turkey
bacon and some oatmeal and with the
oatmeal I will put on one of these mini
Reese cuffs one of these mini Reese cups
so I'll show you guys what it looks like
after I get that on there focus
our tickets to the mr. Olympia contest
so we're going to the Friday night
prejudging and bikini finals and then
we're also going to the Saturday night
competition the finals for men's
bodybuilding so we're super excited for
that
for here's the Halifax care for bucks
that bangle T is huge it's hard to
believe that's when we 331
yes sir
in Newfoundland is openness not because
my mom didn't have good stuff in the
fridge but because we just have very
specific preferences
robbing stealing you got
yeah
looking really cool with your camera
keeps around in it I'm like a true
tortoise see how while I'm traveling I
am I'm gonna track pretty accurately but
I'm gonna try to stick to foods that are
gonna have a pretty low margin of error
some things like salads you know even if
I go over by like a hundred grams or
more it's not going to make that much of
a difference because what is that like
20 calories or something so been eating
a lot of salads well I've been busy and
on the go
saturday we're going to a small
community small fishing community in
Newfoundland called frightened and it's
for my cousin's wedding and I'm gonna
have like I'm gonna poke I'm usually on
my refeed today yeah and uh so new for
the wedding I'm gonna push my refeed
which I would normally have today ahead
two days and then on the wedding day I'm
just gonna kind of like not have a free
day but sort of loosely tracked calories
only guys I don't know if I've ever said
this on the channel but what I do for
chicken is I actually just use the raw
macros and I just multiply whatever
chicken that I weigh out by 1.3 so if I
weigh 100 grams of chicken I will
multiply that by 1.3 and track it as a
hundred and thirty grams of raw chicken
if we are all over blueberries this prep
like it's ridiculous we will be eat
rally with the boot
yeah we eat one of these probably in two
days
seriously yeah I go through so many I
would say this will last is maybe one
day what I record I would say 46 hours
blueberry cheesecake cake batter red
velvet cake batter swirl together and a
little bit of Wario
touch-and-go reps they were like
bouncing on this body wave at this body
weight I am pleased with it yeah you
know I am pleased it I have figured I'd
get five or six
here we go
whoa Jeff see you cheap subscribers I
told Jeff three times she had the red
bag three times the red bag has her face
wash our toothbrushes everything that we
need for an overnight stay and we drive
20 minutes
Oh to the wedding we're already late and
I'm like Jeff did you put in the red bag
and he was like I've told you three
times upstairs anyway so he wants me to
record him in summary Birmingham Kings
is fair pal that's it the extent of
so guys were here at the wedding with
Robin and my brother has requested that
I filmed the wedding with him now so
that's what I'm gonna be doing yeah I
know it's weird that there's no one here
cabbage turn it I'm sure that is putting
your something history
potatoes Turkey whoa
here we go
Robin and I founded a company called
strong on Alaska 1907 strong defense or
coaching and clothing we're looking to
want what we want some what you want to
do for loss is you want to lose about
0.5 to 1 percent of your body weight
curly that's you if you're a hundred
pound person that would be about half a
pound to one in town for me if you're
200 pounds then we were able to get away
with losing a little bit more each week
so for you that we want to amount for me
generally for most people I find that
around one pound of loss per week is the
best way to go and the reason for that
is that it allows you to hold on to the
most muscle mass so if you try to lose
too much weight too quickly it's so much
more likely that that weight is going to
be coming from muscles