using bands in your training is likely
holding your growth back Recent research
has demonstrated the importance of
lengthened training I actually conducted
some of this research myself we found
that when emphasizing the Lincoln
position you can increase your growth by
up to five to ten percent when you use
bands and pretty much any exercise what
happens is that you make the bottom
position easier and you make a shortened
position that's not as good for growth
harder that's the opposite of what we
want for growth some people say that
using bands can help them with pain and
if you had an injury and you find it
really beneficial in terms of not
getting as much pain during exercise by
all means being my guess but just be
aware that it's likely holding your
approach feedback the two reasons I
could potentially see someone using
bands is one if you have an injury and
you find that it's a lot less painful
when you use them and two if you just
enjoy it you know if my poetry results a
little bit as far as hypertrophy is
concerned but if you enjoy it more power
to you bro we should all just do more of
what we enjoy you know I mean