I was doing lying light curls and one
guy's like why did you do seated it's
Superior I'm like what do you mean it's
Superior it's like here's the study that
showed it was Superior I was like sweet
I'm actually not an 18 year old Swedish
undergraduate from karolinsky Institute
so it doesn't apply to me but also it
was like do you understand the principal
variation that after a certain amount of
time they're just going to get super
stale and seated lead curls no matter
how much better they are and lying leg
curls although biomechanically yes
slightly inferior because they don't
elicit as much of a stretch response uh
they are now a better alternative so but
so this person this was all news to him
he was just reading studies verbatim and
going like oh yeah this is good this is
bad like this is not Theory research
which is again why I recommend that most
people don't read primary research