hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I have a question are
seed oils bad for you you might think so
but you may be wrong oh
so
you hear this claim very often that seed
oils specifically things like canola oil
corn oil sunflower oil Etc are
specifically bad for your health maybe
even very bad for your health and a lot
of the folks that promulgate this idea
do it with a genuine belief that it is
true so no hate against them at all a
lot of them come from the keto Community
the carnivore Community a lot of them
are politically conservative you know
left us have their own brand of I have
to be vegan everything and Kiwis and
avocados every hour kind of diet fads no
offense leftists your grade in many
other ways uh so you know like you're
conservative you've got a tribal tat you
hate big Pharma you think covet is a
hoax but you also shoot bathtub Trend
the powder from which came from China or
literal enemy and geopolitics but I
haven't put those two and two together
you're sure it should put the trend
under your thigh and coughed a bunch do
you know that the trend is just you know
it's bad for you but it just gets you
lean and jacked and kills you slowly and
makes you go insane whatever but you're
health conscious so you know seed oils
are definitely bad even though you
technically actually shoot seed oils
into your body from the fucking
the the literal oil that suspends your
trannas aceto well uh
you know seed oils are bad for you when
you eat them so you don't eat them
because you're a conscious person now
here's the thing
there's part truth to this
and it's the idea that repeatedly heated
oils like french fry oil that's heated
and cooled heated and cooled heated and
cooled undergo some chemical alterations
that probably are not great for your
health and that's probably true and like
the way you do reheat oils is like you
eat junk food that's deep fried so
fucking stop doing that all the time yes
junk food is not very healthy for you if
you eat a ton of it if you eat a little
bit every now and again it's totally
fine but yeah you don't want to live
your life on junk food but what about
just seed oils that haven't been
repeatedly reheated
are they bad for you well
uncharacteristic because usually this is
just a sort of narrative Channel we
don't do Deep dive literature reviews we
save that for other folks like the
m-a-s-s mass review uh James Krieger's
weightology review which I highly
encourage you to read
um Stronger by science folks Greg
Knuckles they have a great review they
put out that those deep Dives and
literally it gets you really into the
literature but for this I have to get
into literature because otherwise if I
just say hey look I looked at the
literature people just won't believe me
which is totally cool so if I could hear
you go right there you see the PubMed
links you just type in the PM IDs and
you'll get right into uh the research
itself and you can look at offshoot
articles and related reviews and after
about 20 minutes you're gonna be like
okay fine looks like uh looks like seed
oils are not bad and here's the thing so
uh linealic and arachidonic acid which
are hugely uh found in very high
concentrations and many seed oils uh
they actually correlate High exposure to
them correlates with less cardiovascular
disease risk than lower exposure so it's
kind of weird like supposed to be bad
for you but they're actually the more of
them you eat the better on average
strange
okay that's at least we're leaving to
hear
diabetes and all-cause mortality
research over the long term shows that
linoleic acid is actually helpful and
arachidonic acid seems to be neutral
that just does not hurt your diabetic or
long-term all-cause mortality outcomes
and there's quite a few reviews and
studies that say Really the same thing
and those are all posted right there
and a lot of times yes it is good to
consume more Omega-3s so definitely add
them in omega-3 heavy oils which are
commonly not seed oils but don't just
take all seed oils or omega-6 heavy oils
out because there needs to be a balance
and they're totally fine for your health
in that balance so the idea that seed
oils are bad for you again I would 100
beyond that if it was true but if you
look at the literature it's just not
true and I don't have big oil doesn't
pay any money I wish they did Hey listen
Big Oil if you're out there
your boy is starving to death give me
that green and I'll lie for you every
day of the week unfortunately I've said
this many times no one's ever called no
one ever writes no emails so I just have
to say true shit which is you analyze
literature and it looks like cedos just
not something to be scared of and
they're not really bad for you you could
probably just say junk food's bad for
you leave it at that but that's so
boring and it's so non-sciency and I
guess it just doesn't get the clicks
anymore so
yep seed oils are totally fine for you
in most contexts and they're not
especially don't cherish for your health
and uh
see you guys in the comments
specifically
conservative males in their mid-40s that
work on cars when they're not at their
day job and get really angry at me and
have tribal tattoos
but um
how it be sometimes
all right bullshit thanks Arnold anyway
see you guys next time