[Music]
rp+ welcome back James Hoffman with you
once again and we are working on our
annual plan that we had started a little
while ago so if you hadn't seen some of
the other videos where we have talked
about how to construct an annual plan
and then the one that was immediately
previous to this one on how to start
putting it together definitely go back
and watch those because a lot of this
isn't going to make any damn sense so
what we are doing is now that we have
our macrocycle strategies laid out which
is what we did last time what we're
gonna do right now is try and lay out
some mesocycle strategies so kind of
like our month to month week to week
type strategies so what we have already
done is we made our annual plan and you
can see we have basically like a whole
kind of general outline of what we're
gonna do for a year but really what we
have right now is a shell we don't have
any real explicit information so what
we're gonna start doing now is start
kind of filling in the gaps on some of
this stuff now usually what I recommend
that you do is burp very nice into the
microphone too right we have a we run a
classy you know or we are classy
organization here at Rp burping into our
professional videos very nice okay so
anyways what I normally recommend that
you do is you actually work backwards
right so you start at your competitive
period so if I was really doing this
like diligently from home like for our
clients and stuff I would start here and
kind of work my way ear to the left or
to the right what I'm gonna do for
demonstration purposes just so you can
kind of see my thought process and what
I'm doing I'm actually just gonna start
over here because I think this is where
most people are most comfortable with
which is kind of like the general
preparatory stuff the hypertrophy
strength endurance type stuff so we're
going to start over here and we're just
going to start outlining some mesocycle
strategies as we go through this so the
first thing that I have here as you can
see I've highlighted the hypertrophy one
group here and what I'm going to do is
I'm actually going to start boxing this
in a little bit so what I'm actually
going to do is I'm gonna go to another
sheet so we're gonna change the name on
this one just to say annual
plan so that way I always know this is
kind of my main outline what I'm going
to do now let's make another sheet I'm
gonna rename it all I'm doing is
right-clicking on sheet 2 and saying
hypertrophy 1 hypertrophy 1 boom and
that's it what I'm doing next is really
easy I'm just going to hyperlink this
group of rows or columns whatever
they're whatever you want to call it
what I'm going to do is go hyperlink and
then I'm gonna change over here to from
existing file or web page and let's say
place in the document and then I'm going
to highlight that new one that I just
made so now whenever I click here tada
they're just blow your mind isn't that
cool excels pretty neat now here's the
thing if you change this or you change
the name of it at any point that
hyperlink will not work anymore so once
I have made that I have to kind of leave
it alone
but for the most part I'm good to go so
what am I going to start doing right now
well this is my first hypertrophy cycle
we said this phase was a body
composition phase within our general
prep phase so what I have here is a
four-week cycle of hypertrophy one I
have a four-week cycle of hypertrophy 2
and then I have kind of a transitional
period here of basic strength that we
also left with in our body composition
alteration phase here what we did here
was we made this kind of a transitional
period so we can start doing our maximum
strength power stuff over here without
spanning too big of a gap in the reps
right so what we're gonna see in this
first hypertrophy message cycle is what
you would expect to see in most standard
hypertrophy training programs and we're
just gonna keep it really really basic
for now so I'm gonna come back here over
here first couple things I want to do
right first I like to make just a little
table for myself that has how many weeks
right so one thing that sometimes I
think people forget is to label the
number of weeks which seems silly but
it's an easy one to miss because
sometimes as you might notice like if
you look at this one that I'm
highlighting this is a five week er
right one two three four five whereas
these are for weaker so sometimes that
can get a little confusing if you're not
you know being diligent and so what I
would normally recommend that you do is
also put in the date but I know that's
extra boring for you guys to just watch
me enter
so what I'm just gonna do is say one two
three four right just to remind myself
and in real world you'd probably want to
put the actual dates in there but I
obviously don't want to bore you guys to
death so now what we're going to do is
maybe fill in some other things what
types of reps am I expecting to do or
actually let's do it more more normal
we'll do sets reps intensity right so
here I'm just making kind of a skeleton
for myself of what I'm gonna do and I
really anal about this stuff and I like
them to be center-aligned right and you
know look nice okay so what kind of
stuff are we gonna be doing in
hypertrophy one well though most of you
guys who have been following RP know
that there's all sorts of cool
guidelines we have out there I'm gonna
keep it easy-peasy we're not gonna do
any individualization at this point all
I'm gonna show is a basic progression
and then the nice thing is I can always
go back and change this later so I might
go back and say okay I have my base
template which is what I'm creating now
and then I'm going to start tailoring
that to my individual athlete later on
so instead of saying starting a three
sets at you know whatever intensity I
might start at four sets at a different
intensity that doesn't matter right now
all we're doing right now is just
mapping out some basic stuff so what I'm
gonna do is I'm just going to map out
four-week progression so we're going to
say three four five
nothing crazy there we're just gonna say
reps of ten nothing too crazy I'm just
gonna keep that consistent and so here
we have kind of our accumulation phase
this is our overreaching phase and then
this is our deal oh right no surprise
there the intensity we're just going to
start basic I'm going to say 85% of
three by ten what I'm going to do is
basically just kind of copy and paste
this and then I'm gonna change these
just to show a progressive here now it
does it have to be this exact
progression no it is this one that I
have used plenty of times yes absolutely
but more likely what you're gonna do
here is kind of just put some general
stuff down and that's what I'm doing
right now just putting some general
stuff down to remind myself hey this is
what's going on if you want to fine-tune
this up a little bit later no big deal
but at least I know for the month for
whatever weeks this is generally what
I'm doing now I'm moving into my D load
I'm gonna make this maybe two by ten or
two by eight let's just queue it two by
ten just for the sake of ease and then
going to bring this down too since we're
keeping it two by ten we're gonna bring
the intensity down a little bit more and
we'll say 70% of oops three by ten
okay now again does it have to be
exactly this absolutely not have fun
with it do it however you want to do
this is just a simple reminder to myself
that says no you know what week one for
24 I'm supposed to be doing three by ten
at about 85% of three by ten and week
two May first I should be at two excuse
me four by ten at about 90% right and
again you can absolutely change this now
have this you can make it look pretty if
you want to make it boxed or whatever
sometimes people like to make these kind
of like color-coded where you might make
this one like kind of orange to say like
this is the overreaching week and then
you might make this one like kind of
like a light green like D load whatever
you want to do is cool right this is
your world this is your Bob Ross paint a
little happy tree over here have a
little happy deal a little happy
overreaching phase that's nice right
none of those government agents can take
that away from you I love that kind you
guys are for watching my Netflix he's
great anyways one of the things that I
like to do here and it could be you can
put it anywhere you want right isn't it
whatever makes sense to you I'm just
doing this demonstration one thing I do
like to add is just a kind of friendly
reminder to myself now you can make this
really explicit where you can make it
more generalized in a little bit more of
a about what they're doing in terms of
their sport practice as well so what I
kind of I like to work on a stop light
system where I'll have something like
weight training you know a resistance
training put over here what I'll say it
maybe is cardiovascular or so we can say
like cardio and what I also like to
incorporate this thing's like technical
practice so are they doing a lot of
sports techniques will say tactical
practice are they working on drills and
scrimmaging stuff like that and then you
can also add any number of things but
these are things that are kind of
important right and so what I'll usually
do here is since we're in hypertrophy
I'll make a note to myself as a friendly
reminder that what are we actually doing
in our in our when we're thinking about
training from a big perspective right
well here we're priming
doing a lot of weight training so what
I'm just gonna do you know what I'm just
gonna make this green just because I
know weight training is a go we're gonna
spend most of our time doing weight
training cardio can be hit or miss for
some people right so let's just assume
that we're doing this body composition
alteration phase and let's assume that
our athlete was massing so we're
actually probably minimizing the amount
of cardio that this person is doing now
if this was a cut phase or if your needs
analysis said hey homeboy really needs
to work on cardio you might change that
depending on what you thought was
important but for us I'm gonna say you
know what time to get jacked told me
we're not going to be doing a lot of
cardio so cardio is a red light for me
technical practice where are we in our
annual plan well man we are early on
we're gonna be doing probably a lot of
just technique work for whatever sport
or activities that we're doing so if
we're doing like weight lifting or
powerlifting bodybuilding this tends to
be very straight forward but if we're
doing other sports you know like hockey
rugby lacrosse basketball this is where
we're gonna spend a lot of time working
on our basic basic sport techniques so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna make this
one green again say hell yeah we're
doing a lot of weight training doing a
lot of technical practice and you know
what we're really not doing very much
tactics so I'm gonna make this one a red
light so here what we can see is a lot
of weight training a lot of sport
practice not much cardio going on not
much scrimmaging not much drilling not
much stuff like that right so this is
just a friendly reminder I kind of like
the hot/cold like medium kind of system
it's really just meant for you to remind
yourself right what's going on now can
you put numbers to this and say yet
we're doing sport practice two times a
week absolutely then you should but
again this is kind of our mesocycle
strategy we maybe haven't gotten that
far yet this is just a reminder because
you're gonna keep fine-tuning this as
you go right so what do I actually have
well right now I actually mapped out
basically what I'm doing the only thing
I don't actually have explicitly written
are the exercises that I'm doing and
then if any sport related stuff that I'm
doing so you know actually for
hypertrophy one I got quite a bit of the
stuff done already and what I'm just
gonna do because I like to do this you
don't have to I like to make another
hyperlink I'm just gonna say back to
plan
nothing too crazy and then what you can
do is right click hyperlink place in the
document and then I'm gonna highlight
the first page that I made with the
annual plan so now when I'm working on
this I can actually go back and forth oh
look at that it's so cool oh my goodness
okay great so I've done basically my
mesocycle strategies here for
hypertrophy one right this is basically
a pretty high volume phase nothing too
crazy here I know this might be more
like 8 to 12 or something like that I
know I might play around the sets I
might play around with the intensities a
little bit later on that's all fine and
good but I have a pretty good idea of
what's going on here
now moving on to hypertrophy - I'm going
to do the same thing now one of the
things we got to remember is we have to
see if there's any competition so no
competitions inside here right we see
there's one over here coming up but
there's none in sight over here for now
so we can have a lot of fun we can just
over reach this guy now for doing hyper
or girl who knows who it is right now
maybe they're somewhere in between so
what we're going to do is go and have
hypertrophy - I'm gonna do the exact
same thing what I'm gonna do is go over
here is sheet 3 I'm gonna rename it
hyper trophy - and I'm going to
hyperlink it on my main page so
hypertrophy - is here right click
hyperlink I'm gonna click hypertrophy -
and just remember if I change the name
that will not work anymore right so what
am I gonna do now well it turned out I
can actually use a lot of the same stuff
over here I did for this first one right
so now check this out Shazam I'm the man
it's like I've done this before
cool I've copy and pasted saved myself a
little bit of work I got those same
links going I got this might have to
make it look pretty again but that's
fine no big deal right and again this
this can be whatever you want I just did
it this way because it's simple and easy
to understand now hypertrophy - what
should we do for hypertrophy - well this
might be a good time to incorporate a
metabolite phase it depending on how
much hypertrophy we really want to push
this athlete for now what I would say is
um excuse me for most strength power
sports this is something that I think is
worth mentioning because this has been
something that I know we've but we've
certainly promoted
at Rp but I think people might get the
wrong idea the metabolite style training
is might not be the best choice for
strength power athletes in general maybe
as a once in a while kind of thing might
be cool but for the most part that might
actually start deviating too far outside
of force and velocity characteristics
for our strength and power athletes so
if you're dealing somebody who it really
needs to be as strong as explosive as
humanly possible like an Alex Harrison
kind of person like a bobsled pusher or
track and field type athlete this might
not be a good idea because it tends to
emphasize a little bit more of the
slow-twitch type characteristics where
we're really doing super super high
volumes the forces are very very low the
rest times are low we're having constant
incomplete recovery and we're really not
able to move fast do high force
movements things like that and so what
we end up potentially doing is seeing a
more of a shift to those type 1
characteristics now that's just food for
thought that's not to say it's right or
wrong its food for thought so depending
on who you're working with this might
not be the best idea however I would
also argue on the other end of the
spectrum it is useful for hypertrophy
and for variation purposes maybe once or
twice a year might actually be
beneficial but what I would say is if
you're working with somebody and you're
making this plan for somebody who does
like you know hockey or baseball or
anything like that that might not be the
best choice you might want to stick to
more traditional kind of set and rep
hypertrophy style schemes we're just
doing lots of you know higher reps lots
of sets stuff like that but let's just
have fun and add a little little variety
little spice to our life here so we're
gonna make hypertrophy to a metabolite
phase because we said our guy was really
really trying his best or her best to be
as muscular as possible so all right
we're gonna say all right metabolite
phase now this is where things get a
little bit crazy right so what we might
actually kind of go for here is
something a little bit different we
might actually kind of increase our
baseline sets a little bit just because
the intensity is so much lower what
we're going to be shooting for kind of
is more of a range of reps so why don't
we say something like 12
20 because it's gonna it's you know for
those of you who have not done this
before and those of you who have kind of
already know this intuitively yeah I
messed up my color you see that fudge
see if I get it back I don't even know
what I used there we go
one of the things that you know is
giving strict set by reps for this type
of training is is a wash right so
basically what you can kind of do is
program reps from failure which i think
is a smart way to do it
with a goal being somewhere around
something that you could do for about 15
reps somewhere in there so all I'm gonna
do right here I'm just going to denote 3
from fail and I'm gonna say you know
parentheses about 15 reps is what I'm
shooting for
so again if this is going to be a bit
more variable you might get like 20 17
16 14 kind of thing you know and that's
that's perfectly fine so it's just what
I'm saying is it's hard to say like 4
times 20 at X percentage of 20 rep max
you know what I mean it's just difficult
to do that so what I'm going to say is
pick a weight that you think they can do
reasonably for about 15 or so reps and
now we're gonna say you know what you're
gonna go to from fit uh excuse me 3 from
fail on this first week we're gonna take
that idea I'm going to do this without
messing up colors this time watch this
there we go
watch this yes so now what we're gonna
do is make an intensity progression as
we always do sand then this week we're
going about 2 from fail right and this
we're going about one from fail and so
for the D load we could program it a
little bit more easy we can say 2 times
10 you know and we'll say about 70% of
week 1 whatever weight that you used
something like nothing too crazy okay so
that's here right and again don't take
this overly literally again this is this
can be difficult to program on paper but
basically what we know here for this
metabolites style phase and you can make
a note here right and you can also say
like put an asterisk store something and
say hey this is meant to be every
thing less than one minute rest
you know I've like one minute rest or
something like that just to remind
yourself like hey you know what this is
a metabolite phase we got to make sure
that we are clear about that
nothing nothing too crazy so I made a
bull maybe put a big box around it and
say hey you don't forget this is what's
going on here right so that's kind of a
quick dirty version of that we're
operating again on a four week schedule
here four weeks all good what you would
do is enter in the appropriate dates
right instead of just one two three four
you'd say the actual dates let's go over
here to this one so what are we going to
be doing over here well kind of
virtually the same thing in this case
we're not going to see a whole lot of
progression from weight training and
practice to tactical and cardio we're
basically going to be doing primarily
just weight training stuff basically as
much as they can tolerate so again
nothing too fancy here
I've actually just mapped out my
mesocycle strategies for these two now
I'm gonna keep going down the line right
and I'm gonna move through these a
little bit faster because you guys have
watched me do this already twice so now
I'm gonna say basic strength
I believe that's what I titled it over
here I hope so yeah great so now I'm
gonna rename it I'm gonna hyperlink it
here you can see same process that I did
before now again one two three four I'm
good there but oh we got a problem
alright so let's see what we can do here
I'm gonna just copy and paste this one
again because I think this one will be a
little easier to work with boom make it
look pretty and you can also just double
click a lot of the times great so now
we're gonna see a little progression so
we did tens over here here we have a
really really high crazy rep phase what
I want you to consider is a face
potentiated model here right so for
bodybuilding physique training this is
great for Powerforce excuse me for power
maximal strength kind of stuff and
unfortunately it's not a great
progression so we can't go from doing
reps of 20 and then transitioning over
here to doing maximal strength and power
speed over here for these competitions
later around that just won't do so what
we kind of need to have is this
transitional period in between the
hypertrophy work which should have
developed a
huge buttload of war capacity for
athlete which is great now we have to
teach them to use that new muscle mass
that they have been growing and now make
it more forceful and that's what we're
gonna do here in this basic strength
phase so we're gonna lower the reps down
just a little bit
nothing super super crazy but this will
kind of serve as a transitional period
and a period where they still can
continue to grow muscle mass maybe not
quite as much as if we did it a more
traditional bodybuilding style where
these would be kind of shifted over this
is more of an athletic progression style
so what I'm gonna do here is I'm gonna
have a basic strength phase that's gonna
link these two guys together now what
should the set and reps be over here
well generally what I would do is
probably something like six to eight so
what I what I find though is when you
really span the gap when they're doing
like sets of 15 or 20 and then you drop
them down to like five or six is it's
too it's too brutal of a shift so we're
going to actually just keep the the reps
a little bit on the higher end we're
gonna do eight eight is kind of a happy
place where we're in that strength basic
strength range but we haven't made this
like super super crazy jump from
different rep ranges so what we're gonna
see here is a little bit different so
I'm actually gonna wipe these out
because we're gonna have to do something
a little bit different on this one now
what was important what did we have to
note here there's a competition 626 on
week two so I'm we - I'm gonna note here
comp right and again however you want to
note it is cool it doesn't matter I'm
just doing this to just remind you like
you need to account for this right so
there's a competition here so now we
have kind of a conundrum normally during
the general preparatory phase we like to
over reach our athlete right and we
still basically would like to do that
but we're in a bit of a pickle where
this cop is like in week two which is a
really unfortunate place to put it so
what we're probably going to actually
have to do here is something slightly
different but we might be able to carry
on with the rest of the week so week one
might be okay as is we - something's
gonna have to change weeks three and
four are probably okay as is now what I
would recommend in this case is you have
two big options the first option is a
little food for thought
some competitions don't really matter
some are just fun and they're just meant
for just recreation and they don't have
any major standings on what you're doing
so the first option that you can do is
to actually just train right through
this comp and make no changes is it the
best idea maybe maybe not
but what this is more of a long-term
strategy where you say you know what I'm
not really as concerned about performing
well on this particular competition
really I'm more concerned about making
long-term gains so I'm actually just
going to keep doing my normal training
thing and really not make any
adjustments for this competition so
that's an option and it's a valid option
there is an increased risk of poor
performance obviously because they're
going to be carrying around the normal
fatigue of hard training so they're
gonna be training at their hopefully
close to their MRV and competing under
those circumstances is generally not
good and I would also say there's
probably a higher potential risk of
injury right so we want to make sure
that we're not beating them up too bad
so what we're probably gonna do here is
kind of just a modified week where we
might actually just say you know what we
- what we're gonna do is something
slightly different and however you want
to denote this you know it's up to you
but I'm just gonna make a little note to
myself that says hey week two right
maybe a little asterisks because we knew
there was a match going on there we
might say first half
normal second half we'll do like a mini
D load so basically we'll take the same
kind of thing that we would normally do
here and week four and we'll apply that
to the second half right so what that
means is let's say they were training
four days per week
that means Monday Tuesday training would
be 100% normal
and then maybe Thursday Friday training
was deal of style where those reps were
significantly reduced the intensity was
reduced as well and you might even
consider excuse me if they were working
on it Monday Monday Tuesday Thursday
Friday schedule let's say their
competition was Saturday
you might even consolidate the last two
training days like their Thursday Friday
into just Thursday maybe pick and choose
the exercises that were most important
and take some of the superfluous ones
out and that way they have Fred
and then they have their competition on
Saturday either way is fine generally I
usually don't program any lifting days
yeah the day before competition for my
athlete even though light days I don't
do that
now we might come in and do like a shake
out session and track and field's really
good about this where they just come in
and they kind of do a little warm-up
type of thing no big deal that's fine
but no like structured even recovery day
lifting that should be at least one day
out right so we're gonna say probably
consolidate into one day and just do
like a little mini half d load there and
then we can actually just leave these
basically the same I just need to change
the intensities here right so instead of
tens we got eights
nothing too fancy there now you might be
thinking like man it's not all that
different than the tens that we did
before right and that's true it's not
all that much different but again we're
trying to do a little bit of a phasing
progression here sometimes those little
drops go a long way I think people too
often make the big jumps where they go
from like 15s two sixes and that's where
you start to run into some major
problems so little jumps or little drops
along the way are good now what is
noteworthy here is take a look
what have they not really been doing
well they basically just been working on
technique they haven't really started
working on any real sport practice stuff
so what we might say over here is it
might see a little bit of a shift so
what I'm gonna say here is weight
training is still green we're going to
maybe change cardio from red maybe to
yellow where we're saying you know we
got competitions coming up in the near
future if they're out if there is any
cardio to be done let's start working on
it and then what we're gonna see here is
a little bit of a shift where we're
gonna start incorporating some team
tactics as well but we're still
primarily focused on technique right so
now we're just saying a little bit of
team tactics is occurring at this time
so again mesocycle strategy nothing too
crazy so now I can go back to the plan
see where I'm at okay great
so now we're just gonna keep going down
the line and I'm just going to go
through for a little bit here because I
think most of you are getting the idea
at this point but it's pretty simple
right so I'm going to open a new tab I'm
gonna change the name I'm gonna say max
strength power one I believe back read
rename and I'm think I'm gonna say max
strength and power yep let's go with
that rename
max strength power however you want to
you know abbreviate it boom
hyperlink it boom cool now that works we
can double check now this one is
different right we have a five week
system here instead of a four week so
what we're going to do is we're going to
take that same kind of schedule thing
that we made over here however we have
to be aware that now this is not as
applicable and we actually have to make
this five weeks and then we might kind
of see a little changing of the gaurd
over here so now are there any
competitions that we need to be aware
doesn't look like it but we do have a
competition coming up later over here
not a huge deal so what we're gonna say
is we can still overreach our athlete
even doing maximum strength and power
stuff no big deal so we're gonna go back
and work on this one what we're gonna
see here is some pretty significant
changes in sets and reps so here what
we're gonna do is maybe do some three by
threes 4 by 3 is 5 by 3 something like
that and we might not be able to
progress quite as aggressively week to
week when we do the five week
progression so what I'm gonna do is
start with three have one where we see a
pretty large jump in intensity so again
when we have the five weekers sometimes
it's not easy to make really really
crazy jumps in volume in intensity
because you run out of space later on
where you just got nothing left in the
tank and you still got a couple weeks to
go so what we're gonna do here is we're
gonna see a little bit of a shift we're
gonna actually go 80% and what I'm gonna
do here is take a big jump by about 10%
week one and then I'm gonna take smaller
jumps these last couple weeks now do you
have to do it exactly like this now you
can do it every one but this is just an
example where you know what we didn't
see a big volume jump here because I
can't just necessarily go linear where I
go three four five six especially as the
intensity goes up that's just not gonna
be feasible
they're going to start to break down and
wear and tear so I'm going to say okay
we have a more moderate volume
progression but week one we have a very
large intensity progression but then the
intensity doesn't get quite as crazy
later on but we still get up to about a
ninety-five percent effort of whatever
we you know whatever rep range that we
worked on so over here maybe we'll do
two by two say maybe somewhere around
you know $17,000 we got that one now
we're gonna actually start to see a
pretty significant changing over here
where we say okay we had weight training
we had sport specific cardio we had
sports specific practice so now what
we're gonna do is we're gonna see a
change in the amount of weight training
so weight train is going to go yellow
because we're actually going to be
reducing the training volume of weight
training pretty substantially if we are
doing any support specific cardio that
is going to be a go and again that will
be dependent on your needs analysis
technical practice is gonna start being
reduced and made room for more tactical
practice so here we're gonna actually
see yellow actually let's just make this
one green just to kind of demonstrate
what's going on right so boom that looks
cool good to go
right now again we're working kind of
with a shell a mesocycle strategy this
is just kind of outlining my sets reps
and intensities and basically what I'm
gonna be doing later on may go back see
what's next power and speed okay so make
a new tab rename power and speed nothing
too crazy here right
go back hyperlink it oops boom right so
now again this one's a five-week err and
there's no comps so I can take the nuts
and bolts that I made over here and this
one and apply it over here and again
you'd want to have your own dates and
stuff in here I am gonna change this a
little bit so now we're gonna start with
a little higher intensity we're gonna go
two twos and then we can follow a very
very similar progression right so just
by changing the reps I know that what I
can do for twos versus what I can do for
threes
an automatic bump I can actually shoot I
can actually kind of just leave this
mostly the same and the reason I'm
showing you this is not to be lazy but
because what you'll find is when you're
making these you end up copying and
pasting this stuff kind of all the time
and then you'll go back at some point
and you'll find tune these things a
little bit and that's perfectly fine
that's perfectly okay but really all I'm
doing right now is just getting kind of
a general idea of what I'm doing so you
notice I just copy and pasted that and
just change it from three to two because
I transitioned my face a little bit
that's perfectly fine right nothing too
crazy there so copy pasted it changed
the intensity change the reps but really
that's it's mostly the same here right
so no big deal I'm gonna fall very
similar progression and of course you
will have to individualize this for your
own a fleet MRV and all that stuff but
kind of a no-brainer
so now we're gonna see a shift here the
weight training vlog has been reduced
pretty substantially technical practice
is basically going to cease and then
what we're primarily going to be seeing
is a lot of tactical practice and then
any sports specific cardio stuff that
they need to do and this can you know
this can also basically come from their
sport practice so what I'm actually
going to do is just make that yellow and
just say hey this is kind of actually
let's make that red because what they're
doing here is primarily just doing
enough weight training to enhance power
speed characteristics and maintenance of
other previous characteristic which is
not much right they're getting most of
their cardio now from doing their
technical prac excuse me their tactical
practice and doing small sighted game so
here what we're seeing is these have
been reduced very substantially and now
we're really just doing a lot of the
tactical practice which is going to be
very fatiguing in itself so boom nothing
too crazy there I've outlined my
mesocycle strategies now I'm starting to
fill these and it's starting to look
pretty good right so you might actually
notice that some of these are kind of
reoccurring so what you might do now is
some of these we haven't done so we
haven't done this strength endurance one
but we did do this max strength and
power does this one have to be
distinctly different than the other
probably not what you need to check
though is the number of weeks so in this
case the max strength one that we power
when we did over here was five weeks is
that the same it looks like it well
Diggity damn it's the same one two three
four five
there's no comps so what I can actually
do is just hyperlink it to the same
place right max strength and power that
can basically be the same one and then
when you do this you can make a separate
one of these right where you have even
if you need to you know a different week
right so we can say this is week of or
you know weeks weeks of whatever and
this might be different for various
reasons but you know it's gonna be
mostly the same especially when we start
picking exercises and stuff like that so
kind of a nice cheater way to do it and
all that seen might seem lazy but this
is really the reality especially if you
guys are working in strength
conditioning you you will not have time
to make 100 individualized plans for all
these different athletes especially if
you're working with multiple teams so
the reason I bring this up is because a
lot of these are more similar than they
are different right so what I'm gonna do
is basically copy and paste as many of
these as I can right so let's see how
about this power and speed went over
here this was a five weaker this was
also a five weaker right so that worked
out really good so what I'm gonna
actually do is hyperlink this one but I
have competitions in here right so I'm
gonna hyperlink this one to the power
and speed one that we made before here
but I'm gonna make a note and say you
know what
again week of this is a different time
of the year but we're doing the same
general workouts and then we can
actually look at this and say okay well
what weeks did we have comps we had one
two three and five right so in this one
we'll say calm calm calm calm right and
we know that we might actually have to
make some week-to-week kind of
adjustments on this one but that's not a
huge deal we can go and deal with that
later okay are there any other ones
we can kind of cheat a little bit here
it looks like it uh sorry
burping all over the place okay basic
strength I think that was a for weaker
can we actually yes we can boom let's do
it now do they have to be the same no
you can certainly make them a different
one right so if you wanted to do a
different basic strength just make it
called basic strength too and then you
do the same process where you say you
know what on this one I don't want to do
eight maybe I wanted to do 5s or 6s or
whatever and that's totally cool nothing
to worry about there so now when I click
on it right boom here's our basic
outline I'll make another one below and
we'll say weeks of whatever those weeks
are and then let's go and make sure that
the competition schedule is different
right so in this one we had basic
strength no comps at all so we can
actually just delete this altogether
nothing fancy there and they can just
over regester normal so again once you
kind of get going on some of this stuff
it's not super challenging and then the
nice thing is if you're smart well I
don't want to say if you're smart but if
you're kind of like intuitive about it
you can end up copying and pasting a lot
of the stuff over and over and over
again and then the only thing you have
to adjust are the number of weeks in the
mazza cycle potentially or if they have
competitions and so this makes it really
really easy so I think I'm gonna maybe
take a break on this one for now because
I think you guys get the gist of it so
the next one that we're going to do will
start actually breaking down some of
these into the actual exercise selection
which is I think what most people are
really interested in learning about
although I find it to be probably this
most simple and straightforward part so
for now all we've done is we've done our
macrocycle strategy where we've laid out
the general preps the specific perhaps
the competition periods the transition
periods tapering period stuff like that
today what we did is within this we
actually started laying out some kind of
basic mesocycle strategies where we
looked at sets reps progressions that
we're going to be doing throughout the
year we said hey we were also
considering the other things that are
going on for athlete maybe if they're
doing different sport practice stuff
maybe if they have competitions and
we're just getting kind of a baseline
idea of the sets reps volumes intensity
progression that we want to use now
again the ones that you guys watched me
did today we're really basic right
they're mostly three by ten eighty five
percent 90 percent 95 percent that's
just a general kind of starting point
now can you can you make it more
complicated than that can you use
different numbers 100% absolutely do you
have to follow these exact progressions
that I've laid out no not all right
these are just meant to be an example in
the real world these things are much
more complicated and there's all sorts
of crazy shenanigans that you have to
deal with right what didn't we even
factor in today okay well we didn't
factor in travel at all we didn't factor
in NCAA compliance we didn't factor in
holidays any of that kind of stuff but
the point being we have a pretty good
idea of what our athletes are gonna be
doing at any given point in time now we
didn't do all these like there's a
couple that we you know like this active
rest this power speed to you know some
of these tapering periods we haven't
done all of them but if somebody was
like hey what is your athletes supposed
to be doing on June 5th you can go oh
you know what boom I've got this open
they're supposed to be doing in the
middle of their hypertrophy metabolite
training phase I've got a pretty good
idea and this works out really good when
you're working either with a staff or
you're collaborating with other people
and you always have this plan that
people are it's easy to understand and
what I like about the hyperlinks too is
if you sound like somebody and you say
hey can you cover my my golf team or can
you can't cover my athlete today they
say sure what's the plan you say I'll
just open it up for them and say hey
find the week you know okay
today is a you know August 7th okay
there it is max strength and power here
is kind of what they're working on okay
good and then later we'll fill on the
exercises and it's like no-brainer right
really really easy so I hope you guys
enjoy I again I apologize I know this
isn't the most thrilling thing to watch
somebody work in Excel but I hope you
guys are getting a really good idea of
kind of how this works and how some
strategies to kind of make give yourself
less headache as you go because it
becomes really really cumbersome
unnecessarily difficult when I think
people try to make every single
mesocycle as unique as humanly possible
it does not need to be that way it's
perfectly okay to recycle
some of these mesocycles that you've
already made throughout the year over
and over and over again especially when
you're working with big teams like
football and baseball where they got
like you know 100 guys so that is
perfectly okay and then of course you
can always individualize later on so
when you're starting you start with big
concepts right we're saying okay I have
a basic volume and intensity progression
I have basic idea of what they're doing
week to week and then as you kind of go
you start making the that you start
working to smaller things like okay what
exercises what plyometrics would sport
practice are we doing and then once you
are in the game and you're actually
running this program that you met you
can start individualizing the program
based on your athlete needs and your
testing and monitoring you say you know
what they're MRV they need to be doing
you know 20 sets of chess per week I
need to adjust my set and reps but they
can't do quite that as many squats
because they're got support practice
that's all going to occur later if you
try and do that super super early on
you're just gonna drive yourself mad
so start basic like we did today we say
hi okay high perch everyone I'm doing
sets of 10 I have a progression I'm
moving on hypertrophy - I have a
slightly different progression I'm
moving on to basic strength I have a
slightly different progression they're
moving into maximum strength etc etc etc
boom I have a pretty good idea of how
this is working
all right rp+ I hope this was helpful I
will be releasing another video where we
start doing the kind of micro cycle
day-to-day strategies to finish this one
out and I hope you guys are enjoying rp+
and kicking butt working on your
programs or programs for your clients
you