here are four overrated exercises and
what you should do instead first front
raises your front delts already get
hammered from any horizontal or vertical
pressing in your program you almost
never need any extra isolation work for
the anterior delts instead of raising
the dumbbells Straight Ahead raise them
out in a y so that you get more of the
side delt fibers involved or you can
replace any front raises in your program
with side raises instead second waiter
curls these will hit the biceps since
you are flexing your elbow but
hyperextending your wrists will limit
your ability to overload the movement I
just do standard Easy Bar curls or
straight bar curls instead and if you're
worried about your forearms taking over
just take a slightly looser grit third
standing dumbbell external rotations a
lot of people do these to warm up their
shoulders but gravity points down
meaning that the dumbbells aren't
actually applying any resistance to your
external rotators you might as well do
them without the dumbbells however if
you use a cable or a band all of a
sudden you've got tension pointing in
the right direction forth above the knee
rack poles instead i' do shrugs to build
your upper trap or deadlifts from the
floor to build strength