calories don't matter
hormones do what
that sounds like a myth and in fact it
is it's the number two fitness myth on
our list weekly series i'm dr mike
ferrano science spiritization let's get
into this one we're gonna of course talk
about the claim reasons that it's wrong
some grains of truth and best practices
to take away on this actual topic so
here's basically the claim and it comes
in a variety of different facets and
lights
it says that hormones and your hormone
levels specifically determine whether or
not you gain or lose fat and muscle and
gain or lose weight
another part of the claim is that you
can be hypocaloric on paper which means
you're eating at a deficit as far as you
know
but if your hormones are off to some
extent you may not you may not lose fat
and you may not even lose any weight
and that sure sounds mysterious would be
very terrible thing if that was the case
lastly a big claim kind of especially so
is that when you diet to lose fat or
gain muscle whatever
the
primary mode of dieting the primary goal
of dieting should be to create an
optimal hormonal environment and not so
much creating a calorie deficit or a
surplus and maybe even not worrying
about those things that's kind of how
these claims sort of stack up and let's
find out
where they lack and
right out of the gate it's not good news
the law of conservation of mass energy
which has never been disproven and has
been proven true by good god knows how
many experiments at this point all the
way down to even the quantum level
basically says that
you
have to have energy and or mass coming
into a system to maintain that system's
total energy and mass if you have stuff
leaking out that when you conduct your
regular daily physical activity you
literally expend energy and if you don't
actually correct for that with somehow
bringing energy in you absolutely will
lose mass because macromolecules are
being broken down for energy and then
they're just not there anymore you
literally breathe out a bunch of carbon
dioxide and water that literally used to
be
molecules of food you took in so if we
reduce the food and that's all measured
by calories then you know good god you
still need to actually have your body
function it's going to start to break
down its own molecules and you have to
lose weight
if this wasn't true
how the fuck
do people even die in a famine i mean
hunger used to kill millions and
millions of people all the time less and
less so almost no famine in the world
today which is amazing
but back in the day like even 10 years
ago
famines are a regular thing and you know
can you imagine going down to like a
south american like food insecure place
and you know people are just don't have
enough to eat you're like
it's the hormones huh would you guys
figure out how to boost your test or
whatever losing all this crazy weight
like we don't have any fucking food and
you'd be like what do you mean you
should be all fat and bloated because i
when i did a thousand calorie diet it
messed up my hormones and i blew up like
crazy like no no you blew up when you
stopped the thousand calorie diet and
started eating everything in sight so at
the end of the day calorie balance has
to matter from a physics perspective and
there's no way around this it's just a
real thing now
you can say okay well yeah physics is
cool and famines or whatever but is this
ever actually measured in people has
this been measured in people yes they
are these studies called metabolic word
studies where they take people and they
literally make them not make them it's
all voluntary folks they sign a document
and they get to stay essentially in a
hospital or a wing of a institution they
live there they sleep there sometimes
they exercise there they are fed an
exact known diet known um
sort of allotment of nutrients in that
diet known calories and then oftentimes
their physical activity is tracked down
to the five calorie level even to go as
far as to measure the total heat
generated inside the room they live in
which gives a real good proxy for how
many calories they're burning so those
studies have been done numerous numerous
times what they find is no matter what
people's hormones are no matter what
their macro distributions are they lose
a very predictable amount of weight when
you generate a calorie deficit any way
that you do it
and if you generate a surplus people
tend to gain weight
it's a thing now sometimes you generate
a surplus from food but the body raises
its average body temperature and average
activity level so the true surplus at
the tissue level is gone
sometimes when you eat very little food
your body becomes so
so much colder a few degrees colder and
less active
and then you actually burn fewer
calories so you were 2000 calories you
were losing no weight you take it down
to 1500 and in some strange cases very
unusual people's metabolisms will adjust
all the way down it feels like total
shit by the way to 1500 and then you're
not burning any more fat and you're not
losing weight that is not a violation of
calorie balance because we're not
considering the calories outside if the
calories outside of the equation
actually reduces as well then you're
still at calorie balance but here's the
thing how many people believe that if
you drop calories down to zero your
metabolism is going to go down to zero i
tell you what it will eventually when
you fucking die of starvation this is
not a thing that happens with no
boundaries at some point calorie balance
will adjust itself it will result in a
deficit and you will lose weight if you
eat very very little food right
now
another few reasons why it's wrong
people will say well
if my hormones are off my cortisol is
too high i stop losing fat that only
really tends to happen if your stress
response makes you overeat which a lot
of people's stress response does other
people the way they respond to stress
and i'm sure you know some folks like
that is they stop eating or they don't
eat or they eat less
cortisol generally is a stress hormone
it's a fight or flight hormone actually
makes you lose weight and fat like crazy
unfortunately also makes you lose muscle
but cortisol is not this like fat
building hormone if you had a group of
people like let's do this stupid alien
analogy aliens come to earth and they
say look these five randomly selected
people have one year to gain 100 pounds
each of fat and if they don't we're
shooting the earth and it blows up men
in black style well
if we actually do that
and you say okay what are the most
powerful tools we have to get each of
these people to gain 100 pounds of fat
in the next year nobody in their right
mind is going to be like just shoot them
up with cortisol man they're going to
blow up like crazy uh-uh because half of
them are going to lose a bunch of weight
you know another third of them aren't
going to do anything and then some
people will have a stress response and
eat more there's way better ways to gain
fat than cortisol is not a predictable
way to lead to fat gain so a lot of
times people say well it's all good and
well but with calories going low
cortisol goes up and that's bad
sometimes but not all the time and not
even the majority of the time lastly
another thing that's very wrong about
this approach is the claim or the belief
that insulin is uniquely adipogenic that
is very much a molecule that causes lots
of fat storage well it also causes lots
of glycogen storage it also causes lots
of muscle growth it does all kinds of
stuff and if you take in pure fat like
for example you just eat butter or drink
cream sounds pretty tasty i don't know
about the eating butter part drinking
cream may be better
if you do that you actually get no
insulin response whatsoever but guess
what you put on a crapload of fat
because you're literally introducing fat
so yes insulin is adipogenic to some
extent in a hypercaloric circumstance
but by itself in normal situations it
can't make you eat any more calories
some people will take this to the next
level
sort of accurately and say well if you
have a diet which elevates your insulin
a lot your hunger is going to be higher
it turns out that's actually not true
multiple studies show that
insulin's presence in the bloodstream
actually reduces hunger and insulin only
really increases hunger
almost exclusively in exogenous delivery
mechanisms so if you shoot insulin into
your body much more than your body makes
you get resultant hypoglycemia blood
sugar falls because insulin shuttles at
all to the the cells and there's very
little left in the blood then you will
have a rebound high hunger effect but
normally insulin does not cause a lot of
hunger how do we know this well direct
studies and also
excessively insulin allergic foods foods
that actually cause more of an insulin
secretion that you would expect based on
their carb levels include
milk and yogurt okay
you see people having a glass of milk in
a container of yogurt and like an hour
later the man i could eat every plate of
french fries in the world no those are
actually really filling foods so the
whole idea that insulin makes me super
hungry it's not the insulin it's usually
the fact that you eat really tasty foods
like potato chips they have some insulin
response although not a high one because
their fat intake blunts the insulin
response what ends up happening is they
just taste so good you want more of them
that's totally thing that happens but
insulin is not this unique uh hormone
that either puts on a ton of fat and
certainly not in a calorically
controlled environment
second of all it doesn't particularly
even raise your hunger levels
so that's not a thing i used to think it
was a thing many years ago not that many
actually and it's just not right so so
the hormone thing really does start to
fall apart now
it's not without of course its grains of
truth for example
if your testosterone is low
then when and if you try to gain weight
you'll put on mostly fat and not a whole
lot of muscle
if your testosterone is low when you're
losing weight you'll lose a bunch of
muscle and you will lose fat as well but
you lose a lot of muscle and it's really
painful and you lose your strength and
all this other stuff
if your estrogen is ultra ultra low for
some reason a lot of times this
interferes with your ability to think
clearly short-term memory it interferes
with recovery and you get very poor
energy like showing up to the gym with
zero estrogen it's like i don't even
know why the hell i'm here who am i
anyway and it can interfere
significantly with your sleep which is
really really bad not sustainable at all
if your estrogen is way too high
then you can probably put fat on more
easily than muscle versus what you used
to with normal estrogen so definitely
some concerns there
and of course chronically elevated
insulin levels are bad
for your body composition and for your
health but generally they only occur in
either disease states like someone has
type 2 diabetes or someone who's
intentionally hyper calorically dieting
that hypercaloric dieting is a big big
thing because people are saying it's
calorie versus hormones it's not if you
do the calories part wrong which is to
say going hyper caloric when you're
trying to lose weight then all the kind
of wrong hormones follow as well if you
reduce your calories marginally slowly
not excessively most of the hormones do
normal stuff kind of the right stuff and
the calorie deficit is what drives the
fat loss so we kind of view hormones
more in the sense of things that modify
and allow and expand your ability to
lose muscle and fat they're not the key
drivers of it calorie surplus or deficit
is the key driver of both muscle and
weight gain and fat and weight loss full
stop period hormones can modify them a
little bit but they're not more
important and then they are less
important than calories really really
big thing to understand
where does that leave us what are the
best practices first
if
you want to lose
or if you want to gain
eat in a deficit and surplus
respectively
and eat your meals with a core of
protein and most of the stuff should be
healthy fruits veggies whole grains lean
meats so on and so forth that's key for
almost every in any goal because a lot
of these weird hormone diets heavy
eating in some weird-ass way and well
you got to eat tons of saturated fat or
something like that and if we lose the
basics then we sometimes even if you
still have a calorie deficit it's not
the healthiest diet it's not the most
muscle promoting diet so fundamental
healthy core diet with either a small
deficit or a small surplus is 90 of the
way there
in addition to that you should care
about your hormones because they have an
effect to modify the caloric effect and
get you more muscle or more fat or
whatever to the extent that you have
influence on your hormones you can do a
few things
first you want to get plenty of sleep if
you want to fuck almost every single
hormone completely
just get very little sleep for multiple
nights in a row surefire way to do it so
get plenty of sleep make sure you're not
tired throughout the day
don't cut any of the macros way too much
than you normally would protein will
usually go so we'll talk about that if
you go zero fats your hormones suffer if
you go zero carbs your hormones suffer
if you plenty of both fats and carbs but
reduce both a little bit to generate a
deficit generally your hormones stay
pretty good
if
you diet for too long your hormones
inevitably start weeding off into bad
things so another thing is to make sure
if you're pushing a fat loss diet really
hard and you're not a competitor
competitors might do it for a bit longer
and your fat loss diets at roughly like
12 weeks at the most 8 to 12 is a really
good number of weeks to fat loss diet in
sequence
and then go back up to maintenance
levels coast for a while another oh i
don't know six to ten weeks of just
letting your body recover and heal and
then go at it again good way to mess up
your hormones is really just to diet for
a very long time and if the funny thing
is a lot of people who say calorie
deficits don't work it's all hormones
we'll do things like dieting for you
know 25 weeks on end and then starting
to cheat towards the end that means
they're no longer attending a calorie
balance and they're dieting enough to
really screw their hormones they go to
the doctor their hormones are really
screwed up and they say but i've been in
a calorie deficit it hasn't been working
they start eating healthy again
they stop trying to lose weight but
they're eating healthy is actually still
hypocaloric but with feeling good foods
their hormones return to normal after a
few weeks and they start losing fat like
crazy and they're like i knew it was
hormones like
yes because you really screwed them up
but also you screwed them up so much you
weren't even in a caloric deficit
anymore
next
point is to stay leaner and keep active
if you want your insulin sensitivity to
be very high those of you that lift
weights that watch this channel
hopefully most of you you're already
doing a huge huge benefit to your
insulin sensitivity if you stay on
average more active like oh something
like 10 000 or more steps per day if you
have a step tracker like this little gem
here by the way it's the mi fit my fit
that people ask me what the brand is i
don't recommend it necessarily it's fine
it's cheap it's from china so i'm pretty
sure the communist party knows
like how long i walk at the gym
uh in any case staying leaner staying
more active
staying leaner means like when you're
messing up
still see your abs or something like
that if you're getting into java mode
that's not good for insulin stuff here's
the funny thing about that
people take these cocktails like insulin
sensitizer and these pills and these
potions and these weird food
combinations like oh i don't have any
carbs anymore because they're bad for my
insulin sensitivity i fast for insulin
sensitivity the number one thing that
gives you insulin sensitivity is being
very muscular and very lean so if you
have like abs and veins in your abs you
are so insulin sensitive it's insane
stay leaner be more active eat healthy
and then your insulin sensitivity will
almost certainly be fine right
lastly big point
special diets pills
hormone boosters like testosterone
boosters they really just don't do
anything
or much at all don't waste your time on
these get your calories set get your
sleep have everything in balance don't
diet or train without a deload or a rest
break for too long and all the stuff
really source itself if you want
hormonal manipulation that's something
really only the doctor can prescribe you
and by doctor i mean dealer and by
prescribed i mean sell that last part's
a joke see you next time