what comes first the chicken or the egg
it's supposed to be a conundrum that has
no answer but I'll tell you this the way
philogyny works is that whatever animal
we categorize as the first
representative of modern chicken has to
have one ancestor first real chicken let
me ask you a question did that chicken
instantiate into the universe unaltered
with no prior form as an egg or did that
first chicken that first combination of
mommy chicken and daddy chicken's DNA oh
sorry Proto Chien chicken Mommy and
Proto chicken daddy DNA combined guess
where that happened first the egg so no
it is not a conundrum what came first
the chicken or the egg the answer is
unequivocally the egg the chickens
before that were not chickens they were
Proto chickens you're welcome anyone who
does genetics or bi biology or philogyny
get in the comments and support me and
if you disagree with me I'll be blocking
you instantly because I I know science
not you