the end result was that there was an
average 600 calorie disparity between
the two groups The dietitian guided
athletes reading 600 calories more and
when you look at the strength and the
body composition changes unfortunately
there was no statistical advantage of
eating those additional 600 calories the
only statistically significant
difference were jump height and sprint
times which got
worse folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
peration and we have a special guest
here today this is Chris Evans you guys
have seen him in Captain America and
whatever else Chris Evans is done this
nothing else yeah nothing else but um
today he's using his Ultra ego which is
Dr Eric Helms
strength conditioning body
composition sport researcher at
large coach athlete natural bodybuilder
the whole thing this guy's list of
accolades is kind of like an absurd joke
that you would make up a superhero in
our field and he's real here he is but
he's not here because he's awesome even
though he's awesome in his own time just
fine he is here because he recently
finished um being the head of a study an
actual laboratory I just sit in the
basement and well touch myself mostly
that's how RP makes money I don't know
but instead of just blabbing onto
YouTube all the time like me he is
heading up actual research studies in
the actual scientific world and one of
these studies recently that you
completed had to do with asking the
question of we want to see if people try
to gain quite a bit of weight per week
or very slow gain rate what's that going
to result in as far as who gets the most
jacked who gets the most pays the most
fat guy price and how does that affect
strength levels I mean this is exactly
the kind of study that I want to
know about and since I am Renaissance
periodization I'm important it's all
about me uh we had you on the channel to
try to talk about the study Eric I will
now be extra quiet tell us what is going
on well first I do have to thank you
guys because uh we paid our dietitian
who managed the arm of the study that
was the nutrition side of it which we
were blinded to on the training side of
it so we didn't let that influence the
results of how we trained explain that
in normal people terms really quick
absolutely so we had a bunch of people
we recruited trained men and women who
could at least squat a certain amount of
their body weight bench a certain amount
of their body weight at least a year of
experience training at least two times
per week hard people who lift people who
lift and we actually got some
competitive B Builders competitive PS in
there it's a pretty well- trained cohort
um and then we randomize them to one of
three conditions uh being told to eat at
maintenance which we operationally Divi
uh defined as not seeing their weight
increase or decrease more than 1% over a
given time per for an eight-week study
eight we study correct um or a small
Surplus which was an intended surplus of
5% okay or a larger Surplus an intended
surplus of 15% and why I'm saying
intended will be important later as I
discuss the finix okay and then what we
did is they came three times to the week
at the sprins labs at aut uh where I
work as a senior research fellow in
strength conditioning and Sports
Nutrition and
Physiology it's a nice thing to say on
her first date she's like so like what
do you do you're like blah blah blah
blah blah blah she's like oh my God I
would get wet never call back yes they
never they never call
back um and then we randomized to that
and we brought them into train with us
three times a week and we did not know
those of us running the training study
at aut which one of those three groups
they were in only the nutritionists knew
only our register diean who was paid by
RP I didn't pay anyone you paid me and I
paid him yes so back in the day we kind
of had two I think studies that are
representative of some of the trends we
saw there's one by rosnick and
colleagues in the early 2000s and there
was one by As Americans call it G but
it's probably like G from Ena Gara from
I think uh Norway she Norway have 14
nuclear powered aircraft career battle
groups we say American so gu we're going
to go with G for this channel that's
right so uh G found in Elite athletes
not necessarily weightlifting athletes
but they're doing strength conditioning
they're doing sport work and they had a
very applied study each one of these
athletes was given individualized weight
gain goal yeah we talked about a lot I
used it to inform the first edition and
the second edition of my books and I'll
probably incorporate the study we did to
make recommendations on weight gain and
they had him gain weight either with a
registered dietician giving them more
aggressive program or a self-guided hey
try to put on some muscle e little bit
more than normal you do your own thing
and these aren't you know like male
bodybuilders reading magazines so they
end up being in a smaller Surplus doing
ad libidum which isn't what you
typically think and also they're Elite
athletes they know about maintaining
body composition the end result was that
there was an average 600 calorie
disparity between the two groups The
dietitian guided athletes are eating 600
calories more and when you look at the
strength and the uh body composition
changes is unfortunately there was no
statistical advantage of eating those
additional 600 calories the only
statistically sign significant
difference were jump height in sprint
times which got worse of course because
they got heavy yeah exactly had to drag
my own fat ass around yes so there was
it sounds terrible five times more fat
gain in the group that uh was in the the
larger Surplus but there was minuscule
fat gain in the group that was you know
in a 600 calories less Surplus yes so it
was it was modest fat gain but certainly
a lot more and significantly more than
the other group with no differences in
lean body mass or performance except for
those negatives so what I remember from
that study is that uh on statistical
tests there was no significant
difference but on the raw comparison of
means the group that got the Surplus
gained one and a half
times within the ability of our
instruments to detect which by
statistics you know is is not in that
window they did gain a lot more muscle
but it's such a tight measurement that
it's like it's about the same like if
I'm looking from space and you launch a
rocket and I launch a rocket your rocket
goes 150 feet blows up mine goes 75 feet
and blows up the person looking for
space like yep they both suck and it's
like but mine's double like yeah but it
could have blown up and the fuse could
have it's just random chance at
this point the means were higher in the
group that was consuming more I don't
remember if it was 50% higher and there
were a few metrics whether we're talking
about the strength on various lifts or
just the lean body M it's just people
looking for opportunities to justify
Mega bulking that's how I felt when I
was looking at it I was like how do I
justify eating a fuckload of pizza yes
yeah I think the important thing to
remember for this study though is that
it was uh athletes doing a 4day Upp or
lower which is great I think that's a
more ecologically valid approach but
they were also maintaining their
concurrent training for their sport um
and it's also difficult to conclude
something about like the kind of lifters
who really wanted to conclude on that
like it's handball athletes like some of
them were great comparisons others were
not yeah yeah so we had that so okay we
got limitations here and then we had
rosik and rosik is the the the perab
bulkers dream this was untrained
males in their 20s and they were brought
in in three different groups uh one just
following their habitual diet and the
other two groups who are essentially
given weight gainers 2,000 calorie
weight gainers per day per day so it's
supposed to be 2,000 calories on top of
their normal diet now one of them it was
pure multitran just carbs the other
group was basically a multiex way blend
pause there was a product made in Canada
which I consumed often back in the early
2000s mid 2000s that was exclusively
maltodextrin and dextrose polymers in
the ingredients and it was literally
branded and called just
carbs no joke I I'm not mad because
that's accurate advertising accurate you
got to love it I love it sorry please
continue so anyway there was the just
carbs group and then there was drinking
the stuff correct okay and then the
other group is taking a liquid weight
gainer that is a mixture of some protein
and carbs and they were seeing which one
would be better and the answer was in
untrained young men it don't matter it's
all amazing because they gained three
kilos over eight weeks both of the
experimental conditions of body mass and
on average they gained three kilos of
lean body mass meaning that on average
in rosin whether you're just throwing
down 2,000 calories of just carbs or
it's actually a mixture of say whey and
some carbs and you're training
hard whoa you can gain nearly a pound a
week of pure lean mass now obviously
some of that's not necessarily actual
tissue but it paints an amazing picture
for bulking sure right now the thing is
is that in my experience as a coach of
many many natural bodybuilders and my
own personal experience where I went to
this well multiple times without much
payoff after the first time I have a few
love handle situations from that
stretch skin yeah you can go to that
well reliably
once and maybe if you get things right
and you learn a lot and you didn't fully
milk out your newbie gains on my
experience is sometimes you can get that
intermediate kind of late bump or you
can get things right you know but it's
very difficult to like that magnitude of
bulking after your anubi gains are done
is going to reliably result in fat gain
so when we see rosnick untrained when we
see gu trained athletes and then we see
our study which is a reasonably trained
cohort and we see the relationship that
we saw with the biceps it kind of paints
this picture of hey training age is very
important if you're a late stage
intermediate or if you're an advanced
lifter you probably want to be very
cautious and to choose an appropriate
size Surplus or accept the fat gain for
what it's probably going to be if you
think that maybe at least I'll gain a
few pounds of muscle this way don't
imagine that you're 500 calorie Surplus
is all going to go to your
muscles and that's something I want to
talk about as well is it really comes
down so back to that g study even if
there was more muscle gain I think an
important consideration is the ratio of
lean to Fat Mass gains um for some
people it doesn't matter like let's say
you're 8% body fat and you're happy with
the way you look and let's say you're
male and you're happy with the way you
look at 22% body fat yeah that is in
most cases objectively healthy when we
look at population level data sure you
know like 23% is is typically where you
start to see issues especially if you're
car a lot of muscle mass and you're
active right yes so if you go from I
know the internet says 15% but don't
trust the internet in fact stop
listening I think we've said 15% yeah
we've caveat a show please yeah so
anyway yeah I would I would guess for an
active person who's who's doing all the
things right eating a healthy diet in
terms of qualitative inclusion of
micronutrients fiber all that good stuff
if you were to move as a male from 8% to
20% I'd be surprised if you're active in
training that you'd see substantial
degradation in your health markers so if
you're comfortable with the way you look
and you go from 8 to 20%
and you are going to stay there
absolutely who cares about the ratio
right you put on some muscle however for
a guy like me or my clients where I
ultimately have to get all of the
visible subcutaneous body fat off my
body how hard is that going to be for me
correct do I have to diet longer do I
have to diet harder and that met
regression I just talked about if a 500
calorie deficit on average is going to
stop hypertrophy at a certain point it's
going to induce atrophy you know at the
very least if you say okay how many 00
calorie Surplus deficit days do I have
to put together to take off 21 pounds of
adapost tissue and you're like oh that's
a 58 we prep exactly otherwise you're
like how much muscle am I willing to
lose for this and that usually doesn't
pan out well in my experience no
ultimately this goes back to the parable
of the tortoise first the hair and that
if you can be patient and extend the
gaining phase over more time that's
probably going to be better and if I was
to if you were to put a gun to my head
and say Eric just using empirical data
do we know that larger surpluses are
better than smaller surpluses I have no
data to support that all I can tell you
confidently is that being in a deficit
is a downside and I will say based on
our data though given that it was
actually challenging to get people to
follow a small Surplus you need to think
about what's feasible in the real world
yeah so prescribing very very very small
surpluses even if it might be
technically better if you can't actually
reliably follow that it's probably
better to go you know what let me make
sure that I'm eating enough so I'm not
in a deficit 50k Cal Surplus because if
you think of a quick thought experiment
250k Cal Surplus let's take some
shortcuts mathematically and say that's
roughly half a pound of tissue gained
per week let's say we're bulking for uh
16 weeks it's a quick qu good consistent
bulk let's say 100% of that is body fat
like we really up or like God's
like hey you ran out of genetics so um
you know in the grand scheme is 8 pounds
of fat that much
I mean man that's like six weeks of
dieting and most people will be able to
get that off without having to lose any
muscle in that short a time frame so
it's not the end of the world
you know what I mean uh but on the other
hand if you're talking about going to
Super bulk mode you're okay 750 K Cal
yes Surplus it's like you may actually I
believe
theoretically purely theoretically this
is my supposition that you will
absolutely absolutely see higher real
gains in muscle with an escalating
Surplus up until health and discomfort
stop you from sleeping properly and then
you actually gain less muscle as you eat
more but I think up to a th calories
definitely 750 you will see higher
theoretical gains in muscle but when the
gain in fat is triple but the increase
in muscle gain is 5% undetectable by
modern instruments you got to ask
yourself like you did earlier am I
really going to diet 18 pounds of muscle
off over the next next six months so
that I can consolidate my half kilo of
muscle gain if you're at that level
where that's the only thing that's
working and you're trying to
finish out your pro career dope if you
are a reasonable person if you compete
actively in bodybuilding you got to try
to get the moderate to low surpluses are
you comfortable saying somewhere between
200 kilo calorie Surplus and 400 kilo
calor Surplus is where most people
probably find their best combination of
actual gains not unre reasonable body
fats to take off and a comfort with food
and lifestyle that doesn't ruin it one
way or the other and also a reasonable
idea about and at least in some kind of
mini Surplus I think so I think that's a
pretty good heris super do you use
another one you think is more particular
I normally I actually like people to
work more off of their weight change um
rather than necessarily a Target Surplus
like you can set that at the start but
the way you Auto regulate that is going
to be your bio feedback so if you're
doing that right you're not going to see
precipitous weight gain on a week to we
basis so looking at something like a
twoe average and seeing your body weight
go up at a certain rate I generally
would recommend say an advanced lifter
to only be gaining say 1% of their body
weight per month sure and then you can
basically scale that up say half a
percent as you come down to intermediate
and novice a novice yeah 2% of your body
weight per month intermediate somewhere
between the two I think that's a nice
way to do it as well yes let me present
to you another idea here and love to
have your take on it right in in the
vein of this something that I've taken
please tell me if this is wrong
something I've learned from talking to
you about this in perus and literature
myself my butler is really they perusing
give me executive summaries I like it
when my name is in there a lot they is
your butler name Mass I don't know their
names I teed you up to help me out there
oh the wonderful research review you and
your colleagues publish monthly that is
available through the mass link yes
unbelievable folks that's how you do
business but h serious note but mass is
very serious so on another note yes um a
lot of these studies are seeming to show
something that unfortunately you and I
both experienced in real life which is
that getting irresponsibly fat
fast is not Dependable way to gain
muscle underneath yep and so we can take
this and apply it to a new theistic that
I'd like to see what you think about
this if I'm looking in the mirror every
few weeks and my ass getting fat what I
used to be able to tell my myself was
like under the hood man this is clear
evidence of a surplus shit's happening
yep I'm gaining pounds pounds
pounds I wasn't getting super strong I
wasn't visibly seeing my muscles change
too fat for that but like bad news but I
was like no no no this kind of CES has
to be making big gains now that we know
that's not the case is it possible for
folks to use a combination of their body
weight and their physical appearance to
go okay if I'm still lean is but I'm
gaining weight a little bit all as well
this is probably the best I can do
without any more finite measurement but
if I'm getting real sloppy looking
there's no compelling reason for me to
keep looking sloppy unless I just don't
give a uh and if I really most
people let's be honest Eric most people
watching this channel most people who
know who we are they kind of give a
if they're super fat like
man and so if they're getting really out
of hand fat would you be okay and saying
like look it's probably time to rain it
in a little bit and then make another
slower run what do you think about that
no absolutely Ely the your Surplus size
is going to force you into a couple
options if you do take a more aggressive
approach to bulking it does mean that
you're going to reach a body fat limit
if as described by your your audience
faster faster which means you're going
to more frequently have to do something
about that yes and you're also more
uncomfortable during you do have get to
have a lot of fun but you can have like
two really fun unbelievable dinners
where you eat Buck all every week and by
adjusting your other metrics and having
a high physical activity you can gain
these rates we talking about you don't
have these aren anorexic rates
to gain at they're totally fine
especially after a few weeks you gain
some weight you're not really like as
hungry as you used to be and you still
have to gain that weight so it does
allow you to because a lot of people why
am I saying this a lot of people look at
Super bulk life like just eat
5,000k Cal Surplus and they're like
that's a fun dude but you and I both
taken it to a place where it wasn't fun
anymore yeah like I was eating milk and
cookies because it was the only way to
physically Jam the calories in that
point I didn't even like milk and
cookies I as soon as I went on a healthy
diet afterwards I went from like four
weeks without thinking about cheat food
broccoli was delicious that's how
unhealthy I was at the time but people
think about that like man it's so much
more fun but you can have a lot of fun
on a lower Surplus just by making
special times to eat special things and
mostly sticking to kind of whole food
healthy options do do you have
experience with that personally with
athletes AB they hate the slow
approach I think that that typically has
more to do with how well have they
habituated to the bodybuilding lifestyle
and I think as you get more and more
advanced in the sport
uh unless you really are pushing your
body weight High um or you're trying to
get to body fat levels or you just have
a really strong appetite suppression
response to to surpluses lots of people
like which is true and it does happen it
probably happens more in enhanced
bodybuilders getting really really
bigger than they ever other people from
direct administration of antigens will
feel approximate reduction in appetite I
know multiple people are lucky
 by the way because it
makes pre-contest easy as your boy
gets hungry as on gear it drives me
nuts
well in The Natty World basically it has
a lot more to do with where's your upper
and lower intervention point or what we
locally call your upper and lower body
fat set point if you will and when you
are pushing over a set point um that is
when you really start to find that you
get a lot of appetite suppression y so
the but you have to question how much
value is there getting me over my my
upper set point anyway yes so maybe when
your body's like hey I'm not hungry
anymore you're kind of cool it for a bit
maybe even mini cut a few weeks get that
hunger back get a little leaner and then
go up again what do you think about that
yes so here are some of theistic I use
um one is that if anything when you're
higher in body fat you're more likely
and able to put on muscle not only at
maintenance but even in a deficit so
you're not losing out on much by doing a
mini cut but two a decent heris or
Safeguard against bulking far too
quickly in being the hair and not the
tortoise is that you have to earn
yourself and this is based purely on an
experience no data that says this is
science-based you have you're saying it
so it is science based I am science
thank you I am the law um who is that
come on that's Stallone Judge Dread Eric
I don't mean this as an insult that was
the worst Stallone impression I have
ever heard in my life and I knew
Sylvester Stallone yeah yeah we had a
falling out well I was hoping you'd
introduce me yeah he said something like
oh and I was like what he's like was
that so that was a good stillone
impression no it was it was worse okay
all
right theistic I was going to recommend
is a 4:1 ratio so that to earn yourself
say a month mini cut you have to at
least be in a surplus for four months
yeah that's a great point because I
think it prevents the
um aop
phobic Wishy Wash one extra AB line goes
away and you're like that's it man back
to my pre-contest diet otherwise people
will see me more fat in the gym than I'm
used to someone will say something un
kind on Tik Tok yep you know the rest
the world collapses in a flame yep it
also prevents people from doing too much
because then they're forced in the scen
like if you gain 20 pounds 30 pounds in
four months and you what are you g to do
about that in one month not yeah
you're gonna it's it's going to result
in this probably too much weight gain or
you're going to be doing these mini cuts
that everyone would be like what are you
doing a medically supervised fast for
yes you're very uncomfortable okay so a
couple take- homes from this whole thing
one if you thought that dreamer buling
was going to work it'll work the best it
can work when you're a beginner and
training with high volumes really hard
that it doesn't even on the numbers work
so well then it's more of a question of
can I get away with this more like if
you're a super villain Who police can't
shoot to death can you do bank robberies
yes probably is it a good idea no
there's better ways to use your time so
that's the first thing second thing is
if you're GNA go into higher surpluses
don't expect that to reliably lead to
higher muscle gain at least in the short
term third idea is yeah really low
surpluses are sort of incalculable
increase your calories by 30 over
maintenance is it's almost like a pro a
procedurally nonsensical thing to do and
thus you're better off shooting for
something like 200 to 400 KCAL Surplus
per week while you're bulking and
there's another method of just bulking
at what you think is a slow Surplus
visual inspecting your body manyi
cutting are necessary protein sparing
modified fast maybe if you're cool with
it you don't lose a ton of strength and
you can rebound easy but if you had
problems with that before and this thing
is a disaster just don't gain as
much and then when you lose lose a
little gently and that tends to be a
good process for you there and lastly if
you are drug free which almost all of
yours are thank god um the
looking at body weight is really good in
addition to that so you can guess at
your calories however much you want
there's people like I'm I'm in a 400
calorie Surplus and I'm not gaining like
when I got news for you you're not
 gaining because where is
the weight so measuring your body weight
consistently don't worry about erratic
numbers two week average gain roughly uh
a percent of your body weight per month
as an advaned lifter and to be honest
man as a beginner intermediate unless
you're ripped and starving i' say that's
also good because then you just
make lean gains for forever you don't
have to try to get your fat ass into Mor
fat say just take the good gains there A
lot of times people like all right the
not so great gains are this so I can aim
for this like just get the gains get the
gains just get them for longer what did
I miss is that a decent summary of the
 it's a very good summary I only
have a few little footnotes to add to it
hit me so on the first point it was uh
if you're training high volume and hard
that might support bulking but not even
that well that is true with the group
level because on average you're going to
see the things that we see in meta
analyses shake out for everybody
ultimately on an individual basis you
need to be training effectively for you
and unfortunately some people are going
to respond better to eight sets than 20
some people are going to respond better
to 30 sets than 20 and it's difficult to
know some people respond better to going
to failure with fewer sets and some
people the opposite um and even in my
circle where we have agreed upon the
same principles we see large disparities
in that so Jeff and myself respond very
differently to training and therefore we
train differently there is no one siiz
fits-all second Point um about the
Surplus size generally also true for
everyone it's very difficult to follow a
30 calorie Surplus and be accurate and
that goes hand inand with okay therefore
you should have a higher Surplus and
then use the mirror check I will say
that if you are a like a macron nator
king and you're an advanced bodybuilder
like myself I am able to follow much
smaller surpluses than the average
person so are my clients so there are
cases where not only you're not goingon
able to see much visual change over a
short-term period And if you have the
skill to use those smaller Windows of
surpluses and you can have that level of
precision it would on paper be better to
do so that's probably only about 1% of
the people watching totally and also
there's a problem there where yes you're
uh reliable enough but is your accuracy
off and then you can only really confirm
that with body weight change that'll
take some time so one of my more
proximate uh short-term cues I like to
use for myself and some athletes is do I
feel fed do I feel itic and recovering
from training and can I sleep
because if I don't feel fed I don't have
energy to train I'm not sleeping I don't
give a what it says on the paper I
probably need more food to get me into
that better State what do you think
about that I think not only is that true
and the same experience I've had and
that I use in coaching but those the
ability to have awareness of those biof
feedback and kind of intuitive
qualitative aspects also are present in
the people who should have that kind of
precision and at that level where body
mass gains at least the muscle mass
gains are going to come slower so don't
if if you're a relatively Advanced
lifter with these skills and that
awareness uh and the ability to be a
little more accurate definitely lean on
more metrics because you can use them um
but I think the the more generalized
advice especially for intermediates is
perfect awesome Eric you know a lot of
 frighteningly high in amount of
literal this is an insult it wasn't
there uh but um I want to know more of
what you know where can I find you do
you publish anything I can read about
science I want nerd hit me yo if
you want to actually read my published
papers I do the best I can to publish
Open Access excellent now if you are
more interested in how to apply the
science I also review research so we
have what's called mass mass research
review which is myself Eric Trexler
another person who knows a lot of stuff
Lauren Kenzo simple and the other Dr
Mike Dr Mike zeros yes the better do
there's another medical doctor Mike
there's like a trillion YouTube
subscribers and he's also a Russian Jew
and I think he actually like does MMA
even which is like a step off from
Jiu-Jitsu he's like the guy I never
became and he's beautiful he's like in
GQ and I'm Look At Me Jesus he's your Dr
Trexler dude it's up Dr Trexler
is like me with stats knowledge it's
frustrating it's like just better yeah
so anyway if you want to follow me the
better me Lauren and the better Dr Mike
then definitely check out Mass where
every single month we go through studies
like this that are directly applicable
to lifters nutrition training coaching
psychology and we review them from the
lens of how will this help the athlete
or the trainer or the general fitness
practitioner so that's something I would
highly recommend Mass research
review.com and if you don't want to
subscribe if you want me to be out on
the streets broke at least watch our
YouTube channel because every single
week we do Mass office hours where two
of us that's awesome Eric plus someone
else will take live questions and answer
questionss that get got deposited to us
Live on YouTube for an hour hour and a
half every week yeah guys on RP we try
to provide you with a ton of really good
evidence-based information two things on
that one we can't possibly teach you all
the sure not in a couple
months of videos and so there's tons of
other folks like Eric and his team
producing unbelievable content that if
you really want to be the best trainer
the best coach the best athlete you can
be you're going to go find him
secondarily what we do here at RP is
typically a dog meta summary of
things these people actually find out on
Research so you want that real Nuance
you don't want to just repeat that
I say not really know is that Dr Mike
just making up again or is he
actually right you want to go to the
source you will typically find that we
don't lie too much on this channel
though my Butlers do occasionally make
me say unkind things about people it's
really strange Butlers have a Mean
Streak do your Butlers ever get kind of
Serial killery how many Butlers do you
have let's just ask the obvious question
I did not know this is going to be a
butler measuring match Eric there's no
measuring this is just to tell people
how they could be living if they
organized their lives better do you have
a a recommendation for a a first Butler
oh uh we'll talk after this video um
other than Butlers this is the place to
get a lot of amazing Insight we tell you
guys about all great folks meno Hensel
is awesome strong brast science
is awesome 3dmj and mass are at
the top of the pile go check them out
learn things and honestly just
unsubscribe for me cuz I'm
olders I'll see you guys next
time