I've trained very many ultra wealthy
Ultra successful people and they're not
all like this but a decent fraction of
them oh they'll go to the gym 5 days a
week they have the towel on their
shoulder they have the tennis shorts on
and the polo shirt that they change into
and they're never really pushing it
remotely hard enough and on the
nutrition side they got meetings with
clients they got meetings with producers
and directors and oh well I had a piece
of sushi at 12:00 p.m. and I didn't eat
until 8: and then I had a protein bar is
that good it's all nonsense you'll hear
lots of people say well I train well I
do this and some of them they're
legitimately trying and they're doing
everything pretty right but they just
have dog genetics and that blows
but a lot probably more people will give
the lip service to I train and I eat
well but then you look into the details
their consistency their effort and or
their nutrition recovery there's just
giant black holes of missing and then
they don't get great results