[Music]
okay what if I told you there was a diet
that gets better fat loss with less
muscle loss improved cardiovascular
health and better glucose control all
with less hunger and without much risk
of disordered eating or body image
concerns well to many people that's
exactly what's so called intermittent
fasting represents I call it so-called
because in the scientific literature you
don't really see it go by that name
instead you have alternate day fasting
where you eat one day and fast the next
day and time restricted feed it where
you fast for 16 to 20 hours with a four
to eight hour
eating window in practice many adherents
follow the lean gains protocol
popularized by Martin Burke an where you
fast for 16 hours with an 8 hour eating
window centered around weight training
as it turns out fasting has many
benefits but they've mainly been seen in
rats where intermittent fasting causes
better weight loss improved
cardiovascular health
neuro protective effects decreased
cancer risk an increased lifespan and
many of these effects are independent of
caloric restriction alone it's not fully
understood why fasting has these
positive health effects but one theory
is that periodic food deprivation serves
as a sort of pre conditioning stress one
that allows for resistance to bigger
stresses in the future it's kind of like
exposing yourself to stressful germs can
enhance immunity and protect against
future stresses down the road human
studies have fared pretty well too two
studies showed weight loss reduced blood
pressure and lowered cholesterol in
obese subjects following an alternate
day fasting diet for eight to ten weeks
however two similar studies on lean
individuals showed weight maintenance
indicating that alternate day fasting
may be a better way to G for obese folks
and as relatively short duration trials
is difficult to say how this approach
would fare over the long term many
expressed skepticism over rampant hunger
with this approach but one study in
obese patients following a 14 day fast
found very impressive weight loss
without an increase in hunger and this
is a recurring theme across this body of
research fasting can have an appetite
blunting effect and we tend to get
hungry when we're used to eat it so
while there may be an adjustment period
when first switching to intermittent
fasting where
more hungry than usual maintaining a
regular eating pattern will help control
hunger with any diet regardless of
eating frequency the biggest systematic
review today looking at 40 studies found
that while intermittent fasting was
better at suppressing hunger than just
continuous caloric restriction this
wasn't able to translate into
significantly improved body composition
or weight loss the authors conclude that
intermittent fasting represents a valid
I'll be apparently not superior option
to continuous energy restriction for
weight loss as a bodybuilder one worry I
have is that all this fasting would
cause my muscle to fall off don't you
need to eat every two hours to keep the
muscle anabolic actually a 2006 paper
showed that even 40 hours of fasting
didn't significantly alter negative
regulators of muscle mass and didn't
cause any significant muscle atrophy
furthermore even a 24-hour fast only
decreases liver glycogen by less than
half meaning muscle glycogen is
completely spared and the ketone bodies
that you typically see in association
with alternate day fasting also spare
skeletal muscle from breakdown don't you
need to eat like six meals a day in
order to speed up your metabolism and
won't fasting slow your metabolism down
this myth is based on the correct idea
that the thermic effect of food
increases following a meal however our
current science indicates that this
increase is proportional to the caloric
content of the meal not meal frequency
per se and changes in metabolic rate
come from changes in daily caloric
intake and not some changes in meal
timing one good argument against
intermittent fasting comes from a 2013
study which show that anabolic signaling
was greater when consuming 420 gram
doses of whey protein compared to two
doses of 40 grams or eight doses of 10
grams implying that from a muscle
protein synthesis based more evenly
throughout the day across roughly four
meals may be better for optimizing
anabolism another consideration is
whether intermittent fasting is
psychologically healthy despite the fact
that research from potti and colleagues
showed that intermittent fasting reduced
depression and binge eating the canadian
pediatric society classifies fasting and
skipping meals as unhealthy strategies
for adolescents so for kids and
teenagers this may not be the most
suitable approach to conclude
intermittent fasting has certainly shown
itself to be an impressive and effect
of dieting methodology in my opinion it
hasn't shown much merit over more
standard diets that impose a caloric
deficit with sufficient protein intake
but for those who find it to fit their
preferences better and lifestyle better
fasting just may be the way to go and
ultimately I think the best diet is the
one to which you can best adhere alright
what's going on everyone I just want to
say thank you so much for watching the
video I didn't focus too too much on the
practical side of things but if that's
something you guys would like me to go
into in a future video you can let me
know and I'd be happy to do that
as many of you guys know I don't usually
practice intermittent fasting myself
although I will practice breakfast
skipping as a sort of dieting strategy
just to sort of prolong eating in the
day which does fall very in line with
the lean gains protocol and if there's
any of you guys who use intermittent
fasting or maybe you've tried it I'd
love to hear about your experience
just let me know in the comments I want
to give a shout out to Squarespace for
sponsoring this video for those of you
who aren't aware Squarespace is the
website platform that I've used for the
last two years to run my own website and
I think that Squarespace really is the
best platform for creating your own
custom website or your own online store
and they have beautiful designer custom
templates and 24/7 and they make the
whole process very simple if I can do it
then I'm confident any of you guys can
do it
so if you go to Squarespace comm /am
Nippert and use the offer code Nippert
you can save 10% off your first purchase
so that's it guys thank you so much for
watching give the video a thumbs up if
you liked it subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I will see you guys again
in a couple days I'll be back with a
vlog and then I've got another science
explained video coming next weekend I
still have to content on the way stay
tuned and I will see you guys soon