if you want to pack on muscle while
maintaining a slim and aesthetic
midsection you need to be careful with
squats and deadlifts progressively
overloading these movements might be
effective for adding size to your back
and legs but it will also thicken up
your waistline leading to a wider
blockier appearance at least that's what
some people might tell you and this is
actually a pretty common piece of
conventional bodybuilding advice that's
been floating around for many years but
is there any truth to it let's break it
down so first off it is true that squats
and deadlifts will add size to your
spinal Erectors which are basically
these big Columns of muscle that run up
and down your back and are technically
part of your midsection they'll be
working mostly isometrically to prevent
your trunk from collapsing forward but
as you get stronger over time and work
up to heavier and heavier weights no
doubt you are going to see spinal
erector growth from these movements
however in terms of overall width or
thickness this isn't going to take
anything away aesthetically and really
it's just going to give your back a more
impressive look overall those muscles
can only be seen from the side and rear
view until they won't contribute to any
sort of overly thicker chunky appearance
as far as your waistline is concerned
when most people talk about squats and
deadlifts leading to a thicker waste
usually they're referring to the rectus
abdominus or the six-pack muscles along
with the obliques and yes those muscles
will be active during squats and
deadlifts however they mostly play a
stabilizing role to counter that pull
from the spinal Erectors and increase
overall core stability keep in mind that
just because a muscle is active doesn't
mean that it's being placed under
significant mechanical tension and since
the abs and obliques aren't working
directly against the load during these
exercises they aren't going to
experience significant hypertrophy from
them and it also likely won't be any
more than what you'd get during other
basic standard compound lifts like
overhead presses or pull-ups or rows
where those muscles are also acting as a
stabilizer and even more importantly
it's going to be far less of a growth
stimulus than what you'd get from actual
direct ab and oblique exercises whether
it's weighted crunches or leg raises or
reverse crunches rotational movements
those core Focus lifts will be directly
lengthening and shortening the abs and
obliques against the resistance and so
from a hypertrophy standpoint the effect
there is going to be much more
significant so if the argument is to
avoid squats and deadlifts out of fear
that they're gonna expand your waistline
and build these massive of abs and
obliques then by that logic you'd also
need to avoid any big basic compound
lift in general and all direct ab and
oblique training as well I mean when was
the last time you saw someone perform
crunches and cable twists in their
program and end up with a gigantic
bulging midsection as a result it just
doesn't happen because those muscles
only have a limited potential for growth
in the first place and even if they do
hypertrophy it's not going to give you
an overly wide or thick looking waist
it's just going to make them slightly
more developed and get them popping a
bit more noticeably assuming your body
fat levels are low enough for them to be
visible the only argument you could
possibly make would be that if for some
reason you were doing a very high volume
of direct oblique exercises and maybe
your genetics are such that those
muscles respond really well to training
or are already a bit bigger to begin
with then maybe that could add a bit of
unwanted width from the front view but I
don't know too many people who are
performing a huge number of sets
specifically for their obliques or why
you'd even want to do that in the first
place so usually that's not going to be
a concern the one other argument is that
squats and deadlifts widen your waist by
stretching the abdominal wall outward
due to that core bracing that's involved
however you're not maximally expanding
and stretching the abdominal wall in
that case and even if you were it
doesn't mean it's going to become
permanently larger so I wouldn't say
that's a very convincing argument either
when it all comes down to it growth
hormone abuse aside good morning the
real cause for a thicker wider looking
waist is due to two main factors the
first is going to be basic structural
genetics some people just have a wider
waist in general because that's how
their skeleton is shaped and there's
really nothing you can do about that
aside from extreme methods that
definitely aren't recommended and then
secondly it's a simple matter of body
fat levels more body fat bigger waste
less body fat smaller waste quite
obviously and there's a genetic
component involved there as well because
different people have different body fat
distributions and some people just
naturally allocate a higher percentage
of fat toward their midsection versus
other areas when people say that squats
and deadlifts gave them a thicker waist
most likely there's just some kind of
false correlation going on there maybe
people who start taking squats and
deadlifts very seriously are on average
more likely to be bulking in which case
it might seem like those exercises led
to a bigger waist when in reality it's
just the extra food volume fat store
origin water weight maybe people who are
more likely to excel at powerlifting are
those with a bigger bone structure in
general or there could be just some kind
of basic Placebo action going on there
as well I mean keep in mind that there
are still people out there buying
trickestron every month and swearing up
and down over its amazing muscle
building benefits so really anything is
possible if you want some more help
getting your overall fitness program
onto the right track make sure to visit
shawnell.com custom just fill out the
short form on that page and I'll send
you back a free step-by-step training
plan based on your current condition and
goals along with an easy to follow
nutrition plan as well the link for that
is in the description here are two more
videos I'd recommend watching now don't
forget to subscribe to the channel to
stay up to date on future videos thanks
for watching guys and I'll talk to you
again soon