[Music]
about a year ago I convinced myself that
I look a lot more jacked especially in
clothes if I started training my neck
this was brought on by the simple
observation that most jack dudes have
bigger necks just take this photo of
Magic Mike for example that's what he
actually looks like on the left and on
the right his neck was photoshopped to
be smaller it should be obvious which
version looks more masculine and
muscular and I think this is why
training your neck and traps directly
can make a massive difference in how
Jack's you look in clothes and how
mastering your face looks so this photo
of me was taken on January 1st 2016 and
this photo was taken a year later after
about a year of admittedly on and off
direct neck training and the traps are
another muscle that can drastically
affect how muscular you look from the
front side rear and again especially in
clothes so before we get into exactly
how to make these muscles grow best
let's quickly cover their basic anatomy
first so let's start with the muscles on
the front the biggest medius muscle on
the neck is a sternocleidomastoid it has
two heads which originate at the top of
the sternum and the top of the clavicle
respectively inserting on the mastoid
process at the base of the skull and it
performs store bird flexion lateral
flexion and rotation of the neck a
little to the side and a bit deeper you
have the three scalene muscles acting
together to perform forward and lateral
flexion much like the
sternocleidomastoid moving more to the
back of the neck by far the biggest
muscle is the trapezius or the traps for
short the upper traps originated at the
occipital bone on the back of the head
and then fan out and down to insert on
the outer part of the clavicle or
collarbone and they contract to perform
primarily scapular elevation like
shrugging but also neck extension
lateral flexion and rotation fibers of
the mid traps run straight across and
contract to perform primarily scapular
retraction like in a barbell row with
the lower fibers performing scapular
depression and retraction just keep in
mind that all of these muscles tend to
function as a unit not in isolation so
still on the back of the head you have
to splenius muscles which extend the
neck and the levator scapulae muscle
which is varied a bit deeper and
functions primarily to elevate the
scapula again like guinness shrug and
there are a bunch of other smaller
muscles like the semi spinalis
multifidus long azimuth and others that
all
basically help to extend the neck but we
won't focus on these it's commonly heard
that if you simply focus on heavy
compound movements in your training
regularly doing heavy squats deadlifts
bent rows and so on you'll have no
problem building a thick neck but the
research doesn't really agree with this
a study by Connelly and colleagues from
the University of Georgia split 22 men
into one of two groups one group
performed a periodized for day per week
resistance training program for 12 weeks
the training program was pretty rigorous
including exercises like the squat
Romanian deadlift
and even trap focused movements like mid
side deadlifts bent rows shrugs all
loaded in the 3 to 10 rep range for 3 to
5 sets the other group did exactly the
same thing except they added 3 sets of
10 reps head extensions every week at
the end of the 12 weeks MRI was used to
measure neck hypertrophy and the results
were pretty staggering despite all the
heavy compound movements used in the
regular protocol there was zero increase
in cross sectional area of the neck
muscles after 12 weeks but adding in
just nine weekly sets of direct neck
extension work led to a 13% increase in
total neck cross sectional area which is
pretty impressive for only 12 weeks and
led the authors to conclude that it
doesn't appear that the isometric
actions required for stabilization
during conventional resistance exercises
are of sufficient intensity to elicit
neck muscle hypertrophy however looking
at other research such as that from Sun
struck a towel it's clear that the neck
muscles are activated quite highly
indirectly from other exercises such as
the lateral raise where the Salinas and
trap muscles both reached over 90
percent EMG activity relative to
momentary voluntary contraction in a set
taken to failure granted activation and
hypertrophy are not necessarily
synonymous but it seems most plausible
that all else equal activating the
muscle to a greater degree should
hypertrophy it to a greater degree so it
seems that even if not required for
growth including at least one neck
extension based exercise such as plate
loaded extensions or partner assisted
extensions two to three times per week
makes most sense to maximize growth of
the rear neck musculature I found that
using a head harness can make loading a
little easier or if you'd rather not do
this publicly you can use a towel to
provide resistance from home because
loading the neck muscles heavily might
put undesired strain on the connective
tissues of the neck
I'd suggest starting out with moderate
reps in the 10 to 15 rep range but
that's taken close to or to failure with
good control so that a full spectrum of
motor units are involved so what about
the front and the sides of the neck
a 2010 paper by a klonda towel looked at
moment arms for the neck and found that
the sternocleidomastoid for the greatest
flexion and lateral bending capacity so
if the goal is to make the neck bigger
from the front and the side we should
focus on growing this muscle a 2006
study on Navy Command recruits found
that performing exercises that train
neck forward flexion lateral flexion and
extension three times per week led to
big improvements in neck strength and
while neck circumference did increase on
average by 1.4 centimeters it wasn't
enough to reach statistical significance
probably because of the small sample
size of 10 so in the absence of solid
data I'd recommend performing neck
flexion exercises such as plate loaded
neck curls or partner assisted neck
curls at least two to three times per
week in the 10 to 15 rep range and with
the plate loaded curl you want to make
sure you're not using your arms to hold
the weight up let the plate rest fully
on your forehead using a cloth for
comfort if needed and focus on curling
only with your neck resisting the
downward motion of the plate on the
negatives
I see lateral flexion based movements as
more of an optional exercise since the
sternocleidomastoid wraps around the
side of the head meaning that forward
flexion based exercises should cover the
side dimension as well however adding in
a few plate loaded lateral neck curls
won't hurt just be careful not to go too
heavy as the neck muscles are weak or in
lateral flexion rotation can also be
trained however the equipment needed to
train it safely and effectively can be
tough to come by and other in my opinion
more advanced exercises like neck
bridges seem to be effective for neck
strengthening and athletes however I
personally prefer the more body building
based movements that use weighted
resistance since they're proven to be
effective without needing to contort
yourself into a potentially
uncomfortable position so what about the
traps well similar to the neck it's
commonly touted that if you just do
heavy deadlifts your traps will blow up
and certainly it makes some sense
the traps isometrically contract quite
forcefully when performing heavy
deadlifts in order to stabilize the
scapula and keep the upper back and
extension and this is supported by some
EMG data by kharbut all showing that
upper trap muscle activity was 97% at
the point of me passage versus just 88
percent off the floor indicating that
training the top half of the deadlift
such as by doing rack polls may be
better for optimizing trap recruitment
in addition research from loop Beggs
showed that heavier loads were
unsurprisingly more effective at
activating the upper traps and while
using a mixed grip didn't lead to
significant left-to-right activation
differences for the traps
Begg speculated that
finding can't necessarily be
extrapolated to the entire trap muscle
because the measurement is limited to
the relatively small area covered by the
placement of the electrode and went on
to suggest that to prevent asymmetry
that may be a benefit to use a double
overhand grip and when grip becomes a
limiting factor ergogenic aids such as
lifting straps socks and gloves can be
used or a hook grip however well perhaps
sufficient for growth and some
isometrically training the traps through
heavy deadlifts alone may not be enough
to maximize growth of the traps
especially since other research
indicates that eccentric muscle actions
are required to maximize muscle
hypertrophy a landmark 1994 study by
Johnson and colleagues found that
because of the orientation of the upper
trap fibers they can't effectively
elevate the scapula when the arm is in
neutral suggesting that the shrug is
best executed with the arms in at least
30 degrees abduction an idea supported
by a 2013 study by pasar√≠a tau which
found that a dumbbell shrug performed at
30 degrees abduction or in other words
with the arms further out to the sides
was more effective at activating the
upper trap fibers than the traditional
shrug it's worth noting though that a
limitation of this study could be the
fact that the same loads were used for
both conditions it seems to me that it
may simply be harder to do a shrug with
the arms more out to the side and
perhaps a relative loading scheme would
have led to different results in any
case there still seems to be at least
good anatomical grounds from modifying
the shrug so that the arms are more
abducted a few creative uses of the
dumbbell shrug have been proposed by
specialist sports physiotherapist Adam
Eakins such as the overhead dumbbell
shrug and monkey shrug which have proven
effective in practice however a recent
2016 paper published in the Journal of
manual therapy found the same that would
be at high upper trap activity in the
traditional shrug and the overhead truck
suggesting that there might not be a
special benefit to the overhead shrug
despite sound theoretical basis one
movement i've been using lately is what
i'm calling the lying rope shrug where i
lie down and shrug down and back using a
rope that you're actively aiming to pull
apart i feel a really strong up or trap
contraction when doing these the upright
row is another moneymaker for the traps
with one study showing it to outperform
the seated cable row barbell row and lat
pulldown in terms of the EMG activation
and as I mentioned in my shoulder
science explained video a wider two
times shoulder-width grip on the barbell
upright row has been shown to increase
activation of both the upper and mid
traps relative to a narrow and
shoulder-width grip
however to avoid shoulder impingement
issues it's advised to keep elbow
elevation below shoulder height
similarly rope face poles are very
effective at recruiting the traps when
performed the scapula retraction and
they offer a different loading plane
than the shrug which could function as
yet another stimulus for maximizing
growth and finally while I wanted this
video to focus on the neck and upper
trap area I'd be remiss to fail to
mention the tried and true rolling
movements in a video on the traps and
indeed rowing exercises of all varieties
have been substantiated as effective
movements in the literature especially
for the mid traps and interestingly the
2004 paper by Lehmann and colleagues
showed no statistically significant
difference in mid trap activation
between a seated row performed with and
without scapular retraction indicating
that the row is really effective at
activating this muscle group regardless
of scapular position so what about
frequency and volume I think that the
neck like any muscle is best trained at
least two times per week however because
it can be a chore to Train I suggest
that even once per week is better than
not training it at all and research has
shown that hitting it three times per
week is effective in my experience
because next soreness can literally be a
pain in the neck training the neck more
frequently with slightly less volume per
session is the best way to take
advantage of the repeated bout effect
and reduce muscle soreness while
maximizing results because most people
will be new to neck training I think
Helms's recommendation to aim for 40 to
70 reps per session with both a flexion
and extension based exercise is a good
place to start
as far as traps go I think that for the
sake of recovery and safety heavy
deadlifts should be performed no more
than once per week if at all given the
ability to effectively target the traps
through a variety of other movements
that can be performed more frequently
otherwise I think hitting the traps two
to three times a week should be
sufficient but keep in mind when
designing your weekly routine that many
other back exercises and shoulder
exercises will have a lot of carry over
to the traps so be careful not to let
weekly volume get carried away as a
starting place I'd recommend adding in
six to ten extra sets per week of an
upper trap isolation movements that
you're not already doing and titrate in
more volume from there as you assess
your recovery and progress and with
these new concepts in mind I hope the
next time you're at an event wearing a
dress shirt you look a little bit more
like you lift
what's going on everyone throughout the
course of making this video I decided
that I wanted to get a little bit more
diligent about my own neck and track
training so I wrote myself an eight week
training program but I ended up turning
into a complete neck and trap training
guide with all the scientific
information anatomy biomechanics and all
the exercise science included in this
video
in one place and I've also included
additional information about para dyes a
ssin and specific programming variables
that I didn't get into in the video so
I've made that full neck and trap
training guide available on my website
which you can get to at the link in the
description for the first week of the
launch it's going to be just $9.99 and
then after that it will go up to $14.99
I'm going to be documenting this on my
snapchat and Instagram story and every
week I'll give a quick update on how my
training is going and how my progress is
going and I'd love for you guys to do
the same I've included an email in the
neck and trap guide you can email your
starting photos and you're starting neck
measurements too and then after the heat
weeks take another set of photos and
another measurement of your neck because
there isn't a whole lot of data on neck
training and so if I can gather some of
my own data in the form of you guys that
would be very much appreciated and also
it gives you guys a way to be
accountable and for me to be accountable
as well and this is a 30 page document
that includes 12 scientific references
pull a big training program everything
is laid out for now that's going to
conclude this one so thank you guys so
much for watching subscribe to the
channel if you're new like the video if
you liked it and a flea business