percentage-based training is for the
most part outdated and over complicated
soon to be Dr Milo Wolfe here from Wolf
coaching and today we're talking about
percentage-based training it's merits
and its downfalls so first off let me
give you a quick primer on what
percentage-based training is
percentage-based training is basing your
intensity prescription in other words
how much weight you should lift in a
given exercise off of your owner of Max
so you would determine somehow what you
think your one repetition maximum is how
much weight you can lift horn rep if you
give it your roll and you would base all
of your load prescriptions based off
percentages of that one load right so
let's say you go to the gym and you want
to do a set of five you might prescribe
yourself 80 or 85 percent of that one
with Max that you either tested or
estimated so here's the theory as to how
it would or should work for the average
person we can roughly determine how many
reps they're supposed to be able to do
at say 90 of their Max and 80 and 70 and
that can give us a repetition to
percentage of 100 Max based relationship
so we can say that the average person
for example at 80 or Max might be able
to perform say 10 repetitions and thus
we can say well okay you're gonna go to
the gym today and do eight reps with 80
of your Max and we can have an idea of
how much stimulus that will give them
for hypertrophy and for strength here's
the problem though percentage-based
training has a lot of limitations here's
the first big problem it's a pain in the
ass first you need to actually determine
what your Wonder Max is or might be so
if you want to determine what your
Wonder of Max is to be really accurate
in prescribing load and say that 80
really is 80 you would need to have
someone test their Max and not just once
you would need to have someone test
their Max regularly because their Max
might change in two months your max
might change in six months so you would
have to be consistently testing your max
in order to be as accurate as possible
or let's say you don't want to test your
max what you could do instead is
estimate it so as I mentioned earlier we
have a rough idea of how many reps each
person can do with different percentages
of their Max so as I said with 80 you
might be able to do 10 reps but let's
say you don't want to test your max well
you could as the matromax it is going to
be less accurate but it's an option
right you could say well look we have
this table saying that the average
person can do say 10 reps with 80 of
their Max well I'm gonna go into the gym
and instead of testing my one rep max
I'm gonna test my 10 rep max and assume
that that's going to be about 80 of my
Max so I can determine what my Wonder of
Max is right the issue there is the
further away from the one rep max you
perform the less accuracy there's going
to be as to how close your prediction of
your 100 Max is and your actual one of
Max really are the further you move away
from that rep range say you do a set of
20 or 10 or 8 even the less accurate
your estimate is going to be and the
third way in which it's a pain in the
ass is that when you're using
percentage-based training you need to do
math a lot right like for every single
time that you're using a spreadsheet
writing your program you really need to
think okay well this is 85 you could
automate it but equally it's just
additional math that isn't really
necessary or beneficial even so it's
kind of just a pain in the ass in a
variety of ways here's the second big
limitation as it turns out there's is
quite a bit of variability in how many
reps different people can do at the same
percentage of their Max so actually one
person might be able to do 15 reps with
80 of their Max some people might be
able to do eight reps so if you just
prescribe six repetitions or let's say
10 repetitions at eighty percent of
their Max thinking that's going to be a
set of failure for that person it's very
much going to be the case that that
person might have five reps in the tank
if they can do 15 reps with 80 or they
might be going past failure they might
fail a set before they even go to 10
reps taking into account but there's a
lot of variability between people and
how many reps they can do at various
percentages of their Max is really
important and there's another big
limitation as to why percentage of Ace
trading is quite difficult to implement
and is likely just worse than other
approaches and this brings me to the
final point there are just better tools
available there's both reps in reserve
and rpe they're very closely correlated
and I'll briefly explain what each of
them is repetitions in reserve or rir is
essentially how many more repetitions
you think you could have done before
reaching failure on any given set let's
say for example you knew for a fact that
you could get 10 repetitions with 100
kilograms on the bench press you just
did a set of eight you think because you
just know that you could have done two
more reps in other words that set had an
rir rating or repetitions and Reserve
rating of two repetitions in attack you
could have done two more reps before
reaching failure rpe is really just kind
of subtracting that RAR rating from 10.
so let's say for example taking that
sent as an example again you would
subtract 2 from 10 and your rpe rating
for that set would be eight here's why
these tools are likely just better
options the vast majority of the time
than percentage-based training first
they're a lot easier to use you don't
need to do much math at all to know I
could have done two more apps it's very
simple two it's actually quite accurate
people seem to be pretty accurate in
estimating represent Reserve as you can
see in this video right here and so it's
a pretty accurate tool and ultimately
gets pretty close to what we want to
prescribe fundamentally where we want to
prescribe as coaches or as athletes
isn't really what percentage you're
trading at typically unless you're a
strength athlete in which case you can
still use rpe in combination with rep
ranges it gets at the same thing
ultimately because of how close to
failure you train is pretty important
for hypertrophy it's slightly the case
that prescribing training especially if
I approach fee in relation to how close
to failure you are is much better and
generalizes a lot better compared to
percentage-based trading as I said
earlier if you were to prescribe someone
training for muscle growth a set of 10
I'd say 80 of their Max you might assume
that that's a set of failure for them
right because they're potentially the
average person who can do 10 reps with
80 however there's a good chance that
they could have done five more reps when
doing a set of 10 with 80 in that case
what you're trying to get out of that
set which was a set of failure producing
good hypertrophy likely wasn't achieved
that could have been achieved very
easily had you just prescribed the set
of 10 repetitions with zero reps in the
tank it would have been that simple it
would not have required any additional
math you would have gotten the stimulus
out of that set that you wanted to
achieve and so a lot of the time RAR and
rpe to serve as simpler tools that will
ultimately get the training the stimulus
that they want out of training as
opposed to percentage-based training
sometimes giving them that stimulus so
sometimes not because there is a lot of
variability between people between
exercises in terms of how many
repetitions you can perform at a given
percentage of your 100 Max to summarize
percentage-based training probably isn't
great especially for approach fee and
even for strength there are better
Alternatives out there for strength is
rpe represent reserve and velocity-based
training which we can touch on in
another video comment down below if you
want to see that and for hypertrophy or
IR or repetitions and reserve and rpe
will do just fine the issue with
percentage-based training is that it's
often difficult to account for
differences in between people in how
many reps they can do at a given
percentage in a given exercise and so
forth which makes it very difficult to
prescribe percentage-based training as a
means to impart someone with a given
hypertrophy or strength stimulus anyways
that is the video if you like the video
please comment like subscribe comment
any suggestions for future videos and I
will see you guys in that next video I
sound like almost
 like comment subscribe