hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
critization today's video is the five
rules of bicep training
helpful tips to get you the biggest
biceps that you can get they're not hard
rules but give them a try and they'll
probably work rule number one
is to try the free motion bicep curl
and or the incline dumbbell curl and the
way you do the free motion curl is you
set up the free motion handles you walk
way in front of the machine so at the
bottom your biceps are pre-stretched out
like crazy and then you curl from a very
stretched position and of course this is
the same position you'll end up taking
on an incline dumbbell curl where you
put the incline 45 degrees or 60 degrees
or so and at the bottom you're going to
have an unreal stretch your biceps
attach across your shoulder as well as
your elbow so if you push this upper arm
back before you start it really
stretches them out there's been good
deal of research and plenty of theory
showing that you get more muscle growth
when you stretch the muscle underload
versus if you just load it without a
stretch these two exercises and there's
a few more you could try that stretch
the muscle are really awesome
up until I tried them I didn't think
there was a great bicep exercise for me
just some good ones and mostly Mac and
okay ones that I didn't love too much
now I have go-to exercises that are
bread and butter gonna mess me up every
single time
rule number two on the front of messing
up a lot of people can even do good
technique with curls but way too many
people drop the bar really quick because
the eccentric slow control on the way
down is two things
painful and reduces how many reps you
can do or how much weight you can do so
that girl who's always looking at you in
the gym who you think is maybe single
maybe interested but maybe satanic and
gonna kill you she is just not looking
as hard anymore because you used to use
the 25s but now you're down to tens and
change because you're trying to control
the eccentric but picking up Satanist
tricks at the gym aside it's just better
for muscle growth so when you have the
incline dumbbells you bring up the
dumbbells don't just thrash them back
down bring it up is half the battle
maybe not even half because that's the
easy part the hard part is to take two
or three seconds slowly control all the
way down at the bottom and then bring
bring back up again fat is critical
rule number three
especially on dumbbells you want your
pinkies to end up towards the sky as you
curl I don't mean you have to rotate but
as you curl think pinkies up the biceps
have two functions one is forearm
flexion and one is supination moving
your wrist like this and pinkies up is
the supinator cue it can help you really
get in tune with hitting your biceps
versus all the other forearm flexors
that can do the job instead
rule number four is to experiment with
different rep ranges there is a huge
variation in responses some people would
do sets of eight in the bicep curls and
like I don't know that just hurts my
elbows I don't feel anything some people
will do sets of eight and say there is a
tension in my biceps I cannot explain
and if I do higher rep sets of 15 and 20
I just feel tired how you know which rep
range is the right for you and there
could be lots of right answers is
if in the heavy rep range you feel a ton
of tension in the bicep itself in the
lighter rep ranges you get crazy crazy
Burns if you have a psychotic burn right
in the middle of your bicep you're not
doing anything wrong whereas if you're
doing High Reps and it just feels tired
maybe High Reps are not for you in that
particular exercise
all of the exercises that you should be
doing or rather the loading ranges
should be giving you a gnarly pump
people who respond really well to sets
of eight in the bicep do a few sets of
eight they're like holy crap my arm's
busting through people who love High
Reps get a huge pump off of that and so
on and so forth so pay attention to your
body signs stimulus and fatigue so if a
certain rep range just makes you feel
tired or hurts your elbows where another
one makes you feel great and hurts
seemingly nothing make sure you go
towards the one with a higher stimulus
to fatigue ratio rather than low don't
just do Plug and Play do everything sets
of 10 try different rep ranges with
different exercise see what goes best
another thing to look for is depending
on the rep range and how you position
and which exercises you're doing you
might get a lot of tension and burn in
the forearms versus your bicep if you're
trying to look like Popeye hey
forearms work just great but if you
really want bigger biceps then what you
want to do is pick the rep ranges and
the exercises and the techniques that
make the max amount of tension and burn
hit your biceps rather than your forearm
that's really huge lastly rule number
five if you really are serious about
growth and really kind of nothing has
worked try my rep matching that means
let's say you get some dumbbell curls
and you do a set of 20 real close to
failure I don't want to go through the
desk here but flow range of motion damn
it don't just copy me here doing these
fake curls a set of 20 close to failure
you put the dumbbells down then for the
next several sets let's say you have
three total plan that's two more sets
what you're going to do is hit 20 reps
but you're going to be too tired to hit
it all in one set each time so when you
get to about 15 and nearly crap out put
the dumbbells down for a few seconds
rest a little bit shake out the burn do
another five so that's 20 of the first
one in a straight set the second is 20
and a two mile rep set one mile run up
break and the third one you might get to
12. and then do you know another four
and then do another four after a little
bit of a rest and then get to 20. that
first set you match and match and match
with as many Maya rep sets as it takes
to match up to that first one it piles
the volume on like crazy and it allows
you to take three sets of a bicep
workout and get like G three four five
six seven approaches to failure maybe
eight wow we know that approaching
failure in the last few reps before it
have a mildly higher effect on muscle
growth than just the Reps that are easy
at the beginning of the set if you do
the Maya rep matching for biceps which
are often really fatigue resistant they
need a ton of stimulus to grow if you
try to do that with straight sets we've
got eight straight sets eight sets of
ten on biceps I'd rather shoot myself in
front of everyone at the gym color me
bored and hurt but my match sets just
take a couple seconds break between and
go go go holy crap that can be hugely
effective don't just do five of these
and have your arms fall off try two of
them up first and if it feels great
maybe add three four five Etc however
many need to get a great stimulus you're
going to cover for next time come back
with bigger arms
and as soon as you have big arms say one
thing
Satanist chicks
your King has arrived
[Music]