yeah give me a little more pause right
here and whenever you touch it's just
soft don't don't let it set
now as if
another that was so bad he's so
athletic fucking double two-handed Spike
I dig that I can catch on oh my
God down you just got penalized now
Jared feather ifb Pro Dr Mike isrel
PhD and it's not a real PhD no
University of Phoenix online would
disagree with
you but uh who are you to talk smack to
me you would be Tomaso Champa and a WWE
wrestler Champa one of the most dominant
champions in NXT history and just hell
we were going to put him through a crazy
psychotic workout but he's like uh stop
please fam uh and he pulled out his RP
hypertrophy app which he FRFR uses in
real life you got your workout I I
you're down with the urban lingo I love
it how modern and uh Tomaso legitimately
just trains with the app all the time
and you like it I guess I love the
awesome we had a little hand in making
it no big deal we'll sign you st all
this in the back we staged a little bit
of this in the back oh yeah with
wrestling you never know what's real
wrestling is real I totally believe that
and I also believe that m is about to
get a baller chest workout we're going
to do some machines we're going to do
some free weights we're going to look at
technique we're going to drive it hard
Jared's here he invented technique uh
and so he's going to be he's the
watchful eye only looks at two things
one your Technique and two any brown
women that come along so just something
you have to understand about one surpass
like suceeds the other so if you're
lifting but a brown woman walks by I'm
sorry I understand I'll take over there
I I'll look for you get it um it's a
pleasure to have you on the channel you
ready to lift weights and stop Jibber ja
I'm going to try my best I'm excited
boom jamas just said something that's
that's really quite good he said that he
used to do all kinds of stuff and the
warm up would take a while Mobility blah
blah blah and then Jared got him doing
just lighter progressively heavier sets
all the way into the first exercise and
he's like other than every now and again
when I'm like really tight from being on
the road I don't know what that means
I'm not in the industry though uh he
said it actually feels super super good
to just do that workout cuz the warmup
with progressively heavier weights takes
care of everything physiological
everything anatomical everything
psychological and neurological all at
the same time for exactly what it is you
need to do so if you're doing a crapload
of other warm-ups pinees and shit like
that arm rotations that shit is dope and
sometimes it works really well and if
you need it you need it but experiment
taking a little bit out of that stuff
out of that program and do a couple more
sets leading in with lighter weights
progressively heavier of your actual
first exercise give that a shot in your
training and you might find that you
actually have better results and you
don't do a bunch of really hokey stuff
extra sometimes that hokey stuff is okay
but uh a lot of times it's just like oh
why was I doing all that stuff when I
could have just been doing the
exercise all day one
more move it yep yep move
it good oh shit that was fuck
glorious fuck yeah one
more big moves come on come on come on
one more you got it you got it
control
control hit it go go go go go go go go
go
W oh yeah oh yeah hell yeah so my dad is
a wrestling fan he's the type who does
the like yeah yeah you don't have to
tell me it's fake I know I know I know
we have this big idea in front of 250
people that was a packed house we're
going to have this thing where malonis
who I'm feuding with he jumps my brother
in the crowd throws him over the
barricade does this big thing to my
brother in front of me while his his
goons have me like handcuffed to the
ropes type of thing yeah I bring my
brother in a day early who's not a
wrestler to rehearse this we don't tell
my dad no I can see great Malone is Boom
throws my brother over my dad pretty big
guy 61 2 2 60 at this point probably
flips his crap and he starts swinging
and he's red-faced and he's got the
Hogan the ball top
with he no joke punches one of the
security guys oh no that
guy the real cops ambulances come whole
thing do the crowd like it lost it I
take my they they get my brother to the
back I take my brother immediately in my
car the back way and just leave seeing
because in my head I'm like I can't have
people know this was scripted like we're
out of here and then later deal with my
dad and his whole thing and they so dad
was arrested he was questioned and
luckily the promoter like was like knew
me well enough to yeah promoter was like
this is
great good good
[Applause]
[Music]
good go
[Music]
go
S soft
PA longer pause one more
slow right
top yes one more come on now control big
pause here
just good one more one more you got this
all fucking day let's go
toaso control big pause up speed yes R
oh fuck yeah fuck yeah Tomaso did 195
for three sets then right after he was
done drop set right to 135 did a set of
like seven and then as soon as he
finished that he rested a normal amount
of time and then did one extra set
awesome way to get a crapload of
metabolites in there minimize the load
on the bar maximize the effect of the
muscles that's that magic fellas oh man
that was great like before I remember
chasing the pump like three three in and
I'm like then by the time I caught it I
felt like I was doing a bunch of junk
volum yes you're already tired yeah this
way I'm like fuck this is unal yeah
first exercise every time I'm like okay
we're there now we're just fine tuning
if you guys want results like that the
RP hypertrophy app is just to click
away organic okay organic cable fly
cable fly cable fly let's go find one
and then hey I heard you was talking
that
[Music]
shit this is the angle you want this is
on the first yeah how high do you want
it
up H that's still off somehow up one
weird no down is that right am I going
nuts no that's even now right yeah looks
like it is to me I don't know just start
doing shit no
yeah this is at like right below the 10
what's that one hanging out
yeah so you're going to go down
oh down on there down up there you go
for that Mega stretch
perfect sink slowly and
low Tomaso is going to be doing bent
over cable flies the big cue here is you
want to maximize the stretch so that as
you pull the handles apart or as you let
them get slid apart you're going to be
lowering your chest and opening it up
big chest so lower and open Big Stretch
paw and then as you you come up you can
rise a little bit and as you go down you
can descend you want to open that big
chest up for a huge stretch and then a
nice little contraction uh sets of about
15 reps here let's get to
it yeah good two more descend big
chest yep one more descend slow open
up that's it slow oh sorry you're good
you're good you're good rack next time
we'll just open up and then rack
okay so that was a little heavy a little
bit yeah I'll go down to 30 then okay
how many injuries have you had tons I've
had like 10 surgeries all pretty major
wrestling's nuts yeah so I mean and some
is football before wrestling some's
wrestling some's probably just the
combination of not stopping between
training wrestling and like essentially
what happens is you want to be on a
routine you get an injury you try to
work around that injury
injury you you get to that point where
you like f the injury you train through
it too much then it you know gets worse
y but yeah like doing this method all my
weights dropped down kept my intensity
there though that slow pause like I said
to you guys earlier the pump has been
better I love it but I have no like
knock on wood but I haven't had an
injury training related that's awesome
since I started about six months ago I
feel like some of the way we train is
kind of like a combination of
hypertrophy train and auto auto rehab
because the slowy Centric and the pauses
that joint awareness and Mobility it's
like a lot of people ask jar and I like
what do you guys do for mobility and
we're like have you seen how we train
like if you can sink your asshole to the
fucking ground in a squat you're mobile
you guys are also in this crazy Dynamic
sport yes and but you have to train for
hypertrophy to look jacked and shit and
you're literally pumping up before you
go a match but like it's cool cuz you
can use that deep slow Ecentric build a
lot of muscle and then the whole entire
concentric phase where you're being
forceful and it's just good on both ends
it's the only sport that I that like
maybe amateur wrestling where there's
weight classes too but like you watch
football players basketball play
something and like a LeBron James he
never has to worry about his body fat
percentage in his appearance so he's
just supplementing and training just for
performance yeah and like we have to
perform but we can't train to very yeah
nobody cares how much you can clean and
jerk if you don't look at the par yeah
it's a real it's a tough one yeah
get one more all right let's do it
pause
One open
up one
more Yep slow chest up slow
rack wo that was
brutal all right I'm going to go find
you an incline I'll see you guys there
yep thank you
last chest exercise for the day here is
going to be incline dumbbell press you
guys are going to notice that Tomaso
does a slow Ecentric touching the
dumbells just outside of his chest with
a full pause every time and you get to
hear Jared feather give a great Cube if
you have trouble feeling your chest
instead of on the concentric folding in
which is totally fine if you're totally
good to feel your chest if you have
trouble feeling your chest instead of
arcing in your shoulders at the top kind
of pushing it forward with a lot of
people do naturally because your body
naturally thinks of pushing something
away from itself what you want to do is
push yourself away instead and keep your
chest up so not only do you keep your
chest up towards the bottom but you keep
your chest up all the way up it's going
to destroy your chest if you have a
problem mind Ming connection that's
something to try chest up chest up chest
up better big
chest slow
pause two
more don't let it sink don't lose
tighten this chest of the
ceiling one more
slow
on chest up
speed yeah big chest big chest big chest
pause and good damn way to sink out that
last one nice well you always do that as
if another yes that's got me to I just
it's in my brain when I'm excellent
excellent I love it we've infected
another jar who was your uh your WWE
Crush when you were growing up watching
wrestling so my guy no no no no my guy
cuz as a kid that's what it is my guy it
wasn't for me it was for me I'm straight
I I'm crooked as crap it was Bret for me
the first girl that I saw that I was
like man feeling things I shouldn't was
sunny which I don't even know that was
that has to be like early teenage years
I would assume yes little bit more of a
pause right here when you touch it's
just soft don't don't let it set
now as if another open open open give me
a 3 second pause at the bottom all the
way down one 2 3 beautiful rack oh way I
was going to go up in my mind I was like
maybe I'll try to get what surprise
him
shit good stuff good stuff what you got
next calvs just CS yeah let's do your
Cals let's do CS fuck it we never do
[Music]
CES new research has confirmed what
we've suspected for a while which is the
stretch is the critical part of
hypertrophy training so what I want you
to do when you're doing these is that PE
contraction where you hold it we're
going to ditch that all together you're
going to do is you're going to sink down
all the way as deep as you can and hold
it for three whole seconds at the very
bottom and then then you're going to
pulse up to gently get that full range
of motion really quick and then back
slow 3 second all the way at the bottom
it's going to be fucking terrible three
two more slow one two 3 one more one 2
three
R ouch hell yeah C pumps suck say that c
pumps they suck you hate them huh I
think they look really cool but it's
painful to get them and you're like so
bad yeah
two three that's it good Stu good
stuff you'll be feeling that tomorrow
yep nothing like going to wrestle three
matches now oh shit he
sick what' you think about the workout I
loved it I loved it very much I've been
doing your stuff for a while I started I
I talk to you about I started watching
watching all the videos just putting it
in my notes in my phone cuz I'm not a
program guy I've never been but then I
got put on that like beta list whatever
M so I think I'm on meso 6 or so on the
app now what do you think it's nuts I
use it legit like it's not even I use it
everywhere I go it's great for the road
because of the plug in play like today I
just oh I normally do this with B hacks
I'm going to substitute machines yes it
just it's very functional uh it's
perfect for what I do and it keeps me in
check like your natural instinct
wrestling especially Ro gy
new equipment new machine new scenery
you Overkill yourself plus you have to
wrestle plus you have to get a flight
and a car ride and it's just like it's a
it's a recipe for injury so this is like
it's a it's a good Lifesaver many check
you can at least keep the training
consistent you know an app you don't
want to not use it anymore like
sometimes I like oh I just want to kind
of hit a quick workout and I start
without the app and I'm like but I want
to plug in my numbers yeah huge pleasure
having you on the channel yeah big fan
of you so much wise and uh best of luck
beating up those overgo monsters in the
ring yeah appreciate it right thanks for
having me
guys