or P6 or p8 or P10 doesn't even matter
it looks like overall how close to Value
train and what RP you train to doesn't
really seem to influence how much
strength you gain at all it seems like
actually the benefits for strengths that
you see are a bit worse closer to
failure compared to a bit more sub
maximally closer to say three to five
episodes of reservo rpe five to seven
specificity does seem to apply in terms
of how heavy you should be lifting if
you're powerful trying to improve your
Wonder Max on the swap bench deadlift
and you're not treating it heavy likely
there's something you're missing out on
if by going closer to failure this
allows you to use more weight on the bar
and a greater percentage of your max
that's slightly positive for strength
however if you went to a higher rpe by
just doing more repetitions per set but
using the same weight that generally
wouldn't lead to Greater strength
adaptations much more so than being
mediated by how close to Value trained
strength adaptations made more so be
mediated by how heavy are you Lifting
for a strength program your focus should
be on lifting heavy but not lifting
close to failure necessarily the
trade-off between how much additional
fatigue you get from lifting closer to
failure versus how much additional
weight you're able to lift is something
you need to consider but don't just
drink closer to failure for the sake of
it doing sets of final more reps if
you're trying to be specific lift
heavyweight for low reps and rpe ideally
would still be relatively low