I don't know what this
is how it works I know basic
anatomy don't put your dick in here cuz
you know bad things will happen or do
and fun things will happen never can
tell this is cool cuz these are
independently rotating and you can pull
them all sorts of wacky ways you can use
this for rowing as well it's a neat bar
I got it I used it like for one meso and
I was like yeah that was neat we got the
mag grip shade over here you basically
put your hands in like this and of
course pull sometimes for some people it
feels amazing and they report that with
these kinds of grips they can really
feel their back and their lats much
better than with a straight bar totally
fine you can use that for a while and
again we're not looking for the forever
correct answer we're looking for the
correct answer for the next 48 weeks of
heart training then a D Lo and then you
can use it again or switch to something
else