hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I have the top 10.
best ways for you to make sure you stick
to your diet
now we have another video later with the
other top 10 on 11 through 20 anyway of
tips so please stay tuned for that one
but here's the thing
this video assumes that you either want
to start a diet or you already have
maybe you've done a few
and it's not going to tell you how to
build a diet specifically you could
probably surmise it from here we have
loads of other videos on that we have
the RP diet coach app which for like 15
bucks a month can build you a diet
exactly to your specifications keep you
on track remind you about meals all that
good stuff
this video here is for that extra layer
of knowledge that typically only coaches
have
it is the knowledge of
on the
mathematics and application of how to
build a diet you could do it a bunch of
different ways of how to execute a diet
you could do a bunch of different ways
of how to execute your lifestyle there's
technically a lot of correct answers
but some of those correct answers apply
less often than others and if you just
do a random effective diet it could be
ineffective for you the way you apply it
could be ineffective
so just like let's say you're in some
kind of real life version of a first
person shooter game where you shoot
demons and then you know the guns are
all laid out which gun do you pick uh
all the guns shoot bullets so there's no
wrong answer but depending on the
mission and the level and kind of weird
snake demon with dildos coming out of
his head that you find one of the
weapons may be much more appropriate
than the other and you wouldn't really
know which one was good unless you had
played the game a few times in the game
of dieting so to speak myself and our
team of coaches here at RP have played
like I don't know hundreds of thousands
of times and we found out a ton of stuff
that works and a ton of stuff that
doesn't work as well so I'm here to give
you that inside scoop so if you yourself
are embarking on a fat loss diet if you
have clients that embark on Fat Loss
diets all the time or you're about to
start coaching your clients there are
really good ways to do things and there
are other ways to do things that are
totally fine may not work out as when we
have to be wary of them so
these tips are going to try to keep you
more on the straight and narrow increase
your probability of success that's it
that's all it is
there are 10 of them so there's a lot to
dig in
first
you want to choose the right size for
your deficit
and
that means how many calories are you
going to remove from your regular diet
in order to lose the amount of fat that
you want
now if you just took one pass at this
question intellectually you could say
like well I want to lose a lot of fat so
what's the most I could safely do there
is a number for that for every
individual a little trial and error I'll
figure that out
but the thing is what is safe
isn't really sustainable and you want to
be able to sustain your efforts through
the entire course
of the diet to actually reach your goal
for example
it is actually a true statement that
with the security protocols they have in
place
going to Navy SEAL tryouts as long as
your doctor approves that you're healthy
is actually pretty safe
you're not gonna die
but is it sustainable is it by
definition for almost everyone it's the
opposite of sustainable you might not
last a few minutes never mind a few
hours or days or the whole selection
course
so you don't just want to pick a calorie
number randomly out of the Hat too much
is too much and you'll fall off the wet
on the other hand you could say Okay Hey
listen let's Okay I heard you
I'm gonna pick a very small deficit to
go real slow and steady and at first
that looks like a good idea
it really does a small deficit is easy
to pull off
you won't be unsuccessful with it in a
straightforward way of just burning out
but
research shows
people get less success with a very
small deficit
because they reach the following problem
week after week after week they look at
their body
they try to note how they feel they see
how they close fit
and not much is changing I mean
technically you're losing a third of a
pound a week or something you barely
feel it in the diet fatigue-wise you're
not super hungry but how do you supposed
to how are you supposed to motivate
yourself
if kind of nothing's happening
right you imagine going on a road trip
somewhere like you got a like a crazy
you know death metal slash Punk slash
electronic music concert in Chicago and
you're leaving from Indianapolis what is
that like a two and a half hour three
hour car ride that's called two hours
well you thought it was two hours so
you're pumped with your friends let's go
you're in the car putting whatever
demonic music on the you know stereo
that you listen to and then one of your
friends is driving at 10 miles an hour
and you go dude what are you doing and
he's like wow
I want to be safe want to make sure we
get there right fellas Safety First
don't want to burn out the car or you
don't want to get us hurt in an accident
you're like right good thinking good
idea now that trip is going to take two
days
about six hours into the trip most of
the people in the car you're like fuck
that get me out I'm just gonna walk home
because my house is right there we
haven't gone nowhere
so slow diets in much the same way tend
to burn people out because they don't
show them anything their motivation can
clasp onto
which is why a good start for most
people is somewhere in the middle
between really way too fast and really
way too slow because both things exist
what that means practically is a deficit
of you trying to lose something like
half a percent to one percent of your
current body weight per week
which means
if
we think about this
let's say you weigh 200 pounds
and that means that if you lose at half
percent per week that's a pound per week
that roughly corresponds to a 500
calorie deficit from your current diet
500 calories missing in some form of
exercise increase activity increase and
usually mostly food reduction
on the other hand if you're on the top
end
you're going to lose about two pounds a
week and that means you are going to be
at one percent
of weekly weight loss goal and that's
roughly around if you do the math uh a
thousand calorie per day deficit
a thousand calories per day so if you're
eating three thousand calories normally
to maintain your weight of 200 pounds
you could be eating 2500
calories potentially or even 2 000
calorie potentially in order to get to
your goal both are totally fine answers
and there's a lot of wiggle room
the wiggle room is something you decide
when you're actually doing it and what
you want to do is get a combination of
two things one sustainability you gotta
feel pretty energetic pretty good no
crazy sleep loss no crazy Cravings at
least in the beginning
and two you got to be like wow like I
feel like I'm eating less food I feel a
little lighter day to day
and after one two and three weeks the
weight is steadily going down as
predicted as long as you can check both
boxes
generally speaking you're really good to
go
next
tip number two is to make sure you're
doing a good job balancing your activity
slash cardio and your food intake
because it's very easy to look at
deficit and think okay I'll just cut all
my food down by 500 calories and then
hit that I won't change my activity at
all
it's also easy to think the other way
around where you say okay I'm going to
exercise for 500 more calories per day
I'm going to change nothing about how I
eat and that's going to be totally fine
too and again just like I said at the
beginning of this video
technically on paper without exposure to
the real world both of those are valid
options there's nothing wrong with them
on paper which is a lot of white people
who start and do diets and then don't
have a lot of success or any success
with the process they don't lose the
weight that they want
they end up thinking well like I fucking
cut the calories like the stupid
textbook told me to but the stupid
textbook might not you might not be
reading the right textbook and it might
not be telling you everything about what
you need to know
about balancing that two-factor equation
there is a better way to do it and here
it is
first
find yourself a level of physical
activity that is sustainable
ideally something a little bit higher
than what you're used to
a lot of times step trackers can do a
real good job with this where you look
at your step tracker you also have one
on your cell phone and if you're walking
about seven or eight thousand steps a
day you think okay that's nice let me
bump it up to a minimum of 10K steps per
day
if you wanted to do a ton of cardio you
could but that takes up a ton of time
and it generates a ton of fatigue and
cardio is a really hard for how not many
calories It Burn
so what you just want to do is do a
little bit more activity than usual but
not a ton more maybe 12 10 to 12K steps
a day
that's number one
the next thing is to go on the internet
and find out how many more calories per
day at my body weight is this increase
in activity burning and that's usually
something like about 100 to 200 calories
nothing crazy
then you see okay I wanted to get to 500
calorie deficit I'm already burning 150
extra from physical activity that means
I need 350 extra calories to take out
from food
that's it
so
that's not that hard
once you find that out you can go and
plug and play and then you have found
the balance
that balance may change in the future
you made your initial cut like this yes
but let's say you get
tired you get hungry and later in the
diet you may have to cut your calories
again
if you're cutting calories again you go
through the same formula
but you now do a little value judgment
before you execute it for example let's
say it's been six weeks since you made
your first deficit and now your weight
loss is plateauing a little and you want
to keep it on track you want to keep it
under the trend line on your RP diet
coach Diet app
and the diet app says hey you got to cut
your calories by like this much and
you're like okay except I accept your
advice and it goes okay here here you go
before you hit that calorie cut number
because it's going to give you an option
to cut a little bit of calories cut a
medium amount or cut a large amount
it'll cue you in on which one it thinks
you should do ask yourself the following
question
ideally
can I go with more physical activity
or less food in other words which one
will piss me off the least which one is
gonna pull me uh closer to my limit
right so imagine being in a crazy
Indiana Jones style like
Northern African desert prison
two types of prison
in one prison they work you to death to
the ground 12 hours of physical labor or
else a dude whips you every single day
but when you go back to your jail cell
they feed you all the food you want it
might not be tasty but it's all the food
you can eat no big deal
the other prison style
is you don't really do much you actually
just sit around there's like a lounge
area sort of it's not super comfortable
there's tables and chairs and you're
there with other prisoners you can chat
no crazy violence all the other
prisoners are also good guys like you
just in an adventure gone wrong
and there's no work right but uh they
just straight up barely feed you at all
there's almost no food you get fat just
enough to like keep your eyes open so
you're hungry all the time miserable all
the time
if you were in that first prison the one
where they worked you to the Bone but
gave you as much food as possible
if the prison guard came up to you and
he's like look there's finally you know
United Nations got to know about us we
got to do prison reforms I know it
sounds crazy Indiana Jones
do you want more food because they said
look you're something we're treating you
with is bad or do you do you guys want
to work less
you'd be like oh holy shit of course
work less fuck this 12 hour work day
shit this is crazy
but if you were working barely at all
and they came in and said hey do you
want to work a little bit more and get
uh more food or do you want us to cut
your food even more but you don't have
to work anymore you'd be like are you
crazy we don't have anything to do I
love I would love to do four hours a day
of some kind of work so we get like
double the food and the person you're
like okay great great we'll we'll do it
so if you're on a fat loss diet you
could be in a situation where it's like
I don't care even preference then you
choose to cut a little bit of calories
increase a little bit of cardio if
you're like I'm super super tired I
can't move around anymore but I'm
actually eating quite a bit cut mostly
food or all food don't cut any calories
don't put any calories in for cardio and
the last one of course is obvious
you're starving to death
but like you're not really moving around
that much your daily activity is still
at seven or eight thousand steps you're
just like ah fuck it I'll cut my food
but now you're starving adding pretty
much all of the deficit in through more
cardio is great because you've got
plenty of time to move around plenty of
energy you just not going to want to
touch your food because you're already
starving that's how to adjust that on
the Fly
Point number three
it's probably a good idea to eat enough
of each macronutrient
people always want a shortcut and they
always want to cut some shit out because
that's magically going to let them have
this super effective diet
we already know not to cut out protein
or not to produce protein protein is
what saves your muscle on your body and
pretty much everyone is trying to get
lean without getting any less muscular
proteins out of the way
but a lot of times people say hey let's
I need tons of carbs for energy and for
my sport but what are fats fats are
useless macronutrients that people don't
even need to eat low-fat diet fat free
diet like back in the 80s it turns out
that messes with your hormones and
messes with your hunger signaling and
then you just end up having low energy
zero sex drive are pretty close a really
bad time it's tough to recover for your
lifting and your physical activity
you're really really low on energy or
super dragging your cravings for higher
fat foods are insane and you're like
okay maybe I made a mistake ah wait I'll
fix it I'll go keto I'm gonna drop my
carbs to almost zero and raise my fats
well goodbye fat Cravings you got all
the fat you wanted but now your workout
energy sucks because you don't have any
carbs you'll work out to work out
recovery sucks because you don't have
any glycogen your day-to-day at least
for a little while mental space isn't
going to be that great because your
brain prefers glucose on which to run in
your daily energy just isn't going to be
as good so our recommendation here is at
least to start with eat enough protein
eat at least 0.3 grams of fat for every
pound body weight you have so for
example if you're 200 pounds and 60
grams of fat per day I wouldn't go below
that you could even go above that and
then generate your calorie deficit
subtract out the carbs and see how many
carbs you get it'll probably be plenty
of carbs as long as your deficit's not
completely insane that way you're
checking the box for all three of your
Macros and you're not needlessly putting
one off to the pasture where at some
point you're going to want to have
access to its benefits but you don't
your body does not do super well with
extremes it doesn't do super well with
you taking out a bunch of Necessities it
does better if you turn down each bar of
macronutrient rather than eliminate one
altogether
number four
number four is one about which most
people actually don't know
and that makes it a little bit curious
here's the deal
there is actually quite a bit of
research on this and the research is as
follows
if you eat the same macronutrients every
single day
thus the same calories you have the same
calorie deficit you can actually see
detectable differences in how healthy
and how lean and how energetic your diet
makes you
depending on which schedule of meals
that you use and the big thing here is
similarity
seems like human bodies prefer something
like four to six meals a day not
something like one to eight meals a day
and if you're gonna have one meal a day
every day should be one meal pretty much
if you're gonna have eight meals a day
which would be insanely inconvenient
every day should have eight meals
but the similarity is the big part let's
say you have four meals a day is it okay
that some days you have three meals
totally
is it okay that someday you have five
meals totally
is it okay if you have some days one
some days four some days eight it's okay
but it's not nearly as good your body
thrives on regularity in addition to
this
you want similar meal times every single
day
some days you have breakfast at 9am some
days you have it at 8 am but not very
often do you have breakfast at 8 am one
day and then you wait until 2 pm to eat
the next day
so meal timing isn't Ultra important
but if you stick to a very similar
timing schedule through the day you're
going to have much better results well
buy a small margin anyway and one that
counts then if you just do random
sporadic shit
and you also want to have similar macro
spreads throughout the day which means
generally if you train in the morning
keep training in the morning most days
of the week I wouldn't train in the
morning and then train at Night Train in
the morning train at night sometimes
look your schedule just demands that you
do and that's totally cool but a lot of
times
it's a really good idea to stay as
stable as you can and because your
training schedule will be able to be
protein spread evenly throughout the day
anyway and you're roughly evenly spread
meals at roughly the same times but you
also want to make sure that you're
having more carbohydrates around your
training window if you were after or if
you're training is later fewer
carbohydrates earlier in the day and
then more after whatever your meals are
make sure each meal split macros wise is
roughly the same or at least similar so
for example if you typically have your
breakfast at eight and or nine or ten
a.m close enough
your breakfast let's say typically has
50 grams of carbs in it and whatever 50
protein and 20 fat
that means that the next day your
breakfast could have 30 grams of carbs
the day after that your breakfast could
have 70 grams of carbs and that's all
winners but it's probably not great or
rather ideal for you to have one day
breakfast zero carb the next day
breakfast 130 grams of carbs the next
day 60 and so on and so forth all the
sporadic nonsense can regularity is a
big deal that most people just don't
know about it's a big deal because of
habits that stick in and then your day
becomes kind of a part of who you are
and it's easier but it also seems to
make sense at least from the literature
based on some kind of signaling and
molecular hormonal stuff such that like
actually eating on a regular basis day
after day after day
similar Meal Time similar meal amounts
similar meal macros gets you going in a
way that just Smooths out the entire
process which is probably what you're
interested in and probably what your
clients are interested in is you're
helping people out with clients
this seems to push back a little bit and
it does
on the idea that about 10 years ago in
the fitness industry maybe a little bit
before that it was kind of first
popularized that macros are everything
If It Fits your Macros was born if your
daily macros were were what they were
you're going to get very good results so
that's still true but you can get better
results with meal timing so a lot of
people will say well as long as they get
in all my calories mattress about the
day I'm good and that's totally true but
if you get them in relatively evenly
with even scheduling you'll just be more
successful lose more fat have more
energy have better health outcomes if
you have regular meal timing then if you
don't by a small margin but an effective
one so something like the I don't
understand it's starting to sound like a
sales pitch the we did think of the
science when we made the app and when we
update the app the RP diet coach app
gives you regular meal times with meal
reminders and a way in which you can
make your meals are very similar
throughout the whole week it helps you
plan your workouts there are other you
know because it's a diet planner it's a
diet coach very different there are
other Fitness and diet trackers that
will essentially give you like a bucket
for a day of food and say oh yeah eat
this anytime and they're not bad but
they're not quite as good as giving you
specifics and keeping you on a schedule
of regular intake which is the big deal
here
next
number five
way that you can be more successful in
your fat loss diet
is to learn to bulk meal prep
the alternative
is to essentially what I call spot
cooking everything
on the spot
it's 1pm
time for lunch my RP diet coach app says
lunch eat your lunch oh there's the
macros
I go to the kitchen I look at the fridge
I look at the eggs I look at the cheese
I look at the turkey and I go okay it's
time to cook and I fire up the grill or
The Griddle or whatever I need to and
get the blender going and I make myself
a meal unless that's like
Fitness culture 101 right the way I got
introduced to Fitness was like some late
night commercial with a guy in leotards
was like turning on a blender some
reason he was in leotards the Tony the
gazelle guy do you remember that guy
Scott the video guy the gazelle machine
guy that's right the hat and the leotard
on at all times yes
he's the man
so cooking a meal fresh and having it
there with all your great macros is
there is not a thing in the world wrong
with it at all
but on day two on day 27 on day 67 of
your diet
cooking every single meal from scratch
is just a lot of work now if you're
there for it psychologically fucking
awesome
enjoy Mr Chef Mrs Chef that's you
the folks that diet the most which is
competitive bodybuilders by definition
because they diet cyclically as part of
their competition prep every single time
the diet really is the prep they have
found
that if you cook a whole bunch of a few
different kinds of meats a whole bunch
of a few different kinds of grains whole
bunch of just a few different kinds of
veggies which is really easy to do on
like a sundae in like a two to four hour
period at home
you make all that stuff in bulk you
measure out the meals that you can have
and plan that each meal you know like
every day you have four meals maybe one
of them is a protein shake at night or
some some Greek yogurt you're not going
to like put that in a tupperware
container you can make that on the spot
easy and it's like fun to make it in the
evening and put a little few little nuts
in there and stuff like that that's
totally cool but three of those daily
meals you are going to have in
tupperware by the end of that Sunday
actually within like two to four hours
it doesn't take all day you're gonna
have them in a combination of the
freezer and the fridge so that your
whole week all of your meals are there
that gives us two incredible advantages
one is over the course of the week that
saves you I don't know 10 hours maybe
10 hours of your time back to do
anything you want with it and when
you're on a hard fat loss diet
that's a lot of time you want back like
there's all kinds of other stuff in your
life that's now more difficult to do
because your brain only works halfway
because you're starving all the time I'm
kidding but you guys get the idea
isn't it great that when you're doing
something difficult like a fat loss diet
that requires a lot of your cognitive
bandwidth that you can free up 10 hours
of the day with bulk meal prep yes
that's number one thing it gives you is
time number two
it takes you away from the kind of
decision fatigue
or rather decision opportunity that can
make you falter okay imagine you told
yourself
I'm
not gonna jack off to porn
for the next 12 weeks
you on some of the Josh Hartnett 2003
type of shit what's that movie called
Scott the video guy 40 days 40 nights
that movie was cool
40 I think
yeah
anyway Josh Hartman was dreamy in any
case you say I'm not going to do it no
more porn hey sweet
kudos to you
and every single time
that you start your computer
you have a porn pop-up and a work pop-up
really hey do you want to jack off to
this porn look at all this porn or do
you want to do work
man that's a tough way to set up your
startup screen on your computer you're
making life very difficult for yourself
it's similar to the way that when you
walk in to your refrigerator or to your
kitchen and you don't have a meal prep
yet sure there's options and some of the
ones you said you wouldn't do when
you're making a meal and you're hungry
for that meal it's tempting to be like
okay I'm hungry
the boss has been fucking riding me at
work not literally it's going to get the
porn and I need this I need just a few
more carbs for myself why am I so
ridiculous that I'm saying it should
happen all the fucking time you guys
probably know in the comments you can
tell me how often you see it happen to
yourself or to others like uh extra
Bagel that's okay
but if you have your meal pre-prepped
that's like coming to work
you can't even access porn on your
computer
and your work is pre-loaded for you you
open up your computer at your work from
yesterday you just get right back in
just walk into the fridge get the
Tupperware out you go I don't want to do
this I want to eat pizza but fuck it's
already here microwave three minutes out
spoon done meal eaten and then once that
meal has been eaten and you're washing
your Tupperware you think wow I'm not
even hungry anymore I'm not craving
anymore that meal hit the spot and thank
God that that meal was already pre-prep
what kind of fucking genius did this oh
wait I did last Sunday
huge advantage of both meal prep and I
think a lot of people think meal prep is
scary like oh my God like I'm one of
these bodybuilder people now I do bulk
prep my friends are gonna come over
they'll be like what's all this
Tupperware yeah yeah you need new
friends I'm kidding it's just not that
hard it's just really really basic stuff
to give yourself the advantage plain and
simple
next within the context of bulk meal
prep
or if you want to cook some of your own
meals at least some of the time and
maybe all the time for whatever reason
on a fat loss diet it is a huge
wholehearted recommendation of mine for
you to try to
at least to some extent avoid elaborate
menu items again we come to the
following
on your fat loss plan
life is harder
it's like living in a world with one and
a half times normal Earth gravity
someone's like hey can you get the
remote and you're like
but it's over there that's a whole three
pieces of furniture away are you crazy
what if the remote just came to you
wouldn't that be great wouldn't it be
great if the remote was closer
in a similar way
when you are doing a
a really tough fat loss diet and listen
if you push a fat loss diet enough
challenge yourself at least at the end
they all get tough
if you have a Sunday meal prep and you
have to cook some food and the meal prep
now takes five six seven hours because
you decided to meal prep yourself three
different kinds of meals a day one of
the meals it's the regular Tupperware
but then it's got like the little pull
out mini internal Tupperware that's got
little cayenne pepper in it because you
don't want to mix the pepper with the
noodles it's better if you just put it
on there when the meal starts after the
microwave I've seen people do all this
shit and listen if you have time for it
and the bandwidth great do the complex
meal prep have a bunch of different
ingredients when you're in a tough spot
and you will be in a fat loss diet give
yourself all the advantages the
advantages come when you have a meal
prep that's got like two or three
different kinds of proteins two or three
different kinds of carbs shit even one
works two or three different kinds of
veggies you pour them into the little
places in the Tupperware measure it all
out boom you're done
that gives you two advantages one we
already mentioned is just the reduction
in bandwidth because shit is hard enough
as it is on a fat loss phase
the other thing is this when you're in a
fat loss phase especially towards the
end of it
you're going to get hungry you're going
to get cravy and you want your food your
meals to knock out your hunger to buy
you honestly honestly another four hours
of fucking sanity so you can do your
work hang out with your kids take the
dog on a walk drive to the store and not
be thinking about like how many granola
bars could I eat if I wasn't on my diet
with big tall glass of milk probably a
hundred I'd probably die I just blow up
like a seagull who's eating at alcat
sauce
if you're free from those thoughts that
your meals are winning and if your meals
are Ultra Ultra nuanced Ultra well
prepared Ultra elaborate Ultra delicious
you're gonna really Crave Your meals
which an hour before your meal that's
all you're going to think about and then
you're going to eat your meal you're
going to enjoy the living shit out of it
and then afterwards about a half an hour
later you can be like God damn it how
about another one of those meals man and
you look at your clock you're like only
three and a half hours till my next meal
three and a half hours of existential
dread if you make your meals just decent
you can take the emotionality out of
eating for at least the last four hard
weeks of your diet
and why would you want to take the
emotionality out of eating because the
only eating emotions you get nowadays on
the net balance are negative because you
never have enough food that is the
nature of deficit dieting and you don't
feel like you're getting enough food so
the complex menu items take a lot of
time to actually prepare and also they
make you crazy and they make you more
likely to just be still fucking hungry
and pissed so stick to the simple stuff
maybe the not the world's tastiest
emeriligassi type of shit and then
you're going to be setting yourself up
for a higher probability of success flat
out
number seven
food on the Run
I highly recommend to you
to either have in your home or office or
wherever you find yourself Uber that
you're driving
or know of where to get quick
realistically
three sources of lean proteins
three sources or at least one or two of
healthy carbs
and a few sources of healthy fats to
build a meal with the good macros that
you want in it but your RP diet coach
app says eight eat at 12 pm
if you can't make it to a tupperware
meal or you're not in a position that
day to even have the Tupperware around
you it's important to know where to get
Meals On The Go this is a practiced
skill that you're going to get better at
over time but if you've got kind of like
a quick draw solution then you're going
to be way more successful because when
you walk into a gas station
and you're 30 minutes late for your RP
diet coach meal number three of the day
if you just straight up have no idea
what you're supposed to eat you've never
done this before
fuck man that's that whole porn analogy
again the gas station's full of
delicious things there's bear claws
there's those stuffed honey cinnamon
buns there's more bear claws of a
different flavor
and all of a sudden like you're like ah
well I need food and fuck this diet and
Shazam I'm eating junk
or you eat something that kind of has
some protein but not enough
if you go to the gas station before then
20 minutes before your meal or even at
the beginning of a diet or even before
you start a diet you can sort of get
into the gas station around your work
and kind of look at what they have you
can know in advance a few items you can
get for example they might have some
muscle milk protein shakes
they might have some really lean uh
jerky turkey jerky or beef jerky that
you can eat they might have some really
good macros protein bars that are just
hanging around they might also have a
few different types of fruit or some of
those healthy granola bars with mostly
just slow digesting carbs and not a
whole lot else and they might have
various flavors of nuts that are salted
or unsalted or semi-salted and then you
can just pick from that and that's
literally like a meal builder at a gas
station if you work from home or if
you're at home a lot or if you're in
your Uber that you drive a lot you can
have those types of things at your
disposal so that you have are ready to
go and it's so easy to have like two or
three meals at any point in your fridge
or around the house anything so even if
you don't have meals prepped that day
easy on the go food on the Run stuff is
no big deal if you work in an office you
can have if you have like an office
fridge you can just show up that morning
and be like okay we got clients in 20
minutes coming in for a deal fuck I
didn't bring my food that's okay I'm
gonna run downstairs to the deli they
got I'm gonna buy a few exact item like
this and then when we free up with the
clients after the meeting I'm gonna boom
boom boom eat and then write up the
whole proposal awesome it's the food on
the Run
gives you the ability that if you're off
track off schedule off whatever out of
your element you don't have your meals
there's no need to panic and there's no
need to eat a whole five bags of chips
which for some reason people do we'll
get into that later when they freak out
Point number eight tip number eight
be ready at the restaurant
you guys live in the real world I don't
I'm actually a large language model I'm
not even Dr Michael
huh how could you ever tell
maybe in a few years this will be uh
interestingly dated yeah
good God in any case say that again
Scott's a video guy is replacing me with
I got a lot of samples of stuff I say so
it'll sound eerily like like Dr Mike but
not quite it'll probably do that really
well when I do with my eyes in any case
here's the deal you guys are real people
you can't always carve out 12 weeks of
fat loss phase which is like what we
recommend an RP diet coach app is like a
really good medium amount of time to
diet to really change your body it's
hard to take 12 weeks out of your life
and be like I'm never going to a
restaurant in those 12 weeks you could
people do it but it's much better that
if you get a chance to go to a
restaurant you are prepared
and that means you use this crazy thing
called the internet I know I know it's
scary but give it a chance and you go to
this machine called the Google
and you Google the name of the
restaurant that your parents are coming
into town and they want to go to a
restaurant and that's the one you and
your wife pick to take them out to
and you look at their menu and you think
what on this menu can remotely comport
with what my macros are for meal number
five which is when I'll be eating this
meal it's not that hard most restaurants
have a really good option
but it's better than that most
restaurants have an ability for you to
call the server hey hey you that's how I
treat servers I'm kidding
and be like hey um I know you guys have
a chicken breast dish with all this
other stuff is there a way you guys
could just get me the chicken breast
itself and then just like a bunch of
veggies and maybe like a thing like a
cup of rice almost everywhere I've ever
gone that's remote like any restaurant
above McDonald's ability to customize
their menu items they're like yeah yeah
sure you say I'll just pay whatever like
for this normal out because that saves
them a bunch of money on the sauce on
the weird peanuts they put on there for
for the food decoration they don't give
a fuck or they'll be like well can we
tell you how much this is going to cost
you're like yeah sweet that's 15 bucks
sugar sounds fine
that way you're winning at every step of
the equation which you do not want to do
is to show up to a restaurant hungry as
fuck your parents are squawking at you
and you're like oh my fucking God how
long is this dinner and you look at the
menu and there's nothing on there
discernible or the food items aren't
even explained it's like oh like it's
some kind of artistic name like
chuharaska tacos and you're like what
the fuck is in these and it's like a
hipster place so you can't even tell
what the fuck the ingredients are
they're like is this like a carb or a
fucking herb is this a smell or is this
a food what the fuck is going on Mission
appointed something that has some
delicious food that you might like to
eat right be like uh I'll have what that
person's having and it's great but it's
got a trillion calories in it because
it's not a diet food because you
panicked and you chose wrong be ready
for the restaurant by Googling in
advance or by knowing that you almost
always have the recourse to just order
some clean food and look people get
embarrassed about ordering this kind of
stuff they get embarrassed about asking
restaurant employees this
I urge you at home to consider and
please put in the comments below if you
have a good guess why why are you
embarrassed I said seventh grade is your
dick out again in public again I'm gonna
call Ronnie's parents for the fifth time
this month no nobody cares nobody cares
cue that Jurassic Park meme with the fat
guy see nobody cares you just fucking do
that and you're good to go restaurant
win okay if you show up smells really
good in the restaurant everyone's eating
tasty stuff your parents and your wife
have all ordered the really good stuff
because they're not on diets that's it
you're failing because you're ordering
the same shit oh somebody got fries I'll
snack on those too don't do it be
prepared
number nine
sometimes you're going to plant a fat
loss phase
and you're going to get into some rough
times in your life
you get a phone call we're like hey man
you have a long lost brother oh my God I
can't believe it though yeah bad news
he's dead so come to the funeral you're
like Jesus Christ
you got to go to a funeral in Arkansas
really Arkansas
fuck that's like a week of me having a
meet new family ugh look at a dead body
ugh
go to a funeral and pretend to cry
because they never knew the guy uh
that's a lot of stress
in that week you could choose to try to
stick to your diet and if you've got a
handle on things I'm not gonna kick that
dick out of your mouth so to speak
that's a Martin Lawrence joke
if you want to stick to your night and
you think you got it Hey listen amazing
everyone's clapping for you but it's
totally cool for you to say look this
week or this two weeks I'm going through
a house sale I'm going through a divorce
I'm divorcing my children I somebody
take them I don't want them anymore
any kind of big major life event
super big work trip here's an example
your CEO walks in and he's like hey you
know that Tokyo count like yeah we're
never gonna get that account we just got
it motherfucker pack your bags we're
going to Kyoto tonight we're gonna
fucking train to Tokyo and we're gonna
give them the best fucking presentation
ever and they're gonna sign a fucking
contract and we're gonna be fucking
billionaires and you're like I bet I
have my macros who's gonna be like what
here's your fucking ticket see you at
the airport and you're like shit is it a
good idea for you to go to Tokyo to make
the presentation of your life
half Delirious on zero carbs because
that just happens to be that weak in
your diet no probably not
the other option isn't no diet and
that's the thing that kills me and this
is tip number nine
when you are off your game knowingly
and it's time for you to take a break
from your diet that means you don't
break in half and Cheetos come spilling
out and you eat them to try to get them
back in your body it is not a license to
eat whatever the fuck you want
it is a license to do one intelligent
thing and that's this
take your deficit out and return it to
maintenance
you're going to eat at maintenance for
the entire time
that that event continues there's an
option in the RP diet coach app to
manually add a bunch of food to take
yourself up roughly to maintenance it
does it all for you but if you're doing
it yourself it's a very easy calculation
already know what your maintenance is
from before you started the diet and
it's real close to what it was now that
you've been doing the diet for a while
just knock off a couple hundred calories
boom that's your main
refuse to maintain a three thousand
calories you've been dieting on 2200 for
a few months your maintenance is like 27
or 2800 calories not rocket science
stick to that maintenance you're going
to have a way easier time sticking to
any diet anywhere because maintenance
eating isn't that hard
you have tons of fats available now in
your diet that you didn't so you can
have normal menu items as long as you up
the protein a little bit
you're not under any kind of stress
anymore because maintenance is easy so
you can do a great job at the Tokyo
conference you can poke your long-lost
dead brother's body whatever it is
you're into
and all the while
you are not regressing
at all
you're just maintaining so let's say you
had an ultra successful diet you went
from weighing 180 pounds to weighing 168
and you want to get to 165 and it's
super close
and then you have to go on this work
trip because you closed the whatever
account or almost closed you got to go
to the presentation of your life you
don't want to come back from Japan and
Japan as a patron saint of fucking
amazing food you want to come back from
there be way 178 and you're like God
damn it I'm glad I'm a millionaire now
but fuck
what you want to do is come back
weighing like 169 because of the weird
travel bloat and then two days later you
weigh 167 you're looking for food I lost
no ground
zero steps forward
zero steps back
fucking amazing it takes some diligence
and it takes the knowledge that when the
diet is too hard to execute you go to
maintenance you guys ever watch like uh
watch you guys watch NASA or Tesla
fucking Tesla what's that SpaceX any of
those Enterprises launch a rocket that's
really important in the space when they
get a report like head's going to be bad
weather they're not like
how much does a rocket cost like 10
billion ah fuck launch it anyway what
what the weather is going to knock it
out and that's a 10 billion gone if it's
unmanned and 10 billion and like five
people's fucking lives gone if it's
manned what the fuck are we doing they
wait now when they wait
as soon as the say hey guys launched
delayed until uh we'll take a look
tomorrow 24-hour cycle launch delayed
for now are the guys who are fueling up
the rocket like fuel everywhere fuel
here light it throw it on fire party who
cares break open the O-rings no why the
fuck would they do that
that would set the launch back even more
they go on maintenance it's a holding
pattern double check triple check
everything leave it the fuck alone go
through the whole cycle again and then
we'll take it up uh tomorrow when the
weather might clear and then we launch
same idea you may thought your dad was
going to be 12 weeks but now it's 15
weeks with a three week diet break at
some point when you had to go to Japan
to do your presentation
and during that time you were on
maintenance which is when you come back
you haven't lost any ground you finish
up the last few weeks and it's super
success instead of just being hey my
diet's over for now coming back 10
pounds heavier and being like God damn
it that was a fun trip but uh I really
just erased a bunch of progress that you
do not want
lastly tip number 10 and then we'll see
you guys next time for the the rest of
these
again
when I started this conversation with
you guys
it was pretty clear that you can do all
of these things none of these are like
don't do this this is how you die this
is how you don't they're options
but some of these options get you into
more trouble probabilistically than
others
number 10 is a big deal
because here's the thing if you have
junk food at home if you keep junk food
in your home but you're on a diet you
have been for six weeks
look you live with other people you
probably don't live alone if you live
alone what's up
don't be too lonely
I'm saying your boy's always thinking
about you
it's weird but not in a weird way but in
a little bit of a weird way like a
loving way but too much loving like like
a girlfriend that hugs you a little bit
tighter than you hug her and you're like
you're great Susie in any case that's
how much I love you that aside
if you're at home alone
let's say there's nobody else involved
even
you can eat your clean meal huh you can
but you're hungry and you're tired and
you're pissed and your diet's almost
over anyway
and you got a container of Oreos in
there
who's gonna stop you nobody literally
on the other hand
if you're someone who lives with other
people whether those aren't your Oreos
but all you have to do is look up the
stairs and be like hey Jim he's like
what
hey buddy how's your day been
what the fuck do you want okay
hey man you're gonna eat those Oreos
nah you're good man you can have them
yes
Oreo time Oreo time Oreo time step on
scale sadness Faith you don't want that
is it possible for you to just do your
own shit have your own Mega swag just
like Drake the junk food out of your
life and have success yes
but if you're trying to give yourself
the biggest advantages while you're
under the most pressure
it is a very good idea for you to let
take as a junk as the French say I'm a
native French speaker native I was born
in France
and Ella throw it away or like give it
to the children or some shit give it to
you drive it to somebody else's house be
nice you just like you're just living
your normal best life and your friend's
like hey I brought you a bunch of junk
food see you later just close the door
you're like holy fuck all right fuck
Halloween this is sweet I don't even
have to leave my house
if there's no junk food in the home when
you begin to panic
what the fuck are you gonna do
you go fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck
I gotta eat something that's off my diet
I'm starving
open your shelf
two liter container of olive oil
uncooked eggs in the fridge with milk
prepped meals
two-day-old broccoli that's soggy
uh do you want to cheat on that no
you're not nobody does that somebody
drinks oil when they're hungry unless
they're actually starving which or not
you're just in a fat loss diet and
fucking pussy
in any case
cheating is still possible
you can physically get out of your seat
start your car go to the store buy junk
food have people in the community see
you buying junk food hey Bill I thought
you were gonna die shut up Frank get out
of my face okay buddy see you next time
unlikely
there's a lot of steps in which your
cognition has to actively deal with the
fact that you were doing a thing you
told yourself you weren't going to do
when cheating on your diet is just a
matter of just just look just I'm just
gonna get the snack I'm gonna eat it I
didn't see anything it's easier when
cheating is a matter of being like all
right
I'm going to drive to the store
to cheat on my diet 11 days before it's
supposed to be over and I'm successful
fuck I'm not gonna do that plus when
you're a diet of that hard you're so
fucking hot tired you're like I'm not
going to the store that would mean I
have to get up and pick up my keys or
the infinite gravity of how fucking
heavy they are at this point in my diet
fuck that I'm just gonna stay here and
watch TV 11 pm hits your nighttime
routine shit starts and you're like huh
hate it another day sleep that's it
so no you don't have to remove all the
junk out of your home and if you have
children please don't because children
probably like a well-balanced diet of
some fun snacks sorry Dad's on a diet
kids no more happiness for 12 weeks and
it's not cool but if you can arrange it
in some way especially if you live alone
or even if you live with roomies just
arrange your fridge or a little cubby
space in some way that doesn't have junk
there and in best case there's no junk
in the house for the next 12 weeks of
your diet and then you can look at your
RP diet coach app it tells you what to
eat the meals you've already done your
bulk meal prep you eat your prep meals
everything is Happy ish and then you get
super lean and then you are successful
and then voila good things happen
folks if you have any questions or
comments please shoot them in below and
I'll see you guys on the video guy what
do you think next week for another
episode
the next 10 videos
Scott the video guy is a YouTube
thumbnailing and planning genius
so he says we're probably gonna space
them out so here's the deal you guys are
gonna have to wait and don't blame me
blame Scott the video guy there's one
one one seven Maple Street Birmingham
Heights California you look the the
95650 uh send them a mailbomb I'm
totally kidding is there even really an
address don't send anybody a mailbox
what is this 90s anyway I'll see you
guys next time