I've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our piece simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule in choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
folks welcome back to
cleve webinar with dr. mike and dr.
james I'm dr. James he's dr. Mike we got
a lot of questions today we're just
gonna get right into it should say TJ
Jankowski says hey chaps writes the
questions number one I'm taking this
time to improve my flexibility for BJJ
but also because you know flexibility
was know being jacked if you can't flex
fair enough from what I'm aware there's
decent evidence that excessive
stretching can inhibit strength games is
this how it appears shan-pak hypertrophy
or is there something else in McNall
also mechanistically involved there's
obvious believe that whole movement
behind DC style stretching and big
stretching to improvement per trophy
Plus male gymnasts - rather flexible and
also rather Jack they're they're not
rather Jack the rather Jack for being 5
foot 2 130 pounds like let's keep that
in perspective also they don't have any
legs but anyway so also gymnasts train
like 80 hours a week to get that jacked
like not a highly efficient form of
training but in any case is it just
because they are elite / the time they
put it yes that's correct
or because stretching doesn't effect
hypertrophy specifically it does splits
garvey I know but still want to consider
from what I understand and our colleague
built in our colleague job mentor bill
sands did some of this work in education
we were PhD students stretching very
very very intense stretching is
essentially access another stressor and
stretching loaded stretching can
increase the amount of muscle you have
lengthwise by a small amount but it
extreme stretching to enhance
flexibility can reduce force production
probably not the mechanism by which it
reduces hypertrophy potential but stress
stretching in and of itself strata a
stressful it causes damage and healing
from that damage is probably the biggest
way in which it interferes with
hypertrophy James yeah I'd say the
effect is more pronounced in strength
and power from what I've gathered just
from looking into it a little bit it's
definitely more like you can affect the
stress shortening cycle of the muscle
you can affect the force output you can
actually affect like the joint
pliability in a bad way there doesn't
seem to be any like super direct effects
on hypertrophy outside of what mike
already described so I would say but
just also keep in mind like this is the
amount of stretching you have to do to
elicit these effects is massive
I mean like normal dynamic warmup normal
static stretching normal additional
flexibility mobility training in
addition to that the stuff you might be
doing in the gym is perfectly fine well
you start to see problems is when people
are doing like two hours of hard
stretching per day that's where we start
to run into these issues
yeah number two if there is an impact
specifically I've stretched over
aperture after an answer to question 1
it could be negative positive how about
when training at maintenance I'm at an
arm focus mass but I'm training my legs
and I'm being looking at potentially all
my lower body stretching thoughts on
some good old PNF stretching versus
dynamic flexibility like just doing deep
light it's like let's let spots already
else decrease my hamstring mobility
thanks motherfuckers James well fine
both are fine I don't I don't see any
any issues I mean pmf is brutal if you
guys have never done it right it's
fucking awful but it works I mean yeah
it's probably the best time to do that
if you really want to focus on your like
to floor extremity flexibility yeah any
other priority during maintenance is
immutable
final question how much are you guys
secretly enjoying a stay at home part of
this whole time not at all
it's really liberating to not have to
too much of a choice near activities I
wildly disagree personally anyway
obviously miss occasionally seeing
people but that can be done later am i
right no am I just weird fine and thanks
guys forgot how much I love ask these
questions so weekly to induce or not but
my personal note on this staying
I work at home anyway so I don't have
any problems staying at home and it's
not weird liberating at all to not have
much of a choice and activities I think
it's terrible and literally in the
literal sense impressive because you are
sort of compulsorily stay at home orders
are by definition oppression it may not
be that negative but that's not less
what it's called and I can't wait to
until we have our free economy
Association back fuck all this noise
although I will say making the best of
what you can can with things is really
good the thing is James and I usually
are sequestered and now everything
that's been cut off from us it's just
everything we like to go out for so
we've already had the best of both
worlds now we have the worst of some
James you know I I deftly agree with
with what you forever up for me but just
like you since I work from home as well
it was kind of like my lifestyle was
already 90 percent compliant with what
they were asking us to do so on the one
hand I don't really have a lot of
grounds to complain but just the fact
that I can't do that other 10% of
activities is really annoying it's like
if you guys have cats and you close the
door in the house and the cat comes and
yells at you because the door is closed
not because they actually want to go in
there they're just mad that they cannot
go in there that's how I feel right so
my my conservative side comes has been
coming out more and more lately where
I'm just like this is bullshit I the
problem I have is that I don't actually
socialize very much because I don't have
a lot of friends out here and I work
from home and so now it's like I
socialize even less than normal so for
me that's definitely not not a great
thing either aside from the oppression
of stand point I would like to be able
to socialize more even if it just meant
like going out and buying things at a
store and interacting with another human
being that would be nice all right
tea tea on Opie I keep always thinking
thanos when I see that name I don't know
what about it I both hope you're coping
well with pandemic madness I'm sure you
have covered this already so could you
please direct me to your content
regarding a particular training during a
hypo caloric diet
not many cut how to adjust training
volume in intensity is that that
progresses to minimize muscle loss how
much should i drinking in advance yeah
oh yeah that's right how much should i
train to supply the best place the
hypertrophy book which is being edited
currently will be absolutely the best
place after that but how much should i
train for now and then he says PS the
gym free template is awesome it's like I
never left the gym yes'm when we were
crafting that I was telling people that
I've got a pre here I was like you know
wish the gym opens off just you don't
have to be hurt as much anymore
physically no more push-ups please God
seriously metabolite training stocks
alright another question from Tiano my
question is slash post is quite lengthy
have specific therefore I apologize but
I was wondering if the programming I am
getting it's good enough for our
personal purposes your opinion will be
greatly appreciated super quick
background to draw a better picture I'm
relatively new to hypertrophy training
start about one four five years ago
before that I was two across what we
lifting style training I'm doing total
body immersion for training with a
slight focus on glute development my
question is based on this example of
meza programming do you think that what
I'm doing is enough for too much
hypertrophy for
more I currently have some lower back
issues so I refrain from doing sumo
deals as I find the irritating lower
back there's a lack of sumo tal is going
to majorly impeccably hypertrophy so I'm
just gonna ask that one for James and I
both unless teams for class and say no
if you make it up for another movements
good with me cool obviously every person
needs slightly different mats of stimuli
for aperture fee and it's hard for you
to give me the definitive answer when
you haven't seen the previous two meso
programs generally speaking I always
follow your recommendations for the
Mosel progressions training is still
based on our IR and training with and
training landmarks in mind okay if
that's the case with the line marks
especially I mean there's kind of a
no-fail unless your frequencies weird so
James and I can take a look at this yeah
just to reiterate that as well like um
it's hard for us to answer the question
of enough too much or just right because
we don't know your volume landmarks
right so we can kind of speculate based
on whatever you have written here but
it's hard to give the hard answer on
that yeah but the good news is is like
we can give you our like just sort of
squint tests see if it's a good in the
normal range and everything else after
that as you know as long as you know so
the great thing is you know what the
training volume landmarks are so like
you're good but let's see if you really
fuck things up
so lower day we're gonna focus
specifically on clothes right because
it's like the way you put that you see
if you really fucked it up
so lower day one uh okay I suppose
there's only three days of training per
week I think he just um I think he just
didn't bother writing in the upper body
stuff okay all right uh four by twelve
seated leg curls six by eight squats for
my tenth leg press or right twelve
Bulgarian split squats leg extensions
and hip throw superset and fraud pumps
that is a lot of pulled in form a stiff
deadlift I think you said you weren't
doing he said he wasn't doing doing mo
yeah for mates stiff for twenty five
laying leg curls for by twelve deficit
sumo squat step ups
what's a deficit sumo squat am I missing
something yeah see me like Stan he's
like standing on its I see never mind I
was thinking I was thinking barbell he's
probably holding something in his
[Music]
and then hit thrusts and then the lower
day to stiff-legged that left walking
lunges hack squats yep so that is a
shitload of a lot now you may be doing
too much but then your MRV should catch
it so as long as you're detecting MRV
ease and performance you're at least
doing enough at least enough yeah I
would say for somebody I mean like
you're a hypertrophy is you're
effectively a beginner but you have been
doing Crossfit and weightlifting
training so I would say you're probably
more like an intermediate lifter my
would be my guess um so I would say you
know you could you could consider just
consolidating your exercise selection
down a little bit you got a lot of
exercise variance in there you agreed
you could you could just maybe switch
them just just reduce the number of
exercises increase the number of set and
ones that you're already doing that'd be
it what puts your glute work a little
earlier in your program as far as like
beginning of the sessions should be more
glute work you see that you're spreading
it out a lot so some squats and leg
presses but then you go back to split
squats and then back to hip thrusts at
the end I would say art more with gluts
and finished with all the other stuff
but probably better use of your time
yeah but like Mike said if if if your
volume landmarks and your tracking is in
line and that should be mostly fine
alright
Harrison cut off a high doctors make a
James and responds to you know about how
to present yourself as a coach from last
week's webinar you were right on target
yeah sir has really helped about doing a
reasonable job and reasonable conditions
being helpful listening in supportive as
well as not worrying about being super
smart when I'm just starting out I'll
also add conscious coaching am i reading
lists now for a couple of questions are
there any resources on rp+
that you know of that cover how to
comprehend studies and meta-analyses
specifically the statistical firms like
p million what not so we don't have
anything to comprehend the statistical
terms but we do have a theory of science
lectures they were posted a long time
ago then one of the first ones there's a
theory of science course the super
basics that covers the different kinds
of stud size if extent ease the
different kinds of literature reviews
that's a real good place to start and
then
farcical charms like p-value and whatnot
I would honestly do some reading
just get some basic articles on like
understanding statistics or taking take
an online course or a series of YouTube
videos or something about basic
statistics and they'll teach you stuff
what I wouldn't do is read like one
little article where they tell you what
that stuff is I think you need like a
more of a book or a multiple YouTube
video course or some kind of Coursera
course to really understand what it is
you're looking at because it's real easy
to think you know what statistics mean
and it turns out it's a little bit
different so I would recommend a bit of
a deeper dive I'm actually gonna go a
slightly different route than dr. Mike
on this one I'm good and I know this is
how this is gonna sound so I say this
with the utmost of respect and dignity
but meta-analyses are not meant for lay
persons and it's not meant to say that
you're stupid or not capable of
understanding them at some point but
they're designed for other scientists in
the field to read them and be able to
understand them and so just to just as
an example even in the our field of
exercise physiology the statistics that
they use in meta-analysis are but often
beyond our comprehension of what it is
because those researchers go get
biostatisticians to do this the stats
for them right they say here's the stuff
I want you to to look at do the math for
me and then tell me what to write in the
methods right that's that's the level of
math and stuff that we're doing so it's
on two levels that it's it's not
appropriate for lay persons one you
don't understand the content that's
going in so it's hard for you to
differentiate is it good are the things
going into the meta-analysis in this
this is true for review articles as well
are the things going in actually useful
and good or have they met a good
inclusion exclusion criteria standards
and then number two is like do you even
understand the math that's actually
being used and Mike and I have some
education in the nap but we're certainly
not statisticians we know how to look at
and say okay I can I can take a little
bit away from these things but if
somebody was to be like should they have
done a six by ridi pan and Cova or a 17
by nine Shmack manova I'd be I don't
know I can tell you that what the effect
size meant and what the statistical
significance were and what the take-home
points are but I cannot tell you if this
was an appropriate level of math so my
point being um it might be a fool's
errand to try and learn how to really
understand them at analysis because it's
meant for people like who are actual
professionals in that person
particular area but if you want to go
down that route you know course and
statistics yeah
okay max Jenkins says Halle docks I want
to ask you two quick questions please
excuse my presumption she's already for
some choice number one I know
specifically dr. Mike and James Krieger
I've spoken about how decreasing rest
times tends to increase the number of
sets required to achieve the same
stimulus that would be generated from
doing fewer sets with longer rest times
so my question is does reducing rest
times increase one's set MRV or do you
just end up getting fewer stimulative
sets within your MRV so your MRV is your
maximum recoverable volume that's how
much stuff you're doing a more technical
way is how much exposure to stimulus and
to damage and disruption you are capable
of recovering from sets in which you
should rest a very short time too short
of a time between just don't expose you
to as much disruption as sets when you
do rest plenty you fuck shit up hardcore
and get double the wrap some more of the
reps are fast twitch muscle limited and
take tons of damage so you can't just
the MRV is the same either way so which
is why James and I actually in the last
webinar we're really specific about if
you count if you are planning rest times
between sets use the same algorithm
every session or the same literal time
every session between sets don't mix and
match because if you start to rest a lot
longer
or sometimes you time you're set
sometimes you just go by the four-point
criteria we've described then yeah your
MRV as far as the number of sets is
really really different and you fucking
have no idea what it is but that you're
true what what really is your MRV is um
it's really the same number it's like
saying you know hey like I started I
stopped counting calories and start
counting kilojoules that means I can eat
way more food like not saying lot of
food just counting differently so
multiple sets versus or low rest time
sets versus high rest time sets it's
still the same amount of disruption it's
just the disruption starts to be
difficult to standardize between the
different sets totally agree um also if
reducing rest time does require you to
do more sets to reach a given set of
states
also producing rest time does require
you to do more sets to each given
stimulus without a turn me reducing rest
times could be prudent while cutting us
in some more total volume would be
needed would need to be performed
therefore increasing caloric expenditure
on it's actually not clear that resting
shorter between sets the increases
caloric expenditure does he end up doing
fewer reps per set to the extent that if
you rest very very small amounts um you
might end up doing more repetitions with
you'd have to reduce your loads at that
point significantly or do way way way
more sets and then you had a higher
fractional involvement of slower twitch
fibers and you do get more calorie
burning but the expense of an ab ilysm
James and I are very clear on this I
think for most people that are very sort
of like optimality oriented and want the
best possible results if you want to
save time it's a different discussion
optimize your hypertrophy training to
grow you muscle or to save it and then
optimize your cardio or physical
activity to burn calories don't try to
do both the same times you end up being
like halfway to something and halfway to
something else James yeah that's a great
point so I kind of get the work what
direction you were going with that
question where you're saying like oh
they're doing more sets and creates a
bigger metabolic you know stimulus right
no because the others because in the
other sets when you rest longer you get
more reps anyway so unless that's a 15
right so it's like if you if your
average ends up being 10 reps across
three or however many sets that you did
if the total number of reps so the total
volume load is is similar the calorie
difference is not going to be very
different and I say the thing is like
during your actual lifting and exercise
time it's not really burning a ton of
calories compared to your knee and other
type of activities throughout the day so
it's not necessarily a good strategy to
try and maximize output during your
session because you might just be
running yourself through the ground for
no reason yep - on a more personal level
I've observed that whenever I push my
volumes to what is relatively high for
me but not really that high but not
really that high generally 10 to 13
cents per bottle per week after a few
days I flatten out tremendously it
becomes very tough to get a maintain
upon my physique looks noticeably worse
this healy happens regardless of if my
diet is hyper hyper or isocaloric I also
eat low-fat high-carb it is not really
ameliorated the problem either I suppose
it's quite obvious that I'm likely or
near or
Marvy however at around nine sets per
muscle per week I am not flat and I feel
like I'm extremely recovered and nowhere
near my MRV I've taken low lying faces
as well and I've returned to higher
volume' volumes nothing really changes
I'll add that I'm not advanced or strong
at all so moving from eight sets of ten
sets is not me adding two additional
sets of eight reps and 400 pounds on
bench or something I would love to know
your thoughts on this predicament one
thought I've had is maybe when I'm going
to get higher I need to
disproportionately check on my carb
intake I'm on the taller side six three
to ten and ten to thirty percent body
fat lean obviously not lean enough to be
one of the elect elite I guess elect um
elite I will say supersize elite um so
it my first hypothesis is that you just
have a really narrow MeV Tamar V window
yeah that's just a thing also you may
need to eat more carbs so that maybe
there will be a thing you made me
genetically just burn more glycogen or
something it's really a thing you may
just have a really high level of
physical activity there's tons and tons
of other potential explanations but
honestly like just go for ravine M
ravine if you don't have a big pathway
to travel that's so totally fine just
stay somewhere between the two and
you'll get great gains when when you
deplete and feel flat and when your
performance starts to suffer D load and
repeat that's that yeah I'd be curious
to know if your flatness kind of course
bonded with typical and Marvy type
symptoms if he just started to overreach
whether locally or systemically or both
that would make a lot of sense and then
like that's dr. micha already said that
would just mean your MeV to MRV windows
relatively small and that's not a bad
thing it's just the way it is other than
that and the carbs thing I got nothing
yeah I mean if you're flat but still
performing that I'm better every week I
wouldn't really worry about it I just
[Music]
yeah or just start using synthol that's
the best way all right
le Paul in I can actually have no idea
if this is a male or female I'm assuming
it's a female but I have no idea hello
guys while I'm eating four before myself
I've had those questions for a number of
years due to my friends
question 1 what is the quality of
scientific evidence supposedly
demonstrate an expiry or 'ti of
plant-based diets or increasing
longevity and health status as opposed
to omnivore diets
poor and if you want a really sweet
analysis of that dr. Melissa Davis has
article and Renaissance Fairs ation
about what the farm will be called game
changers game changers a game changers
critique melissa Davis who will that and
you'll get a really awesome article I
believe it's called the game remains
unchanged
yes subsidies not changed game one
changed so yeah the quality of the
scientific evidence demonstrating the
awesomeness of plant-based diets for
increased novelty health status is
excellent but a superiority of omnivore
diet says is non-existent if you really
dig into the research turns out various
diets for omnivore are sort of poor
proxy diets for omnivore healthy is
really omnivore unhealthy then when you
remove various unhealthy things that
both vegans and meat-eaters should not
really be eating a lot things get better
so go figure
yeah by the way I just got my blood work
done I'm sharing this to the world my
total cholesterol is 100 No ok which is
apparently super fucking low it's really
low yeah yeah it's awesome alright are
the underlying proposed physiological
processes sound and light of current
scientific understanding protein leucine
methionine restriction for example so
lower protein dieting and plant-based
diet is absolutely not the same thing at
all people are complete the two of the
Shipman for two reasons one is they're
just physically not the same thing too
it is possible for people who are
plant-based to eat a high degree of
protein like athletes and bodybuilders
think they're getting the benefits of a
low protein diet but in fact are not um
there is a certain amount of protein
that is associated with various large
evety reducing mechanisms they haven't
been incredibly well studying enough for
us to be very very conclusive about them
but yeah probably eating a whole bunch
of protein probably increases your
quality of life but may reduce your
longevity in very extreme scenario so
the underlying proposed physiological
process is sound in light of current
scientific understanding regarding
protein leucine assigning restriction
for example there they make sense and it
could very well be that very high levels
of protein
reduce longevity to some small extent
but that probably has a quality-of-life
trade-off because you almost certainly
be less muscular for us protein
specifically in light of physical
activity and there's definitely
something to consider there so and
lastly like I said the first it's not
the same thing as plant-based time great
answer I got nothing on the last one
what are you thoughts on calorie
restriction for longevity in the current
state of Associated evidence very strong
very strong calorie restriction works
the if you are going to live as long as
possible you should be on the lighter
the lighter lower bound of the sort of
insurance table body weight risk
calculator like so like for my height
I'm like five six I would be roughly
like a hundred and twenty two hundred
and forty pounds is where I wouldn't
live my longest now I'm like 100 pounds
heavier than that that never claimed to
be God I wonder my blood work would be
if I was 120 that immortal just to be
really good and acts like you're fine
you're gonna be great until you're 96 um
but but but the reality is yeah a
calorie restriction challenge every is a
fucking thing the more food you eat over
the course of your life even if you do
physical activity though physical
activity helps a lot yeah the more you
essentially where our cellular
structures and metabolism cranks away
and it starts to get damaged and then
you die sooner the real thing is what is
the trade-off of quality of life and if
you very many people forget that you
know they say okay I'm gonna do fasting
but then I'm also gonna have cheat meals
and also stuff like well if you don't
weigh very little you're not gonna get
the benefits it's not the calorie
restriction that benefits you it's the
weighing less right that's the weighing
less is an exact correlate of how much
net calorie restriction you absolutely
is the calorie strip should have
benefits you but the only way know if
you're doing net calorie restriction is
if you in fact they're way very little
because just the same if someone says
like well I weigh 190 but I do them in
fasting so like I I do get the benefits
of calories tortilla to some extent
that's true but unfortunately the
interstate 190 you've got a food when
you're not restricting calories and
smashing overfeeding
hits a shitload about us it's really bad
for you so it's good and bad bounce
and they have a real hard time telling
apart to people that way very little
let's say 140 pounds both whether most
of their peers weigh 200 they have a
hard time telling apart their longevity
of how they got there as long as they
got there in a healthy manner and are
still physically active and eat healthy
foods those people live roughly the same
amount of time whether they got their
turn in fasting or they got there
through eating eight meals a day it
doesn't really matter so calorie
restriction is the thing long-term
calorie structure means it's gonna
reflect on your body weight which means
do you want to eat like a bird and weigh
under 20 and get to see a lot of life or
do you want to enjoy the foods you love
with responsibly and in a state of
balance and it lived a little bit a few
years less long but have awesome baller
times or do you wanna be six are pounds
and have food is the only thing you
enjoy in life and then live till you're
40 those are also summer on the spectrum
so either decide really good doctor Mike
what is what is that thing that says
volume on you is that a shirt what is
that yeah what is it it's uh there's a
Hong Kong we put on a seminar and their
gym was called volume ah name the gym
after their volume landmarks concepts oh
that's really cool yes that that's super
neat all right
Micah Rossi did you sorry I don't want
to just this popped my mind did you see
Eric Helms post recently it was a very
vol landmarks he post I was like ah see
he's coming around
no where was it I believe I was on
Instagram
it was basically just like a you know
typical kind of training curve of like
what is essentially what we've called
you know mev m AV and Marvy it was just
like optimal like point a like point of
maximal inflection like diminishing
returns like inverted you typical you
know stuff yeah I didn't catch that I
usually catch all of this shit he said
he interviewed Melissa Davis which is
cool yeah yeah
so he's been like um constructively
critical of some of the volume landmark
stuff but I think I think he has been
critical because and maybe rightfully so
that when we talk about the volume
landmarks we often are assuming that
like the other factors like intensity
and frequency are inappropriate ranges
which they may not be for anybody and I
think that's kind of what his beef was
he can't just
they like all six-volume stuff the
intensity and the frequency have to also
align which is true and I think he maybe
just thought that we threw those out the
window I'm not sure but definitely seems
like he's a was the same page one way
yeah he's a sharp cutting all right Mike
Rossi so I shouldn't be chillin during
my but I'm um background I'm due for a
recent civilization phase and I'm having
trouble assigning how to proceed given
the firm circumstances pre-pandemic I
finished my fifth consecutive meso of
massing in such begin a low volume
hypocaloric
resuscitation phase Minicon however
during my D load week it became clear
that Jim's will be closing soon so I
chose to another try another hyper blog
high volume a psychosis and it would be
very difficult or socialization phase
with so much novel training I didn't
want to risk under shooting volume in
the absence of heavy loading with the
introduction of novel exercises I've not
finished my first full mezzo at home I
was able to train hard continue making
progress I've gone from 173 to 185 over
6 mezzos I'm like we're sitting in 18 to
20 percent body fat range I have an
adjustable bench adjustable dumbbells up
to 52 point 5 pounds hey you think we
have the same dumbbells mm-hmm dip
inverted row bars nice leg extension leg
curl preacher we're on it and AH q what
you live in a gym so I'm able to run
effective overload workouts with some
special techniques which cost your son
some brains Austin and that's you need
to keep the rep ranges under sanatoria
range of compounds I've read them in a
cup manual but I've never executed a
proper of any country sensitization
phase before I understand its utility
and potential potentiating for the
gaining but I'm concerned about the
potential for understand my volume
landmarks and losing muscle under these
circumstances you shouldn't have to
worry about back sections
yeah it's surprisingly difficult to do
them I've rented off that loss phases to
know that I have trouble holding onto
muscle gains if I'm not meticulous so
it's especially important for me to
settle at a higher body weight before
entering a deficit having said that
which of the following would recommend
assuming as I did it Jose will be closed
for the foreseeable future
I think they might start opening up why
don't depends on where you live but it
seems like there's been enough
protesting and stuff that people are
kind of open to the idea of reopening
Commerce yeah yeah actually they are
city fitness fish town
because I texted me yesterday then I
texted members what the fuck what was
like you know so there was an auto text
but it directs back to a human being
does it you know can we help you with
anything during this time it was a gavel
are you guys gonna open as soon as a
governor says you can are you gonna wait
he's like I can't confirm that but from
what I understand now we're gonna open
as soon as humanly possible I was like
thank God yeah I'm sure I'm sure that
there it's you know it's a lot of gyms
might might be going under at the time
too so I'm sure they want to open their
doors because how many people did just
stop paying their membership fees right
they're like oh I'm just gonna cancel my
membership for the time being not
thinking that by doing so you saves you
a few bucks but then your gym goes under
later you know what I mean yeah it's
crazy yeah it sucks it's a weird
situation isocaloric a low-volume phase
[Music]
accomplished by reducing total sense for
meaty intensity of effort 30 so doesn't
keep them staggering week we keep
Standard Arabic Russian get it close
earlier isocaloric low volume fee is
accomplished by reducing total sets and
into an intensity of effort reduce also
to keep them saying each week leave more
re-arm hypocaloric low volume phase
accomplish by reducing total assessment
18 intensive effort and then hypocaloric
love flying days accomplish by reducing
total sets intensive effort and leave
more are so number four don't do because
that's the recipe actually for muscle
loss metronome are anymore but and then
hyper caloric high-volume
don't do that anymore you're done with
that five fucking lives was later I
would say my option best option is
number one is totally cool if you're
really beat up number two but number
three he sounds totally fine and you
almost certainly all James yeah I was
kind of leaning towards one in two I
think three is also fine the thing is
when you for when I run into these
situations for my clients if you're
really not sure one thing that is always
a safe bet is the isocaloric like you
can't fuck it up so here if you're on
the fence and you can't quite make up
your mind I would just give you a gentle
push towards do a low-volume
isocaloric phase resets at eyes keep
your body weight stable and then the
world's your oyster at that point you
can do a full cut you could do a mini
cut later and then go back into math
saying whatever you got a lot of options
agreed all right Hayden done hey guys
for perspective I'm sitting at 2:27 with
50% body fat in the ultimate goal is
around to 32 to 35 at 10 to 12 I'm not
going to go a shorter second mass after
maintaining for a while and do so for
six weeks on basic hypertrophy template
my question was since I can easily meet
my weight gain goal over that six weeks
to 27 to 32 most likely one hit the
metabolite phase I was wondering if
there could be any benefit to continued
massing during this time and then
maintain or cut after that four maintain
of hit the goal at the end of mass um I
guess I'm asking mostly with a tabloid
face is the most beneficial amassing
versus maintaining or cutting yes it's
fine during cutting it's shitty not the
greatest thing during maintaining great
during massing I don't want to waste
potent phase nice nice use of words that
are potent phase by not period as
incorrect waited that I would say here's
my best advice actually go from 227 to
232 but make it last two phases instead
of one slower rate of gain higher
percentage of muscle gain lets you still
gain weight during that metabolite phase
but not get super super fat I would say
that your best bet hit around to 32 to
34 at the end of your metabolite phase
basically put in two phases each
whatever six weeks longer however and
then you'll be fucking golden and then
you'll be ready to maintain good news I
don't know where you live Hayden but if
you got shut down and you can't go to a
gym that means your metabolites fees you
could do at home no problem
and then in six weeks most places in the
world are gonna be at least starting to
think about and maybe have already gone
through the open gym so real good yeah
that's a great suggestion actually what
12 weeks from a la cubicle and then he
says okay okay drew Stevens doctors Mike
and James I was hoping to get your
thoughts regarding the implementation of
refeeds into a fat loss phase based on
the findings of recent study by dr. Bill
Campbell out of yourself I understand it
can be hard to draw conclusions from
just one study but your thoughts would
be appreciated unless the study showed
the briefie group Russell lost roughly
the same amount of total wheat as the
continuous staff is a group or loosing
less than half as much lean body mass
efficiently the arm Mars only dropped by
about half of what the continuous groups
did as unfortunate as it is maintenance
phases are
morning the most people implementing
refeeds possibly allow for more
enjoyable fat loss phases or what they
allow for a quicker return turnaround
between fat loss phase ether of the max
fat loss phase or make max muscle gain
phase ie 10 or 12 we value calls for 406
maintenance once up to 10% body weight
is lost if using a two carb two day carb
refeed only 60s out of eighty four days
would be spent on a deficit arm our
hypothetically drawn proportion and less
than a continue deficit fat loss phase
meaning the same 12-week period while
offering the same relative loss with
possibly higher lean mass retention
relative lost doesn't mean absolute loss
by the way would only call for three to
five week maintenance phase so there's a
lot of question marks but I don't see a
lot of questions later we'll be okay so
so this is okay so he's asking here
if the using phase of training or sorry
a diet that does two day carb refeed for
every week if it can essentially
accumulate less diet fatigue for you so
you can shorten your maintenance phase
the answer is maybe the best way to
shorten a maintenance phase is to diet
less weight off of you or to take longer
doing it if you die it less weight off
or you take longer to die at the same
rate off your maintenance phase doesn't
need to be as long so if you die it off
you know 12 pounds in six weeks versus
12 pounds in 12 weeks
after 12 pounds of six weeks you're
fucked up and you need gnarly
maintenance phase after 12 pounds over
12 weeks it's just not as harsh of a
diet maybe you need a little bit less
maintenance
if you drop six pounds you don't need a
big maintenance if you drop 12 you need
a bigger maintenance if you drop 80 need
a bigger maintenance the thing is if you
have two day Carberry feeds the other
days need to be concomitant ly much
lower in calories which could be just as
stressful on that balance now James and
I do come from a perspective here where
you do tend to think that cyclical
approaches are best
specifically because there's times to
push him as times to go back times to
push time to pull back so it's very very
possible that pushing hard for five days
and then pedal off the gas pushing hard
for five days pedal off the gas is
fundamentally better it's like training
a little bit less each day versus doing
a five hard days of training two weekend
days James and I would say that the five
hard days two weekend days is better
than training seven days a week even if
you spread out the training the same may
be true of dieting unfortunately don't
have the really really good direct
literature to back that off when you
alter how much you eat based on activity
levels that tends to happen anyway to
some extent the only thing I would say
is there's definitely some promise here
we don't know how big it is in the real
world we don't know if the results are
results are just as hunky-dory and
there's one thing that may offset this
diet adherence and sort of constancy you
have a same diet day in and day out day
in and day out you tend to just lock in
and do compliance
yeah to day Carberry feeds can really
throw you off weight checking wise they
could reel you into like I want more of
this carbs I've gotten some Koosman
clients and did some nasty diet
psychology myself included if I do
refeeds
that are too aggressive because then
people start to look forward to the
2-day carb refeed x' they're super hate
the regular times you get headaches from
not enough carbs after there's a carb
hangover that's involved tons of tons of
nasty shit I don't know if the refeeds
in the week make a huge difference in
the real world and I don't know if it's
worth a psychology but if the psychology
doesn't bother you I think it's
definitely a thing to try and then I'm
not sure if that will reduce your
requirement for me yeah so I think there
there there's some promise to some of
these approaches for athletic
populations where if you are underweight
or overweight you might not actually
have 16 weeks to dedicate to just doing
body composition alteration within your
competition the cycle that's like full
you know four months out of your your
competition here but you're just doing
body comp that means that's four months
that you're not doing like a lot of
actual sport training because your
systemic fatigue and your local fatigues
could be too hard for you to express
your sports skills tactics and relevant
fitness so I think in some of these
cases some of these shorter approaches
might benefit sport
athletes who after you made your body
composition change and can't afford to
spend a ton of time doing it although I
think a better approach would be to do
it the way that we usually do it and
just be more on top of your weight and
be more proactive about it rather than
reactive and saying oh I need to lose a
whole bunch of weight but I can't
sacrifice performance that's that's more
of an issue of bad planning and bad you
know weight management you know what I
mean so if I get to the rest of this
sorry guy James yeah so I was just
saying like there I've seen I've seen
the refeed stuff I've seen there's also
a similar approach where people will do
like diet for two weeks on diet for two
weeks off and they kind of have similar
similar trend in the data those things
might be great for athletes it might not
be great for people who are mostly just
doing body composition and health
promotion type stuff in my opinion um
before I go on you want to look in to
the debate it was a podcast debate I
think on Jacobs goddess's podcast GPS
health between meadow councilman's and
air columns on diet breaks and refeeds
because a lot of points made by both are
really excellent and a lot of points
made by men oh really really question
the refeed stuff yeah so and then so
then the next question is or could this
effect possibly be used to increase the
percentage of body weight that can
safely be lost over the course of a
single fat loss phase bison a number of
weeks spent to the deficit five-day
deficit to a refeed means 70 percent of
times by the time so could individual
hypothetically diet for up to 16 weeks
lose 50 percent body weight I mean yeah
like if it's not as harsh yes that
really actually just depends on how your
deficit is on the refeed if you it's
it's entirely arbitrary so here's
whatever you don't say it would
constrained by what your goals are if
you say I want to lose 12 pounds in 3
months the degree of your deficit is
gonna be have to be higher if you do to
date or refeeds with it if you say okay
I'm not gonna dye it any harder on the
deficit then by definition you can't
lose that much in 12 weeks you now have
foods even like 60 so it's really a call
he says finally I know the matador study
used frequent eye breaks and saw
improved fat loss in the Newman
restriction group but similar fat free
mass lawsuits however that study was
done on obese males with this new
studies results make it safe to assume
that using that or protocol could
potentially lead to both significantly
greater fat loss and better African
preservation trained athletes no
absolutely can
we used to make that conclusion because
it's just one study and very very
difficult to do tight controls on
stutters like this
he says if so would it be worth
implementing something like that do -
your time cost your double of a standard
cut
was it possible similar results would be
seen if the refeed study had been 16
weeks instead of 7 this is a strong
chance and we have a super excited hear
your thoughts yeah well a lot of the
stuff unfortunately just not very clear
the the biggest questions about I'm
actually just gonna frame this to you
for you to think about this is something
that I'll friend on podcasts debate on
this and I didn't the response to it was
like I guess it's a good point it's not
so clear that Gaia breaks work from a
perspective of enhancing your efficiency
of dieting because if you take diet
breaks you have to go less aggressively
and that takes longer so why don't you
just get to the point diet quicker and
stop it maybe they're taking more diet
breaks or fewer diet breaks has roughly
the same result or maybe taking diet
breaks as a better result on lean mass
retention by a small margin but it takes
longer and the men who had some ones
responsibly why not just stop your diet
that you did a short short diet and get
back into massing and more high-quality
massing you may save a lot more time
fundamentally it turns out that losing
fat without losing a lot of muscle is
actually not that hard gaining muscle is
really tough especially for more
advanced people so you're gonna want to
spend way more time at a surplus not a
deficit so that being the case unless
you're competing dieting for competition
we need to keep stress levels low and
really have a sort of long term approach
out of it the diet break stuff would
have to be very very convincing in order
to justify its time cost but there might
be a thing there where an occasional
return to maintenance within a diet or
refeed has benefits above and beyond
that it's just not clear to me that
that's been shown yet yeah same I mean
it also could be like a personal like
some people have compliance issues at
certain you know rates and style so some
might be just better for other people to
adhere to but I'm not really convinced
either way at this point and so for me
getting the cut done in a timely manner
is the tried-and-true and I'm gonna keep
doing that with my clients and other
people until I see something that's
really convincing otherwise all our
friend Ballentine Kido guy who says
hello Doc's could you please explain and
clear in Saiga's clear up the
differences between lactic acid and
lactate please yes so breezy lactic acid
is lactate plus hydrogen ion lactate is
just lactate yeah I mean it's just like
lactic acid becomes lactate in water
boom peeled away and there's no longer
active well that's it lactic acid is two
things reading for argentina we met
valentin in australia by the way dreams
yeah I remember he's great he want us
Jackson brimm says hi dr. Michael James
thank you for answering questions about
my mouth training it about physicians I
have a few questions that are not really
specific of my program about training
general how do you deal with paralysis
by analysis everyone who is very
analytical and somewhat of a
perfectionist as I'm sure most of you
plus people are high it's hard for me to
be confident to my programming at the
same time it was very hard for me to
trust others of my programming iein
variably end up looking at it and saying
oh it violates XYZ principle since I am
come concurrent training it makes it
especially hard since some of the issues
I'm running into are just not really
covered a detail anywhere what would you
recommend here Alex be honest book is a
real good the hybrid athlete that'll
cure most of what ails you I think is
good start just try to learn everything
about endurance and concurrent training
and just try my best I have an exercise
science major so I understand physiology
well I would just start with Alex V
Otto's the hybrid athlete the real get
started games any other recommendations
I mean yeah it's good yeah no it's good
- it's good to be analytical it's good
to be quantitative on these things but
yeah paralysis by analysis is a real
thing at some point like you do your
best you write down a reasonable
training program make some maybe
adjustments after you do that and then
it's simple you just got to shut up and
run it you just gotta fucking run that
program and then you can auto regulate
as you go and make adjustments and that
way you have a feedback and a
feed-forward mechanism to build your
next measure cycles right
that's the best way to go about it so
you have a pre-planned strategy that you
were thoughtful and and you took in too
many things into consideration you said
this is how I expect this to pan out
you ought to regulate which is going to
then cause you to change things in the
future and then when you build the next
one it'll also change your pre-planned
strategies for the next measure cycle
based on what actually happened and the
notes that you took so I think like it's
it's you don't want a second guess and
perseverate on your program for too long
write it down finish it take a break
come back to it me there another day or
maybe a little bit while later look at
again see if there's any major errors
and then just start running it and just
go otherwise you're just gonna be
needlessly reviewing things over and
over and over again I do this with my
clients all the time when I'm looking at
their program I'll do like a quality
check before email it out and I'm like
oh no oh no this exercise is on this day
and this exercise and at some point
you've got to be like you know what if
it's not right we'll find out pretty
soon because they're gonna send me an
email saying hey these I'm having
overlapping soreness or my joints are
hurting or you know what I'm saying
it'll come out so at some point just
just bite the bullet and go
don't press every you're serious about
your goals and the RP diet AB is here to
help it creates a diet for your specific
needs let's you choose your favorite
foods and tells you exactly how much of
them to eat and when expert system AI
guides you along to keep you on track to
your goals for less than $15 a month you
have one of the most powerful diet
coaches in world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today Mike I think you might have muted
your microphones sorry there we go it's
nice that it pops up and says I mean
another thing is if you're a really
analytical make sure that your
analytical about having good data to
base your analysis off and that means
doing multiple weeks of unaltered
training to get good data people who
change their training too much or not
being a scientific as they think they
are because they're not allowing the
program to show them what's going on so
the beef you ought to be a perfectionist
be perfectionist about doing a good job
of every mezzo and then looking back on
it spending a couple hours making an
exponent number two how would you
approach trying to teach a family member
about principles of training without
overwhelming them we're confusing them
you seem interested but don't have a
background in science so it's hard to
explain without getting technical I just
use a common analogies use the car
analogy is a really good one I would
watch now if I'm Steve Hall lectures or
Steve Hall podcast episodes where I use
a bunch of stupid analogies like that
and just speak in the simplest terms you
possibly can you know growing muscle
that's not a technical term at all
getting stronger that technical term
training hard and really messing up the
system that's not technical at all and
all that stuff is you know recovery is
so non-technical be like you know when
you train like get tired James and I in
a very in the recovery book we took much
to James's dismay excessively we used
that in the cooking kitchen analogy
looks really well so you can read the
recovery book like you know training is
like cooking a kitchen the point of
cooking is for good stuff to come out
the other end for food you can eat but
while cooking fatigue ie dirty dishes
and broken Forks all that stuff sort of
sums up you have to deal with it at some
point and try that and just keep it as
simple as you can and look a lot of
times just to understand the simple
stuff they won't even be qualified to
get really technical yet so the once
they understand the simple stuff in the
understanding concept they want to know
more you can shoot them some articles
about training
honestly omaree sufen greg knuckles
books about the art and science of
lifting are like exactly tailored to
someone who's pretty sharp and because
of you talking to them for a while
learned some basics then they're gonna
read those books go wow this stuff makes
so much perfect sense yeah without
trying to devalue what mike and i do
a lot of the stuff for hypertrophy and
just training for health and fitness
it's pretty hard to fuck up I mean like
you can do a lot of not great things and
do it and get plenty of good results
though where it becomes more finicky is
when you get into like more sports
specific stuff and that's where like a
lot of the principles have a higher
degree of constraints whereas just
training for fitness and hypertrophy
like man the parameters that you have to
work with are pretty broad and as long
as you put forth a reasonable effort and
you're not doing completely stupid stuff
you'll be fine so don't again
don't overthink it pretty broad huh
James you fuck abroad oh it's yeah I
mean like so like you mean like if we
were talking about training for rugby or
soccer or anything like that then yeah
you'd have to say like you have to
understand a principled approach to
developing the KPIs for those particular
sports but for hypertrophy it's like man
okay you're gonna lift some weights you
have a pretty you have a lot of options
in terms of how much weight you want to
lift and you have a lot of options in
terms of how many days per week you want
to lift and how long each session is
like just go for it
Lukas gotta lie a Baiul from Brazil and
I am number one
assuming a non beginner about three
years of lifting with okay programming
18 to 23 percent body fat should the
primary goal for both hypertrophy and a
strength games medium to long term be to
cut to 10 to 15% body fat a semi-decent
diet or to maximize thailand surplus
rates of muscle and street game later on
or what a slower less drastic approach
of a mix of dieting mayn't gaining even
out in the long run since the trainee
wouldn't be advanced enough to only gain
mats training house position phase
combined with calorie surplus so
maintaining is a giant fucking to weight
misuse of time it's not a waste of time
for beginners and intermediates but it's
a for use of time is everything you get
on maintaining what is its gain taining
gain taining is what Steve Hall call
them everything get out of gain Taney
you better out of masses and cut
combinations doesn't mean they need to
be extreme they need me there right like
you know you don't have to gain like a
pound a week but if you gain a quarter
of a pound a week
you know I'm a thirty kilo a week that's
still better than not gaining anything
at all so you should still have goals to
gain and lose
and fat loss visas for beginners can be
relatively sharp because you know just
don't need to be spending a lot of time
in getting super lean I would say it
where she felt like if you're between 18
23 percent body fat you could absolutely
just keep making great great games for
years and years and years the question
is do you want to be a body fat and
suffer those slightly poorer health
consequences and also just look like man
you might as well look cool during that
time so I would say cut to 10 to 15% not
ASAP but you know we'll make clinics a
few years you know down a little bit
more up down a little more up until you
about 10 to 15 for many people and then
you'll look awesome and enjoy the
hypertrophy style lifestyle and get a
bunch of stuff out of it so I just
wouldn't hang around 18 to 23 if you
have the genetics to comfortably sit
between 10 and 15 because I do this
since I thing is when I was coming up
that's exactly what I did I was between
18 and 23 my entire Madi career pretty
much and I just had a lot of memories of
getting really big really strong and
never looking like it so and also paying
left some health costs like my health
was not yeah you know that's just one of
those two like when in doubt get to like
a reasonable when in doubt get to a
level of body calm that you are happy
with when you look in the mirror and you
say like yeah I'm pretty I'm pretty good
with how I look then from that point you
could always go up and down and you
could do more strength if you want or
you can do more hypertrophy if you want
get to that point first and go from
there I'm too much film dark it's okay
alright number two considering side
notes a for leverages the small size see
how quickly they tend to recover which
is a factor of all those D Halil they
contribute to systemic routine would it
be feasible to consider they could have
an insane mr fees now that we have all
the time in the world to train them the
point would be hypothetically without
special support supplements do 2x a day
five to six days per week four or five
sets of lateral raises and still recover
a slash not impair the rest of our
training or am I just a dreamer
about to be humbled by a crappy recovery
capacity and if yes would that apply to
other no sugu biceps caps abs maybe so
it's a really really good
straightforward super awesome answer to
this if you think your MRV for a muscle
if you think a muscle recover is really
really fast that's what MRV is really
high however lucky you're currently
training it go one step above that good
mesocycle see how it works if you again
seem to recover just fine and get even
better gains do it again go up another
one so let's say you trained us three
times a week right now do meso a floor
everything's hunky-dory gym sr5
everything's great do you know so it's
six everything is great do some two days
for delts your arms fall off your body
that was too much that's it I'm not
almost ever go from normal shit to
psycho shit yes always agree on your
shit cuz it's a good way to get hurt or
to not have any idea of the following
did you miss the u-shaped curve
altogether example used to do delts
twice week you tried the psycho psycho
delt the Lucas car bio psycho delt
program okay and then all of a sudden
you didn't grow but basically or you got
the same results as twice a week you
could go telling people you you you know
high frequency in high volume stupid
except the reality is an alternative
universe Lucas was gaining unbelievable
gains at five times per week just once a
day so right between those so you got a
grade your exposure just stay safe and
also another thing is like the muscle
may very well recover your glenohumeral
joint you may not recover at all I
certainly can't do lateral raises twice
a day hard because my shoulders have
fallen right to fuck off my body and I
have like Titanic fucking shoulders that
just don't ever get hurt even for me
they're gonna get pushed to the limit so
easy I'm James yeah I'm actually doing
like an arms and delts specialization
phase right now for amassing thanks
and I I do a combination of side front
and rear delt work some of them are
isolation some of them are compound and
I did my math for this last peak week
and it was like collectively over it was
like over 55 sets total on delts but
again that's because of the conditions
were for me it's like I'm just training
arms and delts
yes I'm doing delts ascent effectively
six days per week not always side delts
but mostly side delts yeah and you can
take a lot of punishment but if I was
doing a lot of bench pressing and a lot
of pull-ups at the same time that
absolutely would not be the case and my
shit would blow up right so
you got to play around with it but like
Mike said you can you could eventually
ramp up to those kind of levels but it
has to be progressive you can't just go
from like standard training to insanity
training that's just a guaranteed way to
get hurt yep number three assuming the
same hypothetical trainer from question
one three years of okay training do you
think someone focused basically on
powerlifting slash their direct auxilary
movements while analyse and strength
program theorization still needs to
direct accessories for biceps calves
abside outs to maintain their muscle
size do you think someone focusing
basically on powerlifting oh is he
saying like so if you do the power lifts
do you have to do a lot of direct
accessory work to maintain your muscle
is that Mike that's why I'm guessing
what he's asking no no there's actually
no actual technical question there do
you think someone focusing on basically
on powerlifting and then there's a slash
periodization still needs direct
accessories oh do they still need direct
accessories for that except scabs I need
to do direct training maintain their
muscle size yes absolutely no amount of
powerlifting training the world is gonna
maintain your biceps if you used to
training them directly and you don't
anymore
yes definitely not calves abs probably
made a buck out our articles on ABS on
the hypertrophy hub abs actually have a
maintenance volume of zero because just
treating heavy maintains I'm just fine
side delts definitely yeah you will lose
sight out size if you only squat punch
another for sure if you used to do
inside both struck it'll be a little bit
of loss but it will be a long how about
to gain size of those muscles even if
not up there max on the most efficient
rate yeah definitely not but you'd have
to you'd have to directly train them if
you want to make gains on them
powerlifting training would not cover
that yeah TLDR does squat bench deadlift
training hit mvn or Emma Vieira he for
those muscles assuming an average not
beginner not a fast lifter no not even
for non be non beginners for sure not
even for beginners despite no means
clear so I put you this way like if
someone's doing squat by should I left
how much other biceps going to grow like
or calves like some yeah just because
they're lifting weights for the first
time but after maybe a year or two of
that mmm that growth starts to get real
slow and unless you gain a lot of weight
this is not going to be nearly remotely
about the fastest way to do that yeah
the only one you might see like a little
contribution towards your envy would be
like the side delts from all the
benching but I mean that's you'd still
need to be doing direct training at that
point
Eli Holland says greetings Michael James
it's been far too long since I posed the
question since then I've been accepted
to UCLA masters of Public Health Program
for fall 2020 hey that'll be a fun of a
nineteen thing right public health I've
been working as a personal trainer prior
to the Rona it have had great success
training clients for fat loss and thanks
the information that RP 3mj a mass
arrived stronger and other members of
the evidence-based fitness community
cool given our successful evidence-based
fitness and nutrition is for a variety
of health issues my goal is to get
medical insurance to extend coverage to
the services provided by personal
trainers and strength coaches for the
treatment and prevention of obesity and
it's cool morbidities nourish our
disease are competing etc one of my
training clients is that what I said
last time one of my training clients a
professional breaker break master or
something I have picked up over the
quarantine as a hobby to practice I have
found I need to increase my upper body
con centric and isometric pressing
strength in addition to isometric and
central core work and back strain and
predominantly focus on strength training
now now period okay should have a period
there should I be organizing my
symmetric and eccentric training on the
same day after like on country pressing
work either directly after or later in
the day or showed yours its own
dedicated session James I'm not totally
understanding so is he saying he's doing
like specific concentric only work or is
he just mean like what I'm doing I would
just just I would just stop doing that
so here's the thing here's look at
there's a good reason why because you're
gonna make a lot more gains in strength
just using standard training methods
like a regular bench press and whatever
kind of specificity that you need for
break dancing you'll get from doing the
break dancing itself so like what's a
good way of developing overhead strength
or even just pressing strength okay
bench press overhead press push press
like find me something that's gonna make
that progress faster than the pressing
strength faster than those movements the
other thing with a concentric only stuff
is like it's it's impossible
able to implement unless you have like a
really specific setup because you can't
just always be dropping things you can't
it's really it's a lot more fuss than it
seems like so my point is is that the
the contextual strengths you need from
breakdancing will manifest as you make
gains and strength across training and
then you practice this breakdancing so
the transfer of training effect of the
strength training will be more effective
just doing traditional strength training
then trying to do like a hybrid hyper
specific type of training that's just
one that would be in my opinion an over
application of specificity if that makes
sense that makes perfect sense
and just folks remember that what James
is saying is do your regular training
like you would do it just to get fucking
strong in the compound movements and
then your breakdancing skill training is
gonna train you a lot to get specific to
specifically transfer that general
strength in a specific strength so if
you're doing like the jump to lock out
elbow thing where like guys will lock I
don't want arm and stand on one arm like
should you be doing one arm tricep
extensions in the gym no you should be
doing like compound overhead movement
and just regular skull crushers and
overhead extensions to get fucking big
and strong and then when you go practice
that shit if you have a helper just by
yourself you're gonna have more and more
success getting more and more time spent
on one arm time on two arms you know so
like after a while your your hypertrophy
and your strength is just gonna reflect
better there's a limit to specificity in
the gym and this is something that is
like a huge divide between
evidence-based strength coaches and
everyone else everyone else thinks the
way to strength coach is to try to mimic
the exact movements you're doing as much
as possible load them that has tons of
problems with it and it really really it
ends up being like man what's verbage is
the junk falling it's just there's no
need to have that it's almost like this
instead of okay you want you want the
best you want to make the best steak
ever and make it tasty you end up trying
to get the knife also steak flavor what
the fuck just why don't the knife is to
cut the steak make it cut the steak good
and then half the steak speak for itself
don't make a steak flavored knife or a
steak smelling plate that's the bit
fucking ridiculous is taking things that
aren't supposed to be like something and
making them something else so just the
same way you'd get big and strong in the
specific muscles
and similar movements movement types
pushes pulls in the gym and then in
practice you use that newfound abilities
to practice better getting both the
extra strength training from that
practice and a directly transferable
skill set yeah really good so just you
know like treat it like you would treat
like on any other sporting endeavor
where you have like a fitness component
that you're training you have a skill
component that you're training which is
like being able to actually execute the
moves and you can grade those to your
you're yet the intensity of those skills
practice to your level right and in this
case you have the intersectionality of
fitness and skill in this case you might
not you might not be strong enough to
hit certain moves yet but that's
perfectly okay like you can scale it
down find alternatives find other things
that you can do and as you progress the
strength you can scale up the intensity
of your skill work and then your tactics
is kind of like how you put the routines
together and strategize that and have
fun with it I'm it's actually it's funny
that this came up because I'm literally
riding in the the book that I'm working
on the fads and fallacy section I'm
working on the over over application of
specificity I was working on that today
so that was apt timing well here's
another specificity fallacy coming up
for you James in the next part know what
is the difference between high reps
that's five per travursel sets for
cardiovascular conditioning knock this
one up into the air James and you can
swing it away I understand that
hypertrophy sets are five or thirty ups
between like 50 and 81 mm yeah close
with two two to five minute breaks
between sets would sense for
commissioning me something like 10 to
100 reps or zero to 50% 1 RM 0% wonder
I'm RPE 9 to 10 with 0.5 the 2 minute
rest break an example between examples
so there is no such thing as
cardiovascular conditioning doesn't
exist it's a spectrum from conditioned
to duce reps of this many number and
this many sets well and recover well
between them all the way out to
endurance walking across America and is
every different kind of its its
cardiovascular conditioning for what so
if you're a strong man there's no such
thing as conditioning there is I'm do
conditioning
mimics the stones that endurance pushes
me on the stones so it's gonna be heavy
lifting repeated heavy lifting repeated
heavy lifts and repeated the yoke so on
and so forth if I'm a swimmer my
cardiovascular condition needs to
improve probably through swimming but
it's a very different kind of
reiteration and if a elite cyclist
not just because he's better but
specifically for his sport looked at
you're lifting weights with 50 reps at a
time and resting a bit he would laugh at
you that's anything like cardiovascular
conditioning he would say fuck that
looks hard but it's not gonna get you
much better on the bike because you need
to get on the bike and get out of it for
two hours so it's all about what to do
what are you conditioning for because
you can get pretty good cardiovascular
conditioning just doing a regular
hypertrophy training especially in the
15 to 30 reps ohm with relatively one to
three minute rest between sets you get
great general cardiovascular machine mmm
better than most of the population but
if you're like wow that's not quite
enough for what for what and then train
that instant change yeah exactly and
actually I did another James does sports
episode and one of the things I talked
to a common cop I did common cardio
mistakes the sport training that was the
episode and I think that'll be out this
week hopefully but one of the things
that came up for on my discussion was
turning other activities that are not
meant to be cardio into cardio
activities that's a huge huge no-no
folks so the idea be and this is what we
see in strength conditioning all the
time where you basically have a
perfectly reasonable strength
conditioning program and then a coach
will walk in and be luck I'll tell you
what man these boys aren't working hard
enough so then they turn it into like
stupid-ass cardio sir circus where they
make everything like hard just to make
it harder and so at this point when
people do this they are no longer
actually overloading the characteristics
that they set out to in the first place
like strength power stuff like that
because the systemic fatigue of what
they're doing is now too difficult and
they're not actually getting the
cardiovascular training that they need
for whatever activity that they're
trying to train for so it's a
opportunity cost times - you're not
actually getting the strength training
the stuff that you needed you're not
actually getting the cardio stuff that
you needed you just accumulated a whole
shitload of junk volume right which is
the antithesis of a good evidence-based
practice so the idea here being is that
when you go and train
should be training for something
specific so when you're going in the
weight room and you're training for
strength or hypertrophy or you know
maybe both in the phase of structure
that's all you're doing you're not
trying to make it cardio when you want
to actually improve cardio you go and do
specific cardio training so cardio is
not done in the weight room right and
then we see this since this is a
different different ramble but same idea
is when coaches do the same idea for
developing skills and tactics in a
training session they'll be like alright
we're gonna be working on this
particular skill and then it's gonna
evolve into a drill and instead of just
allowing the athletes to have a high
level of preparedness a high level of
alertness and be really engaged with the
activity they're like now let's make you
fuck and run around and make it crazy so
nobody can focus on anything right it's
some developing skills and tactics is
hard enough
under normal conditions let alone when
you artificially just make them fatigued
for no reason right so this the idea is
don't make non cardio activities
cardiovascular intensive it doesn't
serve any purpose and it just creates a
huge opportunity cost tons of junk
falling it's the worst I hate it don't
do it
one of the cool things about being
involved you know all sports have their
pluses minuses culturally is how well
they do you support science one of the
cool things about like jiu-jitsu and
wrestling is this very clear times to
learn technique and very clear times to
drill it and most the coaches just don't
mix the two which is great if you walk
in to jiu-jitsu studio with like world
champions during the technique part but
they're bullshitting they're moving
through the techniques really slow what
is this these points they getting hard
is the world's coming up and you're like
okay idiot thirty minutes later they go
live like a fucking hard bleed
everywhere like oh wait that is two very
different things like you know some
sports they really just try to mix the
shit together all the time
my hypothesis on strength conditioning
coaches with football training and
actually football coaches formal
training but we're so close just not
that hard it's a sport mostly showing
off football's not a hard sport to play
yet fucks you are the injury risk is
tough psychologically can be daunting
but look the plays last three to fucking
six seconds bro it's just not that hard
of a sport I think that's not to say
hard doesn't mean like challenging hard
means like individually breathing
fighting breathing hard football so like
they see if their athletes aren't
struggling or they're like man I need
the alpha male then the put them down so
they make sure way too hard look you
don't just is bad do they fucking shit
on their ass they make it hard for the
wrong reasons
the wrong ways right you're just making
it hard for heart for the sake of being
hard and also you're not making it hard
in a relevant way to what they're
actually trying to do yeah like you want
to make football training more hard make
them two more squats more bench press
more power cleans more Sprint's like
there you go
follow a diet better shit on them like
hey fun if I'm getting faster season two
season because there won't be 500 pounds
yeah alright next question are there any
differences between isometric holds and
higher upsets for improving local
muscular endurance yes there's a
specific isometric endurance you can
develop it's also technical aspect nor
do we use isometric holes to improve it
tissues tolerance to load in a given
position exactly that's come when it
comes back to support specific training
put it this way if you want to hold a
handstand for a while guess what the
best training is for that me I it's
gonna be crazy but handstand holding for
time yes a very similar question came up
on the video that's gonna be posted
later if somebody was asking about rock
climbing and the same idea there is you
use a forearm and form strengthening
exercises to improve the force output of
that of you're gripping muscles and then
you use sports specific kind of
endurance training which would be like
doing an isometric hold in a certain
position or then the example the guy was
using was like wall hangs he was saying
can I do wall hangs to gain strength and
I said no do something like forearm
curls and grippers to gain strength and
then use the wall holds to gain more
capacity and endurance in that position
in practice there's a technique to wall
hangs
yeah next one what are the biomechanics
of the upper body during shoulder
extension and shoulder flexion both and
below 90 degrees of flexion this is this
is not I'm sorry to be a dickhead but we
got to be a little bit more specific on
this what are the biomechanics of what
other body during lateral adduction and
abduction about below 90 so Eli yeah
James Benedict saw me do more of an
occlusive to the solvent in really good
faith we don't mean to get at you what
are the biomechanics is not a tenable
question to answer because if we
describe to you every possible different
degree of momentum in angular velocity
and acceleration and load-bearing we
would give you a set of algorithms that
would fill up all the data banks or the
world's data like you your brain has to
number of peda flops per second to get
your arm to do this we are you asking if
it's safe to do that or what I'm sure
there's a great question there just hit
us back on the next webinar and INRI a
stat please yeah thank you very much for
help our pleasure
I let us know if you need more follow-up
hi mr. doctor says are no toy than n-no
home will be doctor changing the haircut
is cool yeah alright finally some love
people say no homo 2020 it's totally
fine max number one I finished the first
week of five-day male physique template
I guess it's the volume distributed two
more sessions but it feels so much
better in the four day MPT when do I
need to buy bigger clothes due to being
so Jack tomorrow yeah exactly
James similar mindset number one serious
question there's more training sessions
in a week with the same training volume
cause more calories which you might
because of the fact that you're training
quality is higher it's less junky volume
you actually can produce sort of if your
volume is the same set number wise but
every set as I'm average a little bit
heavier it actually uses more calories
right so yes I mean he says for example
three days a week of 20 sets for work up
versus five days a week and 12 cents per
workout I would theorize yes more
sessions use more calories as the after
workout heat occurs more often um after
workout heat occurs proportionally Tom
much working out we do in the workout
right is that sense the cancel out but
the the enhancement of the roasting this
magnitude absolutely goes a long way so
basically like if you split up a
training more you just lift more weight
and or do more reps per set and then
that way you burn more calories there's
also the effect of depending on how you
have your nutrition set up you might
just be doing less non training day
nutritions which is presumably lower
than your training day nutrition which
is a kind of a calorie mitigator also
throughout the week so it could just be
some of that to number two how would how
would you do a conservative fall without
knowing exact - calories meaning slowly
food or calories week week until the
weight gain rate is enough or eat a lot
right off the bat and back down calories
until you reach the weight gain rate you
want I prefer to ease into my masking
so I would actually like to see a week
of you not gaining anything or two weeks
I'm not gaining anything and then slowly
ramp it's easy to get really fat when
you get really fat really fast it just
interferes caps how much muscle you can
grow because you just your mass can't
last as long yeah be less aggressive so
I like the bottom-up approach versus the
top-down approach same here it's easier
to add calories it's in my experience
it's harder to take them away it just
gets more confusing number 3 what I have
understood people are able to have a
very productive bodybuilding training
even with old age let's say 40 plus
years of age when they are enhanced one
training natural usually for ages limit
at least this is my understanding when
seeing the age of people competing I
guess productive bodybuilding training
can be considered as competitive level
in this case or just an intermediate
individual level of course there are
differences individuals some kind of an
general ID am i right
actually not not so much people retire
from both sports at roughly about the
same time there's actually tons of
really really excellent national
competitors in the 40s if you start to
enhance in your late 30s or early 40s
you can continue to get better until
your 50s but if you've been enhanced
since your 20s or something
you peak just enhance just about the
same time as you do naturally it turns
out and sometimes enhanced people won't
last that long because their health
keeps wait before the nice thing about
the physique sports is that it's it's
one where you do kind of age well in
that you just have more time on earth to
actually accumulate more muscle and get
better and better and better at training
so in that regard it's kind of cool and
unique worse sports like rugby like
after you're about 27 it's over homie
you just you can't sustain the wear and
tear anymore there's actually tons of
sports where anatomically or sort of
physiologically you would be better at
them when you're older look you're just
so fucked up that yeah like a lot of
like former strongman and power love
Christians I should have bodybuilding
and have these awesome careers in it and
get the most Jack they've ever been and
even the most statically strong in the
gym and they're like well why did you
leave strongmen they're like cuz if I
pull another stone off the ground both
of my biceps are coming off my body
right alright number four I have never
witnessed any weight gain when I'm using
creatine does this mean that it's
useless and I portray purposes for me it
also has some other health benefits I
use regardless my fear is that if I
weight doesn't rise to eat
some places will go if it was needed
that's not true hundred percent but it
is shown better responders do game more
there is also like a very narrow group
of people who experience nausea from
creatine which I'm finding out we're
just kind of yeah so Mike he asked some
questions below but I actually answered
these specific questions that are
highlighted on the other the other
weekly series that we're doing so
hopefully they'll be posted on Thursday
or no and I did answer those questions
already
so keep keep tuned for that all right
Mike Conway is back I read from
Newcastle my favorite doctor will do I
hate to be repetitive thank you both
again for your advices last week for
sure this week I just have a few more
questions about progressing through my
modified version of metabolites focus on
a cycle from a five-day MPT I'm still
getting good pumps in my performances
steady if my volume increases I'm
gaining weight consistently to I'll be
at a little more on the gut region that
is optimal on that I'm currently in week
four training one from fail I plan to
run this for five to six weeks going to
failure on my final week in approach on
our V through increase volume my
questions are to target my quads during
squats I've been performing them wearing
squat shoes elevating my heels using a
textbook this works a treat however I
was wondering whether both in
combination are over killed no unless
your knees feel really fucked up James
or unless it's just so unbearably
awkward that you can't get a good like
training stimulus going yeah but other
than that no next one I noticed on your
Eckhart Rafi guides that problem results
you recommend training muscles such as
arms and side delts and more frequency
than in the 5d empty if I wanted to
increase frequency and total number of
weekly sets is sensible to add them on a
wire sessions earlier in the week
provided I have forward or aqueous or us
what would you recommend training six
days per week instead now you can happen
and just order overlapping soreness and
to make sure your rating things
appropriately yeah
following on from my last question would
it be sensible to add an extra sets
earlier in the week to extra sets of
myself curls at the stage of my program
providing I don't introduce an exercise
and use the same movement that I perform
later a week even you've been even
introducing exercise it's not the
biggest deal in the world to start with
just a few sets don't like add success
in yeah that's the biggest thing
I tend to be fussy about adding and
exercises midway through but like Mike
said it really isn't a big deal it's
just the same you know yeah it's not a
big deal but I think James is super on
the money is like don't make that happen
like you can do it every now and again
but like waiting until later is even
better but if you want to add it in fine
definitely don't add in a new exercise
that you've never done before you know
if it's yeah I'm true you know how it
makes you feel like you've done cable
curls a million times you have them in
five but don't be like you know what
James I think is really against it you
see in something on YouTube be like wow
across a you know across don't know my
son Chris I'm gonna add this into my
already for a week long mezzo like don't
do that you have no idea that here's the
thing there's now some consequences
right that new cross body bicep curl
could irritate could be totally fine to
do by itself in the context of a
low-volume program we're in the context
of a lot of pulling and shoulder
pressing you could irritate your
proximal bicep tendon for example and
all of a sudden this throws away your
entire muscle cycle of progression right
like you just never know how that stuff
can can interact it's it's kind of like
a stupid kitchen around you back to you
is gonna kill me you've got this great
soup recipe and you've made it a bunch
of times they're like wonder what'll
happen if I add on some paprika like
yeah that could be good thing and if
you've had a particular foods before and
you know how it makes foods taste and
you know how much you're adding and
you've sort of played around with
they're like a similar soup like yeah
maybe it's fine right if you if you if
someone's coming over and they're like I
really want paprika everything
maybe that's cool but like if you've got
nothing to gain off or something like
that you could fuck up a lot of stuff
and just keep what's good what's good
and if you want to make soup with
paprika look up that recipe next time
was a designing your next mezzo you know
what I mean like just totally and
getting back to that previous question
Mike made a really good point it's like
um it's better to and more often than
not to just do a good job with what
you're doing and take notes and use a
scientific process rather than being
willy-nilly and impulsive on stuff
because there's no way to like really
assess how your mental cycle went if
you're changing things midway through it
you kind of left with not anything
conclusive so I would be more apt to see
you just finish out the mezzo and add
that on the next one and see how that
goes rather than starting midway through
but again not a huge deal okay last
oh sorry sorry one more finally after my
D load would you guys recommend going
forward as I have completed high volume
phase my approach in a corona free world
would you go through recesses Asian
however given that earlier access 90
kilogram dumbbells would it be worth
doing you know the high by metabolite
phase I ask here is I'm aware there
won't be responsive about sector
stimulus at four five six week period I
was wondering whether I could still make
some decent gains with another
metabolite phase or if I would simply be
having fat from animal tissue muscle and
I think it's a good time in the game
said earlier in the webinar when in
doubt do maintenance phase I would
maintain and see if the coronavirus
bands don't get lifted within the next
month or two which they probably will so
be sweet if you took like a four week
race constellation mezzo with the light
dumbbells but you totally can't do and
you won't lose any muscle especially
you'll get a long-term and I can imagine
like you your slog through this bullshit
halfway metabolite knows what sucked and
then gyms open you're like a imagine you
like took four weeks to take a little
easy and every sensitize and then gyms
open holy shit this is green and you
don't open you'll be ready to do other
metabolites that's I would say that
that's the thing it's like from the
train that leaves from the training end
of things you really only need a couple
weeks to respond citize
so like you can start off with the
maintenance phase and if in two weeks
right like they say ok gyms open you
could just go do whatever it is that you
want to do at that point it's it's one
of those like win-win where if you just
do the maintenance face you get the
desired effect or you start doing the
maintenance phase and things change you
still got the desired effect even if you
cut it a little bit short and then
you're off doing whatever it is that you
want to do so
man it's a safe bet I would do that
[Music]
alright ready I'm ready we go and we hit
the weights start I hit the share button
there I hit the share button I can only
do it alright let's first look at my
this webinar are mine now let's look at
the algorithm so we got a Lando Sanchez
vs. numerius we get John Meadows how to
get ripped off to show unmitigated
discipline
yeah Jocko always bringing he's so scary
he's it's too intense too much just
chill whoa cool skinniest I've been in
20 years rounds on Spiros nation apps on
gentlemen
random camel at 26,000 views I've ever
seen this video what cool thanks to her
hey there's your wife thanks for the app
review I can't tell if it's an app
review or endorsement let's find out
oh yeah crystals dome
let's see look in the Captain America
before the serum okay oh he didn't know
you could adjust the schedules anyway
nice pause writing with the eyes closed
yeah alright anyway nothing else too
festive here
how do your squat squat University
kaikki might remaining channel
exclusively about squats holy fuck oh
man I would run out of stuff to talk
about
yeah alright um get through and okeydoke
Payton down says I really enjoy blow job
job classic cuz the cardio and
confidence to gives me in sketchy
situations I would like to pick it back
up after having my shoulder hurt in
training am I taking time to heal it was
I was wondering there's a way to Train
DGD with a significant decrease in
injury risk because the end of the day
hamburger becomes first yes so one is
when you live role you don't ever use
your own strength to tone it were
explosive us at um don't go with crazy
heavy super explosive psychotic people
and otherwise train mostly technique and
flow or a lot and that's a sort of a
knob you can push up and down if you
want to take a little bit more risk go
for the crazier rolls be even more
dynamic and he's a strength and if you
want to reduce the risk do more of
drilling less rolling and when you do
roll roll with smaller people less
aggressive people more technical people
and don't try to wrench them you can
make you just almost completely injury
free by just flowing the whole time and
you'll learn a ton so yeah I was gonna
say you could if you want to be really
conservative about your injury you could
just not roll at all and just focus on
skills like technique and drilling and
just save any of the rolling and just if
you there's almost always gonna be
somebody in your gym who is in a similar
situation where they can't roll for
whatever reason and I'm sure you
just drill and do stuff like that all
right
cushion 13 hey Doc's I have a question
for dr. Mike ha take that jeans I'm out
shit signing off see ya I have a
question I'd like to make my wife and I
are both following your progression
guidelines we start our forum on
accumulation phase in week 1 RMS or 3
RER and then week two we progressed to
two I are the problem is when we go to
inches in Rome my god wait god damn it
he trolled us successfully hmm the sex
joke every thoughts to my much fatigue
it's quite big we assess the proxies you
indicate the fatigue in a local
musculature the perception of tension
and the pussy I like the dollar signs
put and the quality of the orgasms
forgive me given no witty or doesn't
forget to find a sec they all seem very
high I'm saying looks can be deceiving
should we deal Oh to wash away the
fatigue wash it away or should we go
hard how had you asked how hard he asked
harder than last time that last one was
a Greg Doucet joke there was a lot to
unpack on that one there's a lot to
unpack guy but the computer mouse is not
your wife although the jokes were really
funny so pat yourself on the back but
not too hard because you're 2 inches
could could be frail yeah that was good
I'm not gonna count that as a real
question but look if you're gonna troll
this is a very good effort you know
definitely definitely went over my head
until salute it was too late yeah all
right games this one's for you another
fun one why not
what's the MRV and watching anime
doesn't share systemic fatigue with
reading comic books oh man so like you
can't you can definitely hit the Mr View
with anime because like as most people
who watch anime no it's not like you
can't just gent like the first episode
is used you don't just like jump in you
have to kind of invest like three to
five episodes before you make up your
mind as to whether or not it was like a
good you know a show that you're gonna
enjoy and a lot of times you'll strike
out like two or three times in a row and
that means you just watched like 15
episodes and they're all shitty and you
and then you're saying you know what
fuck it that's definitely happened to me
before
but it's not the same my graphic novels
usually a little easier to get into I've
never I just got the new Batman one I
think it's called last night it's it's
weird you know it's hats uh Scott
Schneider who I really like is one of
the authors all right
auntie says I'm confused as to how
science says don't train stupidly hard
it doesn't say that it says don't train
stupidly hard all the time but then guys
with the most muscle mass history has
seen eg dory and Ronnie both trained
super hard stupid hard the issue of
training it's an issue of a Cutler was
never known for his heart training and
he was at least as muscular both of them
so we've got a little bit of selection
bias going on big rainey is known for a
lot of things of training pretty hard
but not super anything crazy he's bigger
than both for sure it sounds a lot of
guys bigger jazz big yeah that's the
thing it's it's like a tit for tat type
argument right it has something to do
with training and it's just like here's
a here's one example here's another
example and then it says are you saying
they would have been even bigger if they
didn't train as hard uh yeah so so also
let's say train hard so Jory needs
didn't do much work he pride himself on
low volume training could he have gotten
bigger if he did higher volumes out but
it's almost certainly the case um if he
went the less close to failure and
manage fatigue properly could he have
gotten bigger yes probably absolutely
imagine in the 1960s watching Larry
Scott train and he liked a lot of weird
shit and you'd be like really you think
you could do better later Scott and then
big and Ronnie back from the future or
does better stuff still not perfect and
be like yes we can
so there's gonna be someone you know
imagine how fucking confusing it'll be
two folks that doehner Stan listen Craig
I don't think you're one of them cuz
you're opening your mind up to the stuff
I've taken you know someone from like
2025 Olympia who gets a coach like you
know somebody like Matt Jansen somebody
intelligent and then longer no longer
trained everything completely failure
all the time they do progressive
overload they do good technique all of a
sudden he's the most Jack I ever he's
like 335 onstage with veins you know
army and now gonna cock right back I and
emulate everything he's doing we got to
think a little bit you know like the
best of the best have some commonalities
but the best the best also do
something's wrong
if they're not ideal so yeah we can we
can give that some thought
one studies are done to measure fatigue
on all out training doesn't take into
account the increase in muscle endurance
increase in muscle endurance from what
from doing a test or from training
that's it yeah let's see
Dorian literally did the exact opposite
of what you say by going to failure
every exercise that's actually not the
opposite of what I say he just
marginally went a few reps to failure
than I would recommend secretary give
almost the same advice the opposite of
what I would say is to never ever train
to failure which I have never said and
also I would say stay as far away from
failure as possible that's the opposite
advice was very clear on that and builds
most the most muscle the world has ever
seen at the time doing what you say not
to do confusing um yeah it is confusing
I think not confusing so I you know one
human hardly proves anything you know
flexibly yeah exactly
aureus for being lazy as fuck Kevin Love
ROM why don't you take Kevin or Kevin
Love Rome train four months out of the
year other than that he went on tour
with his rock band in which he was a
performer and mostly just drank alcohol
and fuck bitches I don't suppose you
would think that would make you look
like Kevin Love Rome
and if you look at all the best guys
from that era they don't have a ton in
common with during Yeats of the fact
that everyone trains pretty hard but how
hard it's very speculative it's not
clear that flex wheeler ever actually
went to zero R er cuz he probably to
laziness didn't want to do that so he
probably faked failure most of his life
I mean this is something he's basically
alluded to in a variety of interviews
like so you know but you can pick you
know a number of the best and say oh
like you know this is how they trained
Jay Jay Jay Cutler I don't know why he
missed him but he was a phenomenal
melodic builder never really preached
training super close to failure never
really preached you know he did plenty
of volumes but lots of sets that were
submaximal not even a ton of like the
compound hardcore super because they he
had unbelievable legs he never said like
squad that's all you do like like
extensions and well kinds of machines
and stuff so I think you know basing
like just one or two guys and saying
like this is how you have to train would
they have been better if they trade more
intelligently yes and/or they would have
been just as good but had more lunch
unless you're prepared to talk about
unless you're prepared to make specific
claims like there is something very
special about going to failure that
makes you much much bigger it's been
studying the show not to be the case now
maybe it hasn't been studying the right
people may be an elite hardcore body but
it is the case maybe that's true but
you're not an elite hardcore
bodybuilding be training too close to
failure like these guys are potentially
another one as you could say okay well
dealing is stupid and they never did it
okay what's your argument against the
other day the people don't accumulate
fatigue that it's not beneficial those
are all lost to say on any kind of
physiological rationale and in the real
world they don't even work all that well
and just because some people you know
there's also a selection bias here these
are just the guys that survived it's
like people do in the Bulgarian training
program for Olympic weightlifting and
sanic why just max every day like that
wasn't a program it was a wieder system
designed to see who would fucking make
it and by a person who do you really
care about lifters are human beings and
tons of those lifters quit fuckload of
them got injured most of them hated
their lives and still never heard about
any of those guys and it would never
they would almost never do two Olympics
in a row and but just Soviet lifters win
two Olympics in them three Olympics and
shit like that and they were just as
good except they didn't run them in the
ground so it's very difficult to to
conclude a lot on just what one or two
guys are doing that are the very best
they take all in the body motors their
commonalities are probably on the right
track but with cabinets because even the
very best of the best can make systemic
mistakes again if you go back to the
1960s embodied building you say these
guys are the best the best look at what
they're doing they were doing some
different stuff than they are now you
know don't be caught with your fucking
dick in your hand in 20 years when
everyone's caught up and doing way more
right shit you were defending the wrong
shit just because you say well these are
the big skies they have to know what
they're doing they know some good stuff
and you can take some stuff out of it
for sure but they made me wrong with
some things and you don't want to be the
guy last one holding that hot potato
who's bigger than those guys how about
Andre the Giant or the big show what
kind of training did they do they made
them so big training mm-hmm like you can
just it's one of these tit-for-tat
things you can't just like cherry-pick
examples of people who dues like all
sorts of it's one of these were people
can be successful in spite of doing
things that are not in line with what
the current scientific consensus is like
this happens all the time like Jon Jones
is great example he doesn't train he
just chokes hookers all the time and
he's the world champion like is that how
people should be training first
no same idea all right
hm okay not to be insulting cellulous
here and sell us nice but if the
stimulus and fatigue lines are parallel
and have a positive gradient greater
than X then SFR would not be constant it
would be a horizontally straight line I
don't really care sorry I don't want to
get into like pedantic arguments maybe
we said something incorrectly a hormone
now we do that's just wrong a
horizontally straight line is constant
because it's the same it yields the same
y-axis number it's 3 3 3 horizontal
straight line as always three so no
worries
oh let's see you give an example let's
see if you fuck this up let's just skip
this is stupid
hold on James I just want John it's dumb
who cares you're dumb no I am I am dumb
hold on let's see example point a
stingless 10 units fatigue 5 units a
single SB this is just one of these like
somebody is trying to like it one up
sent me if we said something incorrect
we say dumb shit all the time it happens
whatever if it's not the boat I'm the
most guilty
let's let's just actually ask answer one
more act yeah so so yeah so we're not
saying the stimulus of fatigue go up by
the same amount or saying they go up by
the same ratio so very various I'll
comment it does come off as trollee but
we're not saying these stimulus and
fatigue go up by the same amount we're
saying they go up by the same ratio to
each other which it takes into account
the rise and slope all right next
question
actual question but good thinking I
suppose James can you guys talk about
elevation training mask s-- um a little
bit yeah so what I do what do they not
do how about just that okay so what do
they do they train your inspiratory
muscles really really hard muscles
designed to breathe in
yeah train your cardiovascular system to
a robach degree right so I mean it makes
you really good at breathing it just
doesn't make you actually extract like
more oxygen out of the atmosphere it
just makes you able to extract more air
into your lungs which is which is good
to a point but the transfer of training
in effect on sport activities is
extremely limited I think that's it
that's three that's more than three all
right well let's wrap this one up for
today we went for like hour and 40 so
that's pretty good all right folks I'm
gonna have another episode of James dose
sports
I did some QA and some common cardio
mistakes and support training hopefully
that will be out this week probably on
Thursday if you guys have any kind of
sports specific questions that you want
me to answer you can either post them in
the webinar here else--if in the webinar
comments or you can just post them on my
previous episodes either one is fine if
you have a specific situation it would
be helpful somebody said something like
can you cover high school wrestling I
can but if you have like a more of a
contextual scenario that you want me to
address that would be probably more use
for everybody and myself so let me know
if you have specific scenarios or weird
things that come up and I'll cover those
Mike you got something going on anything
going on ah nothing I came here to
remember alright well make sure you guys
subscribe if you enjoy our ridiculous
banter and stay tuned for more QA on the
way we'll see you next time peace guys