[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpe diet app is here to help it creates
a diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
alright folks welcome back to the weekly
webinar dr. James dr. Mike as always and
we are here to answer your nonsense
questions just kidding
usually pretty good so Maya you want to
just get right to it let's get to it
cool all the rp+ crew metal Paul says
hey Doc's I think my questions got
missed and we're copying pasting so
asking again sorry if you already
answered it somewhere to Mister somehow
is it you're normally your maintenance
intakes and take drops a ton during a
cut I realize it will drop to reduce
need lower roll body weight etc however
my personal dropping rain and some take
this cut is quite extreme to me during
my mask my maintenance index around
3,600 calories I was eating 4,000 ok now
in the 8th week of the Scott my
maintenance has dropped to 3,000 making
me eat 2300 it's still rather easy
though
following up your diet book 2.0
basically increase my veggies by a ton
so if you're in week 8 of your cut I'm
not exactly sure how you're estimating
being a maintenance calories yeah that's
what was kind of dinging in my mind like
how are you so sure about those numbers
if you're in the cut itself yeah
now the short term decrease is gonna be
huge but so one thing I've done before
is like May nights that I've run to
myself before I'll run a diet and the
weight loss starts to sort of peter out
a little bit seemingly I'll have like a
week with no change and I'll drop it
even more drop it even more drop it even
more calories and then I'm losing pretty
slowly and I'll be like oh my god I'm
dropping like crazy I'm gonna have had
other diets where I was like you know
and I'm just gonna eat these macros that
I know there's a good enough macros to
cut just I'll just rate thermodynamics
notice see what happens and I make no
adjustments and I lose a pound and a
half a week for nine weeks straight I'm
like okay so I think a lot of times when
we cut a little bit too rapidly we end
up getting into such a fight-or-flight
state that the cortisol etc just stores
a ton of body water and then the more we
fight that the more body water stores
and makes it look like we're not losing
weight really fast at all so I think
estimating maintenance it can be really
really difficult in the middle of akkad
so I think
your maintenance is actually quite a bit
higher than you think although I can't
fall a lot because metabolic adaptation
especially NEET is a hugely adaptive so
there's there's there's everything to
say about that I will just say for
future reference you know if you think
you're stalling
give it a little actually I'm coaching
my French Charlie right now of RP and I
just coached him through a five-month
fat loss phase his first real fat loss
phase of his mature career and he for
like we had a three week period where he
basically didn't lose any weight then
he's like dude and I'm like weighted out
and then the next week in lost like four
pounds you know and then it was like two
pounds pound that I have two pounds
pound and a half and we just never
adjusted from there get into just as
macros after the first three months we
had two months where I think I don't
believe I justice macros a single time
and he just kept going kept going kept
going kept going so a lot of times body
water fluctuations are way bigger and
sometimes lasts for way longer than
you'd expect you gotta be easy on the
trigger finger you know the numbers are
good if anything you're getting good
hypertrophy training anyway good
momentum built I would say waiting a
little longer is better than cutting
really quick cutting really quick
cutting really quick in addition to that
like the way we design the RPG I adapt
some of you may notice who've been using
it the cuts are not very aggressive they
could have been much more aggressive but
they're not and you think like why not
cuz I think it you know you're already
cutting it everything's working really
well you don't want to make these huge
drastic cuts if I've seen a lot of
people including myself freak out in the
middle of died like I'm not losing
weight fast enough cut make massive cuts
and then everything just goes straight
to hell James yeah and you know the
other thing too is sometimes you get
like the short short side gain long-term
cost where you cut really aggressively
in the beginning and you lose a lot of
weight and that seems to be great but
then if you were to like do a really
long cut or a double-pumped cut like
what the maintenance in between next
thing you know like you get to your
maintenance and you're still at poverty
macros and you just can't lose weight
anymore because you cut so aggressively
in the beginning so sometimes that
strategy fall short especially on the
longer diets on the tail end where now
you actually aren't losing any more
weight and you're at poverty macros and
everything sucks so it's usually a good
idea to wait it out as micro he said and
then middle Paul says this brings me in
a second thing I was wondering it's
always mentioned to me supplement with
multi by
during cut as your micros might drop too
low my personal experience is the other
way around it so fucking much veggies
during this cut that micros for sure is
not an issue now so remember not only
micro nutrients come from veggies a lot
of them come from fats
there's tons of fat soluble vitamins and
that was my actually very well below
because you definitely cut out on your
fats when you're dieting and if you're
not cutting under fat so doctor cotton
so let's let's pause that for a second
then he says during a mass however I eat
lots of a lot less what I do sincere so
filling it's not really question just an
observation I suppose it's interesting
observation but I would say like for me
it's actually a really simple question
so a couple variables one you know do I
get a high quality nutrition during cut
yeah always my quality of food is better
compositions better on a massive much
more dogshit
literally I eat physical dogs and
whatever but there's there's oh man
there's a hilarious sequence of pictures
but I like I think I didn't I tagged a
couple people on Facebook I didn't link
it it's like kids throwing a panic
attack and crying and there's the reason
like they wrote right under why and one
of them's like I wouldn't let him eat
the cats food cat food like you don't
want to eat that kid doing your favorite
but in any case you know that might the
quality comes and goes but the thing is
about vitamins and minerals is that you
never can be sure you're getting enough
from food and we all have these weird
regimented diets and stuff and a lot of
times we don't follow our cravings which
is a lot of times how your body
equalizers vitamin and mineral stuff is
through cravings what I do is I just
have a multivitamin multi-mineral tab
from fucking Sam's Club or Walmart just
once a day every day in the morning no
matter what the time of the season is
and that makes her I just don't drop to
any absurd level I just there's a piece
of advice introduced to me by a
professor of my undergraduate studies in
kinesiology and he actually caught the
tab in half because he knows the
vitamins were overdosed and a bunch of
them I'm a much bigger than he is so I
just heat the whole thing one tab it's a
gummy I eat it every fucking day it's
just like really good insurance policy
so to speak so I'll just do that
mel is like addicted to vitamin gummies
we have to like my stricter for meeting
more than like you could just have
regular gummies without any fear of
vitamin toxicity she feels like it like
it's justified because of their vitamins
right she's like oh I could eat all
these she's like she's like kind of
glaring at me from the side he's never
glares that's not like her
alright he says after this cut I'll be
doing a month maintenance and then an
extended Mass hell yeah basically
previous answers I'll be altering my MPT
five-day to fit in an extra leg day
doing a heavy ham medium day and light
day oh sorry no there's no ham heavy day
medium day light day you just got ham on
the brain son yeah about that ham roast
ham
hot ham and cheese you know it's funny
uh anytime they do like the big like
picture of a spread or video of a big
Christmas spread there's always like the
Christmas ham look at the fuck still eat
an awful fucking table it's you know
what I'd rather have the ham than the
turkey honestly get that turkey out of
here nobody wants that fucking Turkey
you're out of your fucking mind James
really you do you like the turkey dress
dark meat man mmm yeah big old turkey
leg I hate white meat turkey is awful
people who prefer white meat turkey look
motherfucker are you dieting you're some
shit what's wrong with you it's nice
let's fucking meet and at that point I'd
rather have like Turkey cold cuts oh
sure all right I don't know what it is I
don't like that fucking Tory to get that
turkey out here honey ham I'll take that
everybody honey baked now we're starting
to put up a few more chips on the table
oh for sure
alright so heavy date medium day light
day no mention of ham I got some extra
questions on that number one I got one
totally off day in the program when
would it be best to have it right before
my heavy day maybe like day right after
my heavy like date or somewhere else I
would say right after a light lightest
like day so that you get really full
healing before your heavy leg day James
agreed uh if we're just looking at the
legs alone yeah it's probably a really
good idea the other thing too with the
off days is that sometimes it depends on
how you want to set up your frequency
like if you want it to train chest three
times per week right you might actually
have to have your off day on a very
specific day
because your chest day might be like one
day apart right worse if you don't take
it on that day now you have back-to-back
chest days etc so it's one of those
things you might also consider the
frequency of some of the other things
that you're doing and that's kind of a
conundrum I've run into with my training
where when I've been playing around with
the frequency one of the things that has
to now be where I used to auto regulate
my rest day and take it when I felt like
I wanted it now I've actually had to be
more strict about when I take the rest
day because the way I've altered my
frequency so just something to think
about
interesting on my number two on my light
quad day I've been doing two different
twenty to thirty rep exercises one of
those will be leg extensions I'm still
not sure what the second one would be
any suggestions man you do like leg
extensions for like a metabolite
protocol you're I mean I'd be done like
at that point but there's nothing else
happening for quads on that day yeah I
mean like if you really have some kind
of funky MRV which is super high was
high five to you walking lunges are
great because they're not axially
loading they're very conducive for high
reps and after leg extensions they'll
throw your quads are super limiting
factor you'll get fucked up super bad
that's a consideration but I would just
say either just one exercise is good
enough on that day a lot of times but if
you really need to I would say walk
another good one might be like belt
squats after the walk after the knee
extension because at that point your
quads are toast and it's already like a
lightly a very light load at exercise
now you do the leg extensions now it's
even lighter that's you're gonna use
like a twenty five or a 45 pound weight
and you'll you'll be good if you ever
permanently disfigure your back and
can't ever squat again or like press a
hack squat a combination of life
extensions and belt squats in some
capacity will give you legs as big as he
ever want but it will come at a cost of
fucking brutal pain yeah I did those I
did high rep belt squats this morning it
was it was existential pain where you
just like put it down he like what what
is my life why why am I here number
three I will be focusing a bit more on
legs but the regular npt has very little
biceps and triceps work and I would be
okay to include more of those as well or
be overdoing it you know you never can
tell until you try it just be reasonable
look at your program like you've been
training for a while now
Paul and you can look at a program like
James you ever look at a program that
you write you're like look the fuck am I
thinking or you're like this is easy
like figure out which one of those
others metal Paul and go in the moderate
to easy side and if you think really uh
then put a bit more biceps and triceps
in before the love of God takes
something out take a couple backs that's
out take a couple of chests that's out
shoulder or something something's got to
give you look at the overall program
don't buy it off more than you can chew
and if you start it and you have to
notice after week two or three it's
completely insane you're gonna have to
deal oh damn and make some cuts yeah
dude I have that moment every time I
write a program for like females under
like 130 pounds I'm like what I'm
killing this person and they just like
at the peak weeks I'm right back there
like it was great I'm like how are you
still alive
what happens every single time number
four to continue question three how best
to alter the full body program to make
it leg chest shoulder and arm emphasis
is it as simple as upping the volume on
the emphasis muscle groups and lower you
know that emphasis are there other
considerations there are minor
considerations of exercise order so like
the easy one there is like so apparently
you're backing off on your back alright
that's actually the only thing missing
from there as far as I can tell so if
you backing off on back training put
back training on what you can do is it
reduces frequency back you could train
only twice a week instead of three times
and train it as just one exercise per
session so that's a total of like you
know five to ten sets of macro mezzo and
put it on maintenance volume and do it
last in in on those days so I would say
like on your upper body days do like a
set of pull ups at the end of the day
and another upper body day through a set
of Metro's or Kate or Machine rows or
cable rows at the end of the day are
saying that an exercise of bent rows and
an exercise of pull ups and that's it
I've missed anything no I was gonna do
the same like exercise order suggestion
you did but I actually I like the
addition you made about lowering the
frequency too that was also really good
yeah cuz you know why I pushed monthly
three times a week not even emphasis I
mean like James and I never know I think
how far to push the his literature is a
little bit unclear we never know how far
to push see how much can you do
sighs but I don't think either one of us
if you pressed us metal Paul and said
can I do once a week for you can see for
back and still maintain both of us would
probably have to say like yeah probably
and the thing is to like even if it
started to dip below your MV what you
would gain in resented ization once you
started training back like twice a week
at that point probably would be a wash
over time so you have like an extended
time of kind of no progress but but if
you're using that time to push other
muscles it's really not lost time at all
right exactly the trade-off number 5
planning this extent of mass phase I'm
around each of 10 percent body fat
ending this cut I remember Mike saying
would be a good idea to do roughly 16
week mass 4 week mini cut another 12
week mass and I'm am I remembering that
I'm not member in there man when that
tell you what is this a good block setup
I think it's great James any
protestations no no the only thing I get
these a lot of these with my clients
like what do you think of this tentative
plan and that's the one thing I like to
just remind people is like keep a
tentative right don't because sometimes
people will they'll make the plan and
then they feel good about it something
out of their control happens right and
they get a little bit off and then they
feel disappointed like they they fucked
up or they did a bad job when the
reality is it's like they did the best
job they could but something came up
like maybe they had a work thing or a
vacation or somebody died you know who
knows just keep keep it locked up James
no I know it is but it happens all the
time and then people will email you back
like oh I feel like I let you down it's
like dude that this whole thing was
tentative don't feel bad you know what I
mean it's like whatever okay it's our
son those are the things in life number
six I got a bit of an agony shoulder but
never grip bench press and parallel
compressing seems working just fine two
rhodium exercise of it I was looking
into riskier bench presses obviously in
a power rack I know Greg knuckles is
into those what's your shaken them you
know how I'm not a big fan of them and
I'm not a big fan of mr. knuckles
either you run and tell him I said mom
you know what man James and I are sorry
universal view on exercises is we have
our own personal biases but you got a
try would light wait to see if you like
the gym and if you like it and it
doesn't hurt if it doesn't hurt your
if you get a mother mind muscle
connection if it's getting you a pump
and soreness and so on and so forth we
can't ever possibly have any ground say
it's a bad idea so hit it just don't
capitate yourself James yeah and that's
just one exercise that I have tried over
and over again and just never have found
success in terms of like getting it in
the correct position that doesn't cause
we like that dude yeah and it's just it
just might be like maybe I'm a
knucklehead
or maybe I just didn't find the right
groove in terms of the technique for me
that's just like a 100 percent failure
rates so that one I have moved on from
but like Mike said give it a try play
around with it use light weights change
the grips around change your technique
see if it works and if it works great if
not oh well
hey is meltable back there yes yes can
you can you tell her something real
quick sure can you just say 100 percent
failure rate no Mike wants you to know
100% failure rate
she got a chuckle out of it excellent
that's I'll tell you after the podcast
is over oh I know oh you know okay great
I was trying to see it subtly the
jobless pet parent might have you okay
do you have Disney Plus if you've been
watching the mandalorian oh I'm looking
incredible James it's fucking great it's
the old Star Wars type of shit
it's the Mandalorians single-handedly
made up for whatever fucking disasters
coming with us new Star Wars movie which
I've heard by leaked reviews that it's
awful oh I know isn't that sock I hope
they're wrong the key Mandalore like
that a Palpatine's like coming back to
that's what the cuddle buddies pulling
me and I'm like oh Pappa team what
happen also like it's so lame Palpatine
killed is Star Wars about Palpatine is
one shit man yes and that that actor has
been alive this whole fucking oh my god
well you imagine like meeting that guy
in a flight and be like wow great you
know yeah it's so great that you're on
Star Wars they're not like Star Wars in
your seat 1977 you look at it
motherfucker you Palpatine you Palpatine
hey you are all back then yeah
are you really Palpatine because you
don't need I'd be like so what's it like
working with Sam Jackson like that's the
best that's the best question you had
for me that's the only relevant question
as far as I'm concerned alright so
thanks for answers Paul thank you for
your questions and Aiden Aiden says hi
Mike and James I have a weird question
today try us one of my close friends is
currently in a university over here in
the UK and he studied nutrition combined
or something else completely forgotten
we regularly chat about what he learns
and one of the things he came to me is
that calcium blunts muscle growth this
seems to me like some mad nonsense as
most whey proteins of calcium
inattention dairy he may have heard this
wrong but he is adamant this is the case
could you possibly dive into this
outline why this may or may not be the
case while training is the biggest
argument against calcium blunted muscle
growth is following calcium inundates
the entire sarcoplasm when the circle
has particular releases into the muscle
cell
so if calcium blood spots were with me a
real deep shit because that shit comes
out every time you contract I am aware
of no evidence that supplemental calcium
bonds muscle growth or in the James I
think he might be getting confused
because I think calcium can block either
a zinc or magnesium up take one of those
they actually I think a couple of those
block the other couple yeah which is
like such a minut thing like the reason
why that came up I remember like in the
early 2000s was because people were
using zma yes any flux itself mmm so it
was like a one of those kind of pride a
supplement called called a cowl-neck
zinc it was all the same and that I read
that they'll block each other oh my god
am I just stupid assholes rip me off
this fuck someone
yeah but I don't know of anything
specific other than that I can't think
of anything more calcium's like directly
device ask him to expand on it and I
guarantee he won't be able to he might
just be confusing to different like
that's that's kind of why I brought that
up you might be confusing some different
pathways you gotta get him and gotta be
like hey you're confused you're confused
sit down have a seat shut the fuck off
spam but just punch him in the face
alright and then he says
continues hi guys thanks for answering
my question last week on soreness and
session and maybe relating back to that
I forgot to mention that after the
unsustainable higher-frequency mess I
did four weeks of maintenance volumes 2x
a week frequency before entering mass
phase I'm every saying last week that
you could be doing all this volume and
getting tick out of it so how does
someone know when their recess 't eyes
do volume
pumps from low set numbers soreness etc
just wondering as he said that even
moderate frequencies and volumes to more
challenging even though I am pushing
quite high volumes after recent ization
phase or maybe overthinking this I think
you're overthinking this you know you're
ready
it's hard to know you're ready so
usually juice three or four weeks or
whatever and then take a nice active
rest or whatever deal owed and when you
come back to normal training we try
normal training what you should notice
is that you do get pumps from various
you set numbers sometimes pumps from
much lower reps than you're used to and
you get way more sore from lower volumes
than you think and even beyond pumps and
soreness a perception of acute damage
you know how like you'll do two sets of
squats a normal eight mile whatever here
we go you did you set the squats coming
back you know like oh my god like my
quads are messed up in those quads
something's not right so that kind of
situation is typical of being reset
citize dand a lot of times the pumps are
bigger and last longer - so James yeah
so you can kind of take the ghetto mev
estimator and basically what you would
see is all of those indices kind of
shift down really low where you're like
well normally my MeV would be like five
sets per session and I already hit my
marks at like two right boom that's kind
of how you know that's the idea so take
those same ghetto MeV markers and you
see them shut down and then you could
also use some of like the psychological
ones you'd see from my D loading - like
if you really have a high desire to
Train like your perception of fatigue is
like really really low you know if you
feel like a high state of physical
preparedness like you feel like you
could jump over a building all those
kind of things also the plan to that
yeah one of the ones that seems to come
back for me is like I look in a piece of
exercise equipment and if I'm pretty
overreach like I'll be traveling with
friends or watching friends lyft and I
look at like like I look at a pulldown
machine and like there and then when I'm
really right at a train I
could have pulldown machine or I watch
someone do pulldown was I'm like who the
getting such tasty pumps like a fucking
pump I want to palm like that's when you
know you're pretty good to go alright
second question from him here in this
thread I currently get really good pumps
from set 2/4 onwards and all exercises
was a really good mind muscle connection
which feels like it's ripping muscle off
the bone especially in the 5 to 10 rep
range but I stated last week the only
thing lacking is soreness even though
sessions are in the 6 to 12 cent range
form is also not a concern
getting as I'm weirdo in that sense as I
wouldn't want to look like a fool in the
gym doing anything wrong so wondering if
that's the case of me needing more
volume than most to grow maybe yeah I
don't know I you know you could be not
getting sore for like 50,000 other
reasons including the volume landmark
stuff so if generally speaking you're
getting really good pumped from from two
to four sets of stuff and on I mean fuck
I'm not really so worried about your
gains to be honest yeah and this might
be like one of those things for like
week one you you notice you start really
really low and then weeks two and three
you're kind of like I'm not really
getting any sore but I'm still getting
good pumps and stuff then you would just
be kind of an indicator like a a gentle
tap on the but like good game good game
keep going keep going yeah add some
volume Anson volume until you find like
it's starting to become either you're
getting sore or you're really getting
crippled by fatigue and then you know
okay time to back off yep and he says
also I seem to be doing as you say
cramming as much flowing image on my car
as possible whilst performance of stable
maintain your rep / weight with I are
dropping each week from that I then keep
adding sets until I reach my Marvy I
then plant a dealer and start the next
meso was slightly increased fines from
as a one week one slightly higher
intensities and also hitting upper body
movements four times a week instead of
three due to reaching 25 sets at my
chest to split it up better does that
all seem logical seems good to me yeah
we're also be fair to say that if I were
to hit the same reps with increased
weight at the start of the new meso that
muscle has been built I don't know about
muscle isn't built Fitness has certainly
been gained and if you're training a
such a way that causes mostly
hypertrophy not any other kind of
fitness gains which you seem to be then
a some portion of that fitness game
maybe even a large one will be muscled
yeah you could like there's always like
the case you could say like there's
neurological changes you like your
efficiency and the movement just goes up
the more you do it over time but it's
I would say a pretty good guess of like
maybe like fifty-fifty like I you're
making some more efficiency changes over
time and you're probably getting some
muscle - yeah and then last question
from Aidan is are there any other
proxies that someone can use to
determine whether they're a partially
plan is working and that they're getting
the most out of it without them spinning
their wheels
you know meso to meso to Meza rep
strength increases are real good way to
go about things that's probably the best
one short of knowing that you look
bigger yeah and I think that's the other
one where it's like the subjective and
even some of the objective body cop
measures like if you have progress
pictures you have body weights and even
if you do some like arm you know leg
circumference type stuff those are
things that can help bolster like okay
I've been gaining weight and my arms are
a lot bigger and it doesn't look to be
all fats right a little bit subjective a
little bit objective but still probably
pretty useful James Mendenhall asks
whether it be any benefit in slowing
down the progression from mev to MRV for
example if I train chest Monday with
flat bench Wednesday with incline bench
and Friday with dips three sets each and
week one then on week two I do four sets
only on Mondays work out and keep
Wednesday and Fridays work out the same
week 3 adding another set and so on
until after six weeks in getting to five
sets each day for a total of 15 sets
soon the oh maybe is nine heart set some
of our needs 15 for simplicity Eddy
Duchin there's some of the recent
webinar what's the downside of hanging
more on the middle of volume movie
progressing the sets per week like 10 12
14 is staying away from the easiest
training most fatiguing volume jumps
from 9 to 15 cents in just three weeks
seems more aggressive if I do that for
multiple body parts simultaneously for
example an increasing volume then we
need we can benchpress I also need you
that for tricep isolation work that I
would do after bench or with maintaining
a moderately challenging tricep workout
after more pressing work be enough
progressive overload for the tries so I
think it'd make a very very very good
point here that if you couldn't repeat
your weights on triceps and reps and
sets after last week's workout of chest
was so at hard
work out for this week for chest was
very hard or much harder but you still
hit the same tricep numbers that usually
indicates that you actually progressed
unfortunately it doesn't actually
stimulate your triceps much more because
it mostly just reflects that you're
handling the fatigue better for you
chest it's a revelation of fitness
rather than a gain and fitness so we'd
still tell you to push the triceps
further fundamentally all of this wiggle
room stuff and I've actually I've been
looking at the upper triple get it a bit
more on James just went through it we
really starting to move an erection we
like to really get this all to fall to
autoregulation the question of
progression through a mesocycle should
be answered every single session in
every single week based on how you're
feeling and how you're objectively
performing so if last week you got great
pumps and you got per plenty sore if
this week do you go up by one set or two
sets is your really up to you if you
want to go up by one set that's totally
cool or if you want to go up by two
that's probably totally fine what we
don't want people to do is the extremes
where last week's workout which is
really not that stimulative and you're
like I want to milk it out more and you
don't progress this week like so what's
this week's workout gonna be also not
that great there's definitely no rush to
progress superfast but if you stay just
ahead of the curve on okay am i
recovered from soreness am i getting a
sore at all am i getting good pumps and
am i recovering on time is my
performance good if all those things are
in the clear you can choose to move up
by one or two sets per session moving up
by 3 or whatever it'd be fucking crazy
don't do that one or two is your choice
just make sure that if you move up by
one and one and one and three weeks and
then no longer getting good pumps
because you've haven't moved up by
enough or there's no soreness no pumps
if your performance is still good you
have to ask yourself the question of am
I really doing enough volume to maximize
my gains and the answer is probably not
and so maybe you all buy two sets right
so let the auto regulation decide you do
have some wiggle room just make sure the
Wiggles don't take you to where you're
intentionally not going
hard as hard as you should be - for some
reason last longer it's almost like this
is a brutally stupid analogy but
unfortunately it works on a logical
basis on an analogical basis if you like
you're having sex with your partner or
whatever boy and you're like I know just
terrible
don't let Nick Shaw see these if it
happens I think it's a good amount of
the genes I think you might appreciate
this if you haven't sex with your
partner and you're like man you know it
would be sweet as a lot of sex
so like because you want to go an hour
like you were almost gonna come and and
he or she is almost gonna come like
three times put you back off right and
it's amazing sexy just fucking want to
finish but you're like I wanna go an
hour at some point you have to ask
yourself the question is like is the
Opera really that good versus missing
out on awesome fucking complete
start-to-finish amazing sex it's simply
the answer might be like you're just
having a lot of shitty sex so like you
can look over your eight-week plan if
you like I did eight weeks and someone's
like eight weeks of water you're like I
don't know mostly spinning my wheels I
guess but I did it it's like why don't
you have good training there's no rush
good training and one the training on a
regular itself to come to an end it
comes to an end
James yeah that was a silly example but
the point well-taken
so I'm just kind of reading back through
his question here and maybe I can just
share it real quick so I'm looking at
this and what I'm maybe I'm just reading
too much into it so he's saying like
okay mm Evie's like 9 I'm RV's 15 and
the progression sample he gives here is
like 10 12 14 so to me that's kind of
like what we would call like ma V
training but here's the deal right
you put the 9 in front of the 10 and the
15 after the 14 so you get 9 10 12 14 15
that's a five-week accumulation phase
going from mev to MRE and guess what as
you're saying kind of in the question
the bulk of your training is right here
at what we would kind of call ma vie
with like a very modest progression all
the way spanning that gap so that's
that's generally what we would recommend
now what we're kind of what Mike is
saying is like we're kind of getting
away from saying like you should do it
so rigidly where it's like definitely
ones that are definitely two sets like
there's there's definitely a good eye
it's there's merit and having a plan and
saying this is generally how I expect
things to go and I'm gonna maybe follow
that more often than not or when I'm in
doubt
but I think the autoregulation is
probably a better idea so like what you
what you wrote down to me that's like
basically saying the same thing that we
say if you just put the MeV in the MRV
epoch on the top and bottom end and
that's what like an omen mesocycle
should look like for the most part all
right on I just get Radhakrishna it's
gonna he's got a beefy name and I'm
always meticulous about trying to spell
things right and I just got tired of I
just got tired of it you fucking asshole
I know but he but he he signs it as on
so it he goes all right hey Doc so he
was doing well I just want to run my
plan for training frequency over my
cutting block that's going to start
after the New Year 3 mezzos planned 12
weeks of dieting I guess these are
reader one matters okay with the goal of
losing or maybe 400 ones with the goal
of losing 10% Bobby wait for context
plant for frequency is basically to have
average frequency of each muscle group
match the frequency I just trained
everything at for my recently completed
mass block which are three times a week
frequency for every muscle group except
biceps which got hit four times a week
we seem to work really well for me and
I've been running frequencies of three
times a week for most of my muscle
groups for a large portion of my
training career so far so I know that
this frequency is quite sustainable my
plan for the cut is to start the first
measure with everything trained at two
weeks biceps three then going to
everything train three week biceps four
and then concluding the retreat for weak
biceps five I know that the last measure
was going to be quite challenging some
of my muscle groups hamstrings chest
triceps honestly barely cover on time
from 3x a week though they do recover
but I imagine that my delts and biceps
are going to appreciate the higher
frequencies and I can update my
frequencies
prior based on how this goes of course
if for some reason I start shitting the
bed during the second mezzo I'm I'll not
push the frequency up for the third
mezzo but I think this plan is quite
conservative
so let me starting things off easier
than I normally do and only push careful
Alison last mezzo let me know if that
all makes sense I mean it makes as much
sense as anything I've ever seen them I
think it looks just fine and with the
caveat they said about Auto regulating
if needed I just don't have anything to
add James yeah and the other thing too
is like maybe I'll just say like don't
push frequency for its own sake
necessarily like if you're like dude
like three times for my chest is like
I'm already kind of at the threshold you
don't have
a huge incentive to go to four times if
it's like if you're already on the
breaking point and if you go to four
times and you're like this fucking sucks
I'm never recovered at any point at any
time just go back to three totally fine
yeah I totally agree I actually tried it
I didn't experiment I didn't really ever
talk about this I experimented for a
very short time with four time week
frequency and I broke yeah I just
couldn't at my exercise selection for
quads was really the thing like training
quads I train quads twice a week now
I stopped even doing three times leak
those three time we quad training I had
to train them when they were sore
otherwise my quad workouts would just
kind of look pathetic and four times a
week I would literally just come in and
do like two or three sets of quads and I
basically would have very little pump
here a little my muscle connection it
was kind of like a extended warmup and I
was like you know this is fucking stupid
fuck that like I'm not warming up to leg
press so I can like press two fucking
sets or three sets that's fucking
ridiculous like if I'm gonna warm up
full-on press it's gonna be three to
five sets and then by then if I do that
three times a week I can only do it
three times a week now for so and like
and the question is this like are you
really leaving anything on the table at
that point it's hard to say we don't
really know almost certainly not really
dance right now and then I just had
another question he said just wanted to
add on with a question about grip work
my brother our training mostly for
powerlifting is in a straight phase and
running into grip issues on deadlifts
there will be a general suggestions for
training grip is it worth it for him to
start training it right now well on a
straight phase or is it better to hold
off until he starts hypertrophy training
again I also imagine the training grip
is a little bit different than training
for maximum hypertrophy so would you
guys suggest slightly different
exercises for this purpose well so say a
couple of things and I'll see where I
miss some stuff I'll form hypertrophy is
a big part of grip training so I think
you have to have a base of forearm
hypertrophy when you're training
strength for grip so grip a lot of times
people say all any grip strength they
just train only peaking strength and I
just don't think that's a good idea so I
think that you need a trained grip
strength by doing form hypertrophy
once you've gotten through some form and
persevere work which will be releasing a
muscle guide earlier next year about
form hypertrophy training once you've
gotten bigger forearms
they're automatically gonna be stronger
already especially for fatigue managed
properly but what you can do is
absolutely do some forearm strength
training and there you want to do
challenging loads that roughly
approximate the time that you hold a
deadlift bar in a competitive pole which
is light tends to be like three seconds
really maybe even four and I would go a
little bit over that so I would do like
five seconds various isometric holds you
can do them with dumbbells they're
better with a barbell the easiest way to
do without doing a ton of systemic
fatiguing is to do holds on a weighted
pull-up bar so weighted holds on a
pull-up bar
so put plenty of weight on a belt and
have a pull-up bar within reach grab it
pull your knees up and hold that gives
you essentially the same whole gripping
and holding ability and by the way get
yourself into deadlift grip position and
do it the cool thing is it doesn't
actually load your spine it's a nice
stretch and it comes very little fatigue
more sport-specific later is doing
static grip holds from like put a very
very like I would say not even what is
it like a rack deadlift but it's an
eight deadlift or something yeah pick up
your weight hold it hold and hold it and
I would say five six seconds in that
case cuz there's some dynamic stuff
that's missed and another thing that I
would encourage is down down sets and
deadlift and peak competition poles to
be held just a little longer either at
the top of every rep and especially at
the top of a last rep so you pull the
last rep and just hold it for three good
seconds and Konstantin Konstantinovich
is to do that all the time if you get
real comfortable holding a deadlift bar
and you do all those other things for a
grip that's a really good thing the last
thing I have to say is captain czuv
crush grippers are really really good
they helped me significantly with my
grip because they have a dynamic thing
and I would just get a series of them
start out with like the easy that it's
like a pre trainer version then the
trainer then the captain czuv crush one
and if you can close the one you can
deadlift a whole lot no problem I've
closed the two and a half and my grip
eventually got good for damn near
anything I wanted to pick up so the
captain's have crushes a good way to
measure your grip strength and via
repetitions to actually
yeah that was really solid and so kind
of the the take home here is like you
can do a face potentiated model for grip
even though we don't really think of
grip that way where you spend a lot of
time building up the forearm flexors
other you know finger flexor muscles and
then eventually you transition over into
actually doing direct grip work and I
was gonna recommend using the the
grippers as well because you can do like
grip and hold and you could do like a
grip sets basically it's like do five
where you grip hold for three seconds
release catch a breath grip hold like do
set a five of those and repeat you know
as you as you see fit but basically what
you would see is right that face
potentiated model where in your
hypertrophy phase you're focusing on
building up the forearms and then when
you get to your strength phases you
switch over to like grip specific grip
strengthening exercises now the one
thing that you should be aware of when
you actually train for a grip is that it
can't actually interfere with some of
your training stuffs significantly
especially if grip is already becoming a
limiting thing because the forearms are
one of those muscle groups just
collectively where it takes a lot to
really fuck them up but once you fuck
them up it takes a while for them to
bounce back it's just one of those you
use them all the time you really have to
put in a lot of work so once you
actually get them into like a fatigues
like overload state
you better believe you're not going to
be able to bench or deadlift that next
day so it's one of those where like we
do recommend doing it but you have to be
very strategic and where you put it
throughout the week so that it doesn't
interfere with your other training or if
you have competitions even worse right
so just be strategic and how you set up
that face potentiated model and then how
you interlace them throughout the week
with your other policies yeah a
specifically training grip right after
you train deadlift is a good thing
def nah not before not the day before
and also taper real well for grip
training so I would say in the last two
or three weeks of your peak for sure to
do zero grip training whatsoever just do
your normal polling and it's gonna
really really do fatigue your grip and
you're gonna have a really really good
approach after that and also just lastly
I would have your brother of YouTube
some grip technique videos the way some
people grip that lift bar makes a big
big deal of sense what I used to do is
just grab it normally and just just grab
it like I grab any other bar and that
turned out not to be a great thing I
used to lose deadlifts all the time with
grip and then I actually got grip advice
from a gentleman in my gyms very nice
I is a 700 pound deadlift her at 220 and
he had the longest hands I've ever seen
and he goes just make hooks with your
hands like this I tried it and I
couldn't pull 225 so fucking ridiculous
a dumbass advice via these long-ass
fingers it didn't matter then my friend
Travis from North Carolina was
approached strongman he was 65 like 320
but he had hands that were basically the
size of mine and he had pulled like 800
and I was like holy fuck and he's like
Mike listen everyone else is ridiculous
you put the ball right under these
calluses right here and you sink the
calluses in and go over and as soon as I
try that I was like oh my god world of
difference so depending on hand position
and design your brother might benefit
from just watching some YouTube videos
on hand position and deadlift grip from
a couple of sources trying a couple
things and seeing what works best that
can actually put pounds and pounds on
your grip right away yeah for sure I had
a similar thing we're not quite on this
the same spot but right in the the joint
of the fingers I would like to get the
bar right in there and it would just
like the the the knurling would just
catch there was just so much friction
right you just couldn't move same idea
that's when your either your your skin
comes off or you get to lift yep
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
alright Shan Shan 'some that's a pretty
sweet name
mm-hm hey doctors we met briefly the RP
somewhere always where blad
nonsensically at you for 20 to 30
seconds both of you I was the guy in the
green robot shirt
I have official government paperwork
that certifies I am NOT an N so I
promise those are that's easy to forge
easy to forge and in cells make a lot of
promises to you
I've really enjoyed your webinars on the
side of the jointer if your plus I were
to buy your friendship that's exactly
what you're getting it's like a
fraternity yeah 100% exactly cool for
Charlie except we do less giving each
other blowjobs or whatever the fuck it
is they do that's yeah I have been it's
fine it's fine way to live I've been
training pretty seriously for a number
of years I likely have a number of
specific program of questions for you
down the road I also claim that I have
read your books before I do so my
guarantee to you all right nice little
lifting history is a nation of some
light on the questions of hand year four
to zero CrossFit other personal training
not terribly well structured year zero
to one one year I ran the starting
strength linear progression poorly for
about one year nine months or so to
recap that's three day full-body issue
very limited access election year one
two three or four two years four day a
week full body training with
predominantly strength focus broadly
speaking frequent singles practice the
competitive power lifts two thirds of
training three six rate rep range
one-third training lead to twelve vast
majority movements with a barbell except
for accessories for biceps triceps and
additional back development year four to
date eight months slowly transitioned
from the Ford a full body training I had
been doing to incorporate more RP style
programming for body composition now
training six days a week with for longer
days two shorter days a lot more number
of variations more machines accessories
and more bodybuilding friendly
variations of
eg more stiff legged deadlifts versus
just deadlifts
alright the actual question I discovered
that I have about 10 to 12 percent
strength discrepancy between legs as
demonstrated a single leg leg press it's
actually significant testa with a set of
10 at to our AR there's also a vision
discrepancy in quad size that appears to
correlate to the discrepancy perhaps
interesting to note I had not previously
observed any discrepancy and single leg
knee extensions or single leg curls I
have also not considerably noticed a
difference in other unilateral squatting
variations like weighted lunges step ups
etcetera but I think poor skill and
balance have likely cloud of those
results I'm terribly on athletic control
so now that I've found this discrepancy
how should I train it and I've actually
been allowing myself to train the
stronger leg with more weight in the
single leg leg press such that I'm
mashing reps let the expected RA are my
thought is that if I train the strong
leg for ups weight equal to the weak leg
strong leg just doesn't get an effective
stimulus is very good reasoning is
absolutely correct the goal should be to
shrink the gap in strength and hopefully
size by consequence but doing so but not
effectively training the strong leg
seems dumb to me what do I do now so
hold on a second time for some logic
very good question I love these kinds of
questions Shawn here's the deal you say
you want your weak leg to catch up but
then you say but doing so by not
effectively training a strong leg seems
dumb so let me ask you a question if
James Hoffman walks faster than me and
I'm trying to catch up what's the best
way for me to catch up if I walk faster
if he slows down or both of course both
if James continues to walk in his
regular speed and I walk as fast as I
can then I'll probably catch up to him
but it might take a long time and
there's another problem if you're
optimizing a hypertrophy for both legs
for the strong leg and you're putting a
superlative level of hypertrophy onto
the weak leg you're exceeding your weak
legs
MRV very likely because you are doing
your possible best for the strong leg
and then you want on top of that for the
weak like that's just not how it works
a video the stubborn body parts training
guide which can be applied it's on
YouTube but I have another one I think
I've did a webinar and I think there's
an RP plus video of you know like
catching up weak body parts unilateral
training as such the key is to put your
shit that you want to catch up to at MV
at most at mev and then cycle any video
MRV training for the other thing the
reason which means if you really want to
catch up your strong leg your weak like
to your strong leg I would do much less
bilateral work a lot less unilateral
work all of it on the weak leg none of
it on the strong leg so that the vast
majority of your lower body or quad
training is for that one quad and the
other quad just gets maintenance because
if you just simply add you could be
adding over your Marvy which is a huge
reason why a bunch of people the
straight logic of well I'm gonna do
normal curls to balance out my arms but
then I'm gonna do extra one arm curls
for this one like gee why don't you just
do extra for everything you'll be super
huge Plus how it works
so I would definitely say put that one
quad on MV after this other quad catches
up and actually I would say exceeds a
little bit I would say exceeds cuz
you're gonna get a recess of ization
from that one quad once you start
training you then go back to training
both quads relatively normally and still
train this one a little bit more on this
one a little bit less after several
months you'd be roughly the same you can
go back to normal training and see if
the deficit opens up again based on a
couple of things the deficit may
continue to reopen and reopen or reopen
for example you may have a different
number of muscle fibers in your strong
versus weak leg that happens you may
have a different degree of innovation
that happens you may have a different
joint design where every time you walk
it causes more fatigue to the wee quad
or less fatigue to the we age of the
strong quad so on and so forth so it's
definitely a possibility that this
you're not ever permanently fixing this
imbalance but you can temporarily fix it
by doing what we just said
just re-evaluate every now and again
James yes I'm kind of going back and
forth on my position on this one because
usually like anywhere between like kind
of 0 to 8 percent disk like a
non-clinical there
just normal discrepancy for people
usually around like ten we start to seem
like more of a clinical discrepancy and
the reason why we call it that is
because now it's actually gonna start
causing changes like unfavorable changes
in things like your technique in the way
that you actually move or the way that
you lean on one side at rest versus
leaning on both feet Stein oh exactly
okay so my on the one hand you've
identified like yeah that definitely
would be kind of a problem but my
curiosity is getting the better of me
where I'm saying have you noticed
anything in your bilateral movements
that would lead you to believe if this
discrepancy is actually giving you a
problem also only one unilateral
movement is detecting the change and
none of the others I almost for sure as
sport coaches we'd have to say a
distinct problem underlying in
physiology and Anatomy is one that
presents itself through a variety of
context yes a single context problem you
can't say it's a fundamental problem
yeah so I mean on the one hand like I'm
not against you just wanting to be a
little bit more symmetrical but if it's
never like significantly inhibited your
ability to squat and deadlift which
you've already been doing for years at
this point like if no one's ever looked
at you like hey you look like a fucking
pigeon or a duck like when you're
squatting on one block you look goofy
right like why do you do that nice peg
leg right look if that's never come up
and you don't you don't have like hip
pain or back pain on on one side as a
result of being like cockeyed or
anything like that
honestly it might just be like a wonky
movement for you and especially if it's
not manifesting itself in other areas
like Mike already said so on the one
hand like that's definitely a
discrepancy that's maybe worth exploring
but on the other hand if it's not
causing any problems and you're not
seeing any like kinetic chain related
problems where you're getting problems
in like your hip or your ankle or your
back as a result of this huge
discrepancy I don't know I don't even
know if it's worth addressing at that
point you might be able to just just
keep doing what you're doing he did say
it was visually apparent to him so if
it's visually apparent you can totally
do what we said if it bothers you but if
it doesn't then your state normal
training yeah like if you're training
for aesthetic like if you just want to
like look good naked bike then
definitely right because then you have
one big buffed leg and one less buffed
leg and that just looks silly right so
all for that but like if you're actually
perseverating on this and you're going
to make me
changes to your training solely for the
purposes of the strength discrepancy and
it's not causing many other problems
especially in other exercises I'd say
yeah leave it yeah all right Isaac na
Mia's so hey James hey Mike number one I
recently started the new lecture series
that's the new one I'm putting up about
advanced hypertrophy concepts and tools
but I don't understand all the terms
used in the video motor unit smiley play
etc what can I read to understand those
better any physiology book will do any
exercise physiology book will do but the
best one is Brad Schoenfeld hypertrophy
textbook type that into Google and you
will get a textbook that if you read you
will learn so much more those videos can
teach you and then you'll make maximum
utilization of all those videos James do
you have any better advice no that's a
great advice and all I was gonna say is
like these are just fancy science words
like if I were if I were to tell you
that my own nuclei just means the
nucleus like the nuclear material in a
muscle cell you'd be like Oh duh like
right you just never heard it before I
read it before right so most of the
stuff is just like the more appropriate
scientific terms we use for things that
you probably are motor units is you know
and that requires an understanding of
what that actually is to make much sense
out of it I would say like that the
thing about advanced hypertrophy concept
of tools is it's called advanced for a
reason right right so it's for folks
there are pretty advanced them know
their stuff if you find that you're not
hanging with the terms shit man you
could do one better fuck what am I even
saying yes by Brad's book but also go
back and watch the earlier lectures and
rp+ oh yeah there's entire bunch of
words there like basic exercise
physiology go and find Jason's basic
exercise phase go through all those
lectures he'll teach you all those terms
and you'll be good to go so number two
in the mental cycle I'm currently in I'm
doing dumbbell presses for chest but
feel like my triceps burn out before I
pecs could that be an indication that I
should change the movement for another
one for the specific rep range maybe I
would also say that maybe your chest is
much weaker than your triceps and or
much more
slow-twitch and your triceps so much
more fast which they burn out faster I
could experiment moveable you might
consider pre exhausting so
doing some dumbbell or cable or machine
flies first and then doing the process
after another thing - in the dumbbell
press and this is gonna sound like
voodoo
but I tell you this happens all the time
you watch people dumbbell press and they
do this kind of shit yeah right where
they're they're like really tucked in
like this what you really want to focus
on with the dumbbell press you can hold
your arms roughly at 90 degrees but
really what you want to get is your
elbows to come out and your arms to come
out to really spread out and get that
chest activation so a lot of people will
really try and keep their wrists in
tight like this like inside the width of
their elbows which is gonna basically
kind of mimic that Close Grip pressing
type movement which is gonna put more
emphasis on your triceps so what I would
say is think about like like like
Hulkamania right like ripping the shirt
off like yeah brother like spread out
those chest and push up straight and
don't worry so much about like coming in
and like really locking out the arm
super hard think about coming out really
wide stretching out the chest and just
push straight up and see if that takes
that problem away might be a little
alteration your technique great advice I
just had a thought of like you know we
say like people who say brother and real
life or fucking lame can unite just say
and that's someone turning around and
Hulk Hogan standing behind you're like
what I meant to say was I'm an idiot
please don't eat me but but not you ,
brother you're great number three when
working in high rep ranges 50-plus reps
it seems like you get a crazy burn which
I suppose is totally normal but let's
say I'm training biceps for the sake of
the discussion and my target are ers -
should I continue the set until I am
true to our art even if that means
resting up two to three seconds between
reps to let the lactic acid dissipate or
should I stop two reps away from that
burn which makes me feel like I can't
move my arms even though if I wait a
tiny bit I can't help I was clear so the
answer is either you just have to make
sure you're consistent on which one you
do week to week to week which each
exercise so you say ok this time with
bicep curls for this mesocycle no rest
pause RER to me means as soon as I can't
do two I stop Iraq or you can pick
another exercise even a same as cyclic
eight with dumbbell curls I'm gonna give
myself a chance to stop twice during a
set and take two little breathers but
don't extend the number of breathers
okay and don't change the number of
breathers from zero to one to infinity
because then it makes tracking
impossible so be clear with yourself on
how many of those rusts you are allowing
yourself to take and then take as many
as you allow and if it's a
zero it's really you know we get a
nuances of what that means so the more
of those little breathers you take then
the more likely it is that you have to
do fewer sets to get the same effect if
you agree there is the more sense you
have to take so it all ends up in the
wash you still end up doing just about
the same number of reps so there's some
you know these kinds of sets are more
stimulative but they're also more
fatiguing I really can't right now say
that there's a definitely clear evidence
that rest pauses work better or worse
than straight sets taken pretty close to
failure whatever the answer is I think
that the you know just being consistent
it's got to be a huge determining factor
there and the reason why that's
noteworthy is because most people when
they do like three to four rir they just
do the straight set and they don't think
about breathers right it's when you get
to one to two rir that you actually
start thinking about doing breathers and
that's when it becomes an inconsistent
thing across weeks and I know that
sounds like dumb like of course just do
it the same way but you're gonna do like
weeks 1 & 2 like oh okay this is I'm
doing bicep curls and then you're gonna
get 2 weeks 3 & 4 on you're gonna be
like oh if I do a breather I could get a
few more reps and it will look like I'm
making progress but the reality is is is
it progress maybe maybe not maybe you
just changed the way that you did the
set so that's the idea there yeah I
don't know
number 4 if the answer is that I should
wait a few seconds to continue my said
properly how many seconds do you think
is acceptable to wait for so I would
think that depends on the exercise I
would also roughly standardized it so
what I like to do is standardized
breaths
forget about seconds and do breaths I'm
like press I give myself a maximum of
three breaths so I like I write below
press press press press push the weight
up I don't rack it I just extend
completely on my knees and I go even if
I'm ready to go after the second one I
go sometimes in III if I need four
breaths i racket because the set is
fucking over so I think two or three
breaths is totally fine after that I
think it's just engaged in fuckery yeah
totally great all right like a sneeze
but it's about to call I hate it
Magnus says hello Would adding some
sense of shrugs or rope face poles on a
leg day the day before an upper body
workout involving a decent amount of
pulling have some risk of interference
given either systemic amoreena locally
and exceeded uh I would say my first
guess would be no but you got to try and
figure out if that does for you some
people get gnarly gnarly stimulus out of
these exercises I get almost de kado so
I could sure do with recovering them
just fine but you know there really the
question is can you James yeah and like
you could feasibly like try to do that
as like a pre-exhaust kind of thing for
certain muscle groups like on rowing
type movements I could imagine
ultimately although I don't think it's
gonna be a big deal just trial and error
and see how it goes yeah Daniel hacker
mr. hackers he's known around these
parts says can you talk about strict
chest touching the bar overhand pull up
sources regular chin over the bar over
and pull ups this one better than the
other would an individual best be suited
if they can to focus on chest touching
the bar instead of just chin peeking
over like so most people do truthfully
I've never seen a moderate to heavy late
meal just less than 190 pounds plus do
multiple sets of 10 to 15 reps of strict
chest about pull-ups in my life I've
seen people strap weight on and pull
just high enough to keep their chins or
even head over the bar but never full
chest a bar so my opinion on this is
that chest a bar is better because it's
a more full range of motion it recruits
more back musculature to do it is way
harder but that doesn't mean it's better
but I think it's harder for the right
reasons and here's an interesting side
note I don't know Daniel if you heard me
say this said in other context I don't
office said on the webinar Franco
Columbu our AP was asked if he had ever
programmed weighted pull-ups for any of
his clients and he said no indeed have
you ever done weighted pull-ups and he's
like not at any meaningful capacity and
they're like how the fuck is that
possible your back is fucking enormous
and you train a bunch of people to teach
backs and he goes here's the deal people
don't know how to real pull-ups and what
he mean he's like well I start people
out doing regular pull-ups just chin to
the bar when they can do multiple sets
of ten to fifteen of those I start them
to touch their clavicles when they can
do multiple sets of 10 to 15 of those I
get them to touch their fucking sternums
now you give me a 200-pound male who can
touch a sternum 4 sets of 10 on the
pull-up which by the way Frank
Columbo was you'll have lats hanging out
of your fucking like balls like you'll
look like a goddamn cartoon character so
those kinds of pull ups are so so
effective the reason I almost never
programmed them and the reason that you
never see anyone do them because smoke
people can't do them and almost no pro
bodybuilder can do them you're not going
to see people weigh 280 BMG that shit
was just not gonna happen
so cinta bar is great because it's
sander dies is the movement but it
standardized as a movement that if you
really really got people to do full ROM
most people just couldn't do so if you
can do and you would find no joint pain
of doing the chest all the way to bar I
would do those because they're ballers
fuck I've done them in the past when my
like tricep injury thing was healthier
I've done a set of 10 with my bodyweight
full chest-to-bar pull-ups and it's a
fucking ball or ball or baller back
movement if you can do them I would do
them whenever I see little relatively
jack people that are light being able to
do pull-ups and they've got like 90
pounds on the fucking you know in their
belt and they're doing like just peeking
over change stuff I've my first thought
oh stop doing that shit save yourself a
bunch of dick pain from the weights
clipping your balls and do unweighted
pull-ups that's a 10 to 15 touching your
you know clavicle or sternum or anywhere
in between and you will get just awesome
awesome awesome back involvement and by
the way the lower you go from clavicle
to sternum the more your lats are
evolved at the very bottom of there
they're pulling so it's almost like a
like a pullover movement which is super
super lat specific so I would say that
it turns less from a power lifted to a
real real good bodybuilding left if you
go super low like that yeah it's really
awesome they don't like Mike said the
big limitation is that most people can't
do them or can't do them like enough to
really get like sets out of it I've
entertained the thought of using like
the chest-to-bar as like the ideal rep
and then kind of using the chin over the
bar as like the minimum technical
threshold for failure and I haven't
really come up with a good system on
that it's kind of wishy-washy so the
idea being like do as many Chester bars
as you can and the set basically is
ending when X number of reps from fail
that you can't even get your chin above
the bar the problem you so the benefit
there
you can start getting better at Chester
bars the the downside as your technique
is inconsistent across all reps which
makes tracking and just monitoring your
preparedness at any given set really
difficult so if fuck's your eagle on to
because you're like am i doing well or
not I can't talk and especially like
like if it was me I would get like one
chest-to-bar and that would be it and
then I would maybe get like a few like
sternum kind of like it would just be
like immediately start coming up and
yeah like that actually the answer which
one's better trust a bar if you can do
multiple reps of them or chin over bar
as actually answered by how would you do
assisted pull-ups what you do assisted
pull-ups anytime we do they're like a
good assistive pull-up machine is one
that lets you get super fucking high and
really arch and that gives you a pump in
your lats Ajit's not comparable even to
regular pull-ups in many cases so you
have a really great assistant pull-up
machine there's your answer man that's
how that shit works absolutely alright
Daniel hacker says can we rehash the max
amount of sets per exercise exercise
with a session within a session
recommendation I was under the
impression that was tweeny eight cents
on average however I get the feeling
that you both have backed off on that
upper number if that's the case if so
why I think that it's so it's three date
sets is yeah per exerciser sighs I would
say it's if you're saying max like
forget max let's just do the range I
think the range is two to six is how I
would characterize it once you do six
sets of an exercise unless it's some
kind of trick like down sets even then
down sets I don't know six sets of
straight squatting even with downs that
seems excessive that's at that point the
big problem on the bottom end is if
you're not doing at least two sets of
something why the fuck are you doing it
just to two sets of something else
secondly on the top end we've noticed
and a bunch of other people have as well
that the stimulus to fatigue ratio
really starts to drop off you start to
get a mind muscle connection
deterioration after like success we just
moving around and no one has any fucking
idea what's going on it seems to be like
a repetitive
uh not not boredom but like you are
staleness
a short-term stainless that develops
that prevents you from doing as much
good as you think you can in addition to
that there's an opportunity cost you
know after six sets of a specific
movement G you know you've stimulated
the specific fibers of that movement
enough and I think it's time to move on
to other fibers every muscle has
multiple angles you can hit and after
six sets of an angle you could do
another angle and get a much better use
of your time James yeah my opinion on
this has changed a little bit more
recently to where I used to not feel so
bad about just blasting one movement
especially if you were using heavy and
light days and some fatigue management
strategies built into they're not a huge
deal I think for especially like
intermediate males it's that two to six
is really the sweet spot - a few like
kind of isolation movements where you
might just might just suit you well I
think for females you might be able to
creep that up a little bit but for the
most part it seems like if your goal is
to get to ten sets instead of doing you
know fucking like eight sets of squats
or eight sets of one movement it's
probably in your best interest and maybe
cap off cap one off at five and then
fill start filling out either earlier
sorry I said that wrong it might be good
you'd have two movements in there
whether you kind of try to fill one all
the way up to five or six and then keep
the other ones a little bit less that's
fine
but seems to be a better strategy do you
think having a minimum daily step weekly
average count during a mass is
productive and useful if so anyway sure
of that what that might be
I like the weekly average better than I
like the daily minimum because some days
respective able hit it although a daily
minimum goal is good I would say daily
minimum cut off maybe is a bit much I
think any wager what that might be
really depends on a bunch of other stuff
how active you are you know he could be
active in a context that doesn't involve
stepping but I think for most people
3,000 steps to 5,000 steps minimum per
day on a massing can just keep them
super healthy or super lean and super
awesome five thousands of ten thousand
steps for me is like you can be in there
and that's fine for massing you'll have
to eat a lot more anytime someone is
with 10,000 steps plus it starts to be a
little bit insane jared feathers
leanness client of all time and the
quote leanest man in asia
i'll probably also the world marvin
starvin Marvin the Martian from Hong
Kong and if you guys want to follow him
in Instagram it's Marvin physique I
think on Instagram a very very awesome
account he had like striations in his
face and I'm not joking when I say he
had strangers in his face he has a step
count of something like 20,000 plus per
day because he's completely hyperactive
and just does this all the time his knee
is so through the roof they did zero
cardio ever and Jared kept him on like
three to five hundred grams of carbs the
majority of the diet cuz otherwise he
would just fade away and they would
lower him to 200 grams of carbs every
now and again he would lose like a kilo
and they'd be like so yeah and he got so
lean it just made any goddamn sense at
all so that is one of those like if you
were him you would have to eat whole
many fucking calories to mass it would
just be damn near impossible so I would
say three to five thousand was good for
a mass for most people anything five
thousand was a bonus and get you more
food and keeping leaner and then
anything ten thousand Obama I would say
it's kind of like Jesus Christ what are
you doing James so I have a more of like
a critical point on Daniels question
here so not too a lot of tear him up
know he knows he knows that it's all but
really so like the question of like do
you think like counting steps is
productive and useful well you could ask
that about anything right is anything
worth measuring and monitoring well it
depends like do you have a question that
needs to be answered by collecting that
data right it's only as useful and
productive as what you do with it right
so I would say no it's not you know you
shouldn't just have a step count for the
sake of having a step count I've never
like used a step counter for anything
outside of just curiosity so in that
regard like you should have a question
like do I need to monitor my NEET levels
during Mass and if is the step counter
an easy way or like a productive way of
doing so okay well now you can you have
something that you can work with but
like just doing it for its own sake it's
like well should I be monitoring my
heartrate well
depends like what do you want to know
about your heart rate are you worried
about cardiovascular disease are you
worried about fitness are you worried
about you know who knows so the the
measurements in like the monitoring are
only as good as the questions that you
need to be answered right so that's kind
of the idea go that's right your point
James if I may jump off of that I think
a we talk to a lot of folks are very
number centric and it's very good to be
number centric but the numbers as James
said have to be indicative of things and
have to be utilizable they have to be
feeding into an analytical rubric that
generates something you know if you have
a panel of things in your car that
collect data but the panel goes nowhere
like go again and my car can tell me the
wind speed you like why do you want the
wind speed you're like like it's just
and so what I'm saying is it actually
doesn't come at zero cost a lot of
people you know amassing means keeping a
low cortisol environment actually just
being in training all the time keeping
with low cortisol as you can it's very
easy to fatigue yourself psychologically
with a bunch of different stuff like
some of my most annoying days when I
have like 50 little tiny 2d points on my
to-do list instead of just two or three
big ones so if on top of eating enough
food on top of training on top of
everything you have to hit some fucking
minimum numbers on your mass you have to
ask yourself like okay is this so that I
don't become a fat piece of shit like I
tend to when I get to be a lazy cunt on
mass if that's the case track away but
if you have no problems at all clock
tracking get to tracking when you're
cutting when it really is a thing
because remember meat fine cutting goes
down which is why a minimum is really
good but I'm massing usually unique goes
off when you eat some carbs you're like
oh let's get funky like always fantasize
on my cuts about massing and just eating
a bunch of rice and just sitting in
front of the TV and when I'm actually
mass I eat a bunch of rice and I'm like
let's go for a walk honey and my wife
and I go for a walk and I'm just like
what if we come walking around but I
don't feel like sitting down so it makes
sure it's for a good reason
before you track everything because
tracking stuff can make you fatigued
from tracking stuff so last question
from mr. hacker why is it beneficial why
is it beneficial for combat sport
athletes to include we need carrying and
variations or their SSC program you've
both mentioned a basic S&C plan for
combat athlete should include a press
pull squad variant hinge variant
twist and carry I understand the
utilities of the others but not the
carry hit me pun intended I honestly
don't remember remember recommending a
carry I don't believe I have ever
recommended a carry but if a carry is
recommended it's not entirely
unwarranted you have to carry people in
Mme
because you have to pick them up and you
have to carry them at least a couple
steps and you have to put them or slam
them down in addition to that being
loaded vertically and expecting to be
walking on your feet without falling
imagine somebody pulls guard on you and
they're hanging off of you you have to
be able to know how to walk around while
carrying things otherwise all the
isometric or static strength in the
world might not help you and you'll fall
if you use to some kind of way to carry
when that happens it's not gonna be a
problem
waiting carries also have a real good
benefit for core strength that is tough
to get out of basically anything else um
if a guy can do a strongman you know
weighted carry with 600 pounds for a
couple of steps you know if he's picking
a guy up that guy's not gonna take him
down from above the feet it's just not
gonna have you're not gonna twist
someone it's just then the guys made of
twisted steel so carries are very very
functional they can be justified in a
plan I don't think James and I ever said
it has to have one of these I think well
maybe we like said like you could use
the carry in lieu of doing like other
forms of cardio or conditioning type
stuff maybe I don't really remember
though I'd be somebody if I did that
maybe I said it and I would probably
reevaluate my position on that but I
don't think I did all right Tony John
Hall says hey guys just watch the game
change of panel from India seminar
couldn't help but break into a grin as
soon as the presenter brought up the
supposition that a vegan diet is better
for the environment then an omnivorous
diet Sunnah immediately nudged meadow
and Mike and Mel traded glances if do
you want to take this one first and Mike
even did a premature victory dance in
his seat I don't think that's the
victory dance I think that's the Ronnie
Coleman raise the roof dance
that's me excited for the upcoming
slaughtering the readers invited
speculates the nature of the sovereign
Tory gesture but I was surprised the
responses were less devastating than I
was
being Mike why did you choose to go with
a broader economic argument improving
wealth and Technology lead to a cleaner
environment rather than addressing
specific remaining environmental impact
of a vegan diet versus omnivorous time
even just in passing to mention that let
me guess based on the totality the
literature is by don't he's clear that
the clean vegan diet having less
environmental impact than an omnivorous
diet is in fact correct amount later
alluded to a complete lifecycle analysis
of these diets being needed to draw me
from conclusions but I'm curious as to
why he did not raise for this point
first I didn't because I actually think
that the totality evidence shows that
not eating any meat will reduce
environmental pollution and degradation
and carbon footprint by a really small
amount so instead of saying it's not a
big deal it's a small deal is that that
tends to not be a very strong argument
because then the retort is well it is a
deal so what's keeping you eating meat
if you know they're gonna piss in the
earth a little bit you might as well
piss a lot so I was you know the reason
I went with that broader argument
because the broader argument that no
longer talks about something
eating meat which is a little bit
environmentally more degrading than
being vegan which is a little less tiny
a little bit less degrading and
introduces something that is going to
save the environment the planet and the
fucking solar system which is economic
development and technological innovation
it makes all of these moot moot moot
fucking points it's like talking to
someone who is debating on whether
outhouses are cleaner versus digging
your own ditch and shitting in it and
we're just at the point in technological
innovation where industrial centralised
plumbing is coming in to you know the
equation like fucking get plumbing
because it's better than all the shit I
promise so it was one of those were I
knew I didn't have a long time to talk
and I had to get to the main point which
was all these things are rendered
fucking moot and then the reason I
brought this up is because people get
really caught up in to my new show and
one of my big the guy I'm a huge fan of
on the environmental science saying his
gentleman named Peter Lomborg
who runs a think tank called the
Copenhagen consensus center and he one
of the things he brings up is brilliant
economic analysis is that people really
like to major in the minors
there's people banning straws which is
by itself fine it's gonna help the
environment a little bit going vegan
which is a huge lifestyle change that
helps the environment a tiny bit but
then when people are like hey what's
your opinion on technology R&D and
liberalisation of economies to promote
technological innovation and more
freedom so they can that's so sure and
if you're fucking idiot get the fuck out
of my face it's like it's like shopping
for two hours GNC and reading the backs
of all the vitamin labels and eating a
dog shit diet of fucking just white rice
and nothing else like don't even come to
me with that shit so I think it's
important to when you get the chance to
speak on the stuff to go right for the
kill so to speak and talk about what
really matters and lastly I was in India
which on the growth curve of pollution
so when a country gets richer and
pollutes more and more and more until it
gets over the curve to where it can
afford clean technologies and then it
gets over that curve so like Sweden the
United States Finland all these
countries are way over that curve they
passed the curve in the 1940s the more
technology they have the more the
industry is the more GDP they they
produce the cleaner the environments get
so it's gonna American rivers and lakes
and everybody take a cleaner every
single year go to Sweden it's the most
technologically advanced country in the
world and try to find me some pollution
like it's really fucking hard India is
still on the ascension of that curve so
they have some a decade at least to go
or more industry will make them more
polluted I wanted to say something
relevant to them and explain it so that
I they knew that okay it's not less
industry because India is real tempted
to be like well let's ease up on the
industry don't let me do that more
industry until you can afford to buy
cleaner ship and then clean clean clean
clean and everything go super well
fantastic
I had three points I'm gonna try to
remember all of them one shout out to
Jason Finan party king awesome guy we
met in Dublin
really really smart guy when we were
hanging out with him he was on this kick
for a little while and he and this is
just an analysis he shared it's not
meant to be like overwhelming evidence
for anything but he was like kind of
Ireland is really big on livestock right
like lamb beef stuff like that
he was a saying like everyone's all up
in arms about the carbon footprint of
like livestock right he's like so I
estimated how much like they want
raising one cow is and he gave me some
numbers I don't know what they were he's
like then I estimated how much it takes
for these blueberries grown in like
South America to make their way in
packaging all the way here to Ireland
right and he's like when you actually do
the math of like having to farm package
and then ship with multiple different
logistics it goes on like a plane it
goes on a boat it goes on a truck it
goes all over these places the carbon
footprint actually ends up being very
similar not the same but it's a lot more
than people think which I thought was
really really interesting when you start
comparing like the vegan versus kind of
omnivorous lifestyle so it's not all cut
and dried another thing as Mel's gonna
release her like super thorough critique
of game-changers very very school I
think it's like what like 20 pages or
some shit she just like give me like a
ghastly look like she's been overwhelmed
working on this holy fuck that's great I
can it's like 20 pages and I actually
heard I think it was on Sam Harris's
podcast he had some very steven pinker
esque person it wasn't him but it was
somebody who studied a very similar line
of research and they also show that like
not only do technologies get cleaner as
society becomes wealthier and more
industrious people are just more willing
to part ways with they're expendable
money to make things less shitty right
before it's like I need electricity or
my food is gonna rot and I'm gonna die
now it's like okay I have electricity
and I have some money and I would rather
not live near poo right yeah so you get
there get there yeah it just takes a
little while yeah and unfortunately the
India situation is really dire because
India has a regulatory environment which
is just kicking capitalism in the balls
at every step and they could be richer
way faster a very interesting thing that
an economist named Tyler Cohen who had
highly suggest people look into his
awesome mentions anytime he gets the
chance is even small growth rate
differences make for incredible
differences in the standards of living
and cleanliness and all that stuff over
time I I don't remember the date but I
think it was either something like the
1950s or the 1940s if the United States
growth rate
was 1% less per year every year since I
think the 1940s but it might be even
more recent to now the u.s. current GDP
would be the equivalent of Mexico so
holy fuck is that a big difference so we
think oh we have some regulations but
like you know the faster you could grow
your economy
the sooner you arrive to first world and
you know Thailand turkey these are
countries that today have the same rough
GDP per capita that the United States
had in the 90s and the average person
there is starting to live like the
person did in the 90s that's fucking
incredible nobody in the 90s Thailand
you'd be like that's a place where
there's like dead shit in the road and
no one goes I cannot say and there's
some hookers too like it's an unbeliever
still hookers yeah that's racist more
hookers but what a great place
Hama : what a great place so you know
the deal is is that anytime you stifle
innovation and progress in a building of
wealth it doesn't maybe not look like
much easier to year after ten years 15
years 20 years
it's fucking night and day if you want
every place in the world to look like
Japan in Norway that's actually fucking
possible it just takes time and good
policy we don't have a good policy in
were worried about you know the global
climate change ending the world tomorrow
it's just not gonna do and if we're
worried about all being vegan instead of
you know promoting other things that are
much more impactful then we can cast
ourselves a string well speaking of
which straight from exactly the middle
of Japan Shawn Mauro Calo Ruben says hey
guys I've been gone for a couple months
well you've been missed today are all
questions I've asked previously in my
time bein rp+ subscriber but
unfortunately didn't quite click the
first time and felt guilty about asking
a second time and taking up the time for
other people's questions but since I
haven't asked anything in a while I
figure I won't feel as bad asking him
again now haha hopefully they will click
with me this time if they don't we're
gonna beat the fuck out of you Shawn
James is get a kick box is gonna tee off
right on here it's gonna be awful oh
we're gonna worldstar that ship all
right
worldstar number like
random sports scientists attacks one of
the subscribers that what we're posting
the video on rp+ to shame you oh cool it
could be like an exclusive for it to see
the video you have to be a narc applause
number one is there any credence to the
idea of stabilizing your new set point
slash weight after diet to reduce fat
accumulation during the subsequent bulk
for example you maintain for three weeks
after diet as opposed to going straight
into bulking might you have better new
share partitioning towards lean mass
maybe but only because you gained fat
during that maintenance phase I'm not
sure I think probably a little bit but I
don't know of any convincing credence to
that idea if you you know I think that
there could be a lot of fatigue you're
carrying from training and dieting that
a three-week maintenance can can reduce
as far as the stuff going settling point
stuff some of the post dietary hormones
and stuff could come back a little more
in line but as long as you're still as a
lean most of them us still suck so you'd
actually maybe even better just going
straight into a bulk and getting into
that getting into putting on the fat
necessary to set you straight again so
I'm not positive on that James I'm not
sure either I was gonna go kind of a
similar direction where it might be the
case that like you you might just be
subsequent to just more rapid weight
regain which might not be the best so
there might be some credence and doing
that maintenance phase in between I
don't really know though it's I'm really
not sure I can't give you a straight
answer on that one buddy sorry
number two we know that the first set of
an exercise gives you the most fitness
accrual and subsequent sense of
diminishing returns you guys mentioned
in an old question that SFR may actually
increase across that's however due to
better my muscle connection top the
technique but if a teat rises linearly
across that some fitness drops linearly
across that's fatigue might actually
arrives fashion linearly wouldn't return
still be diminishing regardless of the
mentioned factors they absolutely would
they absolutely would but the thing is
is that we have to expand our view a
little bit not only does the first set
of an exercise give you the most fitness
a curl and all subsequent sets have
diminishing returns the first session in
a week gives you the best fitness
returns of all the other sessions for
that muscle gives you less
so if you're asking a question so you
could say okay I'm gonna do one set five
times a week okay cool
but then the you could say I'm gonna do
five sets once a week okay
it's not immediately apparent on Theory
alone in in that regard of SFR which one
of those is better because yes it is
true that sets a set - set your net
yield goes down absolutely and your
sinister fatigue ratio certainly goes
down absolutely but it also goes down
through the week so it's not clear
what's what's the best solution there
whatsoever and because mind muscle
connection and stuff improves because
the pump gets better because technique
improves sets a set to set you might
actually have a little bit of less of a
reduction from set to set aside than you
would expect and that might not carry
for super high frequency training so I
think somewhere between there instead of
training seven days per week with one
set you might be better off training
twice a week with you know three to four
sets and so on and so forth because
there might be a middle ground there
that yes things get worse than to set to
set but those mitigating factors might
make them a little less worse than they
would in a way that doesn't really
happen for if you spread all that out
through the week James yeah and I think
what's maybe worth noting too is the
fatigue that you get across sets might
not actually be linear it might be more
of like an exponential where it's like
you want and it drill starts to or
actually sorry the other direction
actually goes up alright and so I was
thinking more SFR and so in that case
really what we're trying to do is to get
the the dose response within a session
and micro DS expanded it out to like
weekly stuff but within the session
right you're trying to basically get as
much accumulated high-quality work
before that rapid take off in that
exponential curve right so the first few
however many who knows maybe like six to
ten something like that are gonna be
fairly linear but then it's gonna
probably take off at some point in that
point ACEF are really starts to tank and
that's the kind of the point where you
really are probably gonna stop doing any
extra work because at that point you're
just accumulating a lot of fatigue not
accumulating a lot more fitness that's
kinda yeah I don't think it's productive
to see the SFR
as completely so II I don't think it's
productive to see the SF Aras is
actually getting lower self assess asset
but those factors meaning mitigate the
drop of the SF are more than normally
would also freezing it like this and
I've seen a phrase like this before the
first set of an exercise gives you the
most fitness or curl and subsequent sets
have diminishing returns that's true but
it still returns that you know if you
don't do subsequent sets you just won't
get just because things get harder to
get doesn't mean they're still not on
the mend balance a good idea diminishing
returns kind of if you forget that it's
just less positive it doesn't mean
negative it just means like you're
getting positive but you still need to
accrue yes large amount of that amazing
sets yeah it's like you do in a
relatively easy job and someone pays you
five hundred dollars for the first hour
250 for the next hour and one 125 for
the hour after that like are you gonna
leave after the second hour cuz I'll
fuck 125 an hour I don't work for that
like I'm pretty sure you'd stay here
right he'd probably stay until you got
really tired and or he was charging you
to work you know yeah number three if
someone is using higher rep ranges to
target slow twitch fibers but only rest
long it up between sets to get there
faster twitch effective reps on
subsequent sets wouldn't defeat the
purpose of doing higher rep sets in the
first place maybe I think if you're
doing sets of 32 intentionally you're
slow twitch fibers you want to Russ long
enough to still get relatively high reps
on subsequent sets yes possibly but
here's the thing when you rest very
short times um you're faster twitch
fibers and you do only effective reps as
these sets of five unfortunately because
of a high acid osmotic environment
you're faster fibers usually just poop
right the fuck out or don't even bother
contracting fatigue grossly over facts
you're faster twitch fiber so this is
one of the big unfortunately downsides
of the effect of reps concepts and why
it's limited is that the last five reps
not of every set our super dominantly
fast force they're more faster than you
would think but if you do 5 & 5 & 5 & 5
or take 10 seconds between at the third
or fourth set it's mostly slower twitch
anyway at that point in your fucking
faster twitch fibers you giving you a
giant middle finger so either way it
accomplishes the same purpose you may
have to do more sense that way if you
rest it longer
you would do you know fewer sets but
then again you know if you rest longer
he gives you a faster twitch fiber some
time to recover then you might actually
get more faster twitch activity on
average in a set of 30 because they're
sort of beef back up and during some of
that time they help and then they poop
out if you do back-to-back sets of five
five five five five they may just be off
the entire fuckin time because they're
gonna look like this they literally no
excitation contraction coupling and then
it's almost exclusively slower at which
you know if that's the case you know we
don't know if this is exactly the case
but we have enough doubt to say we don't
actually know which one of these methods
trains these slower twitch fibers the
best you would you would have to put in
a lot of volume to train the slower
twitch fibers which they they probably
get with multiple back to back to back
sets but but this way as far as time
what's faster straight sets of 30 or
back-to-back sets of five well I don't
know if you're in the gym for eight
minutes which mean what do you get more
reps of or more stimulus it's probably a
wash and even still the back-to-back
sets of five probably still faster
because you rest less long so I would
say it's definitely up in the air I love
the logic here but unfortunately the
effective raps thing doesn't hold up for
multiple fatiguing sets because at that
point towards the end of those sets
you're not you're not using maximum fast
which are exclusively fast which does
that's almost certainly false and that's
to say nothing of look if we used mile
reps as an example that's to say nothing
of like the crippling psychological
fatigue and physical pain and misery of
if you can push that yeah in if you
can't push through that stuff then it's
almost all slow twitch activity because
you never even bother recruiting and
faster twitch fibers to your bodies like
go fuck yourself yeah that's a truly
miserable way to train as if training
wasn't miserable enough at times this is
like a particularly like just sadistic
way to do it yeah I don't wanna I you
know we're gods were working really
really fast on this book and I'm
actually gonna be sitting down this week
and next week to make the figures so
we're getting wrapped up on the book but
the book has a very good discussion
about effective wraps sort of upside
it's not its own section it just comes
up various points upsides downsides the
effective wrap concept is a useful
concept it goes far but not nearly to
explain all of the variation in training
all the other ups are effect
- they're just left so and if you're
doing it with really high raps
the last five reps you know in a thirty
reps I do not hypertrophy or faster
twitch fibers nearly as much as a set of
five to failure with heavy weight
absolutely not the case they don't
recruit as much they don't not as much
tension throughput for a bunch of
different reasons
neural pain and if you somehow it was
circumvent all those what you can the
acidosis shuts down faster fibers and
the slow twitch fibers can actually
continue to crank the raster doses
believe it or not so and hilariously the
faster two fibers produce more acid so
they like they have their own bob they
eat their own explosive and aloha so
it's a it's an interesting on paper
hypothesis that does not it's great
because it really does tell you like hey
if you go close to failure there's a lot
of good stuff there if you go really far
away from failure and you're probably
not doing yourself any favors but
outside of that it's got some real
serious limitations now well the good
news is that more effective sets also
include more effective reps so it's a
good way of loan checking both bonds
that's why the the the sets really do
when that in a battle and i said some
folks for a while i'm sure some people
still doing it started tracking own
leads and counting only the number of
effective raps and that's that's not
gonna get you anywhere very far
unfortunately yeah all right should we
do the three youtube questions and then
sign off yes please
okey doke i am going to share my screen
boom can you see it mm-hmm this is a
good one
Barcia Ben says do light sessions during
ad load also serve the purpose of reef
simulating protein synthesis I don't
know where we simulating is good news
exactly as a recess Oh Tyson I think
he's maybe leaning towards resent that's
recent ah REE sensitizing I don't know I
don't think so but they do keep your
fitness elevated so that your return for
training is more smooth and gives you
better overall results what I think I
think if we're going with the idea of
resynthesizing I think we can select
give a light yes in the sense like it's
not as
powerful is taking like two weeks of
active rests but a D load is enough to
like if you mmm EVs have climbed up
really really high and it's getting
difficult to get good training the D
load can help bring it back down to
manageable levels so in that regard yes
but it's just not as powerful a tree
sensitizing as doing maintenance volume
training or you know active rest type
stuff tends to be yeah ah Brett
Contreras so nucleus Luka it er the rule
says I see when Bracken chairs to stay
to the chin up is one of the best
exercises for abs dude it's anti
extension nature I was I was reading
natty fatty power laughing cuz I saw my
name came up
yeah sorry I was reading the other one
okay for abs yeah however when using
extra weight on chin ups via dip belt it
didn't increase rectus abdominis
activity it lowered it do you think a
weighted vest would work better how else
can we overload the chin-ups with it
without it lowering ABS so I don't think
any yeah look what is the question here
I think when people do chances he's sick
so he's saying Brett says that chin ups
are good for abs and then the question
is how would we overload the chin UPS
without lowering the ABS like you man
without like stimulating that without
lowering they no no without without
lowering the activation of the ABS the
thing is I think James and I would say
that we don't do chin-ups for abs yeah
it's not so yeah maybe Brett was saying
that the chin up is a good exercise for
abs that's great like in addition but I
don't think Brett would do the chin up
to target the ABS I think people try to
hold their legs in front of them or hold
the rags erect and that's why the chin
up works for abs but I think that you
just use an ab exercise for the love of
God and thing is that mattress oh it was
so easy to set up you know almost every
gym as a slant board just going to slap
or grab a weight and fucking do some
crunches I wouldn't try to pasteurize
chin-ups into something that also trains
the ABS if I was gonna do that what I
would tell you to do is put weight
between your knees and lift your knees
up to your chest and then do pull-ups
and that's gonna get you a real great ab
workout but then again I don't know what
the fuck
doing pull-ups for I would be pull-ups
for the back and leave it at that
yeah totally agree it's like a nice side
benefit like oh you get a little
indirect ab work which might be
contributing towards a maintenance line
for your abs you don't actually have to
Train abs to to maintain them but train
abs if you want abs let's answer you
want a fun question or a serious
question so let's do a fun one we had we
had enough serious ones today LK says
Jason Blaha jason Blaha says who's been
nothing but nice to me I will say Jason
bajas says you need to do you need a 100
weighted pull up 200 overhead press 300
bench 400 squat and 500 deadlift to look
jacked Jason Vela has met his own
standards and he has for decades
is he an outlier or C - he's something
wrong is there a better approach you
suggest for his viewers as his
guidelines hasn't worked well for him no
disrespect serious question I guess I
would reply he says it's a serious
question and we picked it as the silly
question yeah that is funny that is
unfortunate I didn't see that part
before I know no it's good you know I
think it's like that's one of those yeah
like I'd say if you were to take a
population average of people and you say
okay of these people who can meet this
criteria yeah they would probably looked
pretty jacked can you look jacked
without doing all that stuff sure right
if you have really good strength
genetics you know Edie Cohen could do
all of that in his sleep at a 50 pounds
less muscle mass than he currently has
is like an old man you would look like
he ever trained and he could do that if
you're gifted for strength then you can
look like not much and do all that shit
if you're like if you're like Nigerian
ancestry or West African ancestry he
might be able to do none of that he look
like a pro bodybuilders for no goddamn
good reason like pro physique athlete so
I would say like games of saying you
know the average population the respond
best something that actually somebody
said Nicholas Vassallo gotta cut him
slack
he said you're seeing his inject because
I would say it's simply a matter of his
body fat of loose skin covering his
definition of muscle mass is a great
point if you are lean and you
do these things you're gonna look a
moviestar jacked for sure but this is
like the Jason Statham standard you know
like for sure but if you're not lean and
you can do all these things the hunter
way to pull up I'd like to see how the
fuck anyone did that like not not that
I'm saying no one can do that I would
like to see what people mean when they
say that yeah you have to go in for an
earlier conversation but if you could do
this you're like and you're lean unless
you're really tall
you're gonna look pretty fucking jacked
and again if you're really tall you
maybe only do all these things and still
look sort of not very jacked you just
you could weigh 250 and be six eight and
yeah you know and like another thing and
I don't know I don't never heard Jason
say this or I don't know what the
context is necessarily but a lot of
people will just make up arbitrary stuff
like this because it's something that
they can do and it kind of sell
reaffirms themselves I don't know if
that's that's what he did and I'm not
accusing him of that but a lot of times
people will say like an order to do XYZ
you need to do this feat that I did
which is like I find to be really
impressive right so it kind of it's like
a you go like reaffirming type of thing
but it's it's arbitrary like yeah I will
tell you guys here's the real simple
solution and James and I have mentioned
this a couple times as we were so so
much de behind this you want to know how
much strength is gonna take you to get
jacked keep getting stronger wait till
you jacked that's it yeah because you
could get a certain level of strength
and not be jacked or you could get to a
certain level strength you don't think
it's a press over me jack some people
just have great genetics for muscle
shape jarred feather squads just for
lack of a better term feather out and
jarred feather does not like when we
have leg days Charlie and I blow him out
of the water and then he fucking pulls
his pants down and we get to sucking his
dick quick because he's fucking legs are
huge you know as I said pull his pants
down I was like might as well sir but
you know Jared brothers Quantic fucking
ridiculous and so you know I told Jared
like currently like he's doing like a
sumo stance squats cuz they really fit
his frame really well he's doing like
low 300s four sets of roughly 10 I said
Jared if you can do the low 400s 4 sets
of 10 with your genetics your quads are
going to be pro sized like who the fuck
house is could you ever tell that sets
of 10 and for 400 is gonna get pro
quality quality quads
I
do that ten years ago I've never had pro
quality quads back then kidding me
because I'm really well-rounded leverage
to squat I could squat a lot without
looking the part
hilariously if you're poorly leveraged
for something is when you can lift that
whatever amount of weight someone says
you're gonna look way way better doing
it 500 pound deadlift look up there's
this guy on YouTube max tuning or
whatever that's his name
he pulls like 600 right and he's like
165 or some shit like that
you put a t-shirt on that kid I don't
know if he's gotten more Jack recently
two years ago you put a t-shirt on that
kid it'll look like a fucking tool is
pencil neck right and he's fucking
jacked her meat his clothes but it's not
jacked he's but he's really well-built
to deadlift right like 600 pounds you
would think like Maxine it could have
been like when he was like 14 if it man
as soon as I fell of 6 on I'm gonna be
huge pole six hundred two years later is
a god damn it
I guess I'm just gonna be an amazing dad
love her would you sweet as far as it
goes yeah and like kind of just going
back to your previous point like the
goal is not necessarily to squat over
400 pounds for you know hypertrophy reps
it's to have pro level quads and then
the squatting that much weight is just a
product of having pro level quads it's
not the goal that you're necessarily
pursuing you just want to have big-ass
quads and as you get as you said earlier
like just grow your quads and the
strength will become eminent or evident
later on you don't have to do anything
it's just there it's really interesting
a lot of bodybuilders at a higher level
the way they analyze their training is
really interesting because they'll say
I'm getting bigger this offseason I'm
finally using the hundred and twenty is
four incline which is new for me and
it's a isn't it the other way around
like man I really know it's not like
they've chasta got so big they earned
the 120s for quality reps they're
actually thinking about it the right way
now she should you try to have a goal of
inclining the 120s you could you could
switch your thing two sets of fives
lower volumes get a thump neural
strength you could be inclining the 120s
for tens and not look like a bodybuilder
so train of higher volumes trained
appropriately your strength will
naturally go up over time and I'll come
with all that size if you focus too much
on strength not as a metric but as a
goal you can strip alter your training
to get that strong and then all of a
sudden you're that strong but nobody's
cheering really really good so I think
on that note we're gonna wrap up this
week's folks thanks for tuning in
we appreciate they had some great rp+
questions and we had some actually ended
up being pretty good YouTube questions
as well so well done to everybody
involved keep sending them in we
appreciate it very much
Nattie fatty powerlifting I liked the
shout out appreciate it thank you very
much
and we'll talk to you guys next time
these homies