hey what's up folks it's me Dr Mike from
Renaissance periodization and welcome to
video number three three in our series
about how to design your own muscle
growth program
this one is about how to warm up and
select proper loads AKA weight for your
muscle growth journey to begin
I
I am making these videos because I want
to show you how to build a program to
make you jacked but also I train
exclusively using the RP hypertrophy
training app which I also designed at
least helped I helped it
and I did design the whole thing and the
engineers executed and added a bunch of
their own cool features so
um
you don't have to use the app
it's cool and there's a link in the
description so you can pay money for it
if you'd like if you're seeing this
video before May 20 mid-may 2023 then
you can sign up for the promotional list
and then you get a super big discount in
the app and tons of free goodies if
you're seeing this video after same link
will take you to the buy screen and you
can just purchase the app and play
around with it and use it design your
programs it's really neat I think it
works really well I'm using it for all
my training now and will seemingly in
perpetuity uh you don't have to get the
app but uh it's cool so Link in the
description if you want to get that
we're going to use the app to illustrate
these Concepts but mostly this video is
about learning all right how to warm up
and choose loads this conversation of
how to warm up and how to choose loads
for your exercise is the best head at
the same time which is why we're having
it at the same time because the warm-up
process is how you get to choosing the
right loads and there's a process here
that's oh roughly six steps in length
that sounds like a lot don't worry these
are all really simple steps so here we
go
first is the optional General warm-up
this is when you go like jog on the
treadmill for five minutes or ten
minutes or do jumping jacks it's
insanely overrated it's cool if you want
to do it it makes you feel a lot better
to do it fuck do it you have my blessing
and it's good for you and it's not bad
but what I generally do is I do some
like arm circles some trunk twists and
some sort of like stiff like a deadlift
things with my body and then like maybe
a couple body of squats and I'm good to
go so I never really do a big General
warm-up and I think that especially as
you get bigger and stronger just warming
up for the specific warm-up with the
exercise itself that you're going to be
doing first takes care of most that so
you can do it you cannot do it not a big
deal
next thing you do is you take whatever
machine or barbell dumbbell whatever
you're doing whatever exercise you're
doing and choose a super light load or
even zero load like if you're doing well
for some for many people just uh if
you're doing lateral raises just using
your hands I do that uh every now and
again just warm up with my hands body
weight squats Etc so it's either low
load or zero Road and you want to do 12
reps with it but the load you pick is
not your 12 rep max good God you're
picking something that's like you can do
30 reps of it or more no problem it
really is just to get the technique of
the movement which means your Technique
needs to be good here's the important
part
if you're doing you know a chest process
don't just be like
done full range of motion slow and
controlled it looks silly when you're
doing it with the fucking bar that's
unloaded
but you remember you are warming up the
tissues which also means you have to
take them through the full range of
motion and also you're priming the
nervous system which means full range of
motion and because you're probably the
nerves the nervous system you're also
starting to really remind your muscles
or remind your body of what that
technique feels like and moves like
so your Technique should be spotless
from rep one of your warm-up all the way
down to rep last wrap of the last set of
that exercise and then you move on to
the next exercise always good technique
no rushing
yes it's weird to slowly control
eccentric just the bar and then press it
back up
slow and control someone's looking at
you training like you know there's no
weight on that right like get out of
here yes I know that I'm practicing to
be great
Olympic weightlifters which are better
people than all of us
if you watch them squat or snatch or
clean and jerk the empty bar it looks
exactly like when they have fucking 200
kilos on it
so it's a big deal to do everything
right that's step two 12 reps at your 30
round rep Plus
next set is almost identical except you
add some weight so that it's something
you can do for like 20-ish reps no
problem
but you only do eight reps with it a
little heavier fewer reps now you're
getting warm things are starting to
groove
it could be a pretty big shock you put
on your 20rm from doing your 40 RM
before you can be like holy shit this is
this is the first weight you lift in the
gym that's generally like God damn I
feel this shit
this is when you start to get a feel for
how heavy the shit really is
and you can start to estimate how many
gun to the Head reps you have like if
you had to do as many reps as you could
you start to get a feel like ah is this
really more like 15 reps or is this
really more like 25 rep max for me
always stop at eight though just eight
instead of 12. set of eight you'll never
be able to predict what the next set is
going to go rest until you feel good
again no rushing you rest between 12 and
8 8 and 4 and so on and so forth
people sometimes warm up like they have
like somewhere to be really soon like oh
I have to go to the the gala after this
and then I'm just going to warm up and
put weights on and warm up I've actually
seen people warm up they do the bar
they rack they put weights on and no
stopping they just go right in and just
do that more weight do that more weight
and then you're working wait it's like
you're just trying to get the fuck out
of the gym just don't show up that's how
you're gonna get hurt that's how your
Technique is going to slip up it's all
bad news
after your warm up rest a little bit
until you feel like fucking ready to go
I'm not breathing heavy I'm not tired
none of that stuff
next
take your best guess at what you think
your working weight should be
what rep range should your working
weight be in that's up to you you can do
sets of five to ten sets of 10 to 20 or
sets of 20 to 30 anything between 5 and
30 reps in a set close to failure is
absolutely effective for muscle growth
you want
to basically take that weight that you
think
is going to get you in that rep range
but only do four repetitions with it
what that does is it really finishes the
warm-up process and potentiates prepares
your nervous system for a very similar
load like if you're squatting 315 for
reps let's say if you do 135 for 12 225
for eight you don't want to just go do
315 for a set of 12 or 15 or whatever
you're going to do because like that
jump between 225 and 350 is fucking
massive and you're gonna be like oh my
fucking god man all the reps are gonna
feel like shit until like the last three
when they don't feel like shit anymore
because your body can finally Groove but
now you're tired so it still feel like
shit what you want to do is a set of
four reps with something like 315. it
could be 300 it could be 315 it could be
330 no wrong answers there just in that
vicinity you do four reps with it and
you do two things one you finish the
site and you're like okay great like now
my muscles and Joints our nervous system
are really ready to do another set but
two and very importantly
you're in a position now where you're
like did I pick the right working weight
because you could do a set of four and
be like bro I can barely get fucking six
of this shit for sure I'm gonna drop 25
pounds off and do that for my first set
my actual working set or you could be
like yeah I could do a trillion of these
I definitely need to go up again and do
another set of four or go up again and
do a working set but I know it's got to
be a lot more weight or you're like yeah
that four was like tough just because
it's new but I know I'm gonna be able to
hit like something like eight reps and I
want a set of five to ten so that's
money again rest until you feel ready no
rushing and then point number five
you do your first working set
with a load that's close to the last
warm-up weight that you did a set of
four with a bit lighter a bit heavier
based on how that set felt you stop at
three reps in reserve with good
technique and you enter in the Reps
so all this warm-up stuff is really just
on the fly so if we go over here to the
RPI hypertrophy app let's say it's
hampered by bench press we did all of
our warps already and our set of four
our last warm-up let's say we did with
uh the camera bars ruthless so 135
pounds
we scroll through we pick 135
and it gives us
a rep range that says to rir
in the RP hypertrophy app the first week
of training has you going to two reps in
reserve
traditionally we've sent three or four
if you're an advanced trainee it should
be three or four not two but a lot of
people have a bit of trouble pushing
themselves so we're trying to keep it
simple and just hit 2R
when you do the set
you can always click you'll say you did
11 reps click on 11. and it says log
your set press the checking button
when I do those it's going to feel great
once we click on there it's going to ask
us all kinds of questions that we'll get
to in another video so I'm not going to
click that yet but let's say 135 for the
second set you rest and we get a set of
eight and then voila we would click that
and that
might even click them in just a sec but
first
stop at two or three reps in reserve
whatever it is with good technique write
down your reps and continue on after
now
after any given working set
if you think you got the weight wrong
absolutely change the weight
and in this case you'd have a situation
Let's uh show some more functionality
here
I remove set just go back and pretend it
never happened let's say you hit 135 for
11 and you're like man I really want to
kind of set to 8 here not 11. it's a
little too light I want to go heavier so
what you do
is you hit duplicate exercise and fuck
why not repeat until the end of the
mesocycle I would generally click this
if you want to continue this program and
hit duplicate and
now we have bench press with the camera
bar and a new weight to do it so set to
say yeah 135 is too easy it turns out I
am Hercules and I'm gonna go to 150 and
then you actually hit your desired eight
reps and voila it's much better for you
in retrospect and then later in future
weeks it'll remind you like hey like
here's all your loads and you're going
to see 135 is 150 you know what this
next week I'm going to change to 155 and
then change this and so on and so forth
so you can always make weight
modifications
but
but
we'll say this
the exact reps that you're hitting just
don't fucking matter in any given week
week to week they matter for progression
if you hit nine last week it should be
ten this week or if you did 105 pounds
for nine last week you want 110 pounds
this week for nine but in a first week
just stick to the rep range that you're
in so if you're in the 10 to 15 rep
range that's your what you want to hit
that's the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio for you
if you hit 14 reps or if you hit 11 reps
it just doesn't fucking matter so can
you use the duplicate exercise feature
or for down sets and drop sets yes we'll
talk about that in another video but do
you have to just get really finicky on
changing the weights
not really and I would just say just hit
the rep range and everything takes care
of itself after
this is the alpha build
once we get into the Beta build in some
way of the way through that we will be
adding in places for videos about
reminders of how to warm up the
reminders of how to select load and a
bunch of other goodies so
Link in the description
if this is before mid-may 2023 sign up
for the promo that gets you the app
early
and at a discount rate and with extra
goodies and if you're watching this
video after mid-may 2023 then voila the
buy link is in the bio folks remember
Lamborghini is despite my multiple
attempts to Lobby the United States
Congress are not given out for Freedom
people unless I must pay for them thus
you must download the RP hypertrophy app
see you guys next time next week we will
cover wait for it wait for what we talk
about next week we're talking about
how to estimate rirs per set and get the
Reps that you want because picking the
load is one thing but how do we know
we're actually training as close to
failure as we intend to we'll talk about
that next time and I'll see you then