[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of technique Tuesday this week we're
going to be looking at the most
effective exercises and training
techniques for targeting the rear delts
but before we get into the movements
themselves let's have a quick look at
the biomechanics and anatomy involved
first so the primary function of the
rear delt is transverse shoulder
abduction basically when you move your
arm out to the side in the horizontal
plane like you would in a reverse fly it
was the same basic movement pattern that
you'll see on the basic rowing
variations like the Pendley row where
you have the arms moving out to the side
as the elbow bends so while the rear
delts will be highly active in compound
pulling exercises such as the row EMG
data from button natal shows that
isolation exercises such as the reverse
PEC deck tend to outperform compound
exercises like the seated row for the
rear delts which has led dr. Brett
Contreras to conclude that quote
isolation exercises for the rear delts
kick the out of compound exercises so
while you certainly can grow a decent
set of rear delts by just doing heavy
rows on their own I think it's important
to include some isolation exercises to
really maximize their development now
another important but often neglected
function of the rear delts is external
rotation that's basically rotating your
arm outward and because of this I would
say my single favorite rear delt
exercise would have to be the rope face
pole because it combines transverse
abduction and external rotation so there
are two different ways you can set this
up and they're both good but we'll cover
the main way first so for this variation
you're gonna set the cable up at
shoulder height and grab the handles
with a neutral grip so basically your
thumbs should be in contact with the
handles not your pinkies take a stable
stance a few feet back from the cable
machine and slightly retract your
shoulder blades so your upper back is in
a nice and strong starting position and
from here you want to focus on driving
your elbows and back as you
simultaneously pull the rope toward your
forehead and although this may happen
naturally you also want to think about
depressing your shoulder blades
throughout the positive so basically
think about tucking your shoulder blades
down which is also going to get some of
the trap musculature involved and help
keep the shoulder in a Morse
your lifting position and the negative
is essentially a reversal of the
positive where you're gonna let the rope
come forward and down under control
while keeping your shoulder blades in
that secure position and this variation
is also great for strengthening the
rotator cuff and it's a fantastic
assistance exercise to include on a push
day to help balance out the pushing
demand on the shoulders and can help
correct front to back shoulder and
balances and might actually help correct
forward slow chain posture issues as
well so for this variation because we're
isolating the rear delt and rotator cuff
muscles I like to use lighter weight for
something around 15 to 20 reps okay so
another spin on this is to set the cable
up at eye level and pull the rope
straight back toward your chin without
the external rotation component or
rather squeezing your shoulder blades
together and driving the elbows back and
this variation on the face pole can be
thought of as a high row where you're
essentially getting the traps and
rhomboids more involved as well and
because this variation is getting more
muscles involved including the biceps as
you pull the weight back I prefer to
load it a bit heavier so more in the 12
to 15 reps own and I'll personally often
do these half lying so I can brace my
torso against the floor allowing me to
go heavier without losing balance now
not everyone has access to cables or a
rope and sometimes it's smart to just
switch things up anyway as you can also
do the face pull with dumbbells or you
bend over at the hips until you're close
to parallel with the floor keeping a
natural arch in your lower back and then
you just copy the same a basic movement
pattern as the external rotation face
pole or you pull your thumbs toward your
ears and whether you're doing these with
dumbbells or the rope one of the best
cues I like to use is thinking about
performing the movement as a we're
double biceps pose where you're
basically lifting your arms up and
flexing your biceps from the back so
here we're doing the same basic thing
except we're bent over and have
dumbbells in our hands
one other exercise that I really like
for the rear delts is the reverse PEC
deck and as we saw in the EMG results
from button natal the reverse PEC deck
shows the highest rear delt activation
out of all the exercises tested although
they didn't include a face pull so maybe
that would have been better who knows
but with the reverse PEC deck you're
basically locked into position so you
can do pure shoulder abduction without
external
tation which is nice for really
isolating and burning out the rear delts
now interestingly research from
Schoenfeld and colleagues found that
using a neutral grip with the shoulders
more externally rotated led to more
activation of the rear delt maybe
because as we already said external
rotation is one of the functions of the
rear delt but with that said some
subjects did see better results with the
pronated or palms down grip and I
personally find I can get a better mind
muscle connection this way so my best
advice is to either periodically switch
back and forth between a neutral and a
pronated grip or go with what allows you
to feel your rear delts firing the best
of it either way just like the cable
variation rounding your scapula forward
via protraction and thinking about
swinging the weight out instead of back
might help improve the mind muscle
connection with your rear delts another
solid rear delt movement worth
mentioning is the bent over reverse
dumbbell fly and I do like this movement
however similar to the dumbbell chest
fly you run into the problem of reaching
maximum tension when the dumbbells are
furthest out to the sides at the top
with tension then decreasing throughout
the rest of the range of motion until
there's just about zero tension on the
rear delts at the bottom so to work
around this I like to stop the dumbbells
slightly short at the bottom and keep
more of a constant tension groove going
and about the top 3/4 of the range of
motion and again you want to think about
lifting the dumbbells out in an arc
rather than back which is going to shift
emphasis away from the traps and on to
the rear delts and as for grip position
again you want to pick a grip that feels
comfortable for you however I find that
a pronated palms down grip allows me to
feel my rear delts firing the best now I
would say the most common error that I
see with rear delt training is basically
turning the movement into a row by
retracting too much remember that to hit
the rear delts we need to be training
transverse abduction so the arms should
be swinging out to the sides not being
pulled straight back so to really target
the rear delts optimally it is important
that you pay close attention to your
form and slow the movement down as much
as needed until you get the mind muscle
connection right so typically just going
wider and paying closer attention is
going to fix this issue ok so guys that
is all that I have for training
technique for the rear delts if you guys
haven't seen my shoulder science
explained
video I'd recommend giving that a watch
that's a little bit of an older video
but all of the information is still very
relevant as you can check that out and
you can also check out my upright row
video if you're interested in hearing my
thoughts on that exercise a lot of
people seem to have missed that video so
I'll put links to both of those over
here and you can check them out now
please leave me a like if you enjoyed
the video don't forget to subscribe so
you don't miss future technique Tuesday
episodes and I'll see you guys all here
next Tuesday