Point number four fourth muscle group
that we want to Train sometimes this
very awkward thing happens where you
have big ass shoulders big ass arms and
big chests and unfortunately make a
critical mistake of whoever it is you
trying to impress by just being in front
of him like this you unfortunately get
turned around and then they see you're
behind and then they see that your back
is like as jacked as like an open bird
cage where there's one dead parrot in it
one flew away it seems like something's
Miss shouldn't the parrots be in there
uh uh rapping to each other and saying
unfortunate things that they learned
elsewhere shouldn't there be some life
back there and if your back is really
small it's kind of like oh and people
who are not that they matter because
they're so few of us people who are
actually jacked and actually strong if
you have a tiny weak back they judge the
 out of you and then they're like
dude Rob's pretty big like Rob and
like dude he's right there be like Rob
come here you and Rob's like like
I'm not gonna do anything about it
because I don't have a big strong back
with which to support my manhood rob it
doesn't matter how much he benches tiny
back Irrelevant in the grand scheme of
life