low or high reps which is optimal for
building muscle according to the
science welcome back Dr Milo wolf here
PhD in sports science with wolf coaching
local tight long sleeve t-shirt enjoyer
lifters have gotten jacked using High
Reps or low reps for a long time if
we're talking about High Reps look at
Tom plats he often performed very high
rep sets on the squad and he had some of
the biggest squads around but if we're
talking about big legs we can also talk
about Rani Coleman who often squatted
with repetition ranges as low as 3 to
five reps per set so if successful
bodybuilders have gotten jacked using
both higher rep sets and lower rep sets
does that mean rep range doesn't matter
for hypertrophy well not so fast Elite
lifters can't really tell us much about
which rep range is more effective when
there are things like genetics and ped
usage or steroid usage that play much
larger roles that could be overshadowing
any potential smaller difference
from different rep ranges so instead
let's look at the science that is able
to detect these smaller differences
first why would repetition range
actually impact hypertrophy well for one
the volume load you accumulate during a
given set very much depends on the
reping your training in if you're doing
a set of five your volume load will
typically be much lower than if you did
the same exercise for a set of 20
importantly since in some ways volume
load is aoxy for how much tension you
apply to the muscle and tension is the
main d driver of muscle growth that does
potentially mean something for
hypertrophy importantly higher rep
ranges might also increase the amount of
metabolites being accumulated for
example we have several studies showing
that higher rep ranges lead to Greater
accumulation of lactate in your blood
and to Greater reductions in blood pH
and while the role of metabolites in
stimulating muscle growth has been
contentious for a long time and the
evidence at this point still really
isn't clear there may or may not be an
effect there or at least the potential
for reping just to impact hypertrophy in
different ways via tension and Via
metabolites so if metabolites aren't
playing too much of a role maybe it just
comes down to sort of area under the
curve of tension or maybe just how many
effective reps you got in or does it is
that really all there is well
fortunately we do actually have studies
measuring muscle growth directly when it
comes to using different rep Rangers so
we can determine what rep range is best
for muscle building the most recent
comprehensive look at the data on
repetition ranges for muscle building
comes from sheld and colleagues in 2021
they essentially looked at the vast
majority of the studies on the topic to
derive what is the best repetition range
to work in for muscle building and in
short here's what they found they found
that going too light much below 30% of
your one rep max or going too heavy much
above 85% of your one rep max both
actually impede muscle growth let me
break down the individual studies that
actually led to this recommendation of
this range from 30% of your max to 85%
of your max the bottom end of this
recommendation that is to say going no
lower than 30% of your max is based on
three Studies by Buckner and colleagues
by Las aicas and colleagues and by
Mitchell and colleagues the first study
by Buckner and colleagues compared using
70% of your max to using 15% of your max
in a within participant design training
your elbow flexors with one arm using
15% of your Max and the other arm using
the alfor mentioned 70% of your max some
of the conditions also included the use
of occlusion training where you're
essentially occluding blood flow away
from that muscle group to make a long
story short whether participants were
using occlusion or not 70% of your max
did consistently lead to more muscle
growth compared to 15% of your max So
based on this study using only 15% of
your max isn't enough to maximize muscle
builing next up we have the study by
lasas and colleagues where they compared
using 20% of your max to 40% of your max
to 60% of your max to 80% of your max on
the bicep curl and on the unilateral leg
press all parti ipants had one limb
assigned to the 20% of their Max
condition they started training with
this condition performing three sets to
failure then with the other armor leg
whether they were in the 40% 60% or 80%
condition they would aim to match the
volume load achieved with the first limb
so for example they would do more sets
in order to get to the same total volume
load as they achieved with their 20%
limb broadly speaking hypertrophy was
somewhat similar between 20% 40% 60% and
80% however when they directly compared
the 8 80% limb to the 20% limb they did
potentially find more growth with 80%
versus 20% and so potentially using 20%
of your own Max also isn't quite enough
to get the maximum muscle building
effect from a given set and the final
study by Mitchell and colleagues
compared doing unilateral leg extensions
with 30% of your max to doing them with
80% of your Max and when performing
three sets on each condition they
actually saw similar quarter growth and
so when you take all three of these
studies together that compare different
intensities on the lower end between 15%
20% and 30% around 30% seems to be when
you potentially start to see the maximum
muscle building effect from a given set
importantly this recommendation isn't
based on a ton of studies but I think it
is a decent ballpark to start with now
what about going too heavy I mentioned
earlier going above 85% of your max
might not be ideal for muscle building
well once again this recommendation is
largely predicated on three studies two
Studies by Brad shenfeld and colleagues
and one study by manene and colleagues
the first study by sh fing colleagues
found similar growth when doing three
sets of 10 with 1 and 1/2 minutes of
rest between sets to doing seven sets of
three with 3 minutes of rest between
sets and the second study by sh and fing
colleagues found similar hypertrophy
when doing three sets of 8 to 12 Reps
versus three sets of 2 to four reps with
2 minutes of rest in both groups
likewise the third study by m and
colleagues found similar hypertrophy
whether doing three sets of 8 to 12 reps
or three sets of 2 to four reps so does
that mean Reg grow similarly from doing
sets of 2 to 4 versus sets of 8 to 12
well if you paid attention you'll notice
that some of these studies had diverging
results essentially there was a conflict
in what they found can we try and
explain why this conflict exists well
first let's go back to the study that
compared three sets of 10 to seven sets
of three in this case they had
participants in the seven sets of three
group do around 2 and a half as many
sets as in the other group and
additionally on top of that they also
took twice as much rest between sets two
in the end just get the same muscle
growth and in fact in the heavier group
they often took at least three times as
long to finish the session compared to
the group doing three sets of 10 and so
even though they found similar muscle
growth in the real world you could have
just spent more time in the gym maybe
done a fourth or fifth set of 10 and
seen more muscle growth so not only did
this study not equate for number of hard
sets which we know volume is
consistently predictive of muscle growth
the more volume you do to a certain
point the more muscle growth you see but
they also didn't equate for rest times
of sets which generally also makes each
individual set more effective the longer
you rest next the second study by sh and
following colleagues did generally find
similar or greater growth when using
that higher rep range so it wouldn't be
fair to just classify this as the same
muscle growth regardless of rep range
and finally the study by m and
colleagues also had participants rest
for three times as long between sets in
the heavier group compared to the
lighter group and as we know the more
you rest between sets to a certain point
the more effective each set becomes so
they weren't just comparing rep ranges
they were also comparing how long they
rested for between sets creating a
confounding effect so until further
research this rep range of two to four
reps likely isn't ideal for muscle
growth instead we might want to use five
reps as a minimum number of reps to
reach on each set to maximize your
muscle building so to maximize your
muscle building a minimum of around 30%
of your max might be necessary and at
the top end at least five reps per set
are necessary to maximize muscle growth
on a set per set basis but hold up what
does 30% of your max even mean what does
that actually mean in terms of
repetitions per set well fortunately for
us a meta regression by newo colleagues
from just last year actually looked at
exactly this how many reps can people do
at different percentages of their Max
they looked at a ton of studies and
here's what they found with 30% of your
max you can typically do around 50 reps
5 Z there is going to be some variance
around this you might be able to do 40
reps or you might be able to do 60 reps
but generally around 50 reps is possible
with 30% of your max so from all of this
evidence we can derive the
recommendation that between five reps
and 50 reps per set is optimal for
muscle building now because you have
such a wide variety of effective rep
ranges you might ask should I be
training faster twitch muscle groups
with lower reps and slower twitch muscle
groups with higher reps the truth there
is probably not there is some evidence
of slower twitch muscle fibers
responding more favorably to higher rep
both in potentially occlusion scenarios
as I mentioned earlier where you're
restricting the blood flow away from
that muscle and in non-occlusion
scenarios or essentially just regular
training without occlusion a review
paper found relatively inconsistent and
weak evidence in favor of this idea
however with occlusion another review
paper found more consistent and
potentially convincing evidence of using
higher reps again with occlusion to
potentially elicit specifically slower
twitch fiber hypertrophy importantly in
this review paper they noted that they
didn't really have many studies
comparing low load or high rep uded
training to traditional low load
training or traditional higher lo/ low
rep training and so while they found
that occluded higher rep training led to
more slow twitch hypertrophy than
occluded High training it's unclear
whether or not this also generalizes to
the comparison of high rep uded training
and regular training with that being
said in this review paper they did know
not that when participants performed
occluded training with High Reps they
typically saw a greater proportion of
hypertrophy coming from slower twitch
fibers compared to faster twitch fibers
this is interesting because in higher
load uid training say heavier walk
generally they know that more of the
hypertrophy comes from faster twitch
fibers proportionately and less of it
from slower twitch fibers so there is
some evidence at least in uded scenarios
but there is some Fiber type specific
hypertrophy but the general
applicability of these findings remains
questionable because we don't have many
comparisons with unincluded training
here are my takeaways from this research
one it probably isn't worth trying to
match the repetition ranges you use to
the muscle fiber type of a muscle or to
your composition as an individual as
some people have more faster twitch
fibers and some people have more slow
twitch fibers and importantly if you're
using a variety of rep ranges for most
muscle groups in your program I think
you might be getting the benefit already
as far as matching repetition range to
the fiber type of a muscle or an
individual and in fact here's why you
probably should be using a variety of
rep ranges in your program as opposed to
just going heavy say doing set5 or just
going light say doing sets of 30 to 50
reps and that's because there is some
preliminary evidence suggesting that
combining a variety of rep ranges in
your program does lead to a little bit
more muscle growth potentially than just
using one and to an extent this makes
sense as I mentioned earlier in the
video the rep range you use can have
effects on how much tension you expose a
muscle to the accumulation of
metabolites and potentially other
factors and in fact if nothing else even
if you don't get more muscle growth most
people enjoy some variation across their
training week in terms of what they're
doing going heavier on Monday going a
little bit lighter on Wednesday and
going light on Friday might be more
enjoyable than always going heavy or
always going moderate or always going
light additionally if nothing else some
exercises do tend to work better in my
experience in certain rep ranges so
let's say you were committed to only
using higher rep ranges in my view High
rep ranges on squats for example
probably aren't ideal you're more likely
to end the set because you're so gassed
overall versus your quads glutes or
adors actually being that close to
failure and that brings me to a few
caveats of very high rep training first
as I just mentioned when you go much
past 12 or maybe 15 reps most people's
ability to gauge how close to failure
they really are actually breaks down
quite a bit while people are generally
pretty accurate at estimating how close
to fail they are they're usually off by
less than one rep on average when you go
above 12 reps they become increasingly
less accurate and by the time you get to
20 or 30 reps you may be underestimating
how many more reps you could have done
by say five reps or more and because we
know that taking a set sufficiently
close to failure is important for muscle
growth and might be especially important
for higher rep training if you're unable
to really push yourself that hard
because you can't really tell anymore
because everything is burning and you're
out of breath that might not be ideal
and that's why I think most of your
training should would probably take
place between 5 and 15 Reps for muscle
growth but having some variety in there
even some sets with say 15 to 20 or 20
to 30 reps or even potentially between
30 and 50 reps might be beneficial for
muscle growth now that I've given you
some caveats on when and why High rep
training might not be ideal for muscle
growth let me give you a few use cases
where I think it's actually quite useful
first as I mentioned I think some of
your training should take place in those
higher rep ranges if you're trying to
maximize muscle growth most of your
training should be in that 5 to 15 rep
range but some of your training should
be in say the 15 to 50 reps rep range
the second case where I see high rep
training being quite beneficial is if
you're dealing with some pain for a lot
of people if they're having some pain
while training and they just increase
their rep range in my experience that
can help with how much pain they're
experiencing not injury advice not a
physical therapist but in my experience
as a coach it can help the next big use
case is when you have limited load
available let's say you're traveling and
all you have is a hotel gym with those
25 lb dumbbells it turns out if you want
to make the most of those you're not
really going to have much of a choice
but to go for Super High Reps and the
good news is as long as your rep range
is somewhere around 50 or lower you may
still actually see the same muscle
growth if you're pushing yourself
sufficiently hard likewise if you're
traveling and don't have any equipment
even body weight training even if you're
doing up to 50 push-ups can still be a
decent option for muscle growth and
finally preference some people simply
prefer heavier weights and going a bit
heavier but likewise Some people prefer
going a little bit lighter because they
get more of a burn or what have you they
just enjoy it more and that's totally
fine now that I've broken down all the
science on rep ranges let me give you a
few takeaways repetition range is kind
of like Tempo there is a wide range of
what is likely to be very or maximally
effective and in this case that is
between five reps per set and 50 reps
per set the exact number of reps within
this range that you do probably doesn't
matter much provided you actually go to
failure or equally close to failure
matching your rep ranges to the fiber
type of your muscles or yourself as an
individual probably isn't anything to
worry about provided you're getting in a
variety of rep ranges in your training
which is probably a good thing for
overall hypertrophy and also for
enjoyment and to cover you for any
potential fiber type specific
hypertrophy with that being said most of
your training should take place in the 5
to 15 rep range for practicality reasons
it's quite difficult to push yourself
close to or to failure when you go much
above 30 or 40 reps per set but you
should still include some higher rep
training to get a variety of rep ranges
in when you're potentially dealing with
some pain when you have a limited load
available or if you simply enjoy it and
that is the video If you enjoyed this
video please leave a like comment
subscribe let me know what else you want
to see from this channel if you're
interested in coaching check out the
link above and that could take care of
your training and nutrition and with
that being said have a great day and I
will see you in that next one
peace all right autofocus please do your
thing I'm looking you in the eyes
lens there we go