you know that new research shows that
the stretched part of the lift is more
important than the contracted part for
muscle growth here's how I've been
applying that to my chest training
remember that your pecs will be
stretched when you pull your arm out to
the side and they'll be contracted when
you move your arm in across your body so
to spend more time in the stretched
aspect you can use a technique called
integrated partials on PEC flies this is
where you alternate between full range
of motion reps and partial reps in the
stretched half only so you do one rep
all the way up and one rep just halfway
up then you do another rep all the way
up and then another rep only halfway up
and so on until you can't get the weight
all the way up and then on your last set
you can keep going with partial reps in
the bottom half until you hit failure
often like doing partial reps this way
rather than leaving all your partial
reps until the end because you get to
spend more total time in that anabolic
stretch position try them out next time
you hit chess