hey guys sean nalawani here and in
today's video lesson i'm going to be
talking about the most powerful tool
there is for building muscle fast see
most people out there tend to concern
themselves with all of the specific
aspects of their training such as how
many days per week should i train how
many sets should i perform which
exercises do i need how many reps per
set yes these are important issues and
they should be taken into consideration
when structuring your workout plan but
all of those principles are going to be
totally useless if you're not making use
of the basic tool that i'm going to be
talking about here today
so what is the most powerful tool there
is for building muscle fast
it's a workout log book and a pen
yes i know this isn't the most exciting
thing in the world but the truth of the
matter is that a workout log book and a
pen is the basic foundation for which
your entire training program should be
based around
the reason for this is simple and that
is that the ultimate foundation for
building muscle size and strength is
progression in other words if you want
to consistently build your muscle mass
to greater and greater levels then every
single time you enter the gym you need
to present your muscles with a new
growth stimulus that they haven't
experienced before
every single time you enter the gym
you're breaking down your muscle tissue
and then forcing the body to adapt to
that specific level of stress that you
presented it with but once the muscles
have adapted to that specific level of
stress they're not going to grow any
bigger or any stronger until you
increase the workload increase the
stress and force them to adapt even
further
if you bench press 180 pounds for six
reps in today's workout your chest is
going to adapt to that specific level of
stress so the next week when you come
back and train your chest again you have
to push the envelope a little bit
further if you're bench pressing 180
pounds today and you're still bench
pressing 180 pounds two months from now
and there are a ton of guys who are
stuck in this same rut you're simply not
going to see any measurable progress
it's those small incremental increases
in weight and reps that you make that
are going to add up to big muscle size
and strength gains over time and that's
what makes the workout log book and the
pen so critically important to your
program
every single time you enter the gym you
should be writing down exactly what you
did you should be writing down which
exercises you performed how much weight
you used and how many reps you executed
so that the next week when you come back
to the gym you have a concrete visual
you know exactly what you did last time
and you know exactly what you have to do
this time in order to stimulate new
muscle growth
if you haven't been keeping a workout
log book up until now it's basically
like shooting darts with a blindfold
you're completely lost and you have no
way of knowing what you need to do in
order to improve your results you can
obsess about all of the specific details
of your training plan all you want but
until you're placing a hundred percent
of your focus on getting stronger every
time you enter the gym you're really
missing the big picture
don't just try to memorize it or keep it
in your head write it down so that you
have a concrete objective record of your
workout and so that you can examine it
over time
workout log book pen start using it
religiously and i promise that you'll
notice a huge increase in your overall
muscle size and strength gains
you