[Music]
hey guys dr. Micah's hotel and James
Hoffman dr. James Hoffman here for
Renaissance period ization rp+ kinda
kind of a I don't know public service
announcement of the way way to say this
and we're not qualified enough to make
making those but kind of a discussion we
were having and we wanted to bring you
in on something we've been seeing for a
long time and only be able to been able
to reach very recently put into words
and here it is there is there are a lot
of like single studies and sometimes
even a comprehensive amount of
literature on really tiny like compounds
and foods really very small components
of those foods that have really really
small but negative health effects and
people seem to be really obsessing over
these and kind of reading them as good
or bad and trying to eliminate all bad
foods and we kind of think that this is
leading us to a really really nasty path
of eventually eating nothing so I'll
give you some good example and a lot of
James take away like kind of some of the
implications on this so an example there
is this is something that actually
hasn't been discussed yet but I promise
you people get to it
apples and peanut butter and peanuts
actually have a lot of what's called
caffeic acid and it's numerously more
carcinogenic than pesticides at the
current rates of exposure in the United
States so the chances that we can also
have an Hydra cyanide in them as well
I'm totally that's just gonna come out
at some point it turns out there is
there are some compounds in oatmeal then
are anti nutrients and they can be
poisonous and consumed in large large
amounts nothing relevant to human scale
and in a slightly bigger sense of more
effect you know if you grill your meats
then the grilling the charring process
makes them a little bit more
carcinogenic in just by the tiniest bits
and if you eat for example preserved
meats something like bacon or sausage or
ham then something about your Uggs
gotcha dog hot dogs there seems to be
you know some enhancement of
carcinogenic and other problems there
that it's very very tiny and of course
I'm sure you've seen that you know dairy
consumption leads to an elevation of
some kinds of cancer so it leads to a
reduction and some others what we end up
getting is there's like a million foods
that have these super tiny health
effects each by themselves and even in
combination the total effect is super
tiny on health where does this Lake
James what do you think like if we were
to take all of these very seriously and
try to modify our diet to avoid these
foods is that like a sustainable
practice no I think it's just it would
be a maddening effort there's so much
you gotta keep in mind like the natural
world is trying to kill you at all times
right you were constantly encountering
stressors carcinogens everything is
literally killing you to some small
degree if you're really like trying to
minimize every single or mitigate every
single little risk that you get from
eating food then you're gonna be eating
nothing really really quick and you know
this idea of like um trying to minimize
risk these are this there are some
people who will say like I don't eat you
know hot dogs because they're bad for
you those are the same people who are
slamming beers and smoking or hanging
out you know if you're if you're living
in fear of what you're eating
then you better not take the bus or the
subway to work you better not go out to
outdoor concerts or things like that
where people are smoking and partying
and doing drugs and doing other things
and you certainly shouldn't step outside
when it's raining or there's a lightning
storm you know it's just crazy it's
justit don't fly because that ocean
water and not to mention just the risk
of flying totally like it's one of those
things like uh what about the Sun listen
I mean look at me I mean I'm Irish and I
see Mick I guess the ER and if I'm out
there for like 15 and the Sun is a giant
thermonuclear bomb yeah so it's just one
of those things where it's kind of silly
because it seems like that people will
be really really risk at verse 20 when
it comes to other what I would say in my
opinion are more tangible wraps in the
rightest eclis danger like walking
outside the street like getting hit by a
car especially here in Philadelphia
where people don't stop at stop signs or
generally obey the law alright Tom
yeah so it's one of those things where
people will misconstrue some risks and
really focus on others because there's
something special to food there is like
the emotions of purity that disgust that
go into food that don't go into walking
out into the Sun they don't gonna like
getting on a plane people are like that
feels fine you know you can tell you're
being bombarded by radiation I mean you
feel just fine flying in altitude but
you're getting hit by some serious
radiation so I think there's also this
like sense of elitism when you when you
say like I don't eat these things I
wanted a better likely I'm enlightened
and I know better and this yet and it's
one of those things like you are
enlightened to some extent you do know
that some things are bad for you but
here's what it comes down to here's what
we don't want to happen
we don't want an individual to SAP all
of the joy of all the very wonderful
humans and very wonderful preparation
methods of their entire life and at the
end of it excluding every single
possible bad food or at least the ones
they knew about when they were alive
because there's always building evidence
for more we don't want that person to
live till age 77 where if they ate some
hot dogs here and again if they had some
milk now and again if they had you know
whenever grilled a lot of meat maybe
they would have made it to age 76 which
kind of hotdogs you like better New York
style or Chicago style New York I feel
like the sauerkraut Chicago's got like
the pickle and the tomatoes and the you
know mean they're oh no I'm a relish man
relish mustard relish
I would there's this huge debate we got
into with ketchup and hot dogs like
actually like the u.s. hotdog
Association it says that you're not even
supposed to be ketchup on hot dogs I
don't put ketchup on hours usually
because their ketchup was really salty
and there's already a lot of salt I'll
talk south east I usually do mustard
relish but any in cheese I love ketchup
hot dogs yeah whatever so but you know
you you basically can't have a hell love
Chicago New York debate goes down the
drain you can the end of the month cause
it's enriched flour
so when ends up happening is let's say
you live till age 77 you earned one
extra year of life by avoiding almost
everything that was pleasurable
is that worth it I mean when you and
individuals can answer this question
themselves but it just doesn't seem like
it is what's funny to cuz you could do a
quality-of-life comparison so like the
quantity of life you gained is on the
scale though I would say weeks to months
told my best let's say a year a year on
the top end but then you have the
quality of life over the course of 40
years maybe from the time you're in
their 20s and you may say oh just an
esophagus ition so maybe 40 50 years
like you gained a year at the cost of 40
to 50 of like possibly missing out on a
lot of stuff I mean you go to parties
you can't have the food and you got to
alter your whole life and what about the
anxiety that comes with making sure all
your food isn't prepped all wrong and
all this stuff and worrying about health
what does this come down to I think what
we're trying to say is that these very
minor concerns probably aren't worth it
to most people and there's no it's not
like if you have this idea that it's
just a couple of things and you're gonna
find all just that maybe five ways and
which ruins are bad for you and you're
not gonna eats like you know grilled
foods and then it's packaged foods and
then that's it oatmeal is now on the
list
oatmeal has some compounds that are
which are anti nutrients which
apparently make old meal in excessive
amounts bad right so the needles of bad
foods so if you if you eat
anti-nutrients does that open like a
wormhole in the galaxy where you go to
another side actually an annihilation
reaction and you explode mmm this
particular no so what what here's a
really simple example so like what types
of foods actually are killing you and
destroying you I can think of one off
the top of my head it's one that I
partake in probably too much alcohol
yeah it's probably one of the only ones
we can say like this is killing you at
some point it you know in a little bit
of alcohol totally fine but here's
here's what will kill you ready
developing obesity will take years off
your life and and it will reduce your
quality of life so it's like a double
whammy alcoholism and excessive alcohol
consumption will absolutely do that lack
of physical activity will absolutely do
that cigarette smoking and other
hardcore drug abuse will do that short
of those factors if you eat a fairly
healthy diet if you engage in regular
physical activity if you drink
moderately use drugs moderately or not
at all you're left with taking care of
almost all the big priorities after that
statisticians can't tell you with
any reasonable expectation that link
will like if you cut you know cured
meats from your diet you're definitely
gonna live much longer but that's it's
not true and who is this person that's
eating bacon for every meal right or
eating sausage referring me like if you
start doing that and maybe you're
looking maybe maybe here maybe a little
more of life expectancy reduction but
it's not even a guarantee nobody looks
like that you don't have to avoid these
things altogether and a lot of those you
know like those old timey thing I wanna
say tiny but previous concerns like
don't eat too much meat don't eat too
much cholesterol stuff like that a lot
of that is mitigated just by living a
reasonably healthy lifestyle being a
reasonable body weight being physically
active the reason why this discussion I
think well part of the reason God
spurred is because I recently discovered
the joys of the grill yes and Nate and
developing my man card grill um I have
been creating these horrible atrocities
of food and just suffering through years
and years of what I like to call mate
death yeah beef patties and turkey
spheres which are renowned for being
just horrifying and I got a grill and
there's something about grilled chicken
that's just so much better fresh then
baked chicken in the oven and even just
from a leftovers perspective we were
talking about this earlier like you see
that leftover beit's chicken you're like
 bad yeah that's disgusting and it
gets all I can G Lee and gross but
grilled chicken you're like yeah I'm
talking I can I'm good with that
yeah and you got to the grilled chicken
and the first thing came to mind for me
when I was like you know a lot of people
think you shouldn't be eating like yes
yeah you're like wait oh yeah that's
right cuz of the carcinogens stuff there
are people out there that do not know I
know people like this they don't grill
anymore period because they think
grilling is bad they don't reach any
kind of cured meats they don't eat dairy
altogether there's a bunch of plant
foods they don't eat some people I know
for a fact stopped eating oatmeal when
it came about that oatmeal has some
things that are bad for health
everything has things in it that's bad
for health even water drink and excess
is bad for you I just orders there's no
end to this so it's like it's to me it's
like a weird dichotomy it's like we are
so risk-averse with your food selection
but you don't demonstrate this behavior
in other aspects of your life right
you're not what you're not walking
around in a bubble or a hazmat suit
you know what I mean like and we don't
want to say that you should be
consistent and displaying this kind of
behavior in other parts of your life
because that will ruin your life right
yeah and it just seemed kind of odd that
we cling on to this one area or not it's
an area which people can more easily
control rate and take a lot of morality
out of it so I think our big message
here as scientists as you know former
professors as educators as nutrition
coaches is this get the big stuff sorted
out yes
don't smoke chronically don't drink
excessively manage your weight eat a
mostly healthy diet stay physically
active after that if you want to have
milk as a part of your regular diet milk
products if you want to have meat
products cured meat grilled meat if you
want to eat a ton of veggies all of
which have all kinds of anti nutrients
in them that is totally fine equals some
other veggies are bad too
no seriously it will some what do we eat
it bizarro world nothing right all this
stuff sums up to pretty much close to
nothing it's not worth the trade-off in
almost any case if you want to be a
purist and eke out a couple of months of
extra life for what terrible existence
go for it
but folks for the rest of us that are
relatively sane in this regard don't get
caught up in a nonsense of every single
food needs to be pure and looking for
these little impurities and these little
things you know I literally saw a forum
comment where a gentleman who was a very
well-intentioned
was like hey I eat you know some nominal
of 200 grams of oat meal per day is that
too much and everyone on the forum kind
of jumped down his throat at first then
they realized he was serious and they
were like Jesus how does this stuff get
started
and the answer is some guru posts an
article about how a meal has something
and its clickbait and that
everyone shares that event like
O'Neill's poisonous and there's no end
in sight to these kinds of articles
every favorite food you ever had that
you thought was healthy it's next on the
list
okay here's a good comparison right so
what's gonna kill you first Mike eating
oatmeal or just living in Philadelphia
just physically being here in
Philadelphia breathing in that Monday
trash day or Philadelphia is a cleanest
city of
Philadelphia area right like consists of
Philadelphia and Camden so yeah totally
any no like but your exposure to all
sorts of nasty stuff is and if you try
to go about getting your exposure down
to zero you are going to drive yourself
insane yes you're going to get a whole
lot of nothing or a whole lot of very
little for a huge trade off so as
scientists as coaches as nutrition
experts we offer you this take care of
the big stuff don't worry about the
little stuff because it's not gonna add
up to basically jack that's gonna
ruin your life that's it folks thanks so
much for tuning in Sierra
you