is muscle memory real long story short
probably the mechanisms behind it aren't
fully understood as of currently there
may be an involvement of the number of
myonuclei or essentially nucleus in your
muscle cells that you have around when
you lose muscle size typically the size
of your muscle fibers will go down
before the myonuclei that are
responsible for some of the growth will
go away so first muscle fiber size will
decrease and then months or years later
the myonuclei will start dissipating as
well so when you return to training
after a couple months off training what
will happen is your mind nuclei are
still around and will facilitate the
return of previously gained muscle mass
in fact in one study it only took
participants 6 weeks to regain muscle
they had previously gained over the
course of 20 weeks so you might be
regaining muscle as quickly as about
three times faster