do you think people discredit
science-based lifters science based
lifters tend to be more natural on
average I think and so people who don't
know the difference between a natural
physique and an enhanced physique we'll
just see the enhanced physique and be
like they obviously know what they're
doing more but but the steroids are such
a huge X Factor there I do think it's
probably true that science based lifters
on average are smaller because they're
natural it's because they're natural not
because the methods are inferior and I
think there's another Camp of people who
think that like science is just kind of
like a gimmick so it's like oh you do
all these like weird exercises I've
never heard of which some people don't
like but the thing is science tells us a
few foundational principles most of the
studies are done on how hard should you
train how many sets you should do
machine exercises versus free weight
exercises which shows no difference in
muscle hypertrophy by the way and then
when you get down into the weeds and
you're looking at like oh should we do
this on cabl should we do this with
dumbbells it's an indirect application
of science but because it's a little
more sexy that's what tend tends to get
more attention