hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization fitness myth series video
number six
barbells are a must for growth what this
is a myth how dare i
i thought i was mr barbell after all
so here's the claim generally as people
sometimes actually say it but at least
imply
if you want to gain the most muscle you
have to do the barbell compound
movements the fuck big three brother
squats benches deads
fucking overhead press that's right
that's four but whatever
if you're not doing them another claim
is that you won't get max gains and if
you do them
but you haven't been doing them you
start doing them your gains will improve
all right so like someone will be like
oh man i'm really struggling with my
back it's always a bro always in every
comment section like broken deadlifts
and barbell rows brother you can't
fucking go wrong with the basics
turns out you can
bro
but how you ask
so
here's the thing why is this a myth
on pure
biomechanical
and exercise physiological theoretical
grounds damn that was a brainy statement
on those theoretical grounds there
really isn't a compelling reason why
barbells should on principle just work
better than everything else it just
doesn't make a whole lot of sense
um
maybe there are reasons but i've been to
school for a long last time but a
professor for a long time exactly of
this shit i don't know and none of my
colleagues know either right so maybe
we're just all out to lunch and it could
be true could be we missed something but
itchy was you know it's at least not
obvious that barbells should reign
supreme just on principle alone
in addition to that they've done tons of
studies where they compare various
machines and barbells and dumbbells and
generally speaking barbells and
dumbbells and machines compare
relatively favorably to each other like
some are worse than others and some are
better than others but there's not like
this categorical thing where like in the
research barbells have been found to be
superior or compound movements found to
be superior this is not the case
sometimes isolations are better
sometimes compounds are better sometimes
barbell sometimes machines sometimes
dumbbells it's all over the place
generally everything's roughly pretty
comparable roughly it doesn't mean
exactly but roughly right
and another piece of indirect evidence
but something that should at least get
you thinking is tons of top professional
bodybuilders
do much less barbell work than expected
and kind of in a hilarious twist of
irony the most vociferous proponents of
barbell training the ones that you gotta
book dude barbell moves are like
intermediate
recreational power lifters been lifting
for like three years they've done like
two cycles of starting strength they're
like anyone who doesn't do barbell moves
is a fucking idiot it is never gonna get
jacked and like my instant reaction
which is mean and i almost never say in
public
um is like get jacked like who like you
motherfucker you weigh 140 pounds bro
you're five nine what are you talking
about right and they're like like all
the barbell compounds like like who does
like pro bodybuilders you ever seen them
trained they do all kinds of cable
crossovers and shit yeah they do some
barbell combats but it's not all they do
it's not even the majority it's not even
remotely it's a small minority in many
cases so
at some point you got to be like yeah
are we building like a house completely
out of straw
maybe however there are some greens of
truth to this
as is almost always the case
for many people big grain of truth
the barbell compound movements can have
really high
what we term raw stimulus magnitudes
their ability to
stimulate muscle growth forget fuck
fatigue whatever tons of fatigue too in
many cases just smashing in muscle
growth stimulus
is often really really high
like if someone comes up to me and
they're like look nothing i'm doing
for my back is getting my back to grow
and i talk to them they're doing some
machines doing some dumbbells they're
doing some cables and i'm like have you
tried
higher rep sets of you know 5 to 15
deficit deadlifts or deadlifts and
they're like no have you tried barbell
rows they're like no
begin to do those because on raw
stimulus magnitude they just slap
muscle and pounds of muscle on your back
not for everyone but for many people
that just fucking work now are they
fatiguing hell yeah are they more
injurious sometimes the machines yeah
also that's the case
but
gee whiz you know if they don't grow
your back your special snowflake are
quite unusual or something is a miss so
yeah sometimes these shits work really
really well
squatting for quads especially if you're
well built to squat or you have good
squatting technique a lot of times man
people who complain about their quads
being small and you look at their squat
technique and the fact that they're not
squatting you get them squatting upright
etc tom platt style sets of 10 to 12 in
the squat oh my god they come back later
pants torn like the hulk
hopefully pants torn in a way that
doesn't reveal the genitals do you guys
ever think about that the whole hulk
thing with the pants i'm sure other
people have spoken or written about it
what the fuck are the hulk's pants made
of that they stretched like 3 000
that's not the most impressive part
after he's no longer the hulk his shit
comes back down in size i mean is he
always wearing the same insane superhero
stretchy pants that are modeled to look
like
purple cut off jorts
ugh who the fuck where's george said
look if the hulk wears whatever i'm like
bro it looks good on you but if he's
bruce banner man he's scared you'll
do something but then he turns into hulk
i'm like it was all huge
misunderstanding sir
in any case
bench presses for chest look big benches
build big chests if
it doesn't hurt your shoulders and stuff
like that if it's the right fit for you
but for a lot of people it really is the
right fit barbell inclines barbell bench
presses they built my chest super big if
you look up some of the world's top
bench pressers you look at their chest
you're like what the fuck happened to
that guy's chest there's a
daniel something brother from iran
google daniel
power lifter iran bench press super
heavy
you look at this motherfucker's chest
and you're gonna be like there's no such
thing there's no way this is a real
human being
he built his chest with barbell
compounds okay they're real they work
for a lot of people
and if you avoiding them and some people
like especially with the new like doug
brignold or brig 20 stuff people like
trying to avoid the brawler compounds uh
you might be avoiding some of the best
lifts for size for you you're going to
want to do that like categorically avoid
them right you don't you definitely
don't want to do that in addition to
that if you learn to do the barbell
compounds very well your technique on
pretty much all of the other lifts
machine lift for that same muscle group
etc generally tends to get better
because barbell compounds teach you how
to produce a shit load of force and
generate your own stability and proper
positioning and really good technique if
you can learn to bench press with proper
positioning
with a barbell power lifting style when
you get on any chest machine you learn
to retract your scaps lift your chest up
push through your pecs
every machine becomes better if you know
how to barbell roll properly you can use
every back machine better you guys ever
see people i don't mean to talk shit i
mean to talk shit people at the gym who
clearly have never actually lifted
weights before and they're just like
they look up they walk up to an exercise
and they look at the diagram on the shit
and they just start doing it like which
is totally cool right real talk like
they're like i don't know 60 year olds
just trying to get fit for the love of
god totally awesome you're totally
welcome in the gym but some of us who
know a little bit more we're looking at
them do the thing and they're doing like
machine chest rows and
like and you're like do you you do know
that you have a back with which to do
that it's not all just biceps and rear
delts but if someone knows how to do
proper bent uh over barbell rows if they
know how to do stuff like a deadlift
blah blah blah every time they use a
machine they really know how to feel the
muscle because shit if you can feel a
muscle technique-wise mind muscle
connection with barbell compounds oh my
god you're so good at my muscle
connection if you can feel it through
that shit you'll feel it any day in a
machine it'll be the easiest thing in
the world so there are benefits and
grains of truth the fact that barbell
moves barbell compounds are fucking
awesome in many cases
so we got the pluses we got the minuses
where does that leave us as far as best
practices to take home and go forward
with
here's the thing
if you personally get high raw stimulus
magnitudes that just get really fucked
up in the good way from barbell
compounds or for some of them
or even if you get high stimulus to
fatigue ratios like for me barbell bent
rows are great high
sfr exercise like you get a ton of
stimulus and not a lot of fatigue
especially if it's deficit rose i don't
have to use as much weight my lower
back's not as involved oh beautiful i
love it right uh you know seated barbell
press incline press if these exercises
work really well for you fucking do them
and don't let anyone tell you like
technically speaking physics or whatever
says that you're not supposed to be
doing cop what's the fuck out of my face
you tiny motherfucker right jk sort of
point number two if barbell compost or
something you've been doing or someone
told you gotta do barbell compounds to
grow god damn it and you have pretty low
stimulus to fatigue ratios on them or
they're lower than they used to be
um you can do machines and dumbbells for
a while to re-sensitize like
even for myself for a long time i would
never remove barbell squats for my
programs because i was like my legs are
just going to get small no amount of
hack squatting leg pressing or smith
machine spotting is ever going to
fucking get my legs big i have to have
it i do all that other stuff and i would
do it but i always have to do barbell
squats at least once a week and then i
was finally was like okay i know enough
the love of god i have a phd in this
shit theoretically this shouldn't be a
thing and i wa moved away from barbell
squats for a short time for first for
like two months and everything was fine
and my legs grew and was like oh holy
shit what the fuck have i been doing
because by then barbara squats were
super stale for me i came back to it i
reignored my technique and it was great
after
you don't have to be addicted to these
lifts yeah the core barbell movements
are awesome they don't always have to be
in your program if there's a month or
two where you're feeling like oh they're
not super fresh they're stale my joints
hurt back away from them go to machines
go to dumbbells
and you can bring them back in later
when they feel better and even if you
could fix the technique up a little bit
get a bit more mind muscle connection
better stimulus to fatigue ratio and
lastly
if
just based on who you are your
anthropometry whatever
your best stimulus to fatigue ratio
exercises the ones that work the best
for you the most stimulus least fatigue
least joint pain etc the way they give
you the best pumps the best tension in
perceiving the muscle about soreness etc
if those exercises for you
and even the best raw stimulus magnitude
ones the ones that really really hit you
and really kill the muscle if they just
happen to
not be barbell moves like you get
literally more out of hack squats for
your quads than ever got a barbell
squatting you get more you know out of
machine rows than barbell rows like
people like that are real they exist
right we're all like that sometimes if
we're stale on the movements but
sometimes some people like stale not
stale just barbell compounds like or
many of them just don't do them the
justice like they've read all these
magazines the same ones you and i have
they score all these instagram accounts
or tons of assholes being like you have
to do the fucking viral compounds to
grow they did all that shit for months
and maybe years and they just never get
amazing results they always got hurt
their joints hurt and then they switched
to machines and dumbbells and they were
like oh my god i'm growing like a weed
and my body feels great if you are that
person
as long as you're being honest with
yourself what i mean here is the barbell
compounds are fucking hard for me a lot
of times i don't want to do barbell rows
i don't want to squat i don't want to
upright row but i know for a fact these
movements work well for me so just have
to nut up and fucking do them so if i'm
lying to myself and just trying to avoid
the work no no shut up and do the
barbell compounds but if they really
aren't working out well for you an
honest honest honest assessment because
at the end of thing nobody gives a shit
you either get big or don't nobody cares
right so you have to be honest with
yourself
if they really don't work that well for
you you don't have to do them
today you have to do them tomorrow next
week you never have to do them and the
ultimate little little gem i'll drop on
you here
sample size one it means hardly shit but
it's a fun idea just to make sure we
have like sort of proof of concept
um
phil heath i never seen that
motherfucker do a single barbell
compound in any flex magazine picture
any video ever clearly i'm almost
certainly mistaken i'm sure he's done a
few here and there but if you honestly
follow his training to the extent that
he releases it it's like almost all
machines the smith machines cables and
sometimes
phil heath got like that doing that shit
and don't worry you're not gonna shrivel
up if you don't do barbell compounds and
if you do shrivel up get back to doing
them folks that's all i have next time
sorry good god i fucked that up
that's all i have this time
see you next time
you can just leave that in