warming up is a commonplace strategy in
basically every sport and warming up can
have its performance benefits does it
really reduce the risk of
injury welcome back Dr mil wolfit today
PhD and Sport Science breaking down the
science around warming up I feel like
once I've warmed up I'm a lot stronger
and I'm ready to lift weights if for
example you told me all right doc go
ahead and squat a really heavy load
right now as of the making of this video
barbell appears I squat that thought
makes me a little bit nervous makes me a
little bit anxious but to be honest how
I feel about it and whether or not it's
actually dangerous is not the same thing
plenty of things make me feel uneasy or
scared or what have you but that doesn't
mean they're actually dangerous as an
example flying makes a lot of people
nervous they think it's dangerous and if
you experience turbulence while flying
for example you might think I'm
about to die when in reality most
turbulence is pretty harmless and flying
is one of the safest ways of traveling
from point A to point B so clearly there
can be a disconnect between what feels
scary and dangerous and what is scary
and dangerous so while I might not feel
comfortable jumping into heavy squats
right away for example does that mean
that by not warming up sufficiently I'm
increasing injury risk I'll be laying my
cords on the table here I am not an
injury expert instead I approached this
with let's read the evidence and see
what it says and then relay my findings
to you basically I want to read the
science on what evidence is there for
warming up preventing injuries and
that's where things got dicey I'll be
organizing my research by publication
date to hopefully give you an idea of
how things developed over the past
couple decades chronologically one of
the earlier systematic reviews I was
able to find a systematic review is
essentially performed when sufficient
evidence is around to assess that body
of evidence was in 2006 by fra and
colleagues the title of the systematic
review was does warming up prevent
injury in sport question mark the
evidence from randomized control trials
question mark now that doesn't sound too
promising does it and to make a long
story short they were only able to find
five studies that were somewhat
controlled somewhat randomized these
studies took place in American football
athletes Runners military recruits and
handball athletes out of these five
studies three found a significant
reduction in injury risk for Ming up
whereas two others found no benefit the
study in running athletes and in male
military recruits found no benefit of
warming up for injury risk the copy out
there is that one of these studies had a
really low adherence rate and that's a
thing we'll come back to throughout this
video people tend to not really stick
with extensive warm-up routines in this
study over 50% of participants were non-
compliant with warming up and so let me
give you the conclusions of this paper
the weight of the evidence is in favor
of warming up but there is insufficient
evidence and it is possible that warming
up may be a useful injury prevention
tool for some sporting activities and
not others so at least in the early
years around 2006 the evidence was in
its infancy and one thing you'll notice
is that basically none of these Studies
have anything to do with lifting and
that's a common Trend in all of this a
few years later we had a systematic
review on the effects of static
stretching before exercising and its
impact on the risk of injury they found
seven randomized controlled trials and
controlled clinical trials that met the
inclusion criteria in total broadly
speaking across these seven studies
static stretching before a workout
failed to reduce injury risk but there's
a bit of context to be had there was the
potential based on certain studies
findings for static stretching to not
reduce overall injury risk but
specifically potentially reduce muscular
tenderness injury risk this is the sort
of injury that typically occurs at
relatively longer muscle lengths some
preliminary evidence to suggest a
relationship between static stretching
and the prevention of muscular
tenderness and ligament sprain type
injuries even if not of all injuries
this may be due to static stretching
improving the flex stability of
ligaments and muscular tenderness units
by facilitating connective tissue
plastic elongation thereby promoting
muscle relaxation and therefore further
stretch and range of motion around a
joint which is believed to help reduce
injury risk importantly as we'll briefly
touch on in future papers the effect of
becoming more flexible on injury risk is
not super clear yet based on the
evidence but at the very least static
stretching doesn't seem to reduce
overall injury risk so it's not
something I would recommend before
session though it may have a benefit for
reducing muscular tenderness injury risk
but in the case of lifters it is
probably not something I'd recommend and
we'll come to that later next up
included just because I found it amusing
was a systematic review titled A
systematic review on the effects of
upper body warmup on performance and
injury now the authors thought hm let me
go ahead and do a systematic search of
the data on upper body wops and how
those relate to injury and it turns out
they didn't find a signal study to me
that just highlights that when anyone
makes a strong claim around warming up
preventing injury or not preventing
injury just realize that they're going
off remarkably little evidence and it's
even worse when you start talking about
specifically upper body or lower body WM
UPS or specific modalities often times
there's not a ton of evidence there so
because we don't have a ton of evidence
I thought okay let me look for any meth
analysis that compare different modes of
exercising and how that reduces injury
risk in athletes more broadly one
metanalysis by lson colleagues found the
following they compare the effects of
different modalities in different
populations and found this in a list of
different modalities they found that
strength training AKA lifting weights in
the gym for example reduced injury risk
the most the other modalities that had a
meaningful effect were proprioception
training and studies that used an
intervention with multiple different
modalities for example strength training
plus stretching plus other stuff
stretching on the other hand once again
showed little to no effect on overall
injury risk so it's consistent across
different met analyses that static
stretching doesn't seem to prevent
injury so if static stretching whether
done as part of your WM up or not
doesn't seem to reduce risk of injury
what does seem to reduce injury risk
well for one as I just mentioned
strength training and potentially
proprioception training one an
interesting finding from Alat and
colleagues from 2020 in a systematic
review of the effect of plyometric
exercises on ACL injury risk was that
plyometric exercises did seem to be
effective in reducing the risk of
developing injuries with your ACL or
anterior cruet ligament once again that
didn't need to be performed as part of w
up just in your routine at some point
and it's unclear whether this would be a
different effect from just resistance
training or not and that brings me to
the most recent paper I was able to find
on the effect of warming up on injury
risk and what you should be doing as
part of your warm up to prevent injuries
whether you should even be doing
anything here's the paper it's a
narrative review from 2023 by David Ben
we know that static stretching doesn't
seem to reduce injury risk meaningfully
overall but what about Dynamic
stretching for example doing arm swings
before you head into your upper body
session well only two randomized control
trials have examined the impact of
dynamic stretching on injury risk thus
far so even with this new modality there
is not a lot of evidence out there but
with that in mind and with this being
the most recent review paper on the
topic let me give you a few of the
takeaways made in this really extensive
narrative review on the state of the
evidence on warming up this research
tends to suggest that dynamic warm
activities that may not necessarily
emphasize movement to the end points of
the range of motion can still contribute
to A reduced injury incident another
thing the authors noted on was that the
FIFA 11 plus warm-up routine which is a
certain warm-up routine that involves a
lot of different components and a lot of
different exercises including some
static stretching some Ecentric training
like Nordic curls some resistance
training some explosive movements some
running has pretty compelling evidence
at this point for reducing injury risk
when it comes to certain sports like
soccer or football if you live in the
righteous eurs and the evidence on FIFA
11 plus as a w routine is some of the
most substantive evidence we have we
have quite a few studies on this the
issue is that there's so many things
going on that it's really difficult to
tell what is going on it could just be
that the Str components of the routine
of the wp routine are what is ultimately
preventing injury as I mentioned earlier
we have quite a bit of evidence on
reducing injury rates as a result of
strength training being a thing it could
also be that some of the more explosive
movements are contributing towards
reduced injury risk but it's really
difficult to assess the causality of any
single element of the routine when a
routine has so many things baked into it
so the best kind of thing we can say is
that the strength component and maybe
the plet component are probably playing
a role and that overall the FIFA 11
routine when it comes to soccer players
is likely effective at preventing
injuries but when it comes to saying
that you should be doing this or that
before you walk out it doesn't really
help there the most frequent elements of
a multifaceted training program were a
combination of strength balance
plyometric and dynamic warm- up/
stretching exercises which enhance the
effect of an injury prevention program
within the current literature there is a
conflict regarding the effect of
impaired or restricted flexibility on
the injury rate as I mentioned earlier
although some people have hypothesized
that static stretching is increasing
flexibility and that's a good thing for
preventing injuries it's still a bit
unclear an increased ability of the
muscle tendon complex to absorb torqus
or forces especially a longer muscle
lengths where most muscular tendonous
injuries occur should decrease the
susceptibility to muscular tendonous
injuries the paradigm shift in the 21st
century from static stretching to
Dynamic stretching may be attributed to
Dynamic stretching and used improvements
in range of motion with either a lack of
negative or even positive effects on
performance whereas only two articles
investigated the effects of dynamic
stretching there is extensive evidence
showing the positive injury attenuation
effects of activity programs
incorporating Dynamic stretching and
dynamic activity acute bance of theic
stretching May induce thixotropic
effects reduced viso elasticity and
positively modify the emotional state
attenuating muscle tension while the
psychological benefits may also increase
concentration attention and better
prepare players for games and
competition so Dynamic stretching just
warming up in general getting warm not
necessarily going through a full range
of motion even seems to be beneficial
when it comes to perform performance
potentially I can make a whole video on
warming up of performance if you'd like
leave a comment down below it seems to
potentially be beneficial for that but
the evidence for it reducing injury risk
is still a bit more tenuous with only
two studies randomized controlled
studies looking at this there is more
compelling evidence not warming up now
just in general at performing strength
training AK lifting and some Ecentric
training potentially and some petric
training potentially do reduce injury
risk and across sports like soccer
football whatever you call it rugby
American football doing things like
Nordic curls is a pretty widespread
practice because it is resistance
training at relatively low muscle
lengths and it is an Ecentric only
exercise most of the time which are
things that probably reduce injury risk
somewh but importantly none of this
needs to be done as part of your W up
which then calls into question do we
need to war up before I get into the
takeaways for this video I want to
briefly mention that just to make sure I
wasn't just completely misreading the
evidence I had a friend of mine Dr Jacob
Templar doctor in physical therapy read
over the whole script make sure that I
was appropriately conveying the
information and not just speaking
outside of my wheelhouse and the
information here is at least vetted by
him and to my knowledge is the best
information that is out there in the
evidence if you need advice from a
physical therapist I would recommend
checking him out he is one of the most
evidence-based physical therapists I
know and broadly speaking his opinions
that he's posted about on Instagram for
example reflect what I just said so with
all that in mind let me give you some
takeaways first one huge limitation of
the existing evidence is that there is
none basically in regards to warming up
for preventing injuries from lifting
weights so everything I'm about to say
is highly speculative highly infuential
just keep that in mind and all the
following takeaways are based on
evidence in sports with a higher injury
rates typically than what you observe in
lifting first getting warmed up somehow
before lifting weights is probably a
good idea just generally for performance
there might be a benefit at least for
more strength based things whereas for
hypy training it's a bit less clear I
can make a whole video on that leave
comment down below but for injury risk
it's not really that clear clear that
it's meaningfully reducing your injury
risk specifically Dynamic warm-ups have
two studies on them and static
stretching doesn't seem to reduce injury
risk when performed at any point whether
it's part of warm up or not and the
evidence we do have finding a reduced
injury risk is typically on
multimodality interventions like the
FIFA 11 where there's so much stuff
going on that we can't really tell
what's causing an effect and importantly
the second takeaway is that lifting
weights or strength training and
Ecentric training and potentially petric
training seem to potentially reduce
injury risk but if you're lifting
weights in the gym you're likely already
getting that effect and I'm not sure
that including some of that in your W up
is going to further reduce injury risk I
would probably just recommend doing the
actual lift so for example if you're
warming up to bench press for sets of 10
I would start with the bar and then
gradually move up but even then at this
stage I can't confidently say that
there's going to be a meaningful
reduction in your injury risk the
evidence just isn't there the best
warmup is likely the one you stick to
one that gets you prepared for what
you're doing one that increases your
body temperature and muscle temperature
and generally primes you for performance
but importantly it needs to be one you
can stick to and in these studies you
often observe very low compliance rates
because many W up Protocols are so long
that they are difficult to stick to so
be a minimalist about your W up whenever
possible so that you can actually
consistently do it lifting weights or
strength training likely reduces injury
risk when it comes to other activities
like playing sports and what have you
some Ecentric training potentially even
at lower muscle lengths might be
beneficial not necessarily as part of
your wob though you can do it anytime
likewise some plyometric training might
be beneficial for r ring injury risk not
sure if it's necessary alongside lifting
or not but it may not be beneficial once
again probably not necessary to do it as
part of your W up and finally static
stretching doesn't seem to really reduce
injury risk overall so when you combine
that with the fact that there's some
evidence showing a decrease in force
production when static stretching is
held for too long before a walkout it's
probably not something you should do
before training or maybe even in general
when it comes to you being a lifter
that's the video broke down the evidence
you probably should do some warming up
but I wouldn't worry about injury risk
too much if you have to minimize your
one time or what have you pretty much
all the evidence we have is from other
fields and not very well controlled and
it's a mess quite frankly the good news
is if you're lifting you're likely
reducing injury risk from other
activities so well done you if you like
the video please leave a like comment
subscribe if you'd like to see me cover
anything else like potentially the
effects of warming up on performance and
how to warm up to maximize performance
and progress within the gym leave a
comment down below and I'll get to it if
you'd like me to coach you consider
checking out the link above and we could
enter a coaching relationship in the
meantime have a fantastic day and I'll
see you guys my subscribers next time
peace