hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization breaking through strength
plateaus video number eight
adding muscle size what i thought this
was a strength series and we're back to
hypertrophy well we're back to
hypertrophy for a very good reason there
are roughly three contributing sources
to your ability to be strong at any
given lift one of course is technique
how you align the bar or dumbbells or
whatever with respect to your body huge
can produce tons of gains and all those
neural output given that you have a
certain size muscle and
a certain basically body how much neural
drive do you send to that muscle and how
little do you send to other muscles that
co-contract and keep that muscle from
really wrenching so for example you'll
see this with beginners a lot when they
bench press not only will they push with
their triceps and chest but they're
actually pulling on the bar at the same
time with their you know uh lats and
back and their biceps they're just kind
of going ah
and it's shown in a lot of research
actually but as you get stronger over
especially the first several months of a
program but small gains occur for years
is you actually learn to
kind of
un
not contract or contract less the
muscles that oppose the movement and
free up the muscles that are actually
supposed to do the work so that's an
example of how the nervous system can
take kind of the individual of the same
biomechanics and musculature and make
one of them way way stronger than the
other one
and three or the same individual over
time and three is muscle size and
architecture your muscles are actually
shaped in a very nuanced way in order to
accept or produce various forces so for
example if you do a wide stance squat
your quads actually
point the muscle fibers point in a
slightly different direction than if you
do a lot of narrow stance squatting
that's why if you really used to wide
stance squatting other than of course
some different muscles being involved
you know if you just change your foot
position uh you're like well fuck my
legs are supposed to be the same muscle
and size and strength how come i'm so
much worse at this variant and you'll
notice that over the course of just a
few weeks you get way stronger at that
new variant one of those reasons is of
course the neural
component is changing but also the
architecture changes and that really
lets you get more out of the same size
muscle because it's a different shape
but of course last and definitely not
least
is how big your muscles actually are i
mean duh
the number one element really of
strength is size and the ultimate
evidence for that is like there's a
reason we have weight classes you know
and there's a reason you can estimate
someone's strength just from how jack
they are you know like a lot of times
you get the stupid bullshit lore and
like
oh
eastern outdated crap martial arts
but you know like someone who's been
doing tangsu whatever the fuck for too
long and hasn't been in a real fight
ever or even sparring matches full
contact and they'll say stupid shit like
well you know see some huge guy at the
gym with gigantic pecs and arms and back
and it'll be like well you know doesn't
mean he's strong and it's like
yeah it fucking does it doesn't mean
he's the strongest guy that's that
jacked but he's at least really fucking
strong and anytime you talk to people
who are actual
people who who fight sort of
professionally or in the industry you
know muay thai folks jiu jitsu folks mma
folks boxing folks especially really
good people like black belts for example
they say hey like this guy doesn't know
any jiu jitsu but he's 290 and he has
huge pecs and legs and everything do you
want to roll with him usually he'll be
like i'd rather not you know
any really good boxer will say that any
jacked person has like a puncher's
chance and if he just nicks you with his
fucking pinky you might your head might
blow off your fucking body fuck all that
size is a really really big deal and is
the biggest component to strength you
may actually have an inkling as to where
we're going with this right
so here's the deal
strength gains can be powered by only
technique neural and architectural
adaptations which is to say you could
have the same muscle size
and you don't need to put on muscle for
a long time for months and years you can
continue to get stronger with literally
unchanged actual size of your muscles
like your triceps are this thick around
they don't change for two years and
you're pressing more and more and more
and more the entire time
however after well years at the very
least sometimes months of being the same
size you might run into
a plateau-looking situation if not an
outright plateau
because the gains through the neural
architectural and technical pathways
start to really kind of fizzle out like
you're kind of uh the perfect analogy
here is you can only tune up an engine
of a given size so much until like
you're just kind of getting as much out
of a four-cylinder as you possibly can
you say fuck how do i make this car
faster and someone's like i think you
need like six cylinders maybe eight you
know like there's only so much you can
do with a certain given size of muscle
and after that
it's just not that many changes
and sometimes the gains just come so
slowly or barely undetectable or
sometimes they sort of recede and come
back so for months nothing is really
happening which can result in a plateau
now there is a solution to this
it's kind of obvious it's sort of stupid
but i promise it works if you just put
on muscle size your strength will
skyrocket in most cases especially given
a long enough time to let that muscle
relearn how to be really really strong
now if you're at a at a plateau gaining
muscle will make you leave that plateau
and gain strength but it also just makes
you get jacked without a plateau
so
size gaining can be a plateau buster
even if you don't know what's causing
the plateau and here's kind of the
fucked up thing
if um
really shitty technique is causing you
to not be as strong as you could be and
causing a plateau
you can just gain size and even with
that shitty technique still gain
stronger so a lot of times size is so
effective that you can just be like fuck
that i'm just gaining size and you solve
a plateau even though the size wasn't
the proximate cause for that plateau
also
the second point here is that gaining
size regularly can just be a good thing
to prevent you hitting a plateau to
begin with because you think okay i get
bigger muscles i really work on
technique and neural adaptations and
architecture to take those muscles make
them as strong as they can possibly make
me
so i make this sort of marshmallowy
thing and then i make it sinewing steel
but after it's sinuine steel
i need more and i add a few layers of
marshmallowy billowy stuff and then i
make that sinew in steel and that sort
of through those cycles is how i get
bigger than stronger than bigger than
stronger than bigger than stronger
makes sense
now
it's easy to say
less easy to do especially right so i'll
give you guys some decent hints here
into how to put on muscle size in order
for it to convert your strength first
point is you want to switch for some
amount of time
two sets of mostly five to ten reps five
to ten reps in the derivative lifts i
wouldn't use the core lifts for power
lifting uh you can if you want but a lot
of times they're already stale you've
been using them so much also they're
designed to put as much weight on your
body as possible tax your muscles the
least
while giving you the best biomechanical
advantage you actually want to for
hypertrophy bias a little bit in the
other direction where you want the
muscles to really feel it but your
joints are connective tissues less so so
you can do derivatives that are more
challenging for the muscles and less for
the joints like high bar squats versus
low bar deficit deadlifts versus regular
deadlifts wide grip presses so on and so
on and so on through these derivatives
you can put on tons of muscle
you have to get stronger in these rep
ranges so that's a five to ten for
months that's how you put on muscle like
hypertrophy phase the last two weeks it
just doesn't make a whole lot of sense
one is you don't build a lot of momentum
with it and a lot of times the body will
add tissue and if it's not being used it
will recede and but if you add a lot of
tissue a lot of their muscle memory so
to speak hangs in there and the tissue
doesn't recede for a long time so you
want to commit yourself to this gee you
know at least several months and you
make sure the volume is challenging
which is to say you're real tired you're
getting plenty sore it's
not impossible to recover but you're
pushing your recovery limits at least to
where you're like fuck if i do a lot
more i won't be able to keep this up
that is to prevent you from just showing
off so a lot of people will still do
their singles and triples and do like
one set of 10 at the end for like book
and volume work bro hypertrophy work
well like how jacked you know you look
at bodybuilders or super jack are they
doing one set of ten like i don't know
they're doing five to ten sets of ten
maybe because you're a power left you
don't do that but maybe do three or four
sets of ten like some real meat and
potatoes work not just showing off that
you can do some reps but actually doing
set after set after set of you know sets
of five to ten to actually hammer in
that hypertrophy because just one set
may not be a very good hypertrophy
signal
another critical thing you gotta eat in
a surplus during this time it really
really helps so gain like you know at
least half a pound per week for like oh
i don't know what
four to 16 weeks or something like that
that means you actually add as much
muscle as you can
if you don't do that and you switch the
sense of five to ten your work capacity
can go up but a lot of times your
muscularity doesn't go up much and thus
you get really good temporarily at doing
higher reps but when you cycle back into
lower reps you don't keep much of the
strength because you didn't build a
whole lot of muscle the only way you
really keep the strength is if you build
the muscle this is to the last point
after you do the sets of five to ten
hypertrophy phase you wanna come back
and for several months
focus back on sets of three to six
general strength training range
it will take one to two months
for your technical abilities and your
nervous system to realign to being
strong again not just good at doing
higher reps there is a difference in
muscle architecture there's difference
in technique there's a difference in
breathing there's difference in what
your neural your what your nervous
system is how it outputs to tell your
muscles to contract between sets of
eight on average and sets of four on
average big difference notable
difference and the more advanced you are
the more you notice that difference
just to you folks that are slightly more
advanced high level intermediates and
above
if you walk out 315 for sets of eight in
a squat
okay yeah you walk it out you squat it
sweet you're done
if you go to 365 for sets of four even
the walkout feels different even fuck
the walkout unracking it you push for a
second and you're like the butter's just
bending and everything fucking picked it
up yet and then you pick it up your
traps are depressed your technique is
different because instead of your hands
being here now they're here the bar is
your depresses your traps more it
actually sinks your vertebrae down so
you're shorter when you walk out you
have to take a stutter step instead of a
full big step
all those technical differences if
you've stayed away from sets of three to
six for a while they have to be
relearned and at a deep neural level
your body has to sort of get good again
at really pushing super hard for just a
few reps versus pushing really well but
sort of maintaining its ability and not
i don't know i guess blowing its load
too early for lack of a better term so
you have to relearn strength is a skill
you have to become skilled again at sets
of three to six and that takes some time
the worst fucking thing you can do is do
lots of five to ten get really fucking
jacked then come back try to hit one
rams none of them went up or one went up
by five pounds the other two went down
you say oh fucking stupid hypertrophy
training it doesn't work well you didn't
give it enough time to transition you
gotta take that muscle and train it for
a while to be strong again and then
after one or two months hopefully sooner
but in many cases it takes that long you
start hitting small pr's and then small
prs and then bigger prs and they just
keep coming holy fucking shit
now i'm getting strong you pay the cost
up front for hypertrophy work you pay a
cost again up front for realigning your
body to do strength work and then the
results come does this sound like too
much to pull off and it's too fucking
complicated and just fucking hashtag
train and shut the fuck up sweet good
luck getting strong if you're in a
plateau see you next time
you