so yes basically I'm saying you can
actually burn more calories just by
eating and digesting protein rich
foods the phrasing here is awkward at
best you don't burn more calories by
eating and digesting protein-rich foods
because those Foods bring in more
calories than you're burning you're
still netting positive calories just
fewer than you otherwise would if you
were eating other macronutrients but
even that's wrong protein has roughly
the same calories as carbohydrate in it
and if you eat a crapload of protein
that's all plus signs to the calories
you have to burn later it's not like it
helps you burn any kind of extra fat
this is an important distinction if you
add food to your diet if you add protein
to your diet there is not a guarantee
that you will burn more fat you'll just
eat more protein and probably just get
even fatter h