what's up folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization welcome to
video number four
of how to make your best program and
fast to for muscle growth this video is
on how to estimate your reps in reserve
per set and get the Reps that you are
targeting
this video series
is all about how to build your program
and I'm also illustrating how to build a
program with the world's best program
Builder that's probably true that's
right true the RP hypertrophy app if you
are watching this video before mid-may
2023 please check the link in the
description and sign up for the
promotional Link in which you get put on
a list to get early access to the app
and to receive goodies and to get a low
price and all that good stuff if you're
checking this video out after roughly
mid-may 2023 which is when
the app is very likely going to be
coming out then just go to the link in
the description first link is going to
be a buy link for the app and you can
check it out and buy it and use it and
it'll be awesome
so let's talk about how to navigate rir
rep in reserve targets and get the Reps
you need to progress I have five tips
for you on rir
what is two or three reps in reserve the
RP hypertrophy app it shoots for week
one two reps in reserve it wants you to
leave two reps in the tank which means
like if gun to the head you could have
done 10 it wants you to stop at eight
but since you can't do 10 to minus
subtract the linear time and go back in
time and say eight stop here
how do you tell when you're roughly at
two or three reps in the tank which is
where you're supposed to stop most of
your sets at least in the first week of
training
the best way to think about it as far as
I can tell is it's when the weight
really starts to push back
which means all of a sudden it feels
notably heavier you're pushing it you're
like yep no problem and then all of a
sudden you're like oh the bar doesn't
slow down but you're like fuck man this
shit is getting heavy
then you're close to two or three reps
in reserve in most cases
and or
all of a sudden the bar starts to both
feel heavy and slow down
and that's a big one because folks that
are relatively slower twitch uh or for
various other reasons are grinders
Google that one JK don't do that not at
work
sometimes they'll come down slow and
they'll come up slow and grind and
you're like oh that's failure like hold
on a sec do another rep to see if that
gets even slower and even heavier
because if you're a grinder you grind
rep number seven out of ten
or let's say your goal is 10 and then
you go for rep number eight and you're
like this is the same grind still slow
still heavy but no slower and heavier
really and again same grind just keep
going
you want to get to a point where you're
like oh shit now that's really slow and
really feels much heavier for faster
twitch people and slower twitch people
alike that point is the same point you
just get to it in different ways faster
switch people go boom boom boom boom and
then yeah rack
which people go boom boom boom and then
they start their slow grind phase which
can be like five to ten reps of roughly
the same speed and weight feeling
but even though slower twitch folks
really want two reps in reserve comes up
they'll get that second wave of like oh
shit
is for real that is when you're close to
two or three reps in reserve for most
people that's when you rack and that's
when you stop and write down your reps
you may be thinking okay but what if I
misjudge and I don't go far enough
in most cases
getting any closer than this just
doesn't matter
it does not matter
because for a variety of reasons
just challenging yourself a little bit
in week one means as you progress over
time and the app will tell you how to
progress and don't worry I'll tell you
how to progress in future videos if you
don't use the app
it's all okay as long as you don't like
do a set of five and you're like I could
do 50 more and then you're like ah fuck
this okay but that's not really two or
three hour as long as you feel that
weight get much heavier and slower and
you feel that challenge
you're golden it's a stimulative set and
all the progress after that will be
super smooth
it's kind of like you don't want to be a
wuss in week number one
but there are upsides even to airing a
little bit on the side of too easy
so yeah don't go too hard
but you're like okay okay don't go too
hard but what about if I go too easy
well if you go a little too easy but not
too hard there are upsides to this
technique your Technique is more likely
to remain stable if you don't push it
super close to failure early check
that's good because as you push really
close to failure technique might get
fucked up and you don't want any
business for that
second the stimulus of getting close to
failure but not quite two failure is
very high the stimulus of getting all
the way to failure is a little bit
higher
the fatigue the the you are essentially
exposing yourself to or accumulating
from getting close to failure is decent
but from getting all the way to failure
is a way higher
so the stimulus to fatigue ratio
is actually better in most cases for
stopping well short of failure than it
is grinding in closer to failure than
you need to grind
that's another win
another thing is any fatigue that you
get extra hangs around through the
entire mesocycle and it accumulates and
accumulates and accumulates it's like
snowfall in Alaska first snowfall
eight inches so yeah your boy gets some
snowfall like that two and a half inches
sleet hail what
um
cool but then like the next day three
inches added and then 16 inches is added
it just keeps going fatigue is similar
to that and the amount of melting in
Alaska is not that high and the amount
of melting of fatigue in your mesocycle
without a deload at the end which we'll
talk about later in the series
the redeem just keeps fucking adding up
so if you way overdo week one you're
like
I'll call that two reps in reserve
everyone's like yeah fuck that cool you
did great good job Conan the Barbarian
but then on the other hand in week two
or three when you're supposed to be
really hitting your stride and hitting
bprs you're gonna be gas and exhausted
and tired because the fatigue you impose
in week one is now hanging out with you
in week two three four Etc so it's
really really really bad news
that bad news reflects itself in the
next the last downside of pushing too
hard too early which is you want
progression you want 10 reps this week
11 weeks 11 weeks 11 reps the week after
then 12 reps or 100 pounds 105 110.
those solid small progressions that's
how fucking growth happens
but if you give it all in your first
week you accumulate a ton of fatigue
really close to failure you do 110
pounds for 10 reps next week the app
will say hey automatically by the way
it'll be like hey like 115 for 10 reps
here's your goal and you're going to do
it you're going to be you're going to
get 10 because you're going to be like
holy shit I I actually I can't do this
because I accumulated so much fatigue
early it screwed up my progression and
even if you survive the second week the
third week you might underperform
underperformance is not what you want
you want to ease into the shit and then
slowly and slowly and slowly which the
app will take care of you by Auto
programming everything rise up to the
occasion over time that's what you want
going right into the Flames early uh
Fools Rush In where wise men
Fear To Tread I don't know
this isn't the progress Channel get on
that other shit and you'll hear more
live shit
all right
Point number four
app time
in most weeks and in most cases
if you do week one and you fill in all
your loads and Reps weeks two three four
Etc all the way through the app will
auto fill
your load and your reps for you so if
you did 100 pounds or 10 reps this week
next week depending on how the cookie
crumbles and the app has its own
internal logic that it develops
you're going to get to do 105 pounds and
the goal will be 10 reps or the Apple
say stay to 100 but the goal will be 11.
some way either by adding a little bit
of weight or a little bit of reps or
some combination of both the app is
going to make things just a little bit
incrementally more challenging if I was
an app user like you hopefully will be
pay me money
then I would just hit those numbers
exactly if you're really feeling your
swag can you change the goal and and hit
more yes if you're really under the
weather can you change the goal and do a
little a little less yes
but
when you make those changes the app will
actually try to auto fill that as well
so for example let's say the app is
asking you to do
you set a hundred pound dumbbells for
one arm rows you did a set of ten or
whatever sets of 10. next week the app
is going to be like okay sets of 10 but
105 pounds and you're like ah app
some idiot broke the 105s at my gym so I
actually only have the 110s
if you hit 110 in there or you say you
know that's a big jump for me fuck that
You Auto Correct the app you just click
actually fuck I'll just do that right
now
let's say it's a barbell bunch of row
and we have
25 pounds selected
then what you're going to go in there
and be like yeah so 25 is what I'm
supposed to do and there'll be a little
Target Emoji here but I'm just gonna go
back to 20.
whatever reps it has picked for you
there
let's say it's originally it was
planning for you doing 105 for 10.
because last time you did 100 for 10. if
you go and say nah I still want to do
100 but it's week two
instead of 10 that rep will display to
11. because it says okay you lowered the
weight
but I'm gonna Jack you up anyway so you
get more reps why because the app wants
to keep you on track to keep going up
now you can always manually just reduce
your reps and say fuck that I'm just
taking an easy day and the app's like
hey cool
but it wants you to progress so even if
you don't have the right weight
increment to hit if it's close to the
right increment the app will still hook
you up to all the calculations under the
hood and make sure you progress by the
same margin be it rate or reps or some
combination of both so if you fudge it
and it's pretty close together within 10
or 20 percent of the weight in either uh
situation or 10 or 20 of the Reps it's
gonna correct that for you if it's way
out of range it'll just be like hey I'm
not really sure what to do it'll just
put up rir it'll be like wait whatever
you did last time or more and then rir
is 2 IR or one IR or zero depending on a
week and then you you can look back a
week earlier it's actually really easy
to do because you hit this little
calendar icon thing and whatever you are
on today it'll look you know say all the
days are displayed as Monday that's
sweet uh
well I must have screwed up when I was
making that oops so uh you know you go
back to this day you click on it and
it'll be like oh this is what I did here
and it's super easy to navigate again
that's unusual that's if you pick a
weight really far away from the one you
did before and then it just doesn't know
the Reps you can look back and then I
don't know how useful it is because
you'll be like well I don't even know
how to make this calculation then just
go however close to failure the app says
and you're totally good to go right
lastly Point number five
this is a lot of stuff
do not overthink reps in reserve
just try hard in the first week
but don't kill yourself
the app will tell you next week what to
aim for
there is no need for self-doubt for
doubling back and re-correcting just run
the process and the algorithm will take
care of all the rest and if you're
training without the benefit of the RP
hypertrophy app
then just don't overthink our hour write
your little notebook or whatever
tracking app you're using write down
your weights and Reps and next week just
add a little bit if you just keep adding
a little bit and keep going all of the
benefits will be yours that Ultra
specificity of like wow was that too rir
a one and a half RAR don't even fuck
with it that is a journey with no end no
pot of gold at the end of the rainbow
so
that's it for today's video get down in
the description click on the buy link
buy stuff God damn it or sign up for the
exclusive list
and
next time in the next video we will
cover about how to manually change loads
in the app but the educational part
other than of course teaching how to use
the RP hypertrophy app is going to be
how to determine what's too heavy and
what's too light and how to make
intelligent Corrections because
sometimes what you did in week one
seemed good but then in week two you're
like man I can do a trillion reps with
this sometimes your body adapts really
quick your nervous system learns really
fast maybe you're having a really bad
day in week one and you felt really sick
and tired and then in week two you're
actually back to normal and you're like
man this is too fucking easy how do I
make the adjustment we'll talk about
that next time and uh I'll see you then