going too heavy for muscle building is
just eag lifting if you're going so
heavy that you're getting fewer than
about five reps per set you're likely
reducing your muscle growth a review
paper by shenfeld and colleagues looked
at the effects of different intensities
on muscle building and by and large
looking at this evidence it seems like
going much above around 85% of your max
in otherwi under five reps is reducing
hypertrophy on a set per set basis for
example a study by sh and falling
colleagues found as much growth doing
seven sets of three compared to just
three sets of 10 suggesting that when
going below five reps or so you need
around twice as many sets just to see
the same growth likewise a study of Mato
and colleagues compared doing just sets
of one to doing sets of 8 to 12 reps in
the group just doing sets of one they
actually lost muscle whereas the group
doing sets of 8 to 12 did gain some
muscle so you can definitely go too
heavy and if you're currently doing sets
of 1 to three reps just to be able to
touch some new weights you're likely
reducing muscle growth that's why