after talking about traumatic childhood
experiences last time one thing I wasn't
sure whether we should touch on but
that's what my pastor said and then he
did of course and then you've been
scored since no I was fine had a good
time point of Pride yeah he chose me
among all the other kids I think he's
found himself and I've found out some
stuff on Range em motion so we both both
found
something and what I think we need to
discuss is whether we both agree about
how deep to go my God Pastor John oh
sorry that's that again hey man dream
yeah every night moist even they wet
dreams every night anyways range of
motion yes how deep should you go do we
agree should you still get a peak
squeeze and finish strong should you get
a good thrust in oo you know I think
you've mistaken me for bracket Tris that
is all love and jokes my friend shout
out Brett full range of motion length
and partials what do you think is better
for oper Fe and why the proper answer I
would give is a little complicated