[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is Ratelle for
Renaissance period ization chapter four
of the Renaissance diet book 2.0
nutrient timing this chapter is gnarly
its enormous it's real real serious
piece of work if I may say so myself as
one of the authors it goes into an
unbelievable out of complexity it talks
about timing in relation to how many
meals per day how far the meals are
spread apart exactly what's in the meals
macros why so it's macro independent
timing like you can have six meals per
day but some of the meal plans would be
every meal has 30 grams of protein but
another meal plan could be some have 40
some have 20 that's actually a little
bit different
it goes into a bunch of these other very
very minut very intricate timing
situations and sort of sort of timing
arrangements and talked about all the
science behind them all the theory and
and what what is the optimal way to go
based on a variety of different
conditions or what we think is best
here in this nutrient timing video we're
just gonna get real down to the basics
and if you want to intricacies the by
link for the book is right below this
YouTube video so here we're gonna
simplify how many meals per day should
we eat and is there any special way to
time those meals around activity or
periods of law activity or anything else
so here's the deal timing is super
straightforward with meal meal number
four to seven meals per day spread
relatively even and it doesn't count as
a meal unless there's protein in it more
specifically protein that's also spread
relatively evenly as far as how much of
it there is so not all of your meals
have to have exactly 50 grams of protein
if you have you know 200 grams of
protein per day and four meals but you
know while meal has less than 20 grams
of protein and one meal has like more
than 80 starts to be a little bit weird
and maybe not have the best kinds of
effects certainly safe just maybe not
optimal for body composition and
performance so 4 to 7 roughly evenly
spread meals throughout the day
each meal has to contain protein protein
in order
muscle loss and inorder supply nutrients
for muscle growth
what about carbs do you need those for
energy so on and so forth yes
specifically you need them a little bit
more not a lot more a little bit more
around at times of activity than times
of inactivity for example let's say you
train in the mid morning if you wake up
in the morning it's probably that I'd
eat plenty of carbs because it's gonna
fuel your activity and your workout just
a couple hours later it's probably good
idea to eat a lot of carbs right after
the workout to refuel your stores that's
when your muscles are most sensitive and
your fat is least sensitive and you eat
plenty of carbs throughout the day and
then when you get closer to bedtime
might be a good idea to maybe a little
fewer carbs so you don't have just carbs
floating around in the blood when you're
asleep and probably nothing to do with
them and they get turned into fat are
these huge differences no but they're
meaningful and actually if you have a
lot of carbs in you when you're trying
to fall asleep you can have them have a
lot of energy spent a lot and as I'm
doing now and and then all of a sudden
you know it's a little bit more
difficult to fall asleep so it's
probably good idea to take your
carbohydrate intake and assign it to pre
and post activity what about during
activity well we can get into a little
bit more of supplements but during
activity carbohydrate protein
carbohydrates and protein can be
consumed it really doesn't benefit you
until the activity is really strenuous
or longer than hour probably both so if
you have like a 45-minute weightlifting
session you bride don't have to have a
shake with it I sure don't but if you
know you're doing like like a fitness
sport workout at CrossFit gym and you
know workouts three hours long
real hard stuff it really is a good
benefit to have a protein and carb shake
with you to titrate those nutrients
during that time to enhance your
performance during that session to
enhance you set up your recovery and to
make sure you're not losing a whole lot
of muscle during that session and you're
priming the muscle growth process what
about fats we got proteins we got carbs
we got fats fats are good at any time of
the day but remember fats slow digestion
a lot it's not a bad thing
they just make everything with them
including themselves leach out of the
gut a little bit more slow than
otherwise would so if you want to
consume carbohydrates now to have them
available in the blood and again
super-powered in two or three hours yeah
a ton of fat with that meal the carbs
actually won't all be out in the blood
by then and a lot of them won't even
have been digested you'll still have a
really full stomach right if you go to a
burrito place and you order you know two
extra sides of guac and sour cream and
cheese you know with your original
burrito sure that's plenty of carbs in
there you know rice and beans and
tortilla tortilla but you know you're
not gonna see a lot of those carbs for
you know six or eight hours later so
it's probably a good idea for GI issues
and for timing issues to keep your fat
lower in the meals just around your
workout before right after to make sure
you're fed for your workout and
recovered well after and to push most of
your fats two times far further outside
of your workout window maybe in the
morning if you're trained in the middle
of the day for example push your fats
mostly to the morning and the evening
hours that's probably a really good idea
lastly where does timing fall in in the
diet priority pyramid well it's 10% of
total effect what does that mean as far
as results go that means that if you're
trying to lose a bit of fat gain a bit
of muscle get in shape take sort of
control of your body you don't have to
worry about timing too much look if you
eat three meals on some days and six
meals on other days and miss eight hours
of eating here and there it's really not
the end of the world may if you start
messing up your calories and your macros
you're gonna pay for it but with timing
then it really doesn't make a huge
difference case in point
some people think that intermittent
fasting where you don't eat for a
considerable amount of time during the
day is something that benefits them as
far as their lifestyle you they don't
like to eat throughout to take like five
lunches to work and stuff they might
like to eat in the morning or not even
start the morning with some black coffee
maybe a protein shake head out to work
get everything done get their workouts
done with some caffeine come home eat a
big feast relax head head in for the
night nothing wrong with that is it
ideal no it's not ideal you losing a
good fraction of that ten percent
remember it's only ten percent fraction
so if you like that last aisle and
you're getting good results heck more
power to you now if you want the
ultimate in performance and body
composition if you have a competition
coming up
it's probably good idea to organize your
nutrient timing to have four to seven
meals per day structured reasonably
carbohydrates are under workout times
and be very very consistent so timing is
one of those things it's real lifestyle
and adherence based for most of us but
some of us who want sort of that
top-tier Premo results we're gonna have
to pay attention to it because remember
10% maybe 7% if you do a reasonable job
of timing is not the end of the world
for results if you can only you know now
80% of it if you only have enough energy
and resources through the day to do a
decent job don't worry about timing too
much it's not a big part of the picture
but 7% as far as performance differences
between folks man you know that's that's
gonna take you outside of districts and
regionals and forget about Nationals
right so if you really want to be
competing and a high level or retired of
losing you want to win more or here's
another one you haven't been able to
gain muscle or when you lose fat you
lose a ton of muscle and you haven't
ever worried about your timing and it's
a bit wonky good time to pay attention
to it you got to pay attention to the
details when your level of intervention
and desire to improve necessitates that
just the basics don't quite work anymore
here's the thing just to close out if
you eat like at least three meals a day
relatively evenly spaced and hit your
macros in calories you're not taking a
10% discount on timing you're taking
media three or four percent discount so
you're getting most that category anyway
it's the real huge mess-ups on timing
that cost you close to ten percent how
do you do that skip a whole day of
eating right there is a group of folks
who do alternate daily fasting well one
day they eat one day they don't like if
they were on a soccer team and I was
their coach I'd be like you better cut
that stuff out right now I can't have
you show up to a game when you're not
eating it's gonna be a disaster
all right so that's when we start
costing ten percent look eat three to
five times a day find time to get some
protein based snacks you're good to go
you're getting most the effect without
any other word
folks soon next time from Chapter five
[Music]