hey rp+ /rp you welcome back dr. James
Hoffman here and today we're gonna be
going over some basics of physiology we
at Rp know that sometimes you guys
aren't always up to speed on a lot of
some of the basic kind of exercise and
physiology and biology and chemistry
topics that we're talking about and we
want to make sure that you have a nice
whole complete understanding on some
foundational materials before you go on
and start tackling the tougher stuff so
the goal for today's lecture is just
kind of excuse me trying to get you
familiar with some of the basic terms in
cell biology and chemistry that we use a
lot when we go into more deep
discussions later on so for those of you
who have taken biology and chemistry at
the college level you might be able to
kind of glaze over this one if you have
not it's you haven't taken by all or
chem maybe since like high school days
this might be a good one as a quick
refresher before moving on to some of
the more complicated courses like
exercise physiology and then any of the
specialized areas for like training and
dieting and such so let's go ahead get
started the first slide basically shows
us kind of what we're gonna be talking
about today first thing we're going to
talk about just kind of some
foundational biome excuse me biological
molecules that we need to be familiar
with now we can get into really really
crazy discussions on some of these
things but we're going to keep it pretty
simple and it's pretty straightforward
for the most part so hopefully we won't
diverge in any areas that are too deep
the next one we'll talk about are just
some biochemical reactions and how they
work in the body and then last but not
least we'll go over some basics of cell
physiology and kind of the bits and
pieces of the cell and what they do and
how they work so why don't we go ahead
and get started so to understand a lot
of concepts and exercise physiology we
have to have an understanding of matter
now we know if you take physics we can
start breaking down matter into really
really really small subatomic particles
but from biochemistry and a physiology
standpoint we are primarily concerned
with our functional unit which is the
elemental level right so all biological
matter is composed of different
combinations of elements we generally on
our level as exercise physiologists tend
not to go down much lower than the
element so an element is just a
substance that is made up of protons
neutrons and electrons no surprise there
we know that elements
exist kind of as single entities by
themselves or in the body more often
than not they are bounded together in
groups that we like to call molecules
right so a molecule is simply just a
group of two or more elements bounded
together through chemical bonds right
now this can be the same element like
two hydrogen ions it can be different
things like two hydrogen ions and a
water molecule right so there's all
sorts of different combinations that we
find in the body the base level that
we're going to be generally dealing with
our elements and then we're gonna see
molecules kind of branch off of that and
move into macromolecules now if you need
a refresher on elements you can check
out the periodic table we're not going
to go into that because that's something
that you can readily look up on Google
no big deal there so let's move on to
the next one we know that chemical bonds
in molecules is where we find the
predominance of the stored energy of
that compound we know that chemical
bonds can come in a variety of different
forms and here on the slide you can just
see some examples of that some of the
big ones that we see more often than not
are usually things like ionic bonds
which are bonds based on the
electronegativity differences between
elements or ions right so we have kind
of an electromagnetic force keeping them
together we can see things like covalent
bonds which is where we actually see
sharing of the valence electrons between
two elements right so we can actually
see there start to share electron
orbitals which is really really neat and
we can see some other examples very
similar like hydrogen bonding which
again is an electronegative bond and
then even within that we can actually
see bonds occurring on multiple layers
right so we can see just single bonds
where we have kind of one shell and a
covalent bond being shared we can
actually see double and triple bonds
which is a much stronger bond where more
electrons are being shared all sorts of
different combinations of those things
and this is just kind of the short
version if you ever take a physics or
physical chemistry class you'll find
that there are lots more different
examples of different types of chemical
bonds these are just kind of a few of
the big ones that we see most commonly
now again one thing to keep in mind here
the energy from molecules generally
comes from these chemical bonds right
and when we break them apart we tend to
release that free energy back into the
universe now this can just be pure
entropy pure heat or within the body
what we're most concerned with is can we
actually convert that chemical energy
into a usable
form hopefully the energy of movement
right which we have to bit break down
and convert multiple times over so that
we can generate tension in the muscle
and then translate that into the energy
of movement right so let's go on to the
next one in the human body we know that
most elements do not kind of sit in
their base form right typically the body
is what we'd like to call in an aqueous
solution the body's made of mostly water
right and accordingly what we see is
when elements are placed in an aqueous
solution whether it's just dumping them
in some water or the way that they're
found in the body they typically ionize
which means they start to have an
electro negative charge this is usually
as a result of an imbalance between the
number of protons and electrons that
that element is carrying and so we can
actually see some examples in the body
if you look at the slide really really
common ones that we find are things like
calcium which you can see has a two
positive charge potassium sodium
chloride and then down there we have
some inorganic phosphate right these are
really really common examples of ions
that we see in the body now why is this
important well this difference in
electronegativity makes them highly
highly reactive to other things
especially things that have polar
opposite charges so the reason why we
see this a lot in the body is because
sometimes people will say Oh calcium
potassium these things have a net
neutral charge well as they exist in the
free world that is true as they exist
generally in your body they tend to
ionize and we can actually see that
protons or electrons become imbalanced
to some degree right and this can happen
through oxidation and reduction
reactions which is maybe a little bit
outside of the scope of today's
discussion so just keep in mind you can
see organic compounds in organic
compounds and typically when we talk
about them in the body they tend to
ionized or meaning change their charge a
little bit from either positive or
negative so we usually don't see them in
their neutral form now when they bond
together with other elements and form
molecules typically we see this tends to
balance out quite a bit not always but
more often than not they tend to take on
a neutral charge once they have bound it
together with other molecules okay make
sense so far nothing too crazy I hope
let's go on to the next one okay so we
are mostly concerned in our discussion
with biomolecules right so we can look
at inorganic
molecules and I've actually taken more
in organic chemistry classes than I'd
care to admit
however when we're talking about
exercise physiology were primarily
concerned with biomolecules and of
particular importance our big three
hopefully no big surprise here usually
we're gonna be talking about
carbohydrates fats will call lipids and
proteins which are composed of amino
acids so we have some examples of what
some of these look like in their
chemistry format on the slide here we
can see the top one is an example of a
carbohydrate we have some examples of
fats we can see they're really really
really long carbon chain and then that
bottom was an example of what a base
amino acid might look like and what we
can see here is we have an alpha carbon
with an amine group which is that nh-2
group on the bottom left and then
usually we have some type of carboxyl
group on the end and you can actually
see on the top the one that's label R
that is usually any number of different
combinations of things which make the
amino acids kind of unique so there's
not kind of a set piece on that our
chain side group that you might see
there they are different from amino acid
to amino acid once those amino acids
bound together in two different forms
they make proteins right hopefully no
big surprise there this can take a whole
bunch of different conformational shapes
sometimes you can see an alpha helical
structure which is kind of like what our
DNA looks like you can see beta sheet
structures which is kind of like a flat
membrane type structure all sorts of
really really cool stuff but for our
purposes we're primarily concerned with
how elements form molecules and then
lead to things like carbohydrates lipids
and proteins are big kind of three
macromolecules make sense hopefully you
guys if you're already you know if
you're following RP you've probably
heard of some of this stuff before
hopefully no big surprise but now we're
actually gonna see how these things play
a role in the body so let's go on to the
next so carbohydrates hopefully no
surprise is our most fluid kind of
usable energy storage form we say it's
fluid because we can actually it's not
stored in a long-term sense it's
actually stored in a more short-term
usable sense meaning it's not hard to
get to it doesn't have to go through a
lot of conformational changes to use it
and it's readily available during things
like exercise we store in the muscle
itself and so when we actually start
working that muscle tissue that explicit
muscle tissue like your biceps if you're
doing bicep curls well guess what
there's actually glycogen stored right
then and there to be used so you
do high-intensity and/or voluminous
exercise we also store some in the liver
that we can release into the bloodstream
to help maintain blood glucose levels
which can be drawn into the muscle for
storage or for use as well now we also
know that carbohydrates are not limited
to that
they can also provide some structural
components and things like chitin and
cellulose and in plant cells in human
cells we don't really have any of that
going on so we have to worry about that
as much but one other thing that is
particularly important for carbohydrates
from a biochemistry standpoint it's very
often they serve as kind of a carbon
skeleton for a lot of other very
important biomolecules of importance
that we kind of want to note are things
like DNA of course and ATP so the
carbohydrate not only is something that
we use to provide ourselves with energy
but it's also kind of a carbon skeleton
for a lot of other macromolecules you
know again DNA being a pretty big big
one there as well as ATP so really
really important we also know that
lipids are important now lipids what
kind of call back slash fats are more of
a long-term energy storage molecule
there in the human body they are much
more difficult to get up to use for
energy purposes during exercise now
during resting conditions normal
conditions we use them quite a bit but
they just logistically have a really
really hard time making their way into
the cell to be used for energy
production during exercise because of
the number of steps involved it just
takes a really really really long time
so it's more of a long-term energy
storage and what we see here is examples
of things like that tissue adipose
tissue right so we tend to a cute log if
you're a male tend to accumulate more in
the gut
if you're a female might be more gynoid
like in the hips and in the legs
something like that
that's 100% normal now that's the kind
of fats that most people are used to
talking about but one thing that's
important to note about fats and lipids
is they actually provide membranes for a
lot of different biological structures
so the membrane is really really
important for the cell because it's
something that can help create a barrier
between the cell and other things it can
also have hydrophobic and hydrophilic
ends which means one end is kind of
averse to water one end is more
accepting of water which plays a big
role in how it regulates things moving
in and out of the cell so most of the
membranes that we have things that kind
of enclose cells are
keep things in and out generally come
from lipid bilayers or lipid membranes
which are composed of that's no surprise
there so not only for energy but also a
lot of our structural cellular structure
is based on lipids as well last and
certainly not least is the one most
people are most excited to talk about
proteins proteins are long chains of
amino acids right they provide a lot of
different structures in the body
obviously the ones we're most familiar
with are things like skeletal muscle
smooth muscle cardiac muscle no brainer
there but also all sorts of different
collagen fibers are also made of
proteins no big surprise a couple other
things that people generally maybe
aren't as familiar with that are worth
talking about they're also involved in
enzyme production so enzymes are really
really handy proteins that are involved
are chemical reactions we're going to
talk about those in a little bit we also
know they are a big big big big part of
cellular signaling and regulation so
proteins actually act as cellular
regulators for almost all of our major
biological and physiological processes
they kind of act as messengers or kind
of like a mail courier that drops off a
message to cell cell picks up on the
message and says I need to change in
some way and that activates a whole
cascade of different biological systems
that start initiating some of those
cellular changes really really neat last
but not least one thing that's important
is protein actually kind of can act as
what I like to call the hard drive of
the cell so our DNA right is actually
contained and protein strands in the
cell actually contains all the
information about what makes you you it
actually contains it but all the
information about how you change over
time as well really really neat and
interesting stuff so most of our
cellular processes are regulated by
proteins which is really really
noteworthy so we usually just think of
protein biceps right well yeah that's
part of it but actually most of your
body is regulated by protein synthesis
to some degree so very very important to
consider proteins not only for their
structural purpose right and like
skeletal muscle hair collagen and
fingernails things like that we also
want to consider enzyme production
cellular signaling and they contain all
the information that makes you you which
is very unique for this particular
biomolecule all right let's go on to the
next one
one of the things that we deal with a
lot in exercise physiology is a term
that we like to call bioenergetics right
bioenergetics is kind of the sum and
total process processes of converting
things into usable forms and/or
synthesizing new things as storage forms
so we can kind of break that into a
couple different terms first
it is metabolism which is the total of
all cellular reactions within the body
now metabolism can kind of be further
broken down into two major sub
categories the first one anabolism which
hopefully most of us are familiar with
which is the synthesis of molecules the
build up of structures potentially for
use for repair or even for storage right
the next one is catabolism which is the
breakdown of molecules now this is
something that I think is worth noting
it's noteworthy because a lot of people
just think of metabolism as this kind of
process of breaking things down but
really when we're talking about
metabolism we're talking about kind of
the sum net effects of both anabolism
and catabolism so when we're talking
about an ab ilysm the question is are we
building things up if we're talking
about catabolism the question becomes
are we breaking things down and this is
something that's kind of a new mistake
that a lot of people will make well
they'll say hey this thing isn't is
anabolic right and it's something that
inherently breaks things down right so
they cannot be anabolic by definition
anabolic is something that causes
structures to be synthesized built up
for use or for storage whereas
catabolism we're breaking things down
typically for energy production not
always but typically now we know that we
typically are talking about
bioenergetics and metabolism in the
context of eating food and doing
exercise right so food and different
nutrients serve three major purposes for
us they help promote growth and
development of the body whether that's
actually during maturation or it's for
skeletal muscle protein synthesis or
tissue repair all sorts of things like
that it actually provides us with a
usable form of energy so eventually
we're going to have to break down that
food and convert it into a usable form
of energy there's potential energy
stored there it needs to be transferred
into a usable form of mechanical energy
hopefully for us to move around and
ambulate and do all sorts of fine
exercise stuff and they also help
regulate metabolism by governing which
things are available how much storage of
certain things do we have
we're going to change under different
conditions so really really useful let's
go onto the next one in our context when
we're talking about exercise physiology
and bioenergetics this process of
converting foodstuffs into usable form
typically what we're trying to figure
out is can I take some metabolically
derived energy and use it to generate
muscle tension right get our muscles to
contract and then perform some amount of
work or various exercise related tasks
so I think this is kind of a step that a
lot of people seem to forget and kind of
miss they usually think of like eat
carbs hit pee on squat right well really
there's a whole lot of things in between
there right we are eating food to break
those chemical bonds release that free
energy but hopefully convert it into a
usable form the way that we do that is
by generating muscle tension so the
energy that we consume from foodstuffs
is used to generate tension in the
muscle which is used to do exercise
sport and various other tasks right so
we know that the presence or absence in
some cases of nutrients will have a
significant effect on your ability to
perform well whether it's a sport
performance context or an exercise
performance context they'll have a
direct effect on your ability to recover
from exercise they'll have a big effect
on how your metabolism is regulated and
certainly will have a big effect on your
body composition right so we want to
make sure that we're considering not
just food stuffs as okay if I eat carbs
at this time I get this effect right
we're actually having a huge huge huge
chain of of ex events of breaking things
down and then converting energy into
usable forms so let's go on to the next
one so in order to transfer the
foodstuffs into a biologically usable
form they must undergo a series of
chemical reactions right now a lot of
people don't like chemistry or don't
take a lot of chemistry but there's a
couple big points that we have to
consider so when we're dealing with
biochemical reactions there's a couple
kind of different subcategories that we
can talk about the first one you'll see
on the slide are endergonic reactions
and these are reactions that do not
necessarily happen spontaneously I don't
add chemical a to chemical B and I get
poof chemical C these are examples where
I must add energy into this system of
these two reactants in order to get the
products that I want
the products can be any number of things
right but in order for this reaction to
actually take place I have to invest
energy into the reaction first right
whereas on the other hand we can have
what we call exergonic reactions which
is where we have chemical a and chemical
chemical B and they can react fairly
spontaneously maybe not perfectly
spontaneously but they kind of do their
own thing you don't have to encourage
them too much and as a result excuse me
energy will be released as part of the
process another burp on the way to fur
really good
so in exergonic reactions typically what
we see is energy is released as a result
of the reactants so as the products come
out energy is released whereas the
endergonic reactions we actually had to
put energy into the system just to get
them to react and create the products
that we wanted now most of the reactions
in the body operate on a level that I
like to call coupled reactions coupled
reactions basically say we have multiple
reactions that are linked in multiple
ways one of the first ways that they're
linked is through their products and
reactants meaning I had two reactants
they formed a product and now that
product is actually being used as a
reactant for another biochemical
reaction and then the chain continues so
we can kind of see a recycling of
products and reactants as we go through
the body and then one other thing that
we can consider for a couple of
reactions is actually the energy cost
and energy generated from many different
reactions so what we find is in many
cases the energy generated from an
exergonic reaction might drive the
energy required for a completely
different and unrelated endergonic
reaction right and we can see multiple
multiple examples of this in the body
so with coupled reactions we're
basically dealing with how the body kind
of recycles products and reactants as
well as tries to maintain some level of
energy balance within the body so let's
go on to the next slide we'll actually
see kind of an example of this so here
on the top left you can see an example
of an exergonic reaction right the
products have less energy than the
reactants because they released energy
as part of the reaction so we can see
that products generally have less energy
content than the reactants on the other
hand we have those endergonic reactions
where we had some reactants they didn't
really necessarily act on their own we
had to put energy into it and then as a
result we got our product and we can see
the energy level of the products
is slightly higher than that of the
reactants now we can see all sorts of
examples of this in the body if you look
at the bottom one we see an example of
what a coupled reaction might look like
so we can see here we have a glucose
molecule that's being broken down into
carbon dioxide water and heat being
released and we can see that the ATP
being used are generated from that
reaction is being used for something
completely unrelated actually generating
a polypeptide bond from multiple amino
acids so we had some amino acids we
wanted to bond them together it required
energy the energy released from this
glucose reaction actually helped drive
the creation of this protein really
really neat one thing that is noteworthy
on this chart that you should take note
of here is as you can see that red arrow
going down right what does that red
arrow say well it says net exergonic
reaction so one of the things that we
see in the body is that unfortunately
energy is not completely conserved or
balanced throughout these processes we
know the body is not 100% efficient
energy is lost along the way and
typically what we see more often than
not is that energy is just simply lost
as heat and you can actually see that in
the first part of that reaction where
glucose is broken down into carbon
dioxide water and that heat is released
so not every reaction within the body is
100% efficient meaning there is entropy
energy lost to the universe along the
way and that is 100% totally normal our
body's not 100% efficient I think it's
on point with that of like a light bulb
or a diesel engine so not super great in
terms of energy efficiency but not too
shabby either all right so let's go on
to the next one now we just talked about
these different chemical processes
sometimes requiring energy sometimes
releasing energy
most of them do require some sufficient
amount of energy to proceed now they
could have enough energy at rest and
react spontaneously other times they
might need a little nudge little poke
right and this little kind of energy
deficit is called the energy of
activation for this chemical reaction
meaning this will not happen unless I
put X amount of energy into this
reaction that is the activation energy
for excuse me the energy of activation
for that reaction now one of the ways
that we can kind of make this burden of
energy requirements low
for ourselves is through the use of
enzymes which were proteins that we
mentioned a little bit earlier so an
enzyme is a protein which helps catalyze
a reaction it does not cause the
reaction to occur nor does it actually
affect the products or reactants it
simply steps in and helps reduce the
energy of activation for that reaction
one other nice benefit of the enzyme is
it actually helps increase the speed at
which the reaction occurs so it lowers
the energy cost of making the reaction
happen and it helps it occur at a faster
rate again it does not actually change
the products or the reactants however
it's just a protein it steps in it
basically makes things a little bit
easier reduces the energy cost makes it
happen a little bit faster more
efficient and then backs off so really
really handy and almost all of our
body's major biochemical reactions are
governed by enzymes and enzymes can vary
in degree of how much enzyme is
available or how active they are within
the cell or any given part of the body
now we also know that each enzyme has an
optimal range of both temperature and pH
and when they fall out of that range
they can degrade or simply not be as
active and function as well as they
could so we see a lot of different
examples of this in the muscle tissue
where we can see especially with pH the
acidity of the environment might
actually cause an enzyme to become
activated or deactivated depending on
what the optimal range is for that
particular enzyme we can also see
similar effects with temperature so we
know that enzymes are very very helpful
there are proteins they assist in almost
all chemical reactions in the body but
they do have some constrictions they
can't always be super super active and
sometimes we actually have to take steps
to deactivate certain enzymes to prevent
certain processes from happening which
is also pretty cool right so we get
positive and negative feedback let's go
on to the next slide so here's an
example of what this just looks like
right if we were looking at energy
requirements for a reaction so that red
line was an example of a reaction
without the enzyme so we can see there's
a really really high activation energy
required for this however that blue line
shows the difference of the same
reaction now being performed with an
enzyme and we can see a very very
significant reduction in the amount of
energy required to put into that system
to get that
product which in this case we had carbon
dioxide and water and then we got
bicarbonate as a result right
so again just meant to illustrate it
helps reduce the energy cost for a lot
of these reactions to occur let's go on
to the next one so here we can see one
of the pivotal most important things
that we can talk about for today any
ideas what this picture is ATP adenosine
triphosphate now what we have here is an
adenine nucleotide a ribose which is a
carbohydrate backbone and then we have
three phosphate groups right so again we
see that carbohydrate carbon skeleton
kind of holding these things together
and then was of note here are these
three phosphate groups these are really
really really high energy bonds that are
held together and what we find is that
when we break these phosphate groups off
of each other they release quite a bit
of free energy well it turns out ATP is
going to be the form the usable energy
form for all of our biological purposes
so everything that requires energy
generally needs to form ATP and then
break ATP down so it's the usable form
of energy within the body right even
when we talk about things like
carbohydrates proteins fats for energy
purposes ultimately they are being used
to resynthesize lost ATP's ATP is the
usable chemical form of energy in the
body so again I think this is something
that a lot of my students tend to miss a
little bit where they just think
carbohydrate leads to kilojoules right
well really carbohydrate is being used
to resynthesize ATP which then leads to
kilojoules right so it's kind of another
step along the way so again this is the
source of all energy within the body for
our purposes and that energy comes in
these high energy phosphate bonds right
that's a lot of potential energy being
stored there and once they're broken
apart into ADP and inorganic phosphate
it releases a lot of free energy and
that's the energy that we try to tap
into to perform exercise and sport right
so again this is kind of the big one
here and again we can see why
understanding a little bit of chemistry
is probably worthwhile and that's why we
kind of are doing this lecture so ATP
source of energy for all of our
biochemical reactions and comes from
breaking off those phosphates
on from that ribose and adenine
structure okay let's go on to the next
one all right so we know again that the
breaking of those chemical bonds
provides the energy for all of life's
various functions now typically when
we're talking about bioenergetics and
exercise physiology we're trying to
figure out how we recent the size ATP
through a couple major processes the
first one is through phosphocreatine
breakdown so we actually store
phosphocreatine in our muscle cells when
our ATP stores run out during a
high-intensity exercise they tend to run
out really really fast within a couple
seconds CP is right there it gets broken
down and helps resynthesize lost ATP's
and it also helps buffer like hydrogen
ion accumulation which is really
important we're also talking about the
reformation of ATP through glycolysis
which is through carbohydrate breakdown
as well as through oxidation which can
include carbohydrates fats and proteins
it's a much longer drawn-out process
that you'll learn more about later on in
exercise physiology okay so now that we
have a pretty good grasp on some basic
chemistry some basic understanding of
biomolecules and some basic chemical
reactions now we can move in to some
basics on cell physiology so here on the
slide you can see the structure of a
cell and I really like this diagram I
don't even remember where I got it from
but I think it's really cool maybe it's
just cause it's colorful and I have a TD
and I like the colors and the pictures
whatever it's still really good right so
we can see the cell is this very very
complex machine like structure with all
sorts of different organelles all of
which have their own kind of structure
and function so we're not going to go
through all of these things but what we
are going to do is talk about a couple
really important ones that you should
know going forward so we can have a
better understanding of exercise
physiology later on so first off we know
that the cell has a number of different
organelles the first one that we see is
that big outer layer what we call the
cell or plasma membrane and this is a
semipermeable membrane that separates
the cell from the external environment
and again that membrane is composed
usually of some type of lipid layer
whether it's a bilayer or single layer
usually the outer membrane is typically
formed with lipids and you can kind of
think of it as kind of like a net-like
substance so it helps keep things in but
it is semipermeable so small things can
kind of
in and out somewhat freely whereas
larger things can get caught in the net
and have to be actually released into
the cell through specific mechanisms so
the cellular membrane helps enclose the
cell it regulates things in and out of
the cell so some things can pass some
things cannot and some things actually
need to be brought in and out of the
cell very directly and it is
semipermeable right so things some
things can come some things can go
others cannot within that we have the
cytoplasm which is the fluid portion of
the cell and it contains all the
organelles so it's kind of like hard to
describe but it's kind of like the
jelly-like substance really within the
cell that just kind of holds everything
together it's kind of like for lack of a
better term glue although it's not
really like glue because it's very fluid
and things can pass through it very
easily so the cytoplasm contains all the
organelles of the cell it also has parts
of the cytoskeleton there are structural
compartes compartments of this cell
itself with different molecules like
actin and kinesin which can move things
throughout the cell right it also
contains some of the enzymes involved in
some biochemical process like got
calluses so some of those things require
certain organelles some of them don't
and in the example of breaking down
carbohydrates for energy a lot of that
actually occurs right there in the
cytoplasm of the cell itself which is
pretty neat doesn't necessarily have to
be shuttled off into a specific
organelle so it makes it really quick
and easy all right so the cytoplasm the
fluid portion of the cell containing all
the organelles right we have a couple
other things that are noteworthy first
we have the smooth endoplasmic reticulum
and if you want to go back and backtrack
and take a look at the picture again
that might be helpful the smooth
endoplasmic reticulum is a part of the
cell that is involved in lipid
production and metabolism and can kind
of help clean some of the crap out of
the cell and keep it from getting too
like toxic and gross in there not as
important for our discussion what is
important is the rough endoplasmic
reticulum which is an area of the cell
and you'll see it's the one that has
kind of the waves and the little bumps
and dots all over it those little dots
are called ribosomes and that is the
site where different proteins are
actually packaged in mate which is
really really neat so ribosomes excuse
me hi bazooms from the ASBO plasmic
reticulum link different amino acids
together to form proteins that are
dictated by things like messenger RNA
sometimes you'll see
MRNA that seems for messenger RNA so the
mRNA is basically kind of like a recipe
that comes up to the ribosome it's like
a cookbook and says hey I want this type
of pizza or this cake the ribosome says
no problem puts all the ingredients
together and forms big protein chains
right so in this case we're talking
about amino acids and proteins those
proteins can be used to signal all sorts
of crazy stuff within the body or within
the cell itself or it could be used for
all sorts of different tasks right so
mRNA tells the ribosome what to make the
ribosome puts them together really
really easy so in the muscle cells we
have another kind of unique part of it
and endoplasmic reticulum it's a it's a
section of smooth endoplasmic reticulum
that we call the sarcoplasm so anytime
you see the prefix Sarko that usually
means muscle right so we said cytoplasm
in this case we have sarcoplasm which is
a little bit different and for us it's
actually the site where we actually
store and release different ions
particularly calcium ions that are used
for muscle contraction so in the muscle
cell we have that sarcoplasmic excuse me
the sarcoplasm which is responsible for
maintenance of ion concentration across
certain membranes within the cell so
help spill out calcium and pull it back
really really easy all right the next
one kind of the weird gross booger
looking thing in the cell is what we
like to call the Golgi apparatus and
it's really really funny and I you know
it's usually very distinct when you look
at a picture of the cell because it kind
of has that snot like shape so the Golgi
apparatus of the cell is kind of a
unique structure which kind of would I
have to say functions like a post office
in the cell so within the cell we can
package all sorts of stuff to be used
for transport across the cell and most
commonly we're talking about proteins
because they signal for other things but
it conclude all sorts of stuff so
typically when something needs to move
across the cell it's enclosed in a
vesicle which is kind of a spherical
membrane that envelops whatever it is
that needs to be transported that
usually gets sent off to this Golgi
apparatus where the Golgi apparatus will
kind of envelop these vesicles so you
can kind of see like a it's like a
booger snot looking thing and it
basically moves into a bigger booger
snot looking thing which is kind of
gross but it basically envelops or
imagine AIT's the vesicle takes the
contents out reprocesses it and then
will send it off to
ever it needs to go so it very much
functions like the post office in the
cell where we have certain things like
proteins that need to get sent to
different areas whether they're in the
cell or out of the cell the Golgi
apparatus ensures that things are going
where they need to be and it repackages
them in little vesicles where basically
and it's really actually cool if you
ever see a video of this happening
basically it kind of pinches off the
vesicle right off of the Golgi apparatus
so it will kind of form a membrane
around whatever particular item needs to
be shuttled off makes that kind of a
spherical shape and then just kind of
pinches it off and then sends it off to
other various parts of the cell it
possibly even outside of the cell so
it's really really neat it gets contents
from inside the cell and from outside
the cell and then repackages them takes
them where they need to go makes sense
pretty simple now one of the ones that's
probably the most important for our
discussion of the human body
within the cell is the mitochondria now
the mitochondria is the site for
cellular respiration this is where all
of the oxidation of fats carbohydrates
proteins all that stuff will occur so
when we need to break those things down
for energy purposes catabolism right
they have to make their way one way
shape or form into the mitochondria to
undergo a long series of chemical
reactions to break those things down so
this is the site where we see the
electron transport chain the TCA cycle
oxidative phosphorylation all that stuff
now you'll learn more about those things
later on in subsequent videos for now
we'll just kind of want to call
attention to it so again the
mitochondrion if you're looking at
pictures of a cell it's usually a very
dark kind of ellipsoid kind of shaped
area within the cell and again this is
kind of what most people will call the
powerhouse of the cell simply because
this is where lots and lots of energy
are produced now we know that the number
of mitochondria within a cell can vary
depending on the person's genetics or
train state can be more densely packed
or less densely packed either way we
know that that mitochondria is going to
help take things like carbohydrates fats
and proteins break them down into their
usable chemical energy form
unfortunately for us getting them to the
mitochondria is kind of a pain in the
butt because for example in the example
of fats and lipids we have to get them
from the fat storage sites so for
example like from the gut they got a
breakdown into a fatty acid form make
their way into the bloodstream make
their way into the target muscle cell
cross that barrier
get into the sarcoplasm make their way
to the mitochondria cross into that
barrier and then undergo a number of
different chemical reactions so
unfortunately this is really really slow
and very very logistical so it doesn't
happen very rapidly and very readily
during exercise but at rest it works
very very well all right let's go on to
the next so certainly last and not not
least in this discussion is the nucleus
of the cell most people know the nucleus
is the site where the DNA is contained
and that is absolutely correct and that
is very very important for processes
like mitosis and meiosis which is
cellular epic rap metal replication
transcription and translation of
proteins and of course protein synthesis
now one thing we want to establish and
we take our students this all the time
when you hear the phrase protein
synthesis a lot of times people just
think skeletal muscle right getting more
jacked yes that's part of it but again
proteins actually regulate and signal
all sorts of different cellular
functions and action so we know that
protein synthesis is kind of the
governing organizing factor for all of
our major biochemical processes so when
we see proteins out in the blood there
usually signals that something needs to
change or something needs to occur in
order to maintain homeostasis right
which is very important so we want to
think about the DNA of the cell and
protein synthesis not just as skeletal
muscle protein synthesis but protein
synthesis for the entire system
governing all major processes which is
very very important so just because your
protein synthesis doesn't necessarily
mean just skeletal muscle it can include
all biological functions the nucleus is
what contains all that information right
so everything that makes you you is
located in there and what's really
really neat about exercise and nutrition
and recovery and all these different
topics is when you do those things and
when conditions are good you actually
are changing the way your DNA is
expressed phenotypic ly right so you
kind of have some preset things in your
DNA that's already making you you but
you can change some of those things
along the way which is pretty cool
through diet and exercise so definitely
worth noting that all of your genetic
information stored right there in the
nucleus and can be changed a little bit
here and there based on what you do
pretty cool all right so here's just
kind of a quick description of this now
you can take I've taken entire classes
as a biochem major back in the day about
DNA replication this is just kind of a
short quick dirty version where we can
see there is a need for a specific
protein right we start transcribing DNA
results in some type of M our mRNA
blueprint right kind of a recipe mRNA
read leaves the cell goes to the
ribosome where episome takes the amino
acids put proteins together proteins get
sent out to do whatever they need to do
right that's like about as crude of a
description of this as it gets but
probably enough to kind of get you
started for now this is actually a super
super vast crazy complex machinery of
things going on really really really fun
to study so if you've never actually
checked out how DNA is replicated before
or how proteins are made check it out
it's really really neat this doesn't
really do it total justice but will at
least get you warmed up for these
concepts later on all right let's go on
to the next one so within the cell
generally we already mentioned things
are packaged in vesicles right whether
it's debris or ions or proteins that
need to get moved around we have this
kind of fluid enclosed membrane that
grabs whatever it is it envelops it and
then we usually can send it off to
different parts in the cell now
typically this is done through the
processes of what we call endocytosis
which is the uptake of materials by
enveloping the membrane right so again
we have kind of booger going into a
bigger booger where the bigger booger
sort of envelops the small one and they
become one that's endocytosis exocytosis
is an active transport method excuse me
mechanism which we'll talk about in a
second of actually expelling material so
this is when we have stuff that's inside
the big booger and we're kind of
pinching it off into a small booger to
be sent off wherever it needs to go
right so endocytosis is enveloping right
exocytosis is expelling material outside
of the usually the Golgi apparatus but
other other organelles as well now once
we have formed a vesicle and we have
some item that we're trying to move we
typically move them across microtubules
within the cell so the microtubules like
to think about the infrastructure of the
cell these are proteins that kind of
make an interconnected lack of a better
term kind of highway where things can
move about the cell from front to back
left to right up and down so usually we
have things like actin and kinesin which
use electrically charged polar ends to
guide things across the cell so when
something needs to move we can have a
vesicle and it will essentially walk
along some of these cytoskeletal tracks
to wherever it needs to go in the cell
to drop off whatever it's carrying this
is something that's really really neat
if you can look at some 3d images of
things moving up and down kinesin in the
cell really really fun and really really
cool so again we kind of have some
infrastructure in the cell we have some
proteins that guide things across the
cell and typically what we see is these
vesicles kind of walk along these
infrastructural proteins and guide these
items to wherever they need to go right
okay
moving into the next one moving things
in the cell not a huge deal right we can
create vesicles we can kind of move them
around a lot of things can actually move
around through passive means if we need
to move something in and out of the cell
it's a little bit more complicated a
little bit more challenging now this can
happen through a number of different
mechanisms the first one is a group of
mechanisms we just call passive
transport passive transport essentially
means the passing of materials without
putting in any significant amount of
energy basically it just happens freely
no energy is put in so the most common
example of this is what we call
diffusion which is where small molecules
essentially can pass through holes in a
membrane when there is a concentration
gradient between two things right now a
concentration gradient basically says we
have areas of high concentration in one
area an area of low concentration in
another area and what diffusion does is
attempts to equilibrate these two things
so that their concentrations are roughly
the same
this can happen across semipermeable
membranes with small molecules right so
essentially with diffusion we have
something going from high to low to
equilibrate the two and this happens all
the time very very simple we can also
see what we call facilitated diffusion
where we actually have carrier proteins
that are located on the membrane surface
that are targeting specific either
molecules ions or different compounds
very very specifically and once those
things kind of make contact with the
protein it will allow them to pass
either in and out of the cell more
freely right so it's not quite a free
passing in and out it's more of a
baseball glove to
acting a baseball and that says oh okay
that's what's supposed to be here
we'll bring it into the cell no big deal
right other things might rely more on
diffusion some things like ions are
really really big biomolecules like fats
often require carrier proteins to be
brought in it's kind of like a big gate
and then last on this list is osmosis
this is just a really really specific
example of diffusion specific to water
where water basically kind of moves from
areas of high concentration to low
concentration it's a little bit more
specific in terms of the actual
concentration is measured as osmotic
pressure which is very similar to
concentration not quite the same but for
our purposes acts basically the same as
diffusion in this case we're just
talking about water so if you see the
word osmosis almost synonymous with
diffusion specifically to water very
very simple so that's passive transport
again things can just kind of move from
areas of high concentration to low
concentration without really putting any
energy into it on the other hand we have
active transport which is another part
of cellular movement this as the name
implies requires energy you have to put
energy into this to actually get it to
move so what's really neat about active
transport is that it can go against
concentration gradients so for passive
transport we said there has to be a
concentration gradient and it has to go
from high to low in active transport we
can actually go against these high to
low concentration gradients especially
for things like nerve conduction and
muscle contraction where we can actually
go against it and make the concentration
gradient even bigger which is cool but
it requires energy for some things that
are too big like glucose or fat
molecules sometimes they're just too
large to pass through the cell membrane
they actually require some type of
protein gate channel to actually move in
which requires energy to be put into
that system to allow them to pass
through they usually require also some
type of electrochemical gradient so we
said usually a concentration gradient
was required for passive transport for
active transport generally we need some
type of electrical gradient as well it
means it has to be kind of a voltage or
charge difference across a couple
membranes and then last but not least we
can use the same processes of endo and
exocytosis to either allow things into
the cell and form vesicles or we can pop
a vesicle out and kind of let it exit
the cell and move into another cell so
these are the major ways that things are
kind of moved within the cell or moved
out of the cell
so last on my list of things that we're
gonna talk about for today is just a
quick kind of overview here we can see a
muscle cell right so the first one we
looked at was just kind of a typical
excuse me what they call eukaryotic for
what our purposes we'll call human cell
right this is more of a specific example
of that and that is of skeletal muscle
right and here we can see some of those
same organelles right there's the
nucleus we can see mitochondria's we can
see sarcoplasmic reticulum in there all
sorts of good stuff right but in this
case we also have the cellular machinery
involved in actually generating tension
inside that cell and so you're going to
learn more and more about this in the
exercise physiology lectures but it's
just here to show you that they are
slightly different so if we're talking
about a muscle cell it might not
necessarily look at this it's the same
as the cell that we saw in the earlier
slide right it's going to contain a lot
more contractile material which is
really really fun and really really cool
to learn about but many of the same
virtually all the same organelles are
still in there as well so again the
muscle cell very very important
differentiation is its sole purpose is
to generate tension and force right so
we're going to actually see really
really really in-depth contractile
material in there and this might vary a
little bit from cell to cell so we'll
see like type 1 fibers might have a
little bit more vascular ization they
might have more mitochondria's whereas
type 2 X fibers might have a little bit
less the packing density of those things
but more and more and more active
amounts and filaments to create bigger
figure forces so it's just worth noting
same idea of the same two organelles
same cell stuff now just placed in the
context of skeletal muscle all right
hopefully that gets you up to speed on
some pretty basic ideas stay tuned we'll
have some more expansions will have
expanding ideas on basic cellular
physiology in the next video
rpu rp+ thanks for tuning in
you