[Music]
hi guys I'm Laura Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm gonna do a
recipe from my very first cookbook the
Renaissance kitchen this is sesame
broccoli and cauliflower and I made this
recipe because my favorite thing that I
used to eat when I was in New York a lot
of times and they have such good food
available like 24/7 I would always order
cold sesame noodles so I decided to play
around with vegetables and those same
peanut butter sesame soy sauce kind of
flavors so it's gonna take just a couple
of steps the first thing we want to do
is roast in the oven our broccoli and
cauliflower and I think you can buy the
cauliflower and broccoli florets already
cut I don't like to do that because they
really dry out when you do that you'll
notice when you do that I yeah it's a
time saver and you know me I'm all about
time savers but I also don't like when
it's tried out like you can just tell it
starts to dry out from like the stem
backwards so just add these to a bowl
and add our olive oil I'm gonna get in
here use my hands to make sure that I
coat all of the broccoli and cauliflower
and then just dump these out into a pan
parchment lined or foil lined again for
cleanup purposes
it just helps try to give it as much
space as you can about 10 minutes before
these guys are done we're gonna go ahead
and mix up a really quick stovetop
peanut sesame sauce so I'm gonna stick
these in the oven to roast away all
right let's make our sauce for our
broccoli and cauliflower so I'm gonna
add some natural nut butter to a small
saucepan I'm just gonna do this over low
heat some rice wine vinegar some
low-sodium tamari sauce and soy sauce
totally fine try to go with the
low-sodium we're gonna start with a
little bit of water and then this is
coconut flour this is gonna serve as our
thickening agent I'm gonna stir this up
really good we're gonna add in our
coconut flour you can see like as soon
as you turn stir in that coconut flour
it's already thick so the macro freeway
to get this to the right consistency is
water and it works just fine so as we're
heating this it's already pretty thick
she's gonna go ahead and add a little
bit of water already look how beautiful
it looks
and show you what my broccoli and
cauliflower looks like after that time
in the oven you see the edges are like
just tinged with brown that is just
perfect so I'm gonna transfer this to a
mixing bowl
[Music]
we'll gently toss it around so that
every piece gets coated with this
amazing sauce and there you go it was my
favorite way to eat broccoli cauliflower
hands-down so I hope you try it and love
it
[Music]