hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
weekly tip number seven recovery tip
this time
be easy on the internet drama what how
does that interfere with recovery at all
so
here's the thing when you get an
internet drama what do i mean you get on
an instagram post and it's a political
post and you start replying to people
and they're fascists or they're
communists or they're sjws or they're
alt-right trolls whatever and you're one
of the other opposite categories then or
even you're a rational thinker maybe you
get pissed you start typing weight how
dare you blah blah blah you are a bad
person etc and you go back and forth and
back and forth maybe you're in multiple
comments section at the same time i've
been there i'll probably see you there
at some point
that kind of thing
gets you what is called psychologically
aroused
okay we don't mean porn aroused which is
fun and nice and actually reduces your
fatigue but getting angry online aroused
is not a great thing for a variety of
actual reasons and here they are
a few hours and some of us have been
there longer even 30 or 40 minutes of
arguing in youtube comments or twitter
or instagram
can do a few things first it can
increase your cortisol and other
fight-or-flight hormones which lead to
much more fatigue and actually decrease
the physical mechanisms by which you
gain muscle yes arguing online can
literally cost you gains what
next it can decrease your psychic energy
for later training in that day so if you
wake up and nine a.m and you start
checking texts and insta stuff and
you're like
and you're arguing you get to the gym
you feel drained and you're like oh my
god like i've been in the zone before of
arguing with people and i get to the gym
and i'm like oh my god i have to train
like i felt like i've sort of spent
myself yelling at people online i don't
have any oomph any psychic energy left
to yell at the weights and that's a
really really bad deal
if you argue in the later part of the
day like you start at 8 pm and it's 11
and your girlfriend's like hey you're
coming to bed and you're like i have to
win this online argument against this
fucking idiot and you may lay down even
after you've stomped him whatever
intellectually you put your phone down
and you try to lay down you're like ah
and then two hours later you're like ah
and you still can't fall asleep because
you're super pissed and even if you feel
victorious you're still sort of aroused
in that sense of you sort of your
psychology is elevated and then you miss
out on sleep and remember sleep is a
huge thing that makes you leaner and
more muscular and it recovers you better
all these things if you're missing out
on sleep to win some instagram wars gee
whiz you know that may actually not make
a lot of sense
and lastly arguing online probably
accomplishes either nothing close to
nothing or negative where you by calling
people assholes further entrench them
into their ridiculous beliefs which you
yourself find to be erroneous now
serious lifters serious lifters
generally avoid getting pissed
on the internet for the most part we all
slip up every now and again i'm guilty
of it too a lot but the more you cannot
do shit like that or whether i should
have said the less you can do that shit
the better now that doesn't mean you
don't have to discuss issues online shit
that's important right like
whatever global warming political stuff
social stuff you might want to discuss
it if you want to discuss it and not get
super pissed yourself and make headway
and convincing people check out link in
the description by arguing to convince
video where i teach you how to argue
with people in a way that probably
convinces them number one and number two
doesn't really drain you because you're
super open-minded and super sympathetic
and you're like hey i'm just exploring
ideas no big deal right give that a
thought stop being super pissed but i'll
tell you this if you're really still
pissed and you want to argue i'll take a
shot at the title with you down below
see you in the comments
you