the reverse Nordic curl is likely better
for growing your CW receps than leg
extension most people can get around
150° of knee flexion with a full range
of motion most leg extension machines
get you around 90 to 110° of knee
extension range of motion so we're
missing about 50 to 70° of knee
extension range of motion in the stretch
position on top of that for the Reus for
moris we're also flexing the hip so
unless you have a leg extension machine
that allows you to lean back a ton it's
no ideal indeed we have around 10 to 20
studies suggesting that shorten partial
are worse than a full range of motion or
than lengthen partials for hypertrophy
and if you extend that logic the reverse
Nordic curl is likely a better exercise
for overall quad growth compared to the
leg extension here's how to do reverse
notic curls first take your shoes off
and get into position make sure you
extend your hips fully this will
maximize stretch on the rectus femoris
to make the lift even more challenging
arch your back to get more tension in
that stretch position when you're first
doing these slow it down go as deep as
you personally can for at least five
reps the deeper you go the better it
will probably be for hypertrophy that's
why