honestly making things again as is
always the case in Hollywood needlessly
complicated for an opening reason at all
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike Israel and I am a
sport Science professor at Lehman
College in New York City I am the
creator of the RP hypertrophy app and
I'm going to look at kubal nanjiani's
transformation or rather workout that
got him transformed for his role in the
eternals this guy got jacked let's find
out how this is what they call a glow up
Kumail nanjiani throwing up a ventronic
law for a long time
I'm going to show you some of my
favorite moves today it definitely
started out not jacked now that then
picture was quite a while ago I think
he's like 45 years old or something so
he's this is incredible this is
incredible what's this thing we're on
the power plate this is a pre-activation
tool so what this is going to do power
plate activation
all right so it works uh very
dynamically it vibrates side to side
front to back and up and down okay so
the power plate is a machine
that
is vibrational all it does is the plate
vibrates really really fast feels kind
of strange
there is one research confirmed I used
to work on powerplate Research directly
one research confirmed benefit of
powerplate is while you're on it you're
actually able to be much more flexible
when you're on it so it's really fun to
do stretches on it does it get oxygen
into your legs or something no
absolutely not that's absurd and
the power plate by the way does nothing
else
this is actually multiplying Camille's
weight because of the vibration pattern
actually creates a G-Force and right now
his quads are Contracting and relaxing
1500 times in this 30 second interval
yes so the power plate people and I've
read their manual and whole proposal
they say that the forces exerted are
insanely High because the vibrations are
really fast the thing is your passive
structures take up all of that slack
which is why his brain isn't goo right
now because if it was a really high
g-forces he would be broken into bits
that also means that it just shakes a
little bit guys it does nothing but
shake his quads are absolutely not
Contracting and relaxing 1500 times in
any interval that's nonsense his
quads are just completely contracted
right now because he's in a half
squat ah first of all we're doing is the
circus squats I don't like doing legs ah
the Searcher squat the Searcher squat is
something done by two groups of people
one strong men who need to get strong in
it and two people who have run out of
exercises they actually want to do and
have let their creativity Veer off into
the nonsensical the Searcher Squad is a
fine movement but needlessly stresses
your upper body especially your back and
your biceps and your shoulders since you
have to maintain this upright posture
doing a back squat or even a front squat
or a leg press or a hack squat or lunge
would be way better stimulus to fatigue
ratio for the legs but it's not as cool
and as fun as different and as a trainer
I suppose you have to sell yourself as
different because the good old usuals
just don't sell training sessions
anymore he tricks me into doing squats
by saying it does a lot of ABS so the
Searcher squat does not do a lot of abs
because the weight is pulling you down
which means your back has to do the work
to pull you back up your abs pull you
forward and the forward pull would mean
you just dump the weight First Rate
nonsense so my favorite chest exercise
is low cable Scoops and what you do is
with these cables you bring your hands
together it's like you're sort of
holding water and then you raise it up a
little bit and you try to not engage
your delts at all the raising just
trains your front delts mostly the
scooping part is a good exercise for
your chest
you know you could just raise up to the
front and
actually just train your upper chest
that way but what do I know I'm just a
professor of the so in order for
him to lift the weight up after the
scoop has occurred it almost exclusively
is force generated by the front delts
there's no way to not have your adults
do this also instead of coming up with
his chest and using the chest whole
concentric to give a good chest stimulus
he comes up the easy way low training
mostly the mid and lower fibers of the
chest not even the upper chest which he
probably thinks he's targeting here and
then doing a halfway raise for the
shoulders which is the concentric only
through a not lengthened range of motion
not a very effective shoulder exercise
and honestly making things again as is
always the case in Hollywood needlessly
complicated for no reason at all
my favorite shoulder exercise is the
dealt giant set and what I like it is
you can hit all three these good good
front belt exercise so far so good we
already had one with the chest
quote-unquote exercise we'll see double
up on front belts you'll see what I mean
three sets and just try and do as many
as you can on the line technique I'm
laterals that's totally fine
and then rear delts okay so there's a
problem here you can front raise way
more than you can side race way more
than you can rear lateral raise and thus
there's a fundamental misloading problem
what you should really be doing if you
want to do this exercise with more
effect is take much lighter dumbbells do
the rear lateral raises first bent over
then come up and do the second hardest
lateral raises after and then do the
front raises which are the easiest
you'll actually the fatigue Curve will
follow you along and you won't be
needlessly going hard on one muscle
while leaving the other muscle just way
too tired to do any meaningful reps so
this is actually done backwards I like
the intention but it's done wrong
you mean that's terrible technique he's
doing a lot of shrugging there
um because the dumbbells are too heavy
plain and simple I I don't think I can
lateral raise that much and I'm like
five times this guy's size
biceps with E stim I love it gotta keep
them guessing all right we're going to
electrocute the mail on television we're
going to apply these pads to his buy
side we're going to start with seven
crossbody curls with the twist good that
twist is to activate the outside peak of
the biceps okay the twist does not
activate the outside peak of the bicep
that's nonsense but uh it does train the
bicep this is a fine exercise
using East End is also fine it can let
you have a better mind muscle connection
that will say that for most Hollywood
folks that are not trying to be
professional bodybuilders and don't
really have any limiting factors just
training hard with good technique means
you can save the many minutes it takes
to set this thing up you can do exercise
by yourself this is a thing that really
only benefits real Pro bodybuilders that
have one muscle group or two muscle
groups that they seemingly can't hit
very well themselves this is just a
Preposterous waste of time for everybody
involved
ooh tricep time so for triceps I like
doing dips it's a good transition going
from chest to triceps as I said I find
uh training arms boring training arms is
boring and leg training sucks this guy
loves to work out when I try and get
about 25 reps he could go down a little
slower
you can pause at the bottom and he could
go a little bit deeper but honestly
these are really really good tips
so my favorite back exercise is the
squatted cable rows I like this one
because you can really engage them oh
God guys if you squat down to Cable row
it takes the focus and effort and
intensity and energy and insert word
here off of the back where all of it is
supposed to be because you're training
the back and it puts it needlessly on
the legs in an isometric position which
doesn't even confer that much Advantage
especially for muscle growth this is
exactly prototypical of Hollywood fancy
exercise nonsense just sit down
on the ground and do cable rows
what's kept me going to the gym is uh
changing up the workout finding
exercises I like
and sort of mixing things up all the
time you know yes if you want good
results don't mix things up all the time
pick a goal and slowly progressively
overload like the RP hypertrophy app
would automatically do for you instead
of doing random all the time he's
just saying he's doing random all
the time you want random results you do
random all the time it's nice to
continue to be interested in working out
through doing fun stuff I'm not against
that but try to set some directionality
to your fun stuff do a couple weeks of
supersets then a couple weeks of regular
straight sets a couple weeks of drop
sets at a time and try to progress in
those couple weeks don't just throw
random nonsense at your body
all right
that wasn't terrible the movements were
okay for the most part A needless fluff
around them
the dips were awesome the rows were good
if he would have sat down those Archer
spots were fine except it would have
done everything differently uh lateral
raises were good but out of order the
biceps was needless electric stem but
actually good movements
I don't know why I even rate these
things anymore I'm feeling it
happy to go lucky today six out of 10.
see you guys next time
[Music]