does creatine cause hair loss well in
2009 the study on 20 rugby players found
that creatine increased a hormone called
DHT and since DHT is known to shrink
hair follicles in men predisposed to
balding some speculated that if creatine
boosts the HT and DHT is linked to hair
loss then maybe creatine causes hair
loss there are several problems with
this first the DHT increase in that 2009
study was Tiny this is the normal
healthy range so the increase was well
within normal limits also exercise can
increase DHT by similar amounts so if
you're avoiding creatine out of fear of
DHT you might want to skip the gym too
but the real kicker is that the 2009
study measured serum DHT not local DHT
at hair follicle sites in its hair
follicle DHT that's linked to hair loss
not serum DHT also out of the thousands
of studies on Creatine not a single one
has actually shown hair loss directly so
I highly doubt that creatine causes hair
loss and it doesn't seem to be a
legitimate science-based concern