teaching the body how to pull through
different transformational zones
transformational zones sheit I went to a
lot of school never learned that maybe
I'm just ignorant
legitimately but I doubt it and number
three it helps with range of motion
flexibility and mobility in the shoulder
girdle what it's a it's a it's Sprint
work the the shoulder girdle is tertiary
it's not even
secondary this is also going to help
with lower body power no it's not this
is submaximum it doesn't look like he's
trying as hardest to run fast which
means it's not helping with amplitude
because it's not maximized and it's not
helping with lower body power power is
one of those things that if you're not
within 90% of its peak you're not
training it it primes what we call the
spinal engine maybe I just don't know
enough things I don't know what the that
is this is going to help give him
flexibility in his spine in the sagittal
plane you're kidding he bent over 3 Ines
my grandmother has more flexibility in
Sagal spine this exercise encourages she
can pick up a cup from the
floor ah