[Music]
hey guys Renaissance period ization
we're going to do a very easy slow
cooker recipe this is a slow cooker
balsamic beef we love the slow cooker in
my house because you can throw
everything in and forget it and you can
make a ton of protein that comes out
really nice and moist because nobody
wants to eat dry chicken or dry beef
when you're eating it day after day for
meal prep so we're gonna get started
here of course the star ingredient is
our balsamic I'm gonna add that we've
got some beef broth next and I always
use low sodium beef broth if you don't
use the low-sodium kind check out the
box
it just has a ton of sodium so really go
for the low sodium it doesn't change the
flavor all that much and you know you're
gonna season this in the end with salt
and pepper so you don't have to worry
about a lack of flavor so add that then
we're gonna go with date syrup so you
guys probably have seen me use this
before it is it adds a sweetness so it's
sort of like honey
except it's made just 100% out of dates
and I really like it a lot it's a darker
sweet flavor more like a brown sugar so
we're adding that in we're gonna add in
some water Shire sauce and some
low-sodium tamari or soy sauce again
with the low-sodium and some hot pepper
flakes just to give it some kick so
you've got some sweet some spice you
have the tang of the balsamic this is
gonna give the beef a ton of flavor so
we're gonna add all of that in and then
just whisk it up really good
grab your slow-cooker pot this is a
really lean steak so this is an eye of
round if you have my cookbooks there's a
page that has a whole list of all of the
beefs that are considered extra lean so
I always use I round top round you can
use like a skirt steak or flank steak
it's not quite as lean but these are
nice and thick and they're gonna be in
your slow cooker for four hours on high
and when they're done they're gonna be
super super tender so I'm just putting
the steaks in and then you're just gonna
pour this amazing beautiful sauce all
over the top it's kind of gonna be
swimming in it it's kind of gonna be
swimming in the sauce that's perfect
that's what you want so make sure all
the beef is down in there move it around
however you need to and that's it when
this is finished we're gonna add some
fresh herbs to really brighten it up but
that's it we're gonna put the lid on I'm
gonna put this in the slow cooker for
four hours on high and then we'll come
back and show you how it looks all right
so we're beef has been slowly cooking
away for hours now you're gonna see how
tender it gets I'm gonna take these
pieces out and you can see one piece
already fell so they keep gonna just see
how tender that is just flakes like
nothing that's just gonna be amazing and
you can use this like you can certainly
eat a plane I mean if you get carbs this
would be amazing with some you know
whole grain pasta or noodles you can
have this just with veggies on the side
sweet potatoes I mean there's so many
things that you could do with it it's
gonna be great to make sandwiches and
wraps I will just you know use this a
ton of different ways which is great
that it makes a lot
here's where you get to stir in your
favorite herbs I'm gonna go on a little
tangent about herbs now because I don't
want you guys to be afraid of any herbs
whatsoever if you go to the grocery
store and it's like well I've only ever
had basil and parsley so I'm just gonna
get basil parsley every time don't do
that I mean like get all the different
herbs like just put yourself on an herb
schedule get like two different kinds of
herbs every week when you go to the
grocery store just put it in everything
I'm telling you it's like free flavor
you know there's no macros there's
nothing that you have to worry about but
it's so much flavor and you don't know
that you like something until you've
tried it I mean if you've never had
tarragon try tarragon that's what I'm
mixing into this it's not a very common
herb you know you don't see it in a lot
of stuff but it's so good it's so good
with the balsamic it's so good with beef
try it and if you don't like it then you
know you don't like it but I'm telling
you it's the best way to get flavor into
your foods and this sauce to liquid gold
do not throw out the sauce leave it
I will even if I don't need it all to
keep the beef moist I will set it aside
and I'll use it to cook in everything
you know I use chicken broth every time
i saute stuff cuz i don't like using i'm
not gonna use oil a lot of the times
because i'd rather save that fat for
something with more bang for the buck
so I usually saute in chicken broth but
man as long as I have this I'm gonna
sauteing that till it's all gone because
it is so good and so flavorful I mean
look how beautiful this is
tacos pizza topping I'm gonna do all
kinds of things with this you'll come up
with all kinds of things that you want
to do with this and that's it for like
minimal effort we just mixed up you know
the cooking liquid through the deep end
about four four hours take it out shred
it mix in that bet super fresh tarragon
[Music]