morning everyone it is Friday September
the 9th I actually have a pretty busy
day planned and renting out the unit
here as an Airbnb since Robbie moved out
which she's been on the road for a lot
so she hasn't been here for like a month
or two so I have guests coming this
weekend and as it turns out the hot tub
upstairs on the deck isn't heating
properly so I've got a guy coming to
repair that right now and then tonight I
fly out I'm actually going to Tampa
Florida for a few days before going to
the Olympia next weekend I'm going to be
doing at least one collab that I'm
really excited about with another
youtuber and so it is almost 11:00 a.m.
I haven't had breakfast yet
here's meal 1 I've got oatmeal chocolate
chips egg whites raspberries and I'm not
going to have a Kiwi these are extremely
high in a lot of different vitamins and
minerals so I try to eat these pretty
much one a day close in heat nothing
yeah so what did you do I just adjusted
the temperature see you can't tell what
these buttons are for No good thank you
that's right back
also you press the button once it goes
down press it again it goes out that's
right
tastes like control up man
so yeah all right and all the filter and
everything's all good well you know what
is working is working way better now
it's like so what what is it Jesse the
bottom level oh yeah I'm going to dump a
couple bunkers
got six pm I'm here at the Kelowna
International Airport my flight is out
at 7:30 so I decided to get a beer and
it didn't have a lot of calories today
so it's just a light beer and I'm going
to finish editing my last video along
here and I've got a lot of traveling and
so I'm actually looking forward to that
you get caught up on some sleep and
reading and listen to podcasts which are
all things that I hope to do
you
right guys so I made it to Tampa and now
135 the next day that long at all and
actually
Toronto to Tampa you actually feel
pretty well rested right now just call
it uber and ask him to pick me up and
bring it to my ear maybe that's what I
can make you guys don't think it 60 I'm
really touristy I'm gonna take videos
ahead I love my work
that's hope huh that's so cool alright
I'll just grab my stuff thanks again see
ya getting here to my Airbnb this is
place so yeah guys this is the air B&B
you come in there's couch here TV
fireplace the kitchen area I'm starving
so I'm gonna have a couple these tuna
that I didn't eat here is the deck area
Oh what's up man yeah I feel like I'll
smoke myself trying to get in that got a
goober on the way to take them to the
grocery store there's like not a whole
lot of high protein foods here so I'm
gonna go get some egg whites oatmeal
maybe some chicken rice and just the
bodybuilding basics to kind of get me
through
so many pop chart flavors here is
actually crazy like maple bacon and
lemonade tarts I've never even heard of
these
thing about the southern states
like like just like a jingle tango you
gotta murder will God don't break an
ankle ain't got to me if you see me
secure is meal one I've got egg whites
one whole egg he T R it's the one
teaspoon of sugar a couple of drops of
milk and the rest with water I just wait
until that cleans up and I just need
like you'll have to fall under girls in
the lobby a busy show that our body
inept official they body one up for me
for donors you'll flood the poppy that I
probably one machine so tell me what is
undefeated sup everyone so I'm back with
another voiceover and just as a
forewarning this voiceover isn't going
to have a whole lot to do with the
workout itself rather I want to spend
this time discussing what I believe to
be the relative importance of
progressive overload and talk about how
it is and why it is that I like to train
somewhat more sporadically when I'm
traveling and the reason for this is
that you guys or some of you guys might
notice that this back workout differs
quite a bit in terms of the exercise
selection from my last back workout and
so I want to explain the sort of
rationale behind it while I think that
it's very common in bodybuilding
generally for people to train just
completely randomly I think that the
most rigorous in science-based coaches
and athletes do tend to structure their
training in a way that exercises are
kept more or less constant across a
training phase wherein the bowl is to
progressively overload by either adding
some weight or some reps or sets over
time at the very least you should have
some sort of core exercise structure
that doesn't change much from week to
week at least across a specific training
phase if you change things up too
frequently in terms of exercises then
you're not likely to actually overload
those movements as effectively or
efficiently and progressive overload as
a concept has a ton of empirical support
dating all the way back to the 1940s
when a US army medical doctor named
Thomas de Lorne developed what he called
the progressive resistance exercise
model as a means of rehabilitating
soldiers after World War two and so
while progressive overload does have a
ton of support in the scientific
literature I think that it can you know
like most things be taken too far
like when people
think that there always needs to be a
clearly measurable overloading stimulus
on every exercise in order to induce a
hypertrophic adaptation and I think that
this clearly isn't true and it's this
sort of mindset that I think can lead
folks to avoiding any sort of variation
in their programming such as when
traveling or training at a new gym or
with a different training partner and
this actually reminds me of the sort of
behavior when people are fearful to eat
out at restaurants because they don't
want to go off on their macros and so
the bottom line for me is that too much
focus on progressive overload can lead
to monotony and staleness which in my
experience can be a major factor if not
the major cause of plateauing in
advanced athletes and there's literature
to support this as well and this is part
of the reason why periodization were
planned in periodic alterations in
programming variables tends to be so
effective and in my experience having a
week or even just a couple of sessions
where you more or less just go in and do
random stuff can be very refreshing
psychologically and might also be a
benefit physiologically which I'll get
to in a minute it's been said that a
change is as good as a rest and I think
that the relation to training
programming here is that perhaps you're
not plateauing because you need a deal
owed week perhaps your training has just
become a not Nisour stale this is why
for some people myself included I
recommend taking what I'm calling of
free training which is different from a
deal owed in that the goal isn't to
mitigate fatigue but rather to simply
restore freshness in doing so you would
still want to keep the effort levels
relatively high you'd want to still
exert yourself hard in the training I
currently think that there is mounting
data suggesting that it's perhaps more
important to exert oneself close to the
point of failure so that even if you
might not be presenting in measureable
overloading stimulus on a specific
exercise you're at least activating a
full spectrum of motor units and will be
sufficiently activating the molecular
pathways that then signal for
hypertrophy training close to failure
isn't required for growth to occur you
can clearly hyper fiha muscle without
training to failure however if you're
not going to be presenting an overload
stimulus I think that this serves as a
sort of safety net just to get back to
the physiological impact of
employing this style of training
occasionally presenting the muscle with
an overloading stimulus is extremely
important in terms of maxing out the
mechanical tension component of
hypertrophy however I think we should
also keep in mind that there are still
two other determinants muscle damage and
metabolic stress and these aren't quite
as inextricably linked to progressive
tension overload and so even if tension
isn't safe optimize by doing a few
random workouts I think one could argue
that that is simply made up for by the
muscle damage in metabolic components
contributing more and so guys I just
conclude this commentary by saying that
I think that once in a while especially
if your goal is pure hypertrophy I
wouldn't be too afraid to step outside
your normal routine and simply just
focus on training hard it may sound a
little bit simplistic but I think that
there's really value in that and I think
that a lot of high-level athletes have
gotten to the point where they simply
just know how to push themselves hard
they don't seem at least in lies to have
a whole lot of trouble with progressing
so guys that's going to conclude this
commentary thank you for listening and I
hope that you enjoy these last few clips
stop with the workout now we're here at
this is where I always do something blue
is it okay we're s samurais new
restaurants in poison Tampa called
in a place in Tampa called any more
keyboard by Bo started with the miso
soup this sack a year on tap which is
actually very good at a mama I always
get this because it's like it's quite
high protein and the roles that I got
are not super high protein I've also got
two meals today I would guess 15 grams
of protein and this I usually just get a
California roll some sort of tuna or
salmon so this is a spicy salmon roll it
looks really really good and this is
called dynamite roll I think it's called
a dynamite no cook I'm gonna call it
dynamite roll actually pretty a what is
called though but in any event it's
shrimp inside and asparagus mango and
then there's like I think these are
tempura bits on top and avocado kamikaze
roll I actually have no idea what this
stuff is but it looks really really good
in a sense yes hey how you doing so
these are all possible they're all made
with fresh fruit we only use natural
ingredients no thank you
it's actually very good it tastes it
tastes very nice it tastes unsweetened
kind of tastes like a frozen Huey I know
it tastes exactly like it's just like
Kiwi frozen to a pop so I can eat it at
him first of all as far as like general
foods go possible to anyone