I'm so sorry
but you've outlived your usefulness
within the community of Bros and fitness
goers constant tension training reigned
Supreme for a long time eventually with
a series of Publications on range of
motion and finally the release of a
systematic review by Sean felon gerjick
back in 2020 the pendulum kind of swung
and all of a sudden all the
evidence-based Fitness Pros were in
favor of full range of motion for muscle
growth this quickly became the accepted
Norm within the evidence-based Fitness
community and eventually in the larger
Fitness space however it turned out that
was more to the story when partial reps
were performed at shorter muscle lengths
they are worse for muscle growth however
when partial wraps are performed at
longer muscle lengths it turns out they
may actually be better for muscle growth
than a full range of motion there's now
three or four studies showing us in
conclusion the right kind of partials do
count