and I favor very much just looking at
performance which in the end is in my
view in particular the most important
thing in the
end hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization funny enough I
should say that because my guest m h
here thinks that periodization is
overrated you son of a total you
come on my channel taking money out of
my pockets if funny enough you and I
probably agree on this but why don't you
give me your best idea about why
periodization in hypertrophy
training is overrated and maybe I'll try
clap back at you I would say that if you
look at all studies on periodization
which is a whole lot of studies and a
couple meta analyses at this point the
vast majority of those find no
differences for hypertrophy for Block
periodization the research is actually
negative on average daily undering
periodization as a decent track record
has been shown in meta analytic research
as well to improve strength development
not muscle growth but strength
development so all in all research finds
that it's very important to manage
fatigue to train hard to implement
Progressive overload but when you have
those things in order especially if you
then also Auto regulate the
periodization model that you use or
whether you periodize at all doesn't
really matter now I would say that
periodization in general if you're doing
these things you are kind of periodizing
you know periodization just means the
structure of your program over time and
if that's not static then technically
you implementing
periodization but I think that there are
a lot of people that
massively over complicate periodization
and just try to sound smart if you look
at these old the Soviet textbooks and
super training and all of these the
classics they will have tons of theory
zero empirical evidence to support any
of it to make your programs look
extremely complicated and there are a
lot of pts that have their programs all
set up and they will program the next
eight weeks in advance they will tell
you exactly how many reps and how many
sets and what weight you're going to use
eight weeks in advance and then they
have this magic Peri ation model with
daily undulating linear periodization
with block periodization mixed in and a
D Lo phase and a super composition
overreaching in there and every term
that they can imagine and probably some
stuff that's never even made it into a
scientific study to begin with and they
just massively over complicate things
and just that doesn't work at all in
fact I would say that's probably
inferior because Auto regulation has
been shown actually to work better than
trying to plan everything eight weeks in
advance because the best trainer in the
world is not going to be able to plan
your weights and sets 8 weeks in advance
because they don't know how well your
sleep will be how long your exam week is
going to be and how much stress that is
going to give you whether your D is
going to be perfectly on track and how
you're going to respond to exactly this
program so Auto regulation and these
basic principles that I mentioned I
think are 10 times more important than
priorization and especially for mul
hypertophy purposes I typically
Implement only the basic principles and
daily undated periodization you can
Implement different types of
periodization but I don't think they're
going to do any thing that you can't get
done VI other
methods you think about that
huh put it all together it's
 me up listen it's super simple
Mano we make money here at R PE by lying
to people that periodization is
important we tell them it's something
they need and only we can give it to
them because we have
phds how the am I supposed to pay
my Butlers if you come on my channel
talking this much my bad these
people have families I think I don't
never talk to them they take care my
Lamborghinis that's even more important
than having a family I like your Lambos
yeah you all of you saw the fleet yeah I
saw the fet fleet whole underground
garage situation I don't love to talk
about it but I love to talk about and
Tate who never heard of him is he a guy
that is appreciating my Lambos also down
there there's people that come in
there's tours we give tours every now
and again to the public in any case um I
think almost all of this disagreement
situation is terminological in nature
and by that I mean what many people in
the research profession have termed
periodization is an incorrect use of the
term I'll start with a nice contentious
point there is no such thing as daily
undulating
periodization if you look at all
periodization Theory and literature
beforehand anyone who would have made
that up who had read the research would
have called it daily undulating
programming because that's really what
that is you call it periodization
there's also know such thing as linear
periodization because linear is is a
type of progression it it is by
definition not periodized it just goes
up it's also a way that no one trains
exercise scientists specifically in the
Western World were really out of touch
with Sport Science specifically in the
Eastern world and they basically got
into the research asking the wrong
questions in the wrong kinds of ways
made up the wrong kinds of terms with no
background in the situation and just
kind of made a whole gigantic
mess of things it turns out the
periodization actually does have a
definition it is simply the following
definition the manipulation of training
variables that results in the
maximization of three qualities one the
rate of gains two the minimization of
injury and three the ability to Peak for
maximum performance at a time of your
choosing every single training variable
under that scheme is a part of
periodization so the idea to ask of does
periodization work for hypertrophy is a
nonsense question because everything you
do for hypertrophy is necessarily to I
think try to optimize the rate of gains
try to reduce the probability of injury
and in the context of actual
bodybuilding competition Peak at a
certain time of your choosing so that's
the real question we have to ask is what
does hypertrophy periodization look like
because it must exist by the definition
of periodization has to exist and how
detailed is it and how far in advance
can we do it can you do a lifetime
periodization for an athlete what the
 then they break their leg what you
got now your whole 16-year plan
is down the drain it has to change and
it turns out that's also true for most
annual plans and even most macro cycle
plans so something we do here at RP is
we have a very good idea of what we're
doing in this workout but even our next
workout like if you use the RP
hypertrophy app sometimes your next
workout if you try to preview it this
week for next week it says this workout
isn't planned yet because we don't know
what the you did yet the app works
on data from last week to make you this
week so you're going to have some idea
of what you do next week but it's a
little hazier you're going to have some
idea of where you're going in the next
month but that's very hazy and very
contingent upon what you did before so
first of all there's the time scale
issue good periodization has a respect
for the fact that you cannot predict the
future with a high degree of fidelity if
the future timeline is really far out so
you have to understand that you make
good moves you Auto regul
and you have a general idea of where
you're going but that has to be
modifiable at all times that's a big
deal the second thing to say about
periodization is to ask to what degree
are we manipulating variables and in
what ultr structure a lot of people have
tested what they call block
periodization and hypertrophy block
periodization is really simple you do
something different in one Mesa cycle
you do something different in another
Mesa cycle and then maybe in another
Mesa cycle still you do something a
little bit different
but they didn't do that in most of the
studies they took the kind of block
periodization that was optimized for
strength power sport and tested it for
hypertrophy they tested a hypertrophy
specific block then a strength block
then a power block and they're like this
is inferior at best for hypertrophy no
 it's supposed to be three
hypertrophy blocks in a row isn't that
what we're training for it's surprising
that a power training model does not fit
a hypertrophy model people think
periodization is like what they read in
tutor boma's book periodization tutor
Boma gave three about bodybuilding
that book's not designed for that
it's like taking a book about Formula 1
racing and applying it to Motocross
you're going to make some
mistakes the principles of periodization
specificity overload variation if you
apply them to hypertrophy you can create
a decent theoretical structure but it
turns out fery training because it's a
univariant model is a much much simp
you have mesocycles that are constructed
to to stack one on top of the other you
have some considerations to make some
fatigue to reduce you take an active
rest phase you feel better and then you
repeat the process with a new selection
of specialized groups that basically is
the tldr of hypertrophy periodization
and guess what I think we basically
invented hypertrophy periodization at RP
or at least described it because there
was no such thing when these studies
were being tested so there is no one
such thing called periodization
periodization is just making good
intelligent programs so everything has a
paradise structure but that doesn't mean
it's inordinately complex and to be
honest even for weightlifting and
powerlifting specifically for
weightlifting and Olympic sports when
many of the old Soviet periodization
models were uh developed there is a
little bit of austerity there there is
too much ultr structure too far ahead an
annual plan with all of the weights and
percentages filled out in January for
you to Peak in December is
nonsense with almost no exception but
you can make a decent annual plan if you
roughly know your competitions you can
at least say I'm going to be peing here
I'm probably going to be resting here
I'm probably going to be training my
heartest here notice I said probably I
didn't say for sure that is a good
treatment of periodization so me coming
from a formal Sport Science Background
meno coming from a background of being a
boy genius and just learning the on
his own came to roughly the same
conclusion on how hypertrophy should
work because it turns out we actually
looked at the data and experience and
arranged our ideas of the world we
modeled the World in a similar way
because we were looking at the same
 world but if you go in exercise
science studies which are not sport
science studies taking something to mean
periodization and something else to mean
not periodization testing it you're
going to get some wacky results
and funny enough if you look at Daily
undulating periodization versus linear
periodization studies first of all
neither one of those is periodization
second of all why wouldn't you use both
men are you familiar with a progression
scheme that doesn't try to increase the
exposure to stimulus over time well that
would be a bad one it would be a bad one
and it turns out isn't there some
linearity to that process I mean doesn't
it kind of go like this over time every
program is linear in a sense just slope
of the line's just different and also is
anyone there really claiming that you do
the same thing every single day
of every single week no almost
all of the old Soviet programs had
undulations in volume and load which
means they already used dup it
was a red herring to begin with
so what you have with periodization is
you have ups and downs that over time
are linearly aggregated to make you good
results and the huge power there is
making a structure that makes sense and
then at every time scale Auto regulating
it to make sure you're actually doing
the thing that you're supposed to do yes
you plan to race the track like you did
but there was a race car on your way in
that one turn say you had to turn around
there's no other way to do it so
periodization is absolutely overrated
for hypertrophy training if you your
idea of pration is you know what they
did to Peak for soul Korea games in 1988
for shot Putters Absol lutely I
would not use that as a matter of
fact that brings me to
thought I don't want to talk too much
 this is GNA come out all wrong with
all due respect lay Norton I
don't know if he's a proponent of this
but sort of experimented with it where
that was like um strength days uh
hypertrophy days and power days in a
single week and it was the the overall
goal was actually I think just strength
and size and my question was always like
why the are we doing power training
at all I'm a bodybuilder I do zero power
train there's no there's no theoretical
reason they are theoretical negatives
like the stimulus to fatigue ratio is
negative because the stimulus is in the
wrong direction and the fatigue is still
positive like hey you got more powerful
cool how's that help me it doesn't by
the way your joints hurt now because you
jumped up and down a bunch like why am I
doing this so a lot of times what we
inherited from Old School periodization
is an ultra structure that was designed
for a very specific purpose East German
shot Putters they needed that that
scheme actually makes sense if you're an
East German shot putter it makes perfect
sense to do a phase in which you're
mostly focusing on building muscle size
it makes perfect sense to do a phase in
which you're mostly taking that muscle
and teaching it to be stronger with some
hypertrophy in the mix with some power
in the mix at all those phases and then
a month before your competition it makes
perfect sense to optimize for power
production and then more of your
training is for power but we can't take
that model and put it to bodybuilders
and then it fails say well you see
periodization doesn't work for
bodybuilders yes strength power
periodization does not work for
hypertrophy we need a new periodization
there and it's much simpler and if you
want to know what that looks like you
just have to download my book uh the
scientific principal appr training and
it's free but if you pay us $35 you get
it for sure and if you don't pay us
anything then you get from that one
website where it's actually just a
Chinese virus that infects your computer
yeah I would say for the people that
aren't super familiar with these terms
making everything very concrete daily
underlay periodization just means you
have a higher and a lower rep day that's
it that's all you need so if you're
doing say bench pressing or chest work
two days per week do one day that has a
different rep Target than the other and
do that after you've plateaued on simple
linear progression pretty much always
you can't go wrong with starting with
linear progression in large part because
and this is something that scientists
never discuss as soon as you have two
different rep days you're cutting your
effective rate of progress in half
unless you're somehow catching up in a
rate of progress right it's hard to be
linear progression if you can add weight
to the bar and still hit your rep Target
and you just keep doing that
consistently over time it's incredibly
difficult to beat that then you add some
Auto regulatory components which means
that you're going to adapt your training
to some measures that you look at now
this can be like Mike favors more
looking at Doms and pump and the like
and I favor very much just looking at
performance or almost exclusively
looking at performance your work
capacity whether you are progressing
which in the end is in my view in
particular the most important thing in
the end always agreed yeah so if you're
not progressing something has to change
in your program and if you are
progressing it's hard to optimize things
further often especially in a well Tred
individual so you have some much
regulation in there when you get stuck
Implement a difference in rep targets
alternate between them that's all DP
means and that's really all the
periodization most people need just
intelligently implementing these basic
principles Progressive overload Auto
regulation and then yeah mixing in some
different rep targets changing the
stimulus from one workout to the next so
that you're not every time hitting the
muscle with the exact same stimulus and
that that's pretty much the priorization
I think you really need for muscle
hypertrophy totally and there can be
more complex discussions more Nuance
discussions such as do I train a little
bit differently at the end of a fat loss
phase coming up to a show than I did at
the beginning of a muscle gain phase or
towards the end of yes potentially
absolutely maybe you train a little less
heavy maybe you train with higher reps
not because higher reps Etch in the
details bra or burn more fat but because
they're just a little bit safer and
you're actually fiber type conversions
optimized to do higher reps anyway and
you have a bigger gas tank so on and so
forth so periodization can begin to look
a little bit more complicated apply to
the real worlden bodybuilders but it all
starts from the simple elements of
specificity overload variation fatigue
management etc etc etc puration unfolds
from that so in the end I'm right you're
wrong I've never been wrong you're
always
wrong I concede oh wow huh my EXP much
bigger than I am I feel like it's not
the victory I wanted you know you you
finally what is it um oh great line die
hard you know the movie Die Hard of
course when Hans Gruber uh witnessed the
uh the safe in the nakatomi plaza he I
think he quoted some some Greek
from you know Alexander the Great the
Conqueror it was that uh and then he
wept for he knew he had no more worlds
to conquer so now that man has conceded
his inferiority to me on my very own
YouTube
channel I feel like I have nothing and
I'm no one but then again I felt like
that this morning when I woke up every
day man oh that's my life sound sounds
great sounds great Lu and then you look
outside at your Lambo flea you feel good
again M there's a certain warmth that
268 Lamborghinis give you especially
when the Butlers get into every one of
them and they all have timers and I go
one two three and they all start them at
the same
[Music]
time just fills your soul you know yeah
woke me up every morning every
morning they do it at 6 a. it's like a
routine and we do it as an emergency
practice if there's a tornado they have
to be able to ride the Lambos out really
quick to safety anyway pation that was
cool meow dope discussion as always
folks before you do anything think about
it a little bit if you like thinking a
lot what you'll really like free
promotion and Mano did not tell me to to
do this is menah hunman here has a
personal training course and I consider
it the best personal training course on
the internet and it is a serious
ass course it lasts for how long 10
months that I ain't been to 10
months in school ever bro I usually drop
out at about month three um super
intensive there's videos there's reading
materials there are opportunities to
interact with human beings yes yeah yeah
I host it personally you can ask me all
your questions oh
I would check it out if you're a
personal trainer and you've consumed a
lot of our content on RP and you like
what you see and you want to learn to
that next level of super in-depth more
more really nerd manow course is
the way to go give it some thought folks
thank you so much for tuning in and
hopefully we'll have more videos with
meno unless he hates me and then we're
no longer friends and we'll never talk
again bye thank you very
[Music]
much