[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike Rizzo tell here from
Renaissance period ization our pea diet
book 2.0 and the chapter we're gonna be
talking about today is chapter 14 all
about competition dieting we filmed it a
bit earlier and here's that footage so
this chapter is about how to eat for
prior to during maybe after in some
senses a competition that is not
endurance based and it's a pretty meaty
chapter I'm just gonna give you guys
some real basic recommendations summed
up from a chapter tons more to be found
in the chapter here's the deal if you're
competing in strongman in gymnastics in
CrossFit in a variety of other sports
that are some mix of aerobic and
anaerobic you want to make sure your
carbs and calories are as high as they
can be before competition day what does
that mean if you're making weight on
competition today clearly that's not
going to be possible as high as they can
be given that you have to make weight if
you don't have to make weight carbs and
calories should be pretty high to make
sure your glycogen stores are full you
recovered your fatigue is down your
energy levels up so on and so forth when
you were actually in competition
especially if it's a competition that
lasts a while especially if there's
multiple events for example powerlifting
is a really good example here you know
you have squats and then you rest for a
while you have bench press you're us for
a while you have deadlifts Olympic
weightlifting is very similar you know
snatch and you're cleaning jerk but
they're separated by quite a bit if you
stop eating and drinking which nerves
can make you do you're gonna suck by the
end of that competition and you might
even started out strong you're gonna
fade away one of the quintessential
features of a dominant athlete as a
person that eats even if he doesn't want
or she doesn't want and drinks even if
they don't feel like it because they
know their body's a machine and needs to
be fueled properly so have a plan if
soon as squats are over I'm eating my
sandwich that I made I'm having
chocolate milk I'm having some Gatorade
I'm resting for a bit having some water
and then I start warming up for bench
not just like I finished squats I'm
gonna take eight selfies of myself and I
don't really feel like eating I'll have
a potato chip and start warming up for
you might even feel ok for bench but
maybe miss your last attempt by the time
deadlifts come up it does you can't eat
your way out of that big of a hole
you're just gonna be low-energy and it's
gonna suck so make sure you have a plan
eat throughout the competition right
it's really easy to stop due to nerves
distraction fifty other things
here's another cool tip don't eat foods
you're not used to at any time around
the competition because if you get GI
distress you start throwing up even
worse you just crapped away a whole comp
prep cycle for what you could have eaten
fifty other foods that you've normally
eaten so if you know you're normally
carb load and eat a lot of bananas stick
to the bananas right if someone's like
hey try this you know cheese covered
rice cake and even if it fits your
macros maybe not a good idea to
experiment now after the competition any
other training day
experiment away by all means during the
competition stick to foods you know
you'll be safe that way drink as soon as
the event is finished before your next
event eat as well because you want
digestion to occur and absorption to
occur so for example after you squat
make sure you eat within 15 to 30
minutes after squats are over so that
you can digest absorb make all that
energy and nutrients go to where they're
needed in the working muscle hydrate
everything and then when you're warming
up for benchpress stuff will be where it
needs to be you don't want to be like oh
bench in fifteen minutes
aw crap I haven't eaten in two hours
slam a bunch of food you're gonna feel
bloated the food doesn't just instantly
go to your muscles it takes hours to do
that so make sure you time it within a
multi event competition eating right
after every single event here's the
thing you're gonna want to do that you
have to tell yourself to do that alright
you want to avoid super high fat foods
super high fiber foods and super high
protein foods you need foods least
amount of protein a lot of fluids a lot
of carbohydrate that's competition
eating doesn't mean you get the most
delicious things ever no right do you
Wayne for a weightlifting competition
and then eat a you know like a ed
McMuffin sandwich with bacon on it
probably not is it tasty yes is it
performance enhancing to the maximum no
save that stuff for after the
competition listen after the competition
you can eat whatever the heck you want
during the competition and right before
eat what science tells you to eat
instead of what you feel like eating in
this chapter as well I'm not gonna get
into in this video cuz it's really
complicated we have a weight cutting
water cutting guide for athletes
we in 24 hours 12 hours two hours before
competition and Matt site right right
before you step on for example in
jiu-jitsu and wrestling some
competitions they literally weigh you in
right next to the mat if you don't
weight where you're supposed to they
just cancel the match right there and
there you forfeit right so those
different kinds of weight loss
strategies fat loss is done way earlier
now it's time to cut water weight and
how do you replenish the water weight
super detail guides for all of those
[Music]