welcome to the house of hypertrophy some
say the classic barbell bench is
overrated and that dumbbell bench
pressing is the way others swear
machines due to their stability are your
ticket to the city of gains it's easy to
feel lost in the Maze of Chess training
information online today we're going to
obliterate the maze so that when it's
all said and done you'll have a clearer
overview of what the scientific
literature says about Chess training
without further Ado let's Dive
In
before getting into the heart of our
analysis the chest refers to a few
muscles but we're focusing on the PES
major it covers the most area and is
what most mean when they say the chest
furthermore dividing the pector as major
into different heads isn't Bro Science
various scientific analyses have divided
it into a clavicular and sternal costal
head each with a unique nerve Supply in
fact we could even go a step further and
consider there to be three distinct
regions for Simplicity we'll just refer
to to the upper middle and lower pecks
commencing our analysis the flat barbell
bench West is one of the most famous
exercises in the Galaxy seen in
powerlifting Pro Sports and maybe even
your dreams if you're anything like me
some say barbell benching sucks for
chess gains but the fact is the
literature would not agree multiple
papers established the petor major grows
very well from Flat barbell benching
seeing similar or even slightly more
average growth than the expected rate of
hypertrophy for instance
this Japanese paper had previously
untrained men train the exercise with
these variables and we can see midp
thickness increased throughout the study
ending up seeing a 43% increase in
thickness as for how flat bench pressing
impacts other PEC regions two studies
shed light onto this this 2022
Australian study had trained folks train
the flat barbell bench west across 8
weeks a normal group performed four sets
of five reps with an 85% one rep max
load a cluster group used the same
variables but they rested 30 seconds
between each repetition in a set the
cluster group didn't see gains Galore
which isn't a surprise as the rest
between repetitions would have resulted
in them training quite far from muscular
failure which isn't ideal the normal
group experienced impressive hypertrophy
across all three pector as major regions
and this is the key finding flat
benching appears to grow all PEC regions
well this Japanese study is the second
paper untrained men trained the flat
barbell bench press with these variables
a normal group trained every week across
24 weeks while a break group took a 3-we
break every 6 weeks both groups
experienced substantial and similar
pector major hypertrophy across three
regions thus this study suggests taking
a 3-week Hiatus every 6 week didn't
compromise gains a remarkably
fascinating finding something talked
about in previous videos anyhow the key
is these results again reveal flat bench
and grows the PCS well across its
regions this begs two questions do we
really need dedicated upper and lower
PEC training when flat benching appears
to evoke spectacular percentage gains
across all regions stay tuned for some
upcoming videos where we'll unravel the
answer to this question but in this
video we'll decode the second question
which is since these papers didn't
compare flat barbell benching to other
exercises how does it stack up to other
exercises hello there what's going on
this is Vince with bad.com
now if I was your
trainer on the one hand some say barbell
bench pressing is undefeatable since we
can use heavy loads and easily
progressively overload in the long term
on the other hand Others May say the
dumbbell Freedom renders it Superior or
that the stability with machine
variations is the secret source to
maximum mus fiber Recruitment and thus
hypertrophy who's right luckily we have
researched comparing chest HP H pery
between some of these exercises plus
electromyographic research research
actually measuring chest hypertrophy is
supreme since it's the real thing we
care about but we'll sprinkle in the EMG
data where appropriate for those unaware
EMG uses electrodes to record a muscle's
electrical activity so it does not
actually directly measure muscle
activation but as electrical activity
precedes muscle activation some say this
makes EMG a perfect tool is this true
not quite there are steps in between
electrical activity and muscle
Activation so there's not always a
onetoone relationship and notably EMG
doesn't always measure electrical
activity accurately in the first place
noise and Technical errors can mess
things up we even have studies failing
to find an association between EMG and
actual muscle hypertrophy although some
indirect papers find a relationship so
overall the relationship between EMG and
hypertrophy isn't straightforward we
need to be cautious and some EMG studies
are also better designed than others
I'll do my best to describe this along
the
way beginning with machine chest presses
versus the flat barbell bench press one
EMG paper finds greater PEC and triceps
activity with the barbell bench press
yet two others find similar activity
with this paper finding these two
machine chest press variants produce
comparable activity of all three PEC
regions the front delt and triceps to
Flat barbell benching most critically
this recent study d directly compared
P's major hypertrophy between this
machine chest press and the flat barble
bench press hypertrophy was quite
similar between both therefore I believe
we can contend various machine presses
probably have the capability of
producing similar pet gains to Flat
benching delving into the push-up this
Japanese paper compared High rep
push-ups to high rep bench pressing and
similar chest hypertrophy as well as
triceps hypertrophy was seen between
both perhaps some are pondering hold on
a moment on the high reps in this study
a crucial drawback it is not regular
house of hyper viewers will be more than
aware that reps approximately between
six and 35 can produce similar
hypertrophy provided reps are performed
to or close to failure even so weighted
push-ups are a possibility and this
rather well constructed EMG analysis
compared load equated weighted push-ups
to flat barble bench pressing it found
comparable PE triceps and even front
deltoid activity between them push-ups
can even be progressed via harder
variations this study had subjects do
just this in predominantly the 4 to
eight rep range using these variations
another group just overloaded the flat
barble bench West in the 6 to8 rep range
fascinatingly chest growth leaned
towards the push-up group but this study
was merely four weeks and nothing
reached significance at the very least
ad merely State this indicates the
barbell bench is not undeniably Superior
thus overall push-ups seem to possess
the capacity to produce similar pet
gains to Flat benches but this is
contingent upon successfully progressing
push-ups long term so you can
continuously train hard in the 6 to 35
rep
range transitioning to the Smith machine
five EMG Studies have compared Smith
machine to barbell bench pressing and
the majority finds similar PEC triceps
and frontel activity between them
considering this is EMG data and there's
an absence of any studies directly
measuring hypertrophy my tentative
hypothesis is Smith machine benching may
be comparable to barbells for the pecks
and it may be worth mentioning EMG might
be more reliable When comparing
exercises that are similar to one
another which is the case here
progressing to dumbbells let's first
focus on the triceps as I think it's
quite interesting three Studies have
compared triceps activity between
dumbbell and barbell bench pressing and
all discovered slightly lower activity
with a dumbbell why could this be it may
be because during the barbell bench
press although vertical forces are
produced to lift the load some degree of
lateral forces are naturally produced
and the triceps are likely heavily
involved in these lateral forces with
the dumbbell however lateral forces
cannot be produced attempting to do so
would result in the dumbbells falling
either side of you as for the PEX and
front dels four Studies have made the
comparison between dumbbell and barbell
benching and the majority find similar
PEC and front Del activity between both
however there is a trap with EMG that we
must be aware of EMG doesn't measure the
passive forces muscles generate when
they're stretched but emerging research
suggests these importantly contribute to
muscle hypertrophy dumbbells have the
potential to permit a deeper PEC stretch
compared to the barbell and even other
variations for this reason it's
potentially Numero Uno but there are
some complications firstly larger
dumbbells will obstruct your ability to
actually attain a deeper stretch and in
general I think most naturally don't
execute the movement in a way that
maximizes the stretch secondly it's even
plausible that any extra stretch simply
fails to translate into more gains it is
true multiple studies suggest training
muscles at stret positions is better for
building muscle than shorten positions
but this data doesn't necessarily mean
getting an extra deeper stretch above an
already solid stretch leads to more
hypertrophy some studies allude to this
this Japanese paper compared 90° to 140°
knee flexion squads glutax and a duct H
pery was indeed better with the deeper
range of motion but quad Hy pery was
similar between both yet another
Japanese paper compared these partial
tricep Skull Crushers to a full range em
motion which attained a better stretch
but triceps H perchu was actually better
for the partial this study is somewhat
of an outlier as it's the only one to
date to find that reaching a better
stretch led to worse hypertrophy in any
case these are just two studies on the
quads and triceps and there are
currently no studies on the pecs but
they at least present the concept that a
greater stretch may not always equal
greater gains
having said all this others might
suggest the convergence of the dumbbells
at the top is advantageous but there's
not much tension at this point and most
studies suggest the contracted top
position isn't that stimulatory for
gains for all these reasons I hesitate
to say dumbbells are clearly Superior
rather it may be more reasonable to
conclude they're largely similar for now
last but not least what about dips no
not that guacamole dip I'm talking about
these dips there are currently no
officially published studies measuring
EMG or hypertrophy comparing dips to
other different exercises I know this
paper involves a comparison of EMG
between different dips with the ring and
normal dips producing decent levels for
the chest front delts and triceps not
much can be drawn from this so we can't
really make any firm conclusions
surrounding dips but in an upcoming
video on the lower chest we'll dive into
dips a little more disregarding dips
we've seen the entirety of the evidence
appear to suggest all variations may be
comparably effective for chest
hypertrophy how could this be given some
of the arguments presented earlier
although the barbell Ben can be trained
with heavier loads heavier loads are not
a prerequisite for maximizing the
hypertrophy stimulus instead training
two or n muscular failure is what does
this this can be done with lighter loads
which is likely why higher reps with
lighter loads can produce similar muscle
growth to lower reps with heavier loads
as for the barbell bench press having
great Progressive overload potential
although Progressive overload is
certainly important for sustaining
long-term gains we simply can't say that
exercise is easier to Progressive
overload are superior very partial
squats have great potential to be
progressively overloaded but they are
not great for hypertrophy as for the
suggestion machines are the ticket to
the city of gains thanks to their great
stability greater stability has indeed
been linked to enhanced muscle fiber
recruitment but the context of This
research should not be overlooked for
illustration this paper min manipulated
stability levels on a leg extension by
strapping down the leg and torso the
generalizability of This research is
questionable and when push comes to
shove the research measuring hypertrophy
will always reign supreme to indirect
mechanistic speculation and we have a
few other analyses finding machines
produce similar hypertrophy to free
weights some of you may be wondering
about the technique and execution of
some of the affir mentioned exercises or
just about programming for building
muscle in general I'm glad to say our
high quality partner the alpha
progression app can help you containing
a massive exercise database with more
than 550 exercises video and text
instructions come with each there's an
awesome custom workout generator that
can tailor a program to your needs in
less than 2 minutes let it know the
equipment you have how often and how
long you want to train for and if you
want to focus or neglect certain muscles
there are over quad brilliant input
combinations on which your plan is based
and the training philosophy is derived
from the scientific literature to top it
all off graphs unveil your long-term
progression such as your strength
progression workout consistency set
numbers performed and the circumference
of body parts if you desire the link in
the comments and description lets you
try out all the features for free for 2
weeks and if you like it and choose to
go beyond the link also gives you 20%
off a subscription I sincerely believe
the app is nothing short of
[Music]
exceptional so these variations might be
all quite comparable for developing the
pcks but there are two underappreciated
movements that arguably could be the
best chess Builders the first one is
this which provokes unrival chest
tension just kidding of course I
stumbled across this movement on
multiple social media accounts you will
feel a strong chest contraction simply
because you're squeezing the plates but
the pressing motion isn't aligned with
gravity moreover the shoulder flexion
that occurs during the movement is
likely heavily done by the front delts
you can perform the movement lying down
which is an Improvement but the
excessively close grip probably biases
the triceps the overall stretch of the
chest is quite significantly reduced and
training this movement to or close to
failure in the long term is probably not
practical the actual two exercises that
may be the best chest Builders are the
cambered bar bench press and deficit
push-up these allow you to achieve an
even deeper stretch of the chest we know
dumbbells have the potential to attain a
deep stretch but we also know there are
some complications with this these two
variations May better allow you to
attain a deep stretch consistently in
the long term but as we said when
dissecting the dumbbells it's still
ambiguous if the greater stretch
actually translates into greater gains
we saw two studies questioning this as
well but since there's no data on the
chest nothing conclusive can be said for
this reason the notion these two are the
best chest Builders is very much
hypothetical but I don't anticipate
these being inferior so if you're able
to experiment with either of these it
may be
worthwhile another experiment
experimental option on the table are
partial range of motions at stretch
positions we have three studies finding
that compared to a full range of motion
a partial range of motion at stretched
positions built more muscle overall more
studies are necessary to understand its
generalizability but it's certainly
something you may like to test out with
the bench press a partial range of
motion at the stretch position is simply
performing the bottom position as done
by Ronnie Coleman here it is interesting
to know Arnold mentions this style in
his book stating that Sergio lever used
to press the bar off his chest but not
go all the way up he goes on to say
after he used this for a few months his
chest became more defined of course
Arnold's anecdote isn't definitive proof
I just thought it'd be interesting to
share I should make it clear if that
none of this appeals to you it's more
than fine to stick with a typical range
of motion on your
[Music]
exercises as alluded to coming soon to
the house of hypy will be videos
exploring the upper and lower chest more
you might have also been wondering about
isolation chest exercises fear not we'll
also unravel the potential use of these
onto the summary there's a saying all
roads lead to ram in this case all roads
may not lead to great chest hypertrophy
but many of them likely can we've seen
the famous flat barble bench press
produces spectacular percentage gains
across the PEC regions but we also know
the literature suggests these variations
probably have the capacity to produce
similar pet gains to the flat barble
bench press therefore you can train with
your preference you're also not
committing a federal crime if you train
with a few of these as a vanilla example
you could use the barbell on Monday
machines on Wednesday and dumbbells on
Friday having said all of this cambered
bar benching and deficit push-ups are
two movements that can help you easily
and consistently train the pecs with a
deeper stretch and I would say it's not
a stretch hypothesize these could be the
two best chess Builders this is
currently hypothetical but you could try
either of these outs a stretched partial
range motion is another experimental
option on the table you could try out
remember to feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or check out our
Ultimate Guide to building the L