I think the supplement industry gets a
bad rap for two main reasons the first
is false marketing the products often
don't actually do what their claim to do
and the second is over pricing products
are often way too expensive for what
they actually offer
luckily creatine is a supplement that
doesn't commit either of these shams
it's the most well researched sports
supplement with over 700 human studies
investigating its safety and efficacy
and while it can be subject to false
marketing that's usually through the
promotion of its variants like creatine
HCl or creatine ethyl ester which don't
have nearly the same scientific backing
as simple creatine monohydrate often
jack the price up unnecessarily
and plain old creatine is actually not
expensive at all in fact in order to get
the same dose from one teaspoon of
creatine powder you have to eat a
kilogram of raw beef so the price
difference practical difference makes
supplementation a no brainer
so creatine is a small tripeptide
meaning it's made up of three amino
acids linked together our bodies can
produce it naturally and it's found
naturally in foods almost exclusively
and uncooked meats but even if you're
eating a ton of meat you're still not
getting enough creatine to see its
performance and physique enhancing
effects because it's found in pretty low
amounts and cooking denatures the
creatine anyway but before we can
understand why creatine works it's
important to understand how it works so
first a quick primer on ATP the body has
three main energy systems which work
together to produce ATP the main energy
currency used in the body the aerobic
system produces ATP slowly using blood
glucose and fat as fuel for long
duration workouts like distance running
the anaerobic system produces ATP more
quickly using blood glucose for intense
bouts lasting 30 seconds to two minutes
like say 50 meter freestyle swimming and
the phosphagen energy system produces
ATP extremely quickly by using creatine
phosphate stored in muscle so when you
need energy very quickly such as when
doing a fast followed Sprint or a heavy
set of bench press your body relies on
creatine phosphate as the quick source
of ATP it needs and according to an
International Society of sports
nutrition positions
a normal diet containing 1 to 2 grams of
creatine per day will have creatine
stores only 60 to 80% saturated while
supplementation of creatine boosts
creatine stores by 20 to 40 percent
meaning saturation is best achieved
through supplementation the fastest way
to reach saturation is through creatine
loading followed by a maintenance phase
so if you take 20 to 25 grams per day
for a week then you'll reach saturation
levels within a week and start seeing
the benefits right away then after the
loading period just 5 grams per day will
be enough to maintain saturation from
then on on the other hand you could just
start with the 5 grams maintenance dose
without any loading however it may take
up to a month to reach saturation and to
see the same results so if taking
creatine for the first time or after a
long break loading up makes most sense
to me 1 2013 paper suggests that taking
creatine post-workout increases fat free
mass and benchpress strength better than
taking a pre-workout but granted the
differences were pretty small the study
hasn't been replicated and a plethora of
other studies have indicated that one
can reach saturation levels just fine by
taking creatine any time of day 1 2003
review looking at 300 studies say it's a
five to fifteen percent increase in
maximal strength and power with creatine
supplementation and a landmark paper
from Volek and colleagues found that
even in subjects with six years of
training experience creatine
supplementation resulted in 30 percent
more reps achieved across five sets with
a moderate weight taken to failure and
considering the strong link between
training volume and hypertrophy being
able to perform more work should
translate to more muscle over time
creatine does cause and try muscular
water retention but it isn't anything to
be worried about since water is being
held inside the muscle where you want it
not under the skin or anywhere else and
after all intramuscular water does
increase muscle fiber diameter which
could further increase muscle growth
through cellular swelling mechanisms
it's worth mentioning that some folks
don't appear to respond to creatine
supplementation at all with best
estimates ranging from about twenty to
thirty percent of people falling into
this camp folks with high meat
consumption and older trainees are more
likely to be non-responders but give
the massive breadth of research showing
a positive effect its affordability and
vanishingly low risk of side effects
it's probably in your best interest to
supplement anyway there's no need to
cycle off creatine because unlike
caffeine your body won't develop a
tolerance to its effects and a 2003
study found that 21 consecutive months
of supplementation led to no ill health
effects I also don't think we need to
worry about combining creatine and
caffeine together although one 1996
paper did speculate the existence of
some sort of inhibitory effect the study
only had nine subjects meaning it was
statistically underpowered and since
then three other studies have shown the
exact opposite result a synergistic
effect of taking creatine and caffeine
together whether or not creatine can
contribute to male pattern baldness his
question that hasn't been directly
investigated in the scientific
literature one 2009 study on rugby
players found that taking 5 grams of
creatine per day for two weeks increased
DHT levels by 40%
however weight training alone has been
shown to increase DHT and while DHT does
seem to be a player in hair loss this
may only apply to men with a genetic
predisposition or a family history of
hair loss so if you do happen to be in
that camp be more cautious with creatine
or consider stacking it with finasteride
which has been shown to reduce T to DHT
conversion in the end I think the
benefits far outweigh the costs when it
comes to creatine supplementation and I
hope that in a supplement industry rich
with over promises under deliveries
creatine is one that lives up to the
hype for you and your gains okay what is
going on everyone so first I just want
to say thank you for watching the video
I hope you guys really liked it and
before we go I want to give a huge shout
out to hims for sponsoring this video
this is a sponsorship that I'm really
excited about because I think hims is
one of those few truly science-based
companies out there and they're offering
both prescription and non-prescription
hair and sexual health products for men
including finasteride which is the hair
loss treatment that I mentioned in the
video and in case you guys aren't aware
hair loss affects 66% of men by age 35
and over 25% of nuit de casas are
reported by men under the age of 40 so
hims is a place where you can get a four
quality medical recommendations and
treatment from licensed medical doctors
that the inconvenience or sometimes
discomfort of having to go into an
actual medical clinic for some of these
issues so hims is offering a virtual
visit with a licensed doctor and a month
trial of their comprehensive hair kit
for viewers of this channel for just
five bucks so if you go to four hems com
forward slash Nippert or click the first
link in the description box you can get
started with their complete hair kit
today and him's takes your privacy very
seriously so all interactions will be
kept confidential and they do offer
medical grade solutions to these issues
so their treatments are very well
established within the medical community
and all backed by quality scientific
evidence so thanks to hims for
sponsoring the video thank you guys once
again for watching if you are interested
make sure you check out that first link
in the description box below leave me a
like if you enjoyed the video please
subscribe if you happen to be new and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video