this is not a thing where they hit us up
and they're like here's ten thousand
dollars just go say nice things you
don't mean we don't do that and we never
will do that every video you'll ever see
us endorse machines we mean everything
we say there's tons of machines I hate
you won't see them on this series
because I hate them
[Music]
YouTube I'm Dr Mike from RP
I wear the shirt to remind myself of who
I am
today we are going to start our series
of Dr Mike talks about the machines in
the gym he likes the Atlantis horizontal
leg press so beautiful is that first
let's get into it
enough
a couple amazing things about this
machine
first of all it's technically rigged as
a hack squat however
all you do is change the select rise
here and you can rig it in to be a leg
press of multiple different settings so
you can do any height you want which
means this is a few more than just one
machine in one super comfortable handles
to grab if you don't like grabbing
handles up here you can grab the handles
down here just fine they're super comfy
too here's a really cool thing just
handle the sends so you can squeeze out
of the machine easier amazing range of
motion I use an extra platform because
I'm not an adult height but for you
folks that grew up these are
unbelievable Atlantis custom pads that
they put on all their machines your
ankle would break off your body before
you slip on this thing beautiful
selectorized weight stack means no more
taking plates off and on especially as
you get stronger doing a lot of reps and
a lot of sets a lot of exercises putting
weights on taking weights off this oh
awful it's just nothing you want to do
the selectorized here is beautifully
engineered there's a lot of selector
Stacks where you have to jam it in push
the stack down and pull the stack up to
get it in this floats in like it's not
even there up here we've got extra five
pound weights they add up to 10 which
gives you even five pound increments all
the way from 20 pounds down to 410
pounds for me I can do 410 for a Max gun
to the head all out set of 20 and like I
have hack squatted six plates for sets
of ten so this is a machine that's good
for almost everyone in case you're
really lanky the whole thing adjusts as
far as range of motion so you can start
at a higher Notch and go to a lower or
higher Notch at the bottom I'm not too
typically doing that because I'm super
short I like a lot of range of motion
all around this machine is slick it is
effective as hell it was built by people
who understand lifting and who lift
weights and as a super amazing bonus
point two bonus points
engineered well which is such a big deal
it works exactly as advertised there's
no weird snags there's no weird oh I
think they should have done this
differently and lastly and this is a bit
of an extra thing it's so beautiful oh
my God matte black or jet black or
whatever that's called I'm not a
colorish person art was the only class
I've ever failed in school and I tell
you this with my not so great vision for
artistic ability this is a beautiful
machine I love using it Atlantis you
knock this one out of the park come on
opposed to her push brief
three two more let's go together
[Music]
up fuck yeah one more breathe how do you
best use this Atlantis horizontal leg
press for hypertrophy and for strength
what I'll say is this
it's probably not the best machine to
use for strength because it is very
machine-like it's on a specific track it
has a slightly lower frictional
component a bigger stability component
free weights and plate loaded machines
are probably mildly Superior to strength
for hypertrophy for your quads this
machine has one of the best stimulus to
fatigue ratios ever why first of all
super full range of motion second of all
incredibly well oiled slick and well
engineered components the machine is
like it's like skating on ice and you
actually know how to skate and that one
time you tried to skate guy punch in the
face there's blood thick early like that
she laughed
in any case it's an amazingly engineered
piece of equipment it's super smooth
which is awesome because it has very low
friction which is probably good for
hypertrophy because you feel that
eccentric pain all the way down so
here's how to use this
higher repetition sets of 10 to 20 and
even more sets of 20 to 25 brutal
you can lock out at the top and it feels
like there's so little force throughput
and instability locking out at the top
even if you're not a big fan of it you
don't have to do it it feels Ultra safe
milking that slow eccentric just feels
amazing as you squat down it throws your
quads forward automatically and it's
just Quad Squad Squad Squad squads
you're essentially using your quads just
to break on the way down and then on the
way up it's actually a little bit easier
which is like
so great it's almost like an eccentric
accentuated loaded machine in the way it
functions in real life beautiful
sets of 10 to 20 with mile reps why the
mile reps
getting into this machine is easy but
it's like you got to contort yourself
and really set up it's like getting into
any machine it takes a little bit of
setup like you know 20 or 30 seconds
once you're in here though
if you lock the machine out at the top
you feel with 400 pounds full stack
legit folks I'm not bsing you you feel
like there's half or less of the weight
on your shoulders I don't know what
components are taking up the load and
salesman shit quite frankly I don't care
Bob
it feels super light on your shoulders
but heavy on your legs
jeez if that's not a minimization of
axial load and a maximization of sfr I I
know what it is
it's awesome so if you're doing my reps
you do a set of 10.
you lock out at the top you breathe
three five seconds it doesn't feel like
it's draining you with locked out knees
you feel totally fine you get a big rise
in performance after you buy yourself
multiple high quality reps you do
another little mini Maya rep set you go
again and again and again you can do two
three or four via rep pauses in a set
here and get 100 away with it another
quick recommendation the range of motion
here is so big and the loading is so
easy on your core and so hard on your
legs
High Reps here you want to be able to
breathe as well as possible so I would
actually say don't use a belt on here I
used to use a belt on this machine and
then I stopped and I realized I was
getting three or four extra reps because
I could breathe better through those
High rep sets so no belt weightlifting
shoes I highly recommend get in here
warm up I would really recommend a one
over warm-up so for example let's say
you're using 300 pounds for working sets
go to 320 as your last warm-up
potentiation do two to four slow
repetitions with it real meticulous good
technique rest whatever three minutes go
back to 300 it's gonna feel like a
breeze in the best possible way Breeze
for your lungs Breeze for your back
Breeze for your shoulders easy on the
hips Terror of a thousand worlds on your
quads all I gotta say is don't throw up
on the machine
foreign
holy crap I don't feel so tired but my
quads are pumped and I want to hurl and
what more can you ask of life
I love this machine if I was to have to
critique it which is very difficult for
me to do
I would say my only real criticism is I
wish for us short Kings they made an
adjustable platform that moved back and
forth so that you could make a really
short ROM or a really long ROM if you
needed to that's honestly the only way I
can criticize this machine because the
motion the angles everything is perfect
one last little criticism it's a linear
Force vector so it feels like you have
just as much weight at any point in the
range of motion because of your changing
leverages right when you're about
halfway up is when it feels the hardest
what I would love to see in a future
model is a cam system that made the
machine harder at the bottom and easier
at the top that gives us that stretch
under load if they had a selectorized
plate and they made the machine harder
at the bottom than at the top this would
be in my view about as close to an ideal
machine as you can get in most realistic
scenarios guys thanks for tuning in
hopefully next time we'll get into some
more machines which I can either promote
or rag on which file which one is going
to be we'll find nothing
[Music]