gluten found in wheat it is Perfectly
Natural and is not some scary chemical
additive made in a big Factory with the
skull and crossbones on the front of the
factory in a chemical sign and white on
nuclear radiation warning you know where
Diet Coke is made it's out of that it's
actually completely natural and found in
wheat and here's the thing to cut this
BS myth a bit of slack gluten
sensitivity is absolutely real formally
it's called celiac disease it affects
between one and two percent of Western
populations and there is a potential
though very small one for non-celiac
gluten sensitivity to be real now so far
as far as I know none of the larger
studies I've ever caught this and a few
of the larger more well-controlled
Studies have actually showed that most
of the people if not all the things they
have non-celiac gluten sensitivity
actually don't