deadlifts for example what exactly does
the conventional deadlift train you
can't answer that question because that
question is an answer of like 80% of the
muscles of the body glutes sort of
hamstrings maybe adductors some quads
technically tons of lower back but not
exclusively depending on how you pull
midback upper back traps holy so if
you're really trying to grow insert any
muscle here with conventional deadlifts
there's probably an exercise that gives
you as much stimulus for a fraction of
fatigue another thing is range of motion
if the exercise doesn't expose that
Target muscle into a deep stretch uh you
could do better so for example floor
press sure we'll have a video on the
YouTube at some point about this the
floor press is just you hold dumbbells
or barbell you go down on your elbow so
you're lying on the ground like an
animal it's benches for civilized people
my my gym are made of gold no it's
Platinum I think it's diamonds it's very
uncomfortable but the wealth alone keeps
me comfortable so you touch down here
and you can't possibly physically get a
big stretch so in some context can be a
great exercise but just on the raw
probabilties probably isn't that great