let's talk about what fasting probably
doesn't do or makes it not so special
first it doesn't help you lose any more
weight or fat than just regular meal
timing with caloric constraint it's all
about the calorie deficit and
intermittent fasting there's no magic
about it it's not some kind of crazy
special weight loss healthwise it
doesn't seem healthier than multiple
daily meals throughout the day it has
another Advantage potentially we'll talk
about in just a bit on the benefits but
regular General Health if you see
someone eating four meals a day someone
eating one meal a day they can be
equivalently as healthy another one is a
lot of adherence of intermittent fasting
will say it's really easy to stick to
for most people it's very hard to stick
to cuz well you know you're not allowed
to eat the whole day and you're starving
up until you actually get to eat and
then you binge a ton of food and it's
kind of weird it's not for everyone it
can be for some people but it's not this
hack of a you know intermittent fasting
proponents will say oh this is great and
you'll have no hunger and all that stuff
that's true for some people but it's
definitely not true for most