hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization and it's time for me to
try to sell you stuff
that's right all this content creation
all the comments from you guys about oh
man rp always provides so much value
that time has come to an end the time
that was the you know dot dot dot stuff
this is the profit stuff
jk sort of but here's a really really
cool system for generating your own
programs that we made at rp and now it's
live it's on the site let me show you
how it works
if you like it you could buy one and
then i would be able to add a
rim to just one of my lamborghinis if
you buy a few of these i could add a few
rims and then we could be blinged out
sitting on 22s actually
it does lamborghini have the wheelbase
to accommodate a 22. probably not
then again i don't know anything about
cars as you've probably already become
aware let's get right into these custom
training templates we'll walk along so
you get to the rp site and it's a menu
for the training template you click on
custom training templates hey it's
melody scofield and jared feather on the
cover why am i not on the cover
what did i do to the gods above that
they made me so ugly in any case
custom training templates they have a
price it'll vary depending on sales
first you have to type in or actually
select a bunch of stuff about yourself
that you want the program to reflect
this is not a cookie cutter program by
definition this is customized to you
let's see how customized because it's
kind of absurd
so first you choose your sex i spent
about 30 seconds looking at this menu
hoping there was a yes please i'd like
to have some with anyone uh option but
it's not there it's just male and female
so whatever sex uh you are you choose
that i'll choose male because you know i
think
squarely fit in that category for now
and then you choose your weekly training
frequency and that's all up to you we
have three day option for the option
five day option and six day option and
well you know i'm going to click the six
day because
your boy doesn't mess around you feel me
and then ooh a new menu item pops up so
it says choose a preset or customize
below we're not going to choose a preset
just yet what is the customized below
thing well here's the thing
on days one and four
of the program you get to pick which
muscles you train
chest triceps shoulders and traps extra
trap work
and you get to click not only on do i
want these muscles to be included in my
plan but do i want them to be normal
growth which is to say one exercise per
muscle per session so like if you choose
normal growth for chest it's going to
allow you like a compound pressing
movement you get to choose the movement
in your own plan later but it's just one
movement you know you could do up to
like you know
seven sets
for that movement five to seven sets and
that means seven sets times two because
it's twice a week that you train chest
this way it would be 14 cents a week
some somewhere between you know six and
14 cents a week great great hypertrophy
range but if you want to grow your chest
even more or any other muscle you click
on specialization
specialization gives you two exercises
for that muscle group
but as you may note
the number of exercises that you get to
pick
is capped out
at seven total so if you try to pick
more exercises then is allotted it'll
flash a little error sign for you and
say hey you got to choose where you're
going to go
especially this is the case with like
three four days of training because you
could try to pick to train the whole
world but you just don't have that much
exercise allotment why do we choose
seven as the cap for total number of
exercises to do in one session well
after gee maybe even a little earlier
for stronger folks a little later for
folks on the weaker side but about seven
exercises is all anyone can really do in
one session and actually consider all
that training hard stimulative and not
junk volume it you know people will like
give you their plan like oh look here's
my monday and it's ten exercises like
motherfucker are you serious by the time
you get to exercise number eight you're
gonna be half dead number nine you're
gonna be full dead number ten you're
going to be doing zombie training
because
zombies are like the opposite of dad
they walked out of the other way so in
any case you got to be diligent you got
to choose your stuff wisely if you want
to do more volume pick five or six days
a week flat out and there really is no
other way around that because the
quality of the training has to be
maintained so essentially you pick every
muscle you want to train you don't pick
anything you don't want to train all the
muscles you want to train you either
pick growth which is one exercise at a
time or a specialization there's no
right answer to that you may know your
recovery abilities and be like man for
hamstrings all i ever need to do is pick
growth because specialization two
hamstrings a day twice a week i'm just
not gonna be able to survive that that's
for sure true for me so be intelligent
more is not better better is better what
you're able to recover from yet be
challenged by is better
pick all your uh uh muscle group
specialization and training growth etc
and if you just know what you want to do
if you pick everything and you agree you
said i've carefully viewed my selections
blah blah blah yes i have read and
agreed to the medical waiver don't buy
this if you're not medically able to
exercise
then you add it to the cart and what you
will receive
in email after the payment has gone
through is a customized template exactly
including all those exercises you chose
all those exercise slots and then in the
template itself much like our male and
female physique templates earlier you
get to pick the exercises themselves and
it is a six week mesocycle five weeks of
harder and harder training one week of
deload but you can reuse that and we
recommend you reuse that message cycle
maybe altering the wrap ranges a bit
maybe altering the exercises a bit
usually keeping the same exercises if
they're not stale we recommend you use
that for another two probably more like
three mesocycles so there actually is
gee whiz 18 weeks of training 12 to 18
for sure and that's pretty good deal and
just like other templates except now
better this program comes with auto
regulation that allows you to
let us know how sore you are let us know
how pumped you're getting independently
this time and based on rating pumps and
soreness the volume the number of sets
you do per exercise will auto regulate
exactly to your recovery ability to try
to get you as close as possible to your
maximum adaptive volume the amount
number of sets that gets you your likely
best muscle growth gains
if i may say so myself that's pretty
fucking sweet i built the system of
course i would give myself a pat on the
back now
that's all
super well super good and you can even
see a sneak peek of what your program
will look like not yours exactly but you
can see the layout
and here's the deal
just before we finish this video off and
you go and buy things for me i need
lamborghini
22s
one quick thing so if we scroll back up
there's we chose mail six days and then
it says right below choose a preset or
customize
so if we choose a preset if we click on
that menu
we actually have a bunch of options and
there some of these are different
for females we even have a glute focus
option but here's the thing just for the
sixth time a week male here are the
options you can do whole body upper body
lower body chest and back chest and arms
and arms and shoulders so what you can
do is let's say i want to do upper body
i click on upper body it pre-selects all
the stuff that means it's upper body
emphasis notice if we click on six times
male upper body days three and six which
are the leg days
they're all everything is growth
everything selected there is for growth
it's just not specialized we're not
specializing on legs but you can get
baller leg growth especially in your
hamstrings just doing one exercise
twice a week so two exercises per week
for each one of these things now let's
say you pick a pre-selection and you're
like yeah man male upper body sounds
really good
however i know my quads could do more
and i just i want upper body but i want
to push my quads to specialization we'll
check this out all you do is you click
specialization on quads it keeps
everything completely intact as if you
did made the pre-selection all you do is
change let's say i increased the cost of
specialization make your little changes
how you want and then agree to terms and
you have a program customized by us
and extra customized by you to exactly
your needs
is this kind of an infinite program
generator yeah it kind of is will it
give you a ball or program that you
basically design with our wisdom and
organization in mind to get you going
the training yeah hell yeah does it come
with a bunch of how to's and faqs and
video guides of course
as you would expect from rp at this
point
i guess i'm not rp but i'm heavily
involved in any case these are the
custom training templates hey you know
that's my sales pitch we have this
fucking product it works really well to
get you as jacked as you know relatively
possible and i think it can help a lot
of you guys organize your training
organize your auto regulation once you
use this a few times it actually teaches
you shit load so if you want to go make
your own programs later or make programs
for others you're going to learn a lot
doing this shit and uh i wish i had a
sales pitch about as the greatest thing
ever it's not but it's pretty cool it'll
get you more jacked give some thought to
buying it if you don't want to buy it um
you know tell somebody else to buy it i
see an old lady in the street hey old
lady where are you going she's like oh
please don't hurt me you're like nah i'm
not gonna hurt you
the male female physique template four
time a week customized lower body glute
emphasis template is going to hurt you
and she was like oh help but she's old
she can't yell out loud folks any
questions you have ask them below like
subscribe to youtube things come follow
me on instagram dr micah's chill all the
links are right below and including a
link right below is to this very product
go spend money see you later