[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike until here for
Renaissance period ization series video
number two in hypertrophy made simple if
you want the complex version go to the
hypertrophy guide central hub on
renaissance period ization or check out
our other long-form YouTube videos
here's the video for today what is
proper lifting technique and how do you
know you're doing it or not doing it in
theory proper technique means about four
things proper technique stimulates the
target muscle and makes it grow the best
versus some other muscles you're not
trying to hit even if your technique
looks good it's got to hit the muscle
that you want the target muscle is hit
best when it's not limited by other
muscles for example if you have a
technique in squats that's limited by
your glutes and your glutes really take
most of the work it's not a great
technique for the quad so it's got to be
the target muscle that's being limited
not other muscles it has to be
replicable session to session for safer
good tracking so if the technique always
looks pretty much the same you know that
you're getting the same deal out of it
if you're good technique looks different
every time it can't possibly be good
technique because there is no standard
technique and lastly the technique is
not needlessly damaging unsafe or
fatiguing okay so it doesn't just beat
you up or put you at really really crazy
high risk even if it's effective alright
so what does that mean that means we
have all about six simplified technique
fundamentals there's more in another
video we did which is like an hour long
if you want to check that out but here's
the deal for pretty much every exercise
you want to do the following six things
one have a full range of motion and make
sure it's the same every time or roughly
the same that it's standardized set to
set session to session week to week and
so on and so forth so the exercise
should look very similar every single
time you do it that the control has to
be on the eccentric you don't drop
weights you lower them under control big
plus for hypertrophy no cheating
you know what cheating is so don't lie
to yourself using any other muscle other
than target muscle to lift the weight
especially heave-ho manner with momentum
is a bad idea don't do it number four is
limiting tension and burn should be on
the target muscle that means when you're
approaching failure for a properly
executed chest exercise it's the chest
that should have a bunch of tension
feeling through it and burning like
crazy with high reps not all the other
muscles so the limit to the exercise the
extra resistor to stop reach failure if
you're going to failure for the target
muscle and not some other muscle because
then you can't be training the target
muscle heart if other things give up
earlier number five the best technique
that hits all of those is also one
that's nice and easy on your joints that
doesn't mean it's the easiest thing in
the world on your joints but the easiest
possible one that gives you the best
stimulus so if you have two versions of
an exercise both of a mess you up really
good one hurts the joints a bit one does
not or much less that last one is the
one you choose and lastly there's a load
consideration don't go too light or too
heavy depending on the exercise if you
go super heavy on lateral raises then
you can't even do the technique right
anymore and you can't do the five basics
that we just talked about if you go
super high rep on squat sets of 30 your
technique is gonna break down before
your quads or have a limiting factor so
every single exercise has a right
technique you need to find the loading
range that's the right for it some
exercises everywhere from five to thirty
reps is awesome some exercises the five
to ten range is best some exercises the
twenty to thirty is best and everything
in between folks thank you for tuning in
see you next time for video number three
[Music]