[Music]
all right what's going on guys and
welcome to the new and improved
push-pull leg series now unlike my last
push-pull leg series from three years
ago this time i'm combining the full
week of training into this single video
so if you want to run any of these
workouts for yourself you can get after
them right away you won't need to wait
until the next episode comes out also
i'm adapting many of these workouts from
my upcoming power building 2.0 program
which i'm aiming to release at the end
of the summer or early fall and that
program is going to alternate between
full body weeks which are more strength
focused and similar push-pull legs weeks
to the one here which are more
hypertrophy focused also these workouts
were filmed a little while back before
the vaccine roll out so i wasn't able to
fly out a videographer or anything like
that so they're just shot by me using a
tripod so don't expect any nolan level
cinematography but i'll still be
covering everything that you need to
know all right so let's get started with
the first quad focused leg day so after
a quick three to four minute up using a
few of my favorite dynamic stretches
i'll jump into a pyramid warm-up that
looks something like this if you want to
pause and read and these warm-up sets
are just meant to prime you for the
heavier working sets to come while
causing as little fatigue as possible
for the squat we're doing three sets of
four reps at eighty percent one rep max
which comes up to 385 pounds for me now
these sets aren't supposed to be super
challenging especially in week one and
i'd say i'm around an rpe of five or six
for this first set so four or five reps
in reserve and then as fatigue sets in
that rpe should increase to a seven or
eight by the last set now one thing i
want to quickly comment on lately every
time i post a squat video i get asked
about why i drive my knees out on the
way up whether that's safe and whether
or not you should be doing it so the
reason i do this is to simply get my
hips closer to the bar you can see that
as i'm driving my knees out my hips are
being thrust forward and this helps
reduce the moment arm between the load
and my hip joint ultimately making it
easier for me to break through any
sticking point in the concentric and i
do think it's perfectly safe to do as
long as you're thinking about pushing
your knees out only until they point in
the same direction as your toes rather
than pushing them out as far as possible
okay up next three sets of 10 reps on
the romanian deadlift and you definitely
don't want to load these too heavy in
week one as they can cause an insane
amount of muscle damage and if you're
anything like me leave you feeling
brutally sore for several days so for
the first week keep the weight light and
focus on getting a solid stretch in your
hamstrings while perfecting the
technique by simply pushing your hips
straight back as you lower the weight
straight down and then progressively
increase the load in the weeks to follow
then we're doing three sets of 15 for
each leg on the unilateral leg press and
this is the first exercise where we're
really ramping the effort up so let's
bust out the old rep timer here and take
a look at the last three reps on my
first set of 15. so this is rep 13 which
took 1.5 seconds rep 14 took 1.4 seconds
and this is my last attempted rep which
took 2.3 seconds so based on that rep
slowdown i'd say that was a true rpe of
eight maybe nine for me and this is
important because with the squats and
rdls we were leaving a nice few reps in
the tank so it's important to push the
quads and glutes closer to failure on
this one then we're moving on to three
sets of 10 to 12 reps on the eccentric
accentuated leg extension so we're
aiming for a three to four second
lowering phase we're also setting the
seat a bit further back to get the
rectus femoris head of the quads more
involved since it's the only head that
won't be activated much on the squat or
the leg press that's because it's the
only head that crosses both the hip
joint and the knee joint meaning it'll
be shortening at the hip while
lengthening at the knee so by moving the
seat back we put the hips in a less
flexed position allowing the rectus
femoris to contribute more to knee
extension after that we're doing three
sets of 10 to 12 reps on the seated
hamstring curl and then on the last set
which i'll show here in fast motion
we're doing 10 reps to failure then
dropping the weight in half and going to
failure again so for the drop set i
cranked out another 14 reps and i'm
opting for the seated leg curl here
because a new high quality study from
mayo and colleagues found that seated
leg curls caused significantly more
hamstrings growth than lying leg curls
something the mass research review
attributed to the hypertrophic value of
training at long muscle lengths where
the hamstrings are placed under a
greater degree of stretch when
performing the leg curl seated now of
course this doesn't mean that the lying
leg curl isn't any good and i still do
use it for variety but when given the
choice i usually do opt for the seated
variation these days okay up next three
sets of to 12 reps on the standing calf
raise and because my left calf is
slightly smaller after each set i take
the weight off and do some additional
mile reps for my left leg only so in
fast motion here after the main set i'll
do four or five reps shake it off do
another four or five reps shake it off
again and then just repeat that until i
can't hit four clean reps and then we'll
finish off the workout with some direct
ab work so i did a super set of plate
weighted decline crunches where i'm
focusing on squeezing my six pack to
curl the weight up and long lever pelvic
tilt planks where you can see that my
elbows are positioned underneath my eyes
and i'm squeezing my glutes to pull my
pelvis into posterior tilt to make the
plank more challenging and i was holding
those for 30 seconds per set all right
so day two is a push day where we're
focusing on the chest delts and triceps
and we're kicking off the workout with
three sets of eight reps at 72 and a
half percent of our one rep max on the
bench press which comes out to 275
pounds for me and generally for anything
over six reps i'll usually just do a
very quick quarter second pause on the
chest but the weight did feel pretty
light on this day so i paused each rep a
little bit longer than usual and i'll
put a quick progression scheme up here
on the screen if you want to pause and
check that out man i don't know how
people freestyle like i can't even say
progression scheme on the screen like
holy okay after that we're moving
on to three sets of 12 on a machine
shoulder press and i'm opting for a
machine variation here because when
taking a power building approach all the
heavy free weight movements can take a
toll on the joints and the smaller
stabilizer muscles and so for a
hypertrophy focused week i do like to
include a bit more machine work because
it allows you to push sets closer to
failure without being quite so taxing
and if you don't have machine access a
good substitute would be the standing
dumbbell arnold press because it allows
you to hit the delts hard with slightly
lighter weights up next three sets of 12
to 15 reps on the dip and the idea here
is to make up for any so-called range of
motion deficit from the power lifting
style bench press technique so with the
dip i'm getting a big stretch on the
pecs at the bottom something that's been
accumulating evidence in the research as
a potentially important signal for
growth and deficit push-ups are a good
replacement here if you don't have
access to dip handles after that we're
heading three sets of eight to ten on
the eccentric accentuated skull crusher
so really disrupting the tricep fibers
by using a three second controlled
lowering phase and then keeping constant
tension by not fully locking the weight
out at the top up next is the egyptian
cable lateral rays however unlike
previous programs we're using a mile rep
intensity technique for the last set
only where after hitting 12 normal reps
to an rpe of 9 or 10 we'll rest for a
couple breaths go back and hit another
four reps then rest for another couple
breaths hit another four reps and just
keep doing that until we can't get four
more reps and the idea here is that on a
power building approach the side delts
can easily be neglected so i try to give
them a bit more stimulus on the
exercises that do hit them and we're
finishing off the workout with two high
rep sets of 20 to 30 reps on the cable
tricep kickback where we're focusing on
a very steady tempo of one second up and
one second down now i should say overall
research shows that as long as you're
controlling the weight tempo doesn't
actually matter much for hypertrophy
however for high rep work i do like to
monitor my tempo because as you get to
the end of a set your form can get
sloppy if you're not conscious about the
execution of each and every rep all
right let's move on to day three where
we're hitting our more lat focused pull
workout of course still hitting the
other pulling muscles like the mid-back
and biceps so at first three sets of six
reps on the weighted pull-up and of
course you may not need to load these
depending on your body weight and
strength level and using assistance is
perfectly fine if you can't do six reps
with body weight now since this is a lat
focused workout you can see that i'm
keeping a very upright posture allowing
me to focus on near pure shoulder
adduction which will light up both the
lats and teres muscles of the back so
keep your legs pointing straight down
tuck your shoulder blades down by
pointing your chest up toward the bar
and go through a nice full range of
motion on every rep after that we're
doing three sets of 10 to 12 reps on the
seated cable row where i'm using the mag
grip attachment because i find it a bit
more comfortable on the wrists but a
neutral close grip attachment will work
fine as well i'm focusing on keeping my
elbows tucked into my sides and driving
them down by rolling to my stomach and
not driving my elbows back any further
than my midline and of course even
though we're queuing for lat emphasis
both of these first two movements will
target the mid-back to a large degree as
well so after that we're doing a lat
isolation move with the constant tension
kneeling cable pull over and again with
the higher rep stuff i'm counting each
rep with a one second up one second down
tempo to avoid form from deteriorating
and keeping the tension where it's
supposed to be on the lats and i'm not
really aiming for any specific rep count
i'm just going until i notice that that
tempo is fading and once i can no longer
do one second up and one second down i
terminate the set there now after being
very strict and form focused on those
first three movements up next we're
going to do some hammer chi curls you'll
notice that i'm doing a bit more
swinging than usual which allows me to
handle heavier weights than if i were to
stay perfectly upright with my elbows
perfectly locked into place and the idea
here is to just get in the zone and move
some weight without overthinking it as
long as you're gripping the dumbbell
handle as hard as you can your forearm
flexors and brachioradialis will be
highly activated plus sometimes it's
just fun to train like a bro however to
balance things out we're hitting a
strict incline dumbbell curl after this
time keeping the elbow back and as
locked into position as possible while
focusing on supinating or rotating the
dumbbells so your palms face up by
driving through the pinkies this allows
us to isolate the biceps much better
especially now that the muscles of the
forearm have been fatigued from the
previous exercise okay so day four is
our second leg day of the week and this
time we're focusing a little more on the
posterior chain so mainly the glutes and
hamstrings but we'll still be doing some
quad work as well so we're kicking the
workout off with three sets of three
reps using 80 to 85 percent one rep max
and this is meant to be sub-maximal work
but you should still be somewhere in the
six to eight rpe zone by the third set
so let's have a look at my bar path here
as you can see the bar is moving
straight up and straight down perfectly
centered over the middle of the foot if
you let the bar get too far out in front
of you you increase the moment arm at
the hips making the lift much harder and
horizontal bar movement can also throw
off your balance at the top so before
initiating the lift pack your lats nice
and tight and scrape the bar up against
your shins as you pull after that we're
doing three sets of 10 to 12 reps on the
machine hack squat now higher rep hack
squats can be very helpful in building
up a huge work capacity in the quads and
since this is our main quad movement for
the day you want to really focus on
allowing your knees to travel out in
front of your toes and yes this is
perfectly safe as long as it doesn't
give you any knee pain and i'll link my
video on that down below and for more
carry over to the barbell squat you
should mimic the same stance width and
foot flare that you'd use with the
barbell and i'm going to play my last
couple reps raw here so you guys can get
a better vibe for what kind of effort
you should be using so not all the way
to failure but ideally having no more
than two or three reps in the tank
[Music]
oh and i should say if you don't have a
hack squat machine you can do goblet
squats instead again exaggerating that
forward knee travel to emphasize the
quads all right after those we're moving
on to the unilateral hip thrust here
we're focusing on squeezing each glute
individually to move the weight and
posteriorly tilting the pelvis at the
top while keeping the chin tucked down
then we're doing a super set of nordic
ham curls and prisoner back extensions i
set up the nordics on a lat pull down
machine and i'm using a pull for
assistance and with the prison or back
extensions you want to put your hands
behind your head to extend the moment
arm at the hips making it more
challenging on the glutes and hitting
the upper back to some degree as well
then we're doing three sets of eight to
ten reps on the unilateral leg press
calf raise starting with our weaker leg
and making an effort to stretch the
weaker side in between sets as well and
then to round out the workout we're
finishing with some direct core work
this time doing the absolutely brutal
weighted l-sit hold so basically place a
10 or 25-pound bumper plate on your
thighs using a pull-up belt and try to
hold it in that l position as long as
you can even just getting 10 to 15
seconds can be a challenge at first so
over time you want to try to increase
the hold time up to 20 to 30 seconds
with the same weight these are super
challenging at the end of a workout all
right so let's take a look at the second
push workout of the week where we're
focusing a bit more on the shoulders and
kicking things off with four sets of
four reps on the overhead press at
eighty percent one rep max now two cues
i've been emphasizing lately are arching
my upper back and really tucking my
glutes in to lock everything in place
and make sure there aren't any energy
leaks in the press this way all your
pressing power is being transmitted up
and into the bar as efficiently as
possible then we're moving on to three
sets of ten reps on the close grip bench
press to an rpe of seven to eight and
every time i show my close grip bench
press a bunch of people note that it
just looks like the regular grip and i
just say that for max strength transfer
the idea is just to bring your grip in
about a hand's width on each side not to
get your grip as close as you can so for
me my normal grip is ring finger on the
knurling so for my close grip i'll move
that in about one hand's width on each
side i'll also tuck the elbows in a bit
more and keep more of a steady cadence
on each rep rather than pausing on the
chest although sometimes i will pause
the last few reps especially if i want
to make this set a bit more challenging
up next we're hitting some low to high
cable crossovers to target the upper
pecs a bit more and one cool thing that
i'm doing here is on the last set only
i'll hit failure somewhere around 10 to
12 reps drop the weight by 50
and go to failure again which i'll play
here in fast motion and while the
research as it stands right now doesn't
show much of a benefit to doing drop
sets outside of potentially increasing
time efficiency i still think that it's
important to push yourself like this
periodically especially as you get more
advanced and that's because it gives you
reference for what all out really means
once you experience a tough set like
this it can be a reminder that well
maybe you haven't been pushing as close
to failure as you think next we're
hitting some overhead tricep extensions
and the main thing you want to focus on
here is keeping your elbow locked into
position getting a big stretch on the
triceps at the bottom and a nice squeeze
at the top and where we're using cables
here unlike with the free weights
they'll automatically be pretty steady
tension on the triceps throughout the
range of motion so i prefer to use a
full and complete rom here after that
we're doing three sets of dumbbell
lateral raised 21s and this is a new
method i've been using lately where you
progressively decrease the range of
motion as fatigue sets in so we'll start
with seven reps of full range laterals
going all the way up and all the way
down and then we'll do seven reps just
using the top half to three quarters of
the movement so we're purposefully
cutting out the bottom portion and then
finally we'll do seven reps in the
bottom half only so this is a sort of
mechanical drop set where the middle
fibers might be too fatigued to complete
a full contraction but still have enough
juice to crank out some more partial
reps because of the dumbbell's tension
curve where it's quite easy at the
bottom but much more difficult at the
top and then i finished off the workout
with some direct neckwork on this
eight-way neck machine and i'll just
link my neck training video down below
which describes how you should approach
your neck training if you don't have
access to a machine like this and i
still hit neck directly one to two days
a week whenever i can fit it in it's not
a huge priority for me at the moment but
i do still try to hit a sort of minimum
effective dose as i do think it's
important to include all right and the
final workout of the week is our second
pull day where we're focusing a bit more
on the mid-back now it's important to
note that where this push-pull legs week
is nested within my power building 2.0
program the mid-back will be getting a
huge stimulus from all the squatting and
dead lifting on those full-body strength
weeks so if the mid-back volume seems a
bit low to you that's probably why and
you can feel free to sprinkle in some
more mid back work if you do find that
to be the case but regardless we're
kicking off the workout here with an
omni grip lat pull down so basically you
do set one with a wide grip then bring
it into a moderate grip for set two so
just outside shoulder width and then use
a reverse close grip for set three and
the idea here is that as your lats
fatigue from set to set you get a little
more biceps assistance so grip one is
the hardest when your back is the least
fatigued grip two should feel a bit
easier and then grip three is easier
still so you should be able to hit the
same weight for the same reps even as
fatigue builds after that we're doing
three sets of 10 to 12 reps on a chest
supported row now i'm using a machine
here because again i find i'm able to
push a bit closer to failure without the
same demand on the smaller stabilizers
which isn't always a good thing because
you do want to strengthen those
stabilizers as well but on a power
building program where there's already
so many free weight movements using some
more machines on the hypertrophy weeks
isn't a bad idea and here i'm doing
these more mike israetel style where i'm
really exaggerating the scapular
protraction at the bottom by allowing my
shoulder blades to completely come apart
and then squeezing my upper back as hard
as i can at the top even allowing my
chest to come off the pad a bit next up
are some rope face pulls where i'm
targeting more of the rear delts and
external rotators by pulling the rope
slightly up and rotating my shoulders
out rather than pulling my elbows
straight back and squeezing my shoulder
blades together which will cause the mid
traps to take over much more now after
that i'm including some optional upper
trap work with the incline dumbbell
shrug and i say optional because for
some people the deadlift work on the
full body weeks will probably be enough
to grow the upper traps but for others
like me who have more stubborn upper
traps doing some direct work that takes
them through a dynamic range of motion
is important i recommend using straps
for these so that your grip doesn't
become the limiting factor then we're
doing a little more rear delt work
because it is something that i think a
lot of people seem to neglect i think
the rear delts are one of those smaller
muscles that really benefit from
isolation so here we're doing two sets
of 15 reps with protracted scapulae so
we're sweeping the weight out but not
back at all for these first 15 reps then
we'll rest for a few seconds and crank
out another 10 to 15 reps but this time
actively squeezing our shoulder blades
together allowing the mid traps to help
out this way the rear delts are getting
some stimulus and you can extend the set
well beyond the typical termination
point by using this subtle change in
cueing and then the final movement is a
super set of easy bar pronated curls and
easy bar supinated curls so we'll first
fatigue the elbow flexors of the forearm
by using the pronated or overhand grip
this will take the biceps out of the
curl to a large degree and then when we
flip the palms up with the forearms now
fatigued the biceps can fully take over
now some people might just feel like
their grip is giving out and find it
harder to engage their biceps this way
but for me as someone with very stubborn
biceps this technique does help me feel
my biceps working better than if i just
started with the supinated curl and
worst case scenario you just beef up the
back of the forearm anyway which
certainly isn't a bad thing and that is
a wrap for this full week of push-pull
leg workouts like i said at the
beginning i'm aiming to release the full
power building 2.0 program later this
summer or early fall and that's going to
include many of the techniques that i
used here on the aperture a few weeks
and it'll also include some new strength
variations that i've been using on the
full body weeks so if you're trying to
figure out your upcoming training you'd
have just enough time to run through the
first power building program which takes
11 weeks if you include the max test
week and the deload week and then you'd
finish that just in time for the new
follow-up program which again is an
entirely new routine but it does build
on some of the progressions that we used
in that first one so if you already
bought the first program you'd have
enough time to run through it again i
personally ran through it three times or
if you're looking for a new program you
can pick up my first power building
program at jeffnip.com and if you want
to you can use the code kiwigains and
that'll save you 25 off so that's it for
this one guys don't forget to leave me a
thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
i'll see you guys all here in the next
one