hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization must eat Foods Foods you
have to have in order to have a healthy
diet
they're not that's BS
why so you'll hear folks say quite
regularly that these are must eat foods
and if you ever go to the grocery store
and if you ever so much as look at the
magazines in the aisle the little
various uh previews of what's inside the
covers almost always have like three
foods your body craves when you're
dieting five foods you have to eat for
good health and it's like it's shock
value it's like oh Adam am I missing
something but is it true we have Foods
you know that make the rounds of you
know these are the healthy foods you
have to have avocados there's been like
five different resurgences of like honor
avocados like so healthy like I eat
avocado toast like hourly totally that's
a thing kiwis kiwis the healthiest food
in the world it's got all these
nutrients how can you spare yourself
these nutrients
uh carnivore folks we'll say beef you
gotta eat beef they'll eat like a 95
beef diet okay is it really true that we
have to have beef right some health
authority will say yes that's the case
and we'll say yes kiwis and yes avocados
but it's not actually true
and it's
so not true that there are entire food
groups that we encourage you to eat as
people who actually know nutrition and
because they're great and nutritious and
convenient and healthy
and increase the variance of your diet
but even these major food groups you
don't have to eat and you can be healthy
completely without them for example
grains
you can eat a totally grain-free diet
and be as healthy as a clam and are
clams healthy they're certainly happy
because they're smiling uh
uh you don't have to eat grains straight
up
you don't have to eat fruits you can eat
veggies grains Meats
or lean proteins and then just never eat
fruit and be the healthiest you've ever
been in your entire life and you don't
even have to eat meat
when you look at the kinds of folks that
vegans used to be in the 90s and early
2000s before the vegan junk food
industry was born they were some of the
healthiest people on the planet they ate
no meat ever if you take the right
vitamin supplements and things like that
alongside you never have to eat meat
you'll be all trial for the rest of your
life
so these are huge groups you don't have
to eat I really think that within one of
these groups or another of these major
food groups there's if we say it's it's
true that you don't have to eat any
fruits at all and still be completely
healthy if you'd like is it could
possibly even theoretically be true that
you have to have kiwis which are one
type of fruit who knows how many other
fruits you also have to have what's the
probability that you only have to have
kiwis I mean Jesus Christ there's like
like I don't know hundreds of thousands
of or at least hundreds of and probably
thousands of different fruits that
humans eat is it really like one of them
you have to eat well no we know already
the entire category you don't have to
eat so it's probably like oh there's a
50 that you have to eat in a category
which you don't have to eat any of them
how does that make any sense
the nutrients you actually need can come
from a huge variety of different foods
and if they don't come from one side of
that variety they can come from the
other
because your body is profoundly good at
extracting the nutrients it needs from
the foods that are available that
doesn't mean you go on a starvation
Elimination Diet of three things but if
it's like 20 things your body's pretty
damn good at getting it out your body is
designed by Evolution you're a Survivor
you are a descendant of folks that have
faced intermittent starvation for six
million years of human evolution so if
there's nutrients in it your body will
find it it digests almost everything
inside of food it will grab every
nutrient it needs and lots of foods have
so many bases of nutrients covered you
don't need to eat 50 different kinds of
foods to be like this a nutrient I get
from kiwis and I've got to have beef to
get this there's tons of nutrients to go
around
you you really only need a certain
amount minimum of proteins carbs and
fats and if you consume most of those
through healthy sources like if you have
some whole grains some veggies some
fruits any one of those three
you're pretty good to go and if you have
some kind of lean proteins and maybe
take a multivitamin every day your bases
are covered
you get enough complete proteins from
your food enough essential fats from
your fats and kind of everything on top
of that
is BS
so don't worry about Foods you have to
eat next time you're walking down the
grocery store aisle and you get to the
cash register if there's a magazine that
says like hey look you've got to eat
Twinkies that'd be kind of sweet like
Hey listen I'm buying one now you said
enough
apples I must eat Foods you know star
fruit a lot of times it's like exotic
fruit Foods they get you with they're
like dragon fruit the new health Elixir
no no it's just some shit you guys have
never heard of so it looks exotic and
people in the Philippines it grows in
their yard and they eat it they're like
that's fine and it does taste good
anyway go eat something that tastes good
and don't worry about that it's saving
your life just eat well and you'll be
totally fine everything else is bullshit
then get out of here go eat dragon fruit
now take a flight to the Philippines now
yay
so yeah