morning everyone a damn Texas time
refreshed it's only one hour difference
but there's a time difference yeah we
remember that we're training one hour
later than we thought we were late who
said it's miss breakfast mammy a toast
egg over there I can make come in just
to touch the orange juice yeah one I've
got some scrambled eggs two slices of
toast is butter a little bit of a
mouthful of mixed fruits apple juice
water and dust removed copy that Rick
it's really good
you're replicating that's pretty good
yes we are in a place called Lisa you
can build your own pizza Jeff actually
discuss it was the barbecue barbecue
chicken meat set ready for my writing Oh
Danny when I get I know what it is if it
anyone give it a 3.5 3.5 I don't think I
like the gore of the gorgonzola my one
important so let's add it a really rich
flavor here that I was Maya it was all
right I could see it'd be really good I
just needed I just need to make it
differently it's more on the other hand
seven point five one point five look I
mean you try that
as really I'm going to finish up here go
back to the hotel and then we're going
for a leg workout with special guests
I'll keep you posted
we totally should eat out here Texas
heat is night and take me through your
leg workout you should take me and a
secret gas through your leg workout I
want a leg workout that I won't be able
to walk in today don't go along but it's
going to be super hot I think it's a
little bit hotter than Florida
yeah so back to the hotel rooms to the
pre workout situation no caffeine
caffeine pump to scoop yeah two scoops I
had one of my best friends from
university buy this product and he was
like right looking like really getting a
lot from it in terms of like stimulation
I was like highballing is a non-student
product that the whole points like if
you're training weight or you don't like
stimulation use this one but what's the
one element so what's the benefit of
using this then it's like he gives you
this without this yeah so gives you a
pump yet how does it give you a pump I
don't like a really vague word I can see
what's right would be like it increases
vasodilation the main ingredient that
does that is citrulline there's also
nitrates and they all increase cyclic
A&P collections which increases
vasodilation this week's going down
there and then I'm just I like to take
mine like a shot
maybe I should cycle off of it I've
watched a summer my dear
I wasn't doubling video that says it's
just like a lost caffeine MMO had rolled
up and you make a makeshift funnel whoo
David Bowie is gone is it all right
you're a team and even morning what
would be better is if you're not going
to drink it right away no I'm going to
drink everything oh good let's do a
transition where you're faking it so I
can transition to the gym clip so
excited
like normal people fill three hours I'll
just release escape out of the creator
and no one first when Julie satsang
today good I feel like my June playlist
is going to be the best one ever
I've been getting like really good
feedback on it if you don't like hip-hop
music then you won't like them but the
June one is going to be so good to just
the Brockhampton album then staple of
any staples album you go pushing you
know Samantha Superman are invited all
the time it's like a most frequently
commented thing on my channel what are
Stepney shoes
that's we're going to choose oh yeah how
do you always you guys whatever
[Music]
[Music]
again I'm talking about right here
so guys business Christian and this is
Jim alkalete this is our first time
training here
[Music]
[Music]
the
okay point is none of that now become a
two o'clock oh man that's a different
level
yeah we haven't trained one it was like
really daylight yet yeah it's different
for a class I felt like I was having a
harder workout than I actually was
because I'm sweating so much
[Music]
[Music]
but the gym we can move all this
something about today really yeah two
three hello
one more one more breathe push good hey
go wow what you got goin just kill you
[Music]
twenty more
your hamstrings look so shredded here in
this lighting as really funny man like
Albert Hades with Alec I had Squarespace
sponsor like it like that's like after
you join them like a sponsored yeah so
like click that is watching my videos no
that's utrom and like really
[Music]
repping the person here cool yeah let's
go out which we definitely want to cut
below yes like the country yeah overall
you yeah you have you go lower volume or
movement I would recommend a man like
you'll get your strength when you get
[Music]
one this is no game before up next - I
bet for one more full rap rap it out eat
101 go to the two reasons that is one
more thing
[Music]
as we made it back from the gym I feel
like I sweat a gallon of that I
legitimately almost passed out three
times like I had to get down like this
and yeah so now we're gonna go get some
sushi
I'm gonna drink a lot of water I will
sleep okay we'll check in with you guys
in sushi what a nice Lake oh there is no
female sushi and Grill post-workout
rehydration meal both post-workout meal
meal enjoy here we started with edamame
as usual with protein source of the
micronutrients California roll is a
spicy salmon roll
morning everyone it is Saturday July the
1st which means it's Canada Day apps I
just want to say happy Canada Day to all
of my Canadian subscribers I'm Stephanie
and I are going there in a week right
July 7 so when we come today we're going
to be back in Canada I'm so excited to
get back right I go to the gym we're
going to do some quick partners it
should net curls because one thing that
I have found in epping is that if you
take almost any time off of it at all
your neck will shrink and this is
something that I learned from Alpha
Destiny who was a guy who like really
ramps on neck training and track
training hard he's had some really
impressive motivating results hey my
heart oh yeah that's good just the type
of guy to make his girlfriend partners
like when I flex my neck it looks
freaking huge especially with the pump
but if it's just like relax
still have room for group it actually
feels good for me to get a neck pump now
like I've learned to actually like it I
used to hate it or yeah this is the
first day I think of this gym is opening
right like that
under Christians though yeah we're gonna
go check it out we're gonna be filming
the AB sign explaining video so that's
going to be out probably maybe like a
week from when this one goes up stations
without adversities the air conditioning
man like first first item on the agenda
is do they have a BOSU ball
[Music]
[Music]
strength that means we're the best
almost any out there but getting
anything blackberry muscle building
ultimately comes down to tension so like
can you press enough weight in enough
volume that's exactly right so in the
air conditioning if you're able to push
more that's probably gonna be matter
Federer for muscle growth data loss
ultimately comes down to caloric deficit
right does it help you get in a caloric
deficit probably not too much so the
only thing that probably helps with is
water loss bring it out for you very for
us is I know if I have a traveling yeah
I was literally just so different so you
should getting rid of the water like in
terms of this industry I love science
tonight look training and I like to
production but I oppose Dana Tyler
like I don't you think like awesome
anything like intellectual left-handed
we're going to really do it like hip hop
as a debacle use your alternative
attended La Brea has the same thing lets
me like a lot of comedian music
so pristine metrics rectifier that's
what stuff you Jeff is like a music
concert yeah break residential I'll do
deliver trying to think of where we
should do I want to look like kind of
professional your live around here make
it absolutely not thank you baby
yeah MC AC um so that was actually
otherwise you got the right guy I knew
you're going to die just what kind of
wanted to like frame it up that way I'm
actually a person needs to do more AB
training yeah after you are you you're
going to be like there's a bunch of tips
that I picked up that I'm going to thank
you I think because a literary
yourselves well I got the research and
what I actually do like sometimes with a
different but I find doing like partners
since this stuff is really good because
like I've trained you like born like you
tend to packin on at the end of your
workout if you have like a partner you
can like throw a medicine ball with or
like do like to see partner assisted
like raises on the ground it just
arrested her and then like we change
'english like me for retina macula is
brain in the exact same spot not
actually do things people notice as when
I was like learning and everything I
heard this advice that if you wanted I
had really didn't even asked as a man I
want like the block you six-pack right
so the advice was beat up your abs for
training super part but immediately
after like and like has done you've run
to the lower back hypertension often up
any tighten your your tighten your lower
back so what's Ambrose lioness I know
have you do my eyes of running and just
like doing extensions hoping that's
really funny because you guys are like
big muscular dudes like dying but ABS
work like okay so we're about to tell
them a back workout this we're going to
me on Christian's channel and I'll leave
that it'll be the first link in the
description and the bill is going to do
a sick edit for this one make sure you
go over and check that one out
we're going to get into if we're gonna
keep it off put some pull-ups over here
that's actually going to conclude this
video thank you guys for watching
subscribe the channel if you're new like
the video if you liked it see you guys
the next
you change the ball with the headshot
can't staple with the wind gang liam
neeson with the rescue idol gonna win
the left face
careful with the chains some Abell with
saw Anthony Hopkins I mean in them raw
they'll know we are