so for those of you who missed it last
week I uploaded a video on training
volume and training frequency where I
laid out my current beliefs on how many
sets you should do per week and how you
should split those sets up generally for
the most part most people are gonna want
to be somewhere in this range somewhere
in between 10 sets per body part per
week and 20 sets per body part per week
I know I got a healthy amount of
backlash in the comments section of that
video mostly in the form of people just
saying that my volume recommendations
were too low and the video I drew up a
rough sketch of the volume hypertrophy
relationship using a graph where I
showed that you can get the majority of
your gains potential with just 10 weekly
sets per body part and going up to 20
sets would get you some more gains but
they would be diminishing
now once you get somewhere in the 20 to
30 sets per week zone you potentially
start running into overtraining issues
which could actually dampen your
gideon's now first these numbers are
pulling from a systematic review and
meta-analysis published in 2017 by dr.
Brad Schoenfeld dan OGG Warren and James
Krieger which found that doing more than
10 sets per week should significantly
morganians in fact almost double the
gains of doing less than 10 sets per
week now this data didn't exactly tell
us where that upper limit is but expert
opinion including that of the
researchers themselves told us that
somewhere in the 10 to 20 sets per week
zone was probably the sweet spot and
doing more than that would likely not do
anything extra and could potentially
cause overtraining and dampen
hypertrophy and also these ideas
coincide with MRV concepts developed by
dr. Mike Israel for the average
intermediate something like 10 cents per
week per body part is a minimum
effective foam for a lot of people 20
sets is not a magic number because are
no magic numbers but like if you're
consistently doing more than 20 cents
per body for per week and your progress
sucks you feel like your recovery is
burdened and you got to think about
probably doing less whereas like if
you're doing 8 sets per week and you
think like oh this isn't working you're
probably not doing too much at the last
week some of the more astute amongst my
subscribers pointed me in the direction
of some new research from James Krieger
implying that maybe there is no upper
limit to the amount of volume you can do
and just more is better the more volume
you can do the
more gains you'll get so rather than
just speculate on this I figured I'd cut
right to the chase and get James Krieger
on the line and see what the deal is all
right hey James how's it going good
thanks I'm gonna show you a sketch of a
graph that I drew up I'm gonna actually
just put it up here so I don't know if
you can see this here on the x-axis is
volume somewhere here around 10 sets
I've kind of got you know you can get
most of the gains at 10 set up get a
little bit more at 20 and then at some
point over here you start to see no more
returns and then eventually you start to
see it start to drop off I'm curious
your thoughts on that graph and let if
the new research and if you think you
can do it better how how you would so
yeah it's interesting because I would
have drawn the graph very similarly to
you until recently there's data that is
going to be out probably kind of blow
the whole idea of only you know where
the upper limit of volume is out of the
water based on some of the data I'm
seeing even when you go up to 2030 sets
you can get significantly more gains
than with 10 sets after speaking with
James I started thinking that perhaps
the graph might look something more like
this
and where that upper limit is maybe we
just don't know yet so a few other
interesting things I got from this call
while there have been some studies that
have shown a plateau in gains there
hasn't been a single study that actually
shows a loss in muscle mass from
increasing volume so any guesses on
where that upper limit might be will be
speculative and probably based on
experience as much as the actual
research also all of these volume
landmarks are very exercised specific
some exercises will just be much more
damaging and affect recovery much more
than others I'm so for example a set of
heavy Romanian deadlifts may not count
in the same way as a set of leg curls so
volume clearly isn't the only thing that
matters even though it is very important
and finally just because we haven't
necessarily found an upper limit in the
research where volume becomes
detrimental for hypertrophy that isn't
necessarily an across-the-board
endorsement for trainees especially
beginners to do as much volume as
possible my only hesitation in someone
who
as someone who's kind of presenting this
science to the public is that you don't
want people to misinterpret it and be
like I got to do as many sets as
possible I know exactly and that's why
I'm always adding all these caveats I'm
like you know you got to think about
this and think about that you know
because I get that concern too that
people are gonna suddenly take this data
and say oh my god we got to do 45 weekly
sets per body part you know and stuff
like that and I just think the more
important takeaway I think for me at
least is if you're not gaining size and
you've got room to bump your volume up
then that might be your first the first
thing to try and on our call James
talked about potential utility and
running specialization phases where you
might Jack the volume up to say 30 sets
for one body part while putting the rest
at maintenance volume so say 10 to 20
sets and then cycling through different
body parts and you'd want to prioritize
your weak points or areas that you're
trying to improve the most and I would
say that this could be particularly
useful and more highly advanced
trainings so I think that getting back
to my graph most things still hold that
we do know that 10 sets per week is a
lot better than doing less than that and
many trainees can get a good deal of
gains at this volume especially
beginners but what happens after this
point here is difficult to say and based
on the current research might be better
left off with a bunch of question marks
for now and I do think that passed the
20 sets mark in practice it will become
a bit more of a balancing act or yes
more volume may get you more results but
if you push it too far an injury could
set you back much further than the
marginal gains would be worth to begin
with so like always it's important to
keep these general ballparks in mind and
carefully monitor your own progress in
your own recovery adjusting volume up or
down depending on where you are and
where you want to be okay so guys I hope
that that one was informative please
leave me a like if you enjoyed the video
and just let me know if you like these
interview snippets kind of integrated
into the video like this and make sure
you guys check out James's research
review I'll have that linked in the
description box below that's seriously
amazing and please subscribe to the
channel if you are new and I'll see you
guys all here in the next video
you
[Music]