thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
all right welcome everyone to a new
episode of myth busting a where every
Monday we're gonna take a look at some
popular fitness or nutrition idea I have
a look at where that idea got started
and then figure out whether it's true or
false based on the most recent
scientific literature so this week we're
going to be looking at the idea that
ketogenic diets are better than
conventional diets for fat loss and
we'll also touch on a few other things
like just general health and performance
so first where did the keto diet come
from so in the early 1900's medical use
of the ketogenic diet emerged as a
strategy to treat epilepsy in 1921 dr.
Russell Wilder coined the term ketogenic
diet named for the presence of ketone
bodies that increase in the blood when
carbohydrates coming from the diet are
too low to serve as the body's main fuel
source and it was found and continues to
be a very effective treatment for
epileptic seizures however it wasn't
until the 1970s with the release of the
Atkins diet that very low carb diets
gained mainstream popularity and while
most of dr. Atkins ideas were rejected
by the sound medical science there has
been a resurgence and the popularity of
the ketogenic diet in the last few years
especially within Fitness circles so
quickly a ketogenic diet is basically a
very low carb very high fat diet and in
practice calories from carbs are often
brought all the way down to 5% of total
caloric intake with about 20% of
calories coming from protein and about
75% from fat now generally carbs are
restricted to no more than 50 grams per
day and most of those carbs tend to come
from more fibrous sources like
vegetables are just trace sources and
foods they're already eating so why do
people think that this is a good idea
for fat loss I've seen two main reasons
given amongst its strongest proponents
the first of which is the insulin
hypothesis and the idea goes that sense
one of insulins main actions is lipid
Genesis or fat formation keeping insulin
levels low by restricting carbohydrate
in a diet should result in less fat
storage and more fat mobilization now I
covered this in a video on sugar but
very quickly while it appears to be
theoretically sound there are a number
of problems with the insulin hypothesis
first it has been experimentally
falsified in the sign
typical itter for being too simplistic
and in specific I think it's important
to remember that carbs are not the only
nutrient that spike insulin protein
itself is also very insulin a Janet and
insulin is not required for fat storage
to take place so even if you're on a
zero carb diet if you're in a caloric
surplus fat can still be stored because
of a hormone called isolation
stimulating hormone or ASP so it's quite
clear that a prolonged energy surplus is
the main factor driving fat gain and not
a single hormone such as insulin and the
second main claim from Keita proponents
is that the keto diet offers some sort
of metabolic advantage over more
conventional diets and I think the basic
theory here is that it's more
energetically costly for the body to
convert proteins to glucose so in that
absence of dietary carbs it causes the
body to sort of waste energy or waste
calories converting protein to glucose
as a result it was more fat and again
while it sounds like a pretty reasonable
hypothesis according to one 2013 review
there is no direct experimental evidence
to support a metabolic advantage and a
recent study reported that there were no
changes in resting energy expenditure
after a very low carb ketogenic diet as
a whole the scientific community has
pushed back against this idea quite
harshly no evidence really ever turning
up in support of it and to me looking at
this body of literature as a whole
rather than offering some unique
metabolic advantage that seems much more
likely that the keto diet is just quite
good at suppressing appetite and that's
an effect that's been noted repeatedly
in the scientific literature but I'd
also note that restricting carbohydrate
isn't the only way to reduce appetite
and control hunger for example a lot of
people will notice improvements in terms
of hunger control when using
intermittent fasting and that's
regardless of carb intake and even
simple strategies like just increasing
your water intake or increasing your
fiber intake
can definitely help increase fullness
and satiety again regardless of the
overall carb intake in your diet
um you're also eliminating many foods
with keto meaning your options are going
to be more limited so it could be the
case that people simply consume fewer
calories without realizing it just
because some of the more appetizing
aisles of the grocery store are just
off limits so I think rather than a
unique metabolic advantage that seems
much more likely that Quito just gets
people eating fewer calories through a
reduced appetite and through food
elimination the former of which I think
can be achieved through other less
aggressive means and the latter of which
just isn't necessary since you can
impose a caloric deficit without
eliminating whole food groups but so far
all we've really done is address
hypotheses surrounding Quito so now
let's have a look at what the actual
experimental literature has to say a
2014 meta-analysis published in the
Journal of the American Medical
Association looking at 48 studies and
the efficacy of different popular fad
diets like Atkins Weight Watchers and so
on found that pretty much all diets
result in significant weight loss which
led the authors to conclude that most
calorie reducing diets result in
clinically important weight loss as long
as the diet is maintained and that any
differences were small and likely to be
unimportant for example even though the
Atkins diet did result in slightly more
weight loss than the zone diet because
different diets are variably tolerated
by different individuals the ideal diet
is the one that is best adhered to so
that they can stay on the diet as long
as possible another meta-analysis
compared low-carb diets to calorie
matched conventional weight loss diets
in overweight adults and found that
trials show weight loss in the short
term irrespective of whether the diet is
low carb or balanced in terms of macro
nutrient composition granted low-carb is
not the same thing as keto so for that
we're gonna have to turn to the results
of a 2013 meta-analysis from due√±o and
colleagues which only included studies
that restricted carbs to less than 50
grams per day and here things get a
little bit more interesting looking at
the graph we can see that clearly there
was definitely a statistically
significant effect in favor of keto for
weight loss across these thirteen
studies although it's only about one
kilogram difference and loss on average
and even the authors acknowledge that in
the long term and when compared with
conventional diets the differences
appear to be of little clinical
significance although statistically
significant and other researchers have
pointed out the fact that protein intake
tends not to be controlled in these
studies where the keto group usually
just ends up eating more protein in
replacement of the carbohydrate at the
diet
missing and this is likely to result I
think an increased weight loss since
first of all protein is more thermogenic
than carbohydrates or fats meaning it
requires more energy to be metabolized
and secondly protein is more satiating
than the other macronutrients meaning
subjects will be more likely to eat
fewer calories simply because they feel
more satiated from the increased protein
and in support of this idea for 2012
study from sona natal split 132 subjects
into 4 calorie matched groups they had
two normal protein groups one with
normal carbs and the other with low
carbs and two high protein groups again
one normal curve group and one low carb
group after one year of dieting they
found that there were no differences
between normal carb and low carb groups
if protein was matched and they also
found that a high protein diet
outperformed the normal protein diet in
both cases regardless of carb intake so
to me this indicates that protein is
more likely to be a central factor in
regards to the success of a weight-loss
diet rather than carb intake and this
isn't even to mention its positive
effect on preventing muscle loss I think
it's also worth mentioning that many
people will see initial success with
keto losing a lot of weight quite
quickly due to glycogen depletion and
water loss but after those first few
weeks I think the weight differences
between keto and a more conventional
balanced diet start to go away and it
becomes a question of diet
sustainability and although I know some
people have adopted the keto lifestyle
with quite a lot of success even over
the long term others may find it more
difficult to stick to especially in the
beginning and I think that in the
absence of any specific benefit to keto
this is sort of a deterrent that I think
calls into question its generalizability
as a successful dieting strategy so even
if we can see that really any diet will
be successful provided a caloric deficit
is imposed as some folks will still
point to other potential benefits of a
ketogenic diet such as improved insulin
sensitivity and cardiovascular health so
as far as insulin sensitivity and
diabetes go a 2018 report from the
American Diabetes Association found that
while some studies have shown modest
benefits of very low carbohydrate or
ketogenic diets this approach may only
be appropriate for
short-term implementation so up to three
or four months and only if desired by
the patient as there's little long-term
research setting benefits or harm and
even if you already have diabetes
there's no single ideal dietary
distribution of calories amongst
carbohydrates and fats so macronutrient
distribution should be individualized
while keeping total calorie and
metabolic goals in mind and when it
comes to cardiovascular health again
there isn't any real consistently found
benefit in the literature on this one
meta-analysis looking more into the
cardiovascular side of things did find
significantly greater increases in HDL
cholesterol and LDL cholesterol at the
low carb diet up at systolic and
diastolic blood pressure didn't differ
significantly between the groups but I
think given the hugely multifactorial
nature of cardiovascular disease I would
say that the practical significance of
any differences between calorie mass
Aikido and normal carb diets is
questionable and from a more sort of
common sense perspective I would say
that keto might make it at least
initially a little bit more difficult to
nutritiously since you're basically
eliminating a very wide range of food
options so all grains all their
nutrients wouldn't be quite as easily
available to you and while there
generally is room in a ketogenic diet
for green leafy vegetables because of
their pretty low carb content fruit
often doesn't make the cut and I would
say that limiting fruit in your diet
probably isn't the best way to go about
optimizing your diet for health
especially considering that they're both
very nutrient rich and unlike a lot of
vegetables also quite enjoyable to eat
so is keto the key to health and
longevity I would say probably not but
by the same token it also won't kill you
since the body doesn't seem to have any
real problem with ketosis once it's
adapted and carbohydrates aren't an
essential nutrient for this you don't
need them in your diet so finally I'd
like to touch on key toes impact on
strength and muscle building goals and
here good data is somewhat limited since
most of the trials showing a benefit of
keto don't control for protein intake so
it isn't surprising that the keto group
often comes out on top however recently
a study from Wilson and colleagues match
calories and protein between groups and
found similar increases in strength and
power between a ketogenic diet and a
Western diet suggesting that a keto diet
might have less fergal lytic performance
reducing potential for strength training
and it does for endurance training in
other words I think keto is probably
worse for endurance training than
strength training but it's probably not
really helping either of them and
somewhat more grimly 2015 paper from
Bourke and colleagues notes that fat
adaptation strategies like the keto diet
might impair exercise performance
particularly involving shorter
high-intensity events which is likely
due to the impairment of muscle glycogen
utilization needed to support high work
rates so I would say that assuming
calories and protein are matched there's
no real benefit for going keto for
absolute strength and size although
there does seem to be a potential risk
as far as performance goes and so
bringing this full circle I would say
the idea that the ketogenic diet is
better than a balanced more traditional
diet is busted while there always will
be individual differences and some
people do seem to do quite well on keto
I think this ultimately comes back to
personal preference and individual trial
and error and I will note that while I
haven't personally experimented with
keto myself I know many people who have
and from what I hear it can be pretty
brutal to adapt to especially in those
first few weeks people will often feel
quite nauseous lethargic and apparently
it's it's quite bad that it's gotten the
moniker the keto flu for that adaptation
period so I would say that the barrier
to entry for a keto diet is quite a lot
higher than other diets and even though
it is only temporary and you do
eventually adapt this could be seen as a
deterrent
especially since like I said there
doesn't appear to be any obvious
long-term benefit to keto anyway I'm so
looking at the evidence as a whole I
wouldn't say there's any obvious
metabolic advantage there any fat loss
advantage performance advantage or even
any health advantage to the ketogenic
diet but with that said there doesn't
seem to be any obvious real detriment to
any of these areas either so if you are
running the ketogenic diet now with some
success then I think you should stick to
it as long as
continues to work for you and it's also
worth noting that the ketogenic diet may
have application and treatment of
certain cancers certain skin conditions
epilepsy and other neurological
disorders but I think that when it comes
to otherwise healthy individuals that's
important to keep in mind that while it
does get more complicated the more you
zoom in the best diet is usually the one
to which you can best pet here I'm
Skye's that's gonna wrap up this week's
myth-busting a I hope that you really
liked it and thank you so much for
watching before we go I want to give a
huge shout out to Squarespace for again
sponsoring this myth bus Monday in case
you guys don't know Squarespace is an
all-in-one website platform and they
allow you to custom create your own
website in your own online store and
they're the service that I've been using
for the last few years now how to run my
own fitness website in my own business
um so if you guys are looking to get
started with your own website I
recommend going to squarespace.com
forward slash Nippert and that will save
you 10% off your first purchase over
there they have beautiful designer
custom templates and 24/7 customer watch
in I don't forget to leave me a like if
you liked the video don't forget to
subscribe if you happen to be new and I
will see you guys all here next Monday