now I know what I need what is this 355
my three
[Music]
alright guys I'm here with my boy Alex
from the channel alpha destiny today
we're gonna be hitting a bench neck and
trap workout that may sound totally
random for both in Toronto for the pro
show this weekend we said we've got to
get together and smash a workout we were
actually talking on the phone before we
came here and Alex decided he wanted to
do a bench aw so we're gonna be going
one-on-one in the bench press we're both
gonna be maxing out today and then after
that we're going to basically do Alex's
specialty which is neck in trap work you
guys sit back relax enjoy the video
we're gonna get into it let's do it
let's go let's say you you run the show
today alright yeah that's actually
literally perfect for me Lake Fork yeah
that's perfect let's go nice man looks
good
oh man eventually feeling great today
bro yeah this is a good day feels so
smooth the heights are perfect for me
too yeah it's nice mention with you
because we don't have to adjust anything
you sit so basically right now we're
just kind of pyramiding our way up so we
did two sets with just the bar to get
nice and loose and we threw on one plate
135 now alex is doing 225 here for I
think four or five reps we're just kind
of doing I'd say four or five pyramids
that's working our way up until we get
to doing singles so then we'll probably
do a single with 315 and then kind of
based on how that feels move up from
there to a 1 rep max attention people
ask me about that all the time like
should you wear a belt when you bench I
mean for me it just gives me something
to kind of push it on air out against
helps keep me tight and it helps me set
up my arch better - yeah with no
downside sure especially if you're
naturally a big Archer I find just helps
us to get more stable 1 2 3
[Music]
good good you got this bro get it easy
wait I didn't suicide yourself you
didn't suicide it you find it better
that way yeah do it thank you
hey it's just not a safe you know when
you're grinding it out you bro look it
could fall out any moment I'm not gonna
let you die today alright it's done well
here's the disclaimer alright alex is
gonna use a suicide grip because it's
more comfortable for him not something
we'd necessarily recommend but for
someone who is an advanced trainee if
it's more comfortable and go for it I
don't wanna hate just doing it for the
extra Barbe buck and I think might be a
bit household my hypermobility and the
elbows but it's not something I advise
and I just started doing this recently
so like for me when I'm benching I
literally think about pushing my thumb
back in it's like that's the cue to get
my last and everything tight so if I did
a suicide grip I would literally like
yeah we literally slip out from high
here but if you have it stable in your
form I can see how that would be more
comfortable because this almost forces
you into like a more phony activity
right yes
easy way easy belts sipping that move
really fast yeah yeah yeah that was good
singles are worth something it brings
back there you go tank comes up this is
gonna move fast all right
it's gonna be ready for sure let's get
it okay on my three alright very good
thanks man
so that's another thing if you're
working up to some kind of max attempt
give yourself loads of rest time in
between just to make sure you're
recovered and with these warm-up sets do
them nice and conservative so you don't
hit the wall too early before your one
that you're gonna go all out on right
general rule is you should do weight
that you know you can do with good form
that's the thing like if you're not if
you're not confident enough to do with
good form you probably shouldn't
shouldn't have it on it might be closer
than I thought other things would be
pretty close
as long as getting too high that's what
happens
lightweight here we go out
what you think
are you my three alright yeah go what
what's that three three five three five
nice man now that's a real fun we're so
evenly matched in like I feel like our
benches are almost exactly the same
right now comment comment below who you
think is gonna come out yeah I'll put a
poll up here I want to see I'll put a
poll up in the cards who's gonna win
yeah people people might be crazier the
better put some music
[Laughter]
little closet huh there's Sun and Moon
Festival rest in peace here we go let's
get it come on let's go
come on drive drive drive drive drive
try Thanks it's good but I'm
disappointed that it wanted me yeah it's
a new facility we don't know chalk hey
now I know what I got a heat you got it
you got to be the advantage of going
second pressures on
look pretty good I think I'm gonna have
to watch it back I know if my butt was
up and on but the thing goes down
that felt cleaner than the last one with
you on it I guess don't nervous bro I
like haven't touched that way you know
let's get it try it drive drive drive
drive come on call you try try nice
[Music]
that's it okay whatever you did in
between that one and that one it works
that was solid a 350 I thought I was
gonna win on three whatever it was wore
now I think you have three and a half
yeah thank you let's you try a bit more
and possibly fail it why'd you leave it
at dab but uh you don't do another one
just with another one yeah 350 are you
going up 355 yeah
all right how much you bro
let's drive it one two three here we go
come on
drive it drive it try it try hit my
limit man time man now I know what I
need what is this 355
my three conclusion thank you man
that was a tough one it was well our
benches are like right there yeah that's
crazy man that felt good you know I if
you hadn't encouraged me to do that I
probably wouldn't touch that way in a
while yeah so it feels good to know
we're on that like in that somewhere in
that 350 365 range I think that's it
yeah crew say that was pretty much close
to as close as I could bust out but
doing those like 1 or M 1 or like you
know like one rat one rat one rat Rome
one rep it does take a bit out of you
like if I was to warm up for a meet I
probably wouldn't do quite that many
accounts yeah probably not but well your
your work trying to establish what your
works yeah that's it your bench is
really really solid like technique-wise
everything yeah that's amazing powerful
calm
thank you very nor now - yeah so once
it's a good body way that the head of
status that's like very up there you
know I appreciate that man I appreciate
it
likewise yeah yeah appreciate a
competition - for sure all right what's
next we've got this yoke stuff you want
to see the eurozone yeah right in the
about nothing why don't you go get you
another something go hang with it
love for nothing I see that we differ
you rising at double my don't know
discussions on dragging behind so hold
your places I noticed a junction so call
me a person to do the neck curl which is
a standard movement of building up the
funnier neck ok neck flexion it's very
effective and anyone could do it but the
only thing is you got to wear a hat when
it gets heavier and you have to use
proper form a lot of times guys sense
use their arms like a full of emotion
it's constantly crunching so you should
have thoroughly warm up with your
bodyweight and just get that form down
get that movement pattern in now the
squeezing thing you don't have to do all
the time I just recommend it for your
warm-ups and if you're brand new to neck
training as you master the movement
pattern you can kind of just go like
this you know and if you're a combat
athlete of any type this is advised
there's more sport-specific
I'll do a few reps like this you know
and then and then I'll go side to side
like it's a nice warm-up but I usually
just do it like standing up you know
this place but it's kind of same premise
very helpful with you so like when I
first started to train in my neck I
hated the feeling of it now I love it it
makes me feel so much like bigger it's a
good it's a good pump now at first it
just felt uncomfortable I couldn't
swallow for sure and actually the pump
stays and a moment you're done like he
just looked so much bigger like that's
the time you think of pictures yeah
thumbnail after this okay so we're gonna
do the neck curl force it to 25 with the
wave plate it gets in the way
shout out the rice but it's awesome and
actually see this yeah you can you can
either put it this way or that way but
this is gonna cream more stable right
right
I said four sets 25 you're saying
fast-tempo and I'm not using my hands
okay it's just a neck doing the work
like I'm lightly gripping these I'm not
pulling with my arms okay and I'm not
crunching yeah I'm not doing this
movement it's all the way down all the
way up obviously one use a faster tempo
it's not gonna look 100% smooth but you
will feel it a hundred percent guarantee
turn the faster tempo technique there
you go
that's the fighting stop
you know that's nice it's different
feels unique I like it I'm gonna I'm
gonna experiment with it today and I'll
let you know after I get a little
heavier pretty good actually yeah feels
nice and loosened up but I'd like to go
with a heavier yeah let's go 225 yeah
nice very high reps that's when it
becomes the same yeah yeah like reps of
50 to 100 but a fast tempo we really
blow you up
especially with beds honestly in my
experience super high volume what a fast
tempo has always worked best okay and a
lot of guys that dealt with it's always
the same thing I'll just tell the camera
guys like four sets of 25 that's where
it's at try it out high volume fast
tempo there you go yeah that's something
I haven't shared before so hopefully
give it a shot if you haven't do you see
how it feels if you give that a shot you
get really really strong in the neck
curl and the neck extension and next
side raise last temple for by 25 you'll
surpass that Plateau guaranteed 45
complete the diameter increases right
whoo so change the distribution a little
bit in many case the rubber is actually
better closer in some cases yeah it's
pretty good man
can definitely crank the reps out
obviously easier with over the faster
tempo right I mean once I get to around
a 45 yeah I can't help but use my hands
more you notice even just to stabilize
the plate so yeah weight is heavier on
your neck and you don't want to crush
yourself or anything but I would say
this right I mean if you're gonna go
really heavy it's fine to grip it a
little bit more firmly right be careful
with the pole over motion that's it
right that's that's number one culprit
but if you just you're just grabbing it
here right it's not a big deal if
they're actually going heavy and what
volume work it's you know your forms not
gonna be understand Chris in the first
pair this is this is probably the
heaviest net curl you guys will see on
this man the only thing displace it
thicker right so it's like he's gotta be
careful like actually want some chalk
right now
you know what this my grip right now
yeah it's a bit easier to stack the
plates if you use rubber plates so here
I'm using a 35 and a 25 was that sixty
pounds yeah all right so sixty pounds
I'm just gonna kind of feel this out I'm
gonna use that faster tempo again would
you put the smaller plate inside yeah
I'll put the smaller one inside and then
you kind of there you go and you can
actually grab it a bit more in you want
oh like this yes exactly you see what
I'm saying this way it's not gonna slip
what's up okay I got ya pull pull so
let's go finish it
yeah the key with the bridge is to make
sure that you go all the way back full
range of motion there you go that's
where the maximum stretch is initiated
careful Jeff just with the standard
version you can also do Mike Tyson's
down kind of like a modified version
where you're going to the sides so I'm
here right you can go down and then your
toe slow right so this does that's
incorrect right you can go explosively
now with a head harness you could do it
with bands as well so kind of assisted
in the sense we were just saying before
we hopped into this normally we use the
head harness yeah you're actually just
talking about the neck flex I forgot to
bring it today evolved on the neck day
yeah so anyway we're gonna substitute
some extensions with bridges today which
i think is cool because I haven't showed
that in any detail here on the channel
so we're gonna be doing two variations
the straight back and then side to side
which I've actually never tried before
just as a disclaimer this exercise I
think does have a greater risk
associated with it a slightly higher
risk profile but you're not going to
extension like that so just be careful
but I think I think as long as you
perform the movement safely pay
attention to your body and it can be
ineffective that get your bug down right
like a hip for us besides
thank you so such a weird angle this is
how I think of this so I kind of set it
up almost like I would a bench press I
got my scapula to prop it up I get my
and then I lift my butt up and then from
there I curl back that's right and so
now you're gonna go to one yeah use your
arm set there you go it's pretty simple
but again I recommend you go all the way
down
fast explosive as I'm talking about
how's that
bro that's so her that's her I don't
want to overdo it either like once I
started to feel any you know bit of
fatigue I think I'm gonna call her does
that as I'm used to the extension not
that's intense I'm gonna doing standard
just back because I haven't done this in
a minute
[Music]
[Music]
alright guys here's what we're doing
up next rap pulls at the knee so luckily
Alex and I have exactly the same
leverages so we set up the barbell right
at the knee here and basically we're
doing this movement yeah isometric
stretch on the traps and also once you
walk out here at top you can really get
a good glute squeeze there at the top so
we're gonna ramp our way up
pyramid our way up and weight doing
three to five reps per set until we get
to kind of like one max effort set and
on each set working our way up on the
fifth rep or so we're gonna do a
isometric hold
right here and we didn't bring choc
today we're gonna be using straps that's
because we're not strictly trying to
target our forearms here it's mostly
just the traps and the glutes if you're
squeezing at the top so
it's really nice let's go really feels
good man I feel that crazy stretch way
destruction of traps guys so you guys oh
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah better so guys we're gonna do the
same basic thing here we're actually
gonna superset weighted dips with
weighted pull-ups because you're here
already strapped in keep the weight the
same there you go and we're gonna ramp
it up so I think she said we're gonna
start with a 45 then do 90 same plates
and then maybe try three plates I've
never tried that so we'll see how it
goes
be fun if lost yeah everything's closed
grip so it'll feel nice alright so I'm
just gonna kind of get warmed up with
body weight
[Music]
this is a heaviest I'm gonna pull up
some maybe every brush really yeah I
think the most I've ever trip done is
like maybe sixty five pushing my limits
let's go
[Music]
Oh bro that's heavy I'm surprised it in
half brother man yeah yeah for real I
mean if I can't do the full range I'm
not gonna do it
yeah how that's pretty solid thanks man
it's hard to get that full contraction
at the top like with that much weight
but get probably 80% over there at least
a bit hard to get on hold on mom let's
go out crazy nice
so
super easy bro I'm gonna do the pay for
the dicks and I'm gonna pull it off and
just do a few bodyweight boys so I like
training people who have set their
limits high you know because you don't
like I can do this but I would never do
it on my own you know what I mean yeah
let's get it
good okay
solid that that's nice you get a good
bit of traction
thanks bro that's not too bad I tell you
what
[Music]
alright guys that's a wrap for a workout
a shout-out my boy Alex for taking me
through the toughest Neph workout I
think I've done at least in a while if
you guys you know enjoy the video make
sure you give it a thumbs up I'll put a
button to Alex's channel over here make
sure you go check it out he's got all
kinds of really cool stuff on his
channel also I really love his approach
about men and body dysmorphia
and body encouragement I really love
that stuff a look of a video link below
that helped me a lot and it helps a lot
of people as well his fantastic stuff
make sure you check it out I just want
to say thank you brother for take me
through the workout I think you guys for
watching and subscribing haven't already
and I'll see you guys in the next one