white rice right white rice has a bad
rap for not being brown rice and you
know you can only get in touch with
Mother Gaia her Earthly goddessness if
you um you know eat only brown rice and
if you order white rice sushi people
will judge you but there's a brown rice
menu and they look at you they think
you're healthy they're like there's
brown rice if you want you're like I'm
on vacation damn it right so people
think oh brown rice that's what
bodybuilders eat that's what health
people eat white rice is super
nutritious super healthy is not a damn
thing wrong with it and also is a lot
easier to smash a whole lot of white
rice part because it has lower fiber you
know you eat 600 grams a day of brown
rice your toilet will be serving
overtime this is technically I think uh
you know like a war crime against your
toilet and certainly other parts of your
Anatomy