what are the foods that tend to promote
muscle growth the best and health the
best and so on and so forth well for
protein sources lean meats are hard to
beat lean dairy products are excellent
cottage cheese Greek yogurt is really
great uh milk is kind of the the massing
food of the Gods and of course lean high
quality vegan sources are also an option
carbs veggies are good you never want to
reduce them completely although we'll
talk about later where sometimes you
want to reduce your veggies a little bit
just to be able to get more food in but
a core healthy carb intake revolves
around veggies fruits and whole grains
including whole graen breads for fats
you want to rely on monounsaturated
heavy sources so sources of fat that are
predominantly monounsaturated fat
because on average for a wide variety of
outcomes those tend to be the healthiest
probably also support the most muscle
growth and the least fat accumulation
and there's some direct literature to
confirm that so olive oil canola oil
nuts nut Butters avocado stuff like that