a lot of people know that warming up is
important but it seems not as many
people know why it's important and even
though there is some research to suggest
that warming up really isn't necessary
as I see it there are at least two
really good reasons why warming up
before training make sense
the first is injury prevention and even
though the literature doesn't show a
huge effect here overall on the whole it
shows that warming up prevents injuries
better than not warming up at all a 2006
review article by Fradkin natal looked
at five different studies three of which
found a positive effect of warming up on
injury reduction of the two studies that
found no benefit both focus more heavily
on stretching and one suffered from a
low 60% compliance rate in the warm-up
group where's the three that did show a
benefit focused more on exercising to
increase core body temperature and
didn't have the same compliance issues
at the end of the article to author
seemed pretty convinced that warming up
was smart for preventing injuries simply
increasing body temperature seems to be
arguably the most important part of the
whole warm-up an increase in rectal
temperature by one to two degrees
Celsius was a recommendation given by
DeVries in 1980 however I think this
paper from 1966 had a more pragmatic
suggestion exercise to the observance of
light to mild sweating in mammal ambient
conditions because the duration of
activity to get to this point will
depend on one's level of cardiovascular
conditioning it's going to vary from
person to person but for me five to ten
minutes on the treadmill Stairmaster or
bike
tends to do the trick however some
research indicates that longer durations
are required a really cool 2013 study
found that 15 minutes of a warm-up at a
low intensity was better at improving
one rep max strengthen the leg press
than a five minute warm-up however
considering that the difference in one
rep max strength was only three to four
percent and I only very rarely test one
rep maxes I opted for a slightly shorter
ten-minute warm-up to make up for the
shorter time I use moderate intensity
interval training or mi IT but 30 second
periods of jogging staggered with two
minute walking periods until 10 minutes
are up for those who really like numbers
were also a Tau recommend a target zone
of 55 to 60% max heart rate which
assuming you're around 20 to 30 years
old will be around 100 to 120 beats per
minute as a quick aside some folks would
recommend against using a treadmill on
lower
days just because it's fire impact and
some research has shown it to interfere
more with resistance training perhaps
since I'm not doing a ton of heavy
training lately I don't observe that
interference personally and so I go with
the treadmill because I enjoy it more
than the other machine of course there
are ways to short-circuit this process
if you're limited on time just by
wearing warm baggy clothing or cranking
up the heat on the way to the gym but
the downside is that you could miss out
on the other main positive effect of
warming up which brings me to the second
main reason why warming up makes sense
it improves performance a pretty huge
systematic review and meta-analysis
pulled together 32 high-quality studies
to find that warming up improve
performance in 79% of the criteria
examined as you can see this study
looked at many different sports and
warming up didn't always improve
performance with 17% of warm-ups
actually showing a detriment but these
detriments were often the result of the
activity not being suitable for the
sport or being too vigorous or time on
the whole the trend indicates that
warming up makes you better athletic lee
and i think it's safe to extend this
blanket statement to include strengths
in to xik athletes especially when you
consider the research showing that
warming up increases speed of nerve
impulses to muscles sensitivity of nerve
receptors on muscles and it also
increases blood flow and nutrient
delivery to the muscles during training
in my experience it also improves mental
alertness and psychological readiness
you just feel more prepared to lift and
I also just feel in a better mood after
doing a bit of aerobic exercise before
jumping right into weightlifting and in
fact that can probably be attributed to
endorphin release now in here somewhere
people often cram in the term mobility
and as long as we're using mobility to
simply means the ability to move through
a given range of motion and we assume
the range of motion needed in the
context of this video our basic physique
and strength focus movements and not
gymnastics or even Olympic weightlifting
and I think that the following warm-up
will cover most of the basis for this
population of course specific in
mobilities can be addressed with
specific drills stretches but I think
they're best prescribed on a per
individual and per diagnosis basis not
just across the board so the following
warm-up is intended to be general and
preventative not individual or
prescriptive I like to split my warm-up
into three stages the first is the
general warmup which is a 10 minutes of
cardio I just covered the second stage
is still part of my general warmup so
covers my dynamic threshing informally
it's become pretty commonly accepted
that stretching before training to
negatively impact performance in the gym
and most people advise against doing it
now but the question is is that advice
warranted like most things it depends in
this case on the type of stretching in
an enormous review on the topic static
stretching was shown to result in a ton
of performance impairments while dynamic
stretching was shown to either have no
effect or to actually improve
performance however even static
stretches don't seem to impair
performance if they last less than 30
seconds per muscle especially in
advanced training and the order also
matters if you do the static stretching
first and then do the dynamic stretches
immediately after the negative impact of
the static stretching seems to go away
so what I do is a sequence of four or
five dynamic stretches for lower body on
leg days and then four or five dynamic
stretches for upper-body on upper body
[Music]
and if there are any specific areas that
I'm trying to increase my flexibility or
mobility on such as my glowing or
hamstring area then I'll perform static
stretches to improve those areas on an
as-needed basis for a max of 20 to 30
seconds before doing my dynamic work or
if they really need extra focus I'll do
them at night before bed after that I
will optionally do a quick foam rolling
sequence and since hormone has been
shown to improve range of motion without
decreasing muscular activation or for I
think foam rolling can be useful as a
tool to work out any areas that might be
more a mobile than others for this a
quick twenty to thirty second role with
a particular focus on any tight areas
should be sufficient in most cases the
final stage of my warm-up is the
specific warm-up with progressive
loading here you basically want to
pyramid your way up and wait until you
get to your working weight for your
first exercise so assuming my first
exercise for the day is the bench press
my warmup would look something like this
I'd start with the bar for just 10 reps
then I do thirty percent for five fifty
percent for four 60 percent for three 70
percent for two seventy-five percent for
one or two and then begin my working set
and then begin my rose gold medal then
my role models Roman old models or
old-school Roman : going gold follows
our Baron call it pedals to the top and
what is going on everyone Technion I
just finished up at the gym and now
we're here in public and ice cream aisle
I just want to say thank you guys so
much for watching this video don't
forget to hit the thumbs up button if
you did like it that helps the video get
more exposure which helps to get more
views also if there's anything you guys
would like to see in a future video so
like a future science explained topic
feel free to let me know in the comments
below if you're new to the channel don't
forget to subscribe thank you guys so
much for watching I'll see on the next
video