if you over invest into an ideology
that's quite old right now we're seeing
a Resurgence of high-intensity training
and Mike mener fanboying and look Mike
mener is a dope motherfucker man there's
plenty of shit to Fanboy him about but
you got to understand the shit is sort
of outdated and that means a lot of the
shit he said was so super dope and super
true but a lot of the shit he said was
just fucking wrong and this is one of
these things it is absolutely essential
to warm up properly before engaging in
any intense physical exercise static
stretching before working out reduces
your strength and power output levels
and thus unless you're doing it because
you have some kind of chronic injury
that unless you stretch it out it goes
very poorly sort of like foam rolling
it's probably not a good idea to do it
they didn't know this at the time there
was no literature on this so this isn't
like Mike mener is an idiot or some shit
it's just an honest mistake