[Music]
hey guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization
and today I want to show you a very
quick airfryer recipe I know I have lots
of airfryer fans out there just like I
am and this was one of those recipes
it's not in any of my cookbooks it was
one of those that I whipped up on a
weekend for myself just to jazz up some
veggies and then I posted it and
everybody you know I knew that Buffalo
was a pretty popular sauce and everyone
loves the idea of buffalo wings and this
is sort of a little bit of a take on
buffalo wings using cauliflower so it is
really could not be easier you can see
everything here that you're gonna need
for it so I've got some Frank's hot
sauce in here I know a lot of you do
like Franks and chicken in the crock-pot
love that concept too so we're gonna
start with some of that and some extra
virgin olive oil and just whisk that
together and some garlic powder and some
dried parsley you guys have seen me do
this before whenever I use dry herbs
just in the habit of doing this to
release the flavors so I just run them
between my hands stir that all together
and just pour that right over your
cauliflower this is just a head of raw
cauliflower that I cut into florets so
if you just work it around in the bowl
you guys if you've had Franks before I'm
sure most of you have it's you know a
little goes a long way there's a major
kick to it
so again you don't need this like
bathing in it you just need it the
cauliflower kind of tinged with the red
of the sauce and that tells you you're
gonna get that flavor and then I'm gonna
grab our air fryer and that's as easy as
it gets we're just gonna put this in the
air fryer and let the air fryer work its
magic
so here we go there's the basket in
there we're just gonna add this color
flower here it doesn't need to be in a
single layer I could do this in two
trips you know two trips through the
airfryer I could do it in two batches if
I really wanted to I don't care I mean
you can keep like my rule is with the
air fryer every 10 minutes check on it
just open up the drawer or the drawer
take it out move it around a little bit
with a wooden spoon so you can check on
how stuff is doing and I'm gonna put it
in at 350 and like I said I'm gonna
check it every 10 minutes just take it
out after 10 use a wooden spoon to move
it around and put it back in for 10 and
I'm just gonna keep doing that until I
like what I see let's check on our
Buffalo fellow flour and you can kind of
tell by poking at it that is tender go
ahead dump this into our serving bowl
there you go so it's tender it's got a
little kick to it
from the sauce you can always just like
with regular wings or buffalo chicken
you know eyes come along after it's out
a little bit more hot sauce on there
there you go quick and easy veggie it'll
fit right into your RP templates
you
[Music]