here's the thing about longer masses
once you have a bulk or a mass in place
you're getting good food you're getting
good training there's a momentum there
where you get stronger and you figure
out the good stimulus to fatigue ratio
of where to put your body for different
exercises and you start gaining momentum
and strength and volume in your training
and you really figure out your recovery
and all this takes weeks to open up and
then you're in the situation where weeks
after you started massing you're on this
fright train of momentum like you got
your shit figured you're just getting
bigger and stronger bigger and stronger
and bigger and stronger if you can take
that mass phase and stretch it out by
making the calorie Surplus not this
extreme but this extreme you get better
results because you can hack it over
time