hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
superiorization continuing on with
hypertrophy myths number four one top
set one drop set I'm sure you've heard
that one before what exactly are we
talking about here so
the myth goes
you should train something like this
you do warm-ups
you warm up then you hit your one top
set big set close to failure sometimes
all out
after that you hit one drop set of the
scare quote sir for a reason I'll tell
you that a bit with like 10 to 30
reduction in load you get more reps and
then you move on to the next exercise
usually doing like four or five
exercises per muscle group just like
that because it's two working sets at a
time
so with like a machine chest press
example you do a hundred percent of 10
150 for six 200 for four just warming up
205 pounds for a set of 12 165 for a set
of 15 and then you go on to your next
exercise and do three or four other
chest exercises okay fine very good
here's the good news about this kind of
method of training which is one top set
one drop set switch exercises
you can't do an infinite number of hard
heavy sets for sure it's not like you
can do eight top sets or some shit on
one exercise
especially if your stimulus to fatigue
ratio for lower reps kind of sucks and
your stimulus to fatigue ratio for
higher reps is good
you can drop down the load pretty soon
and just after several or even in some
cases one top set dropping the lowdown
or going to higher reps gives you an
all-around better stimulus to fatigue
ratio hey awesome
and down sets which is the planned drop
of load after certain heavy sets are
done to continue to do Straight sets but
at a lighter load same exercise
downsets can be very effective and may
have in some context big stimulus to
fatigue ratio boosts
however unless you just don't rest after
the heavy set and you go right into it
that's actually a down set it's not a
drop set and a lot of the people on
Instagram bodybuilders training one top
set one drop set they're actually doing
one top set one down set so you can get
the terms right
which bodes well for all the other shit
they didn't get right which we're
getting to right away so what is the bad
stuff well there's a couple problems
here
first problem is why just one top set
like if you do a set of 12 Ultra hard
and heavy
do you have to go and do a set of 15
after a lighter does that mean if you
did another hard set and you say got
nine repetitions that somehow those
aren't very stimulative anymore they're
not very hypertrophic they're not muscle
growth promoting like a hard set of nine
is like
pretty fucking stimulative
and you know there's no reason to do a
downside or another exercise at face
value right if we really knew that the
first set was just so great and the
second set was just so ineffective we
could be like okay that makes sense but
we don't own that in fact we know the
opposite of that but multiple high
quality sets can be achieved with the
same load or a very similar load so
first just the one top set one drop set
doesn't make sense in this context I'll
tell you why people do it in a little
bit but this is not a scientifically
based situation
another thing is if you have to do one
top set one downside or one drop set
drop set it's really a downside
how many exercises do you have to do for
that muscle group well if you need to
hit two or three one to three parts of a
muscle really uh through the whole week
you don't need to hit them all in the
same session
so that means you can do one to three
exercises and three on the high end per
muscle per session
you can do it with more exercise let's
say you could do 10 sets total you can
split it into five exercises two at a
time how this would be done or you could
do like four sets of one four sets of
another two sets of a last one and go
five versus three exercises here's the
thing though if you switch exercises
often you need to re-warm up for the
exercise because you need to retool your
Technique a little bit and get in the
groove you probably don't go to your
working weight so you're just adding
warm-ups you need to go to another part
of the gym sometimes your machine is
taken and you can't train with that
exercise you have to wait a little bit
like
why do that and also in the long run
eating up your variation like that like
if you do your five best chest exercises
every time you train chest when one of
them gets stale on you what do you
replace it with like you're already
using your top five if you're ever just
using your top three you could take
number four and five and replace them
and get rid of another one everything
recycles and they're all you're only
ever using your best stuff but if you
use all your best shit right away
it's kind of bad news it's like if
you're uh if you're uh geez why am I
gonna say that should I really say this
Scott fuck it it's like if you're in I
can only get into some adult films and
and you and you buffer all your Heavy
Hitters and you just go through those
but nothing's happened yet bro you're
done save that shit for a rainy day you
don't have to use all your best stuff
all the time it's nonsense and if you
don't know what I'm talking about keep
reading the Bible and the Quran and the
Torah and you're doing well for yourself
problem
here is that it's a short-sighted
approach we're taking a little bit of
the Long View right
here's another related thing to the so
many exercises if we do one top set one
drop set and we leave
we're forgetting the fact that the
second set still heavy and even the
third set can often feel even better
from a perceptive stimulus to fatigue
ratio experience then the first set
because here's the thing the first heavy
set I mean you're warmed up for it but
things get creaky your knees and elbows
feel a little weird it's shocking it's
your first heavy set of the day you're
like oh that was good but like I really
took it out I mean if you take that same
weight after a nice rest three to five
minutes or something check all the four
Factor rest boxes Google that if you
don't know what that is and
your second set oftentimes feels fucking
better your joints feel better you're in
the groove more with the movement you're
feeling the muscle more because it's
warmed up you had a chance to get really
connect the third set sometimes it's the
best one are you okay and the fourth set
starts feeling a little stale but the
idea that you only have one heavy set
and that's gonna be your best feeling
set of the heavy weight and then just
one more down set technically drops it
as they call it and then it's time to
switch to another exercise fuck that
after two sets I'm just keeping the
groove at an exercise
my third set's usually the one we're
like oh fuck yeah now we're rolling
fourth set I'm like okay great that's
good and fifth set I'm like okay fine
I'm out let me do another exercise but
the idea that you only have two
effective sets per exercise then you
need to move on man it's just not true
most of the time so like why the fuck
are you fucking off there's no good
reason to do it
um you know uh
it's kind of like this is a terrible
analogy here it's kind of like ending a
date that's going real well after heavy
petting like you get up there in the
apartment with her or whatever and
you're like all getting mad at each
other and she's like okay okay I think I
love you let's do this and you're like
okay I gotta get going you know she's
like oh it's like a religious thing or
whatever because I'm cool you're like no
no just um I just like to when things
are going really well I like to get out
even though they could be getting better
I like to just leave and go to another
exercise which in this case is me going
down and
finding another young girl to meet
severely talking with her and getting uh
to another one of these situations where
I don't actually finish off the ACT it's
fucking stupid it makes no goddamn sense
ah
why do people train like this that's a
fine question
one is that it works fine like two hard
sets one heavier one lighter great
multiple exercises enough to fill in
your volume requirements it works it
works
so
it's not like people that train like
this are going to be like totally like
small or weak or disaster or injury
written it's a fine way to do things not
the best way
it's needlessly complicated needlessly
annoying
but it's not the worst way you could
train by launch
so why do they do it certainly not
because it's one of the worst ways it's
still effective
one top set often zaps people so much
because they're really big and strong
and they go to failure and Beyond
that they're just not into getting into
that pain Zone again
and they like the pump feeling of a Down
set it's easier on the joints it feels
great you just pump it out so it's kind
of like emotionally driven training
like ideally if you think about like
what it would be like for you if you
were like a champion basketball star and
you're like what's your life gonna be
like bro like if you're a fucking you're
Michael Jordan like and you have his
kinesthetic abilities straight up even
10 better than he ever was
what do you think your life's gonna be
like what are you going to think of you
close your eyes and be like
dunking on motherfuckers winking at the
crowd drinks with the boys after at the
club
great be like okay what about the
fucking 180 minutes of the worst game
ever with 20 fouls and you're tired as
fuck and it's like still the score is
real tight and it's coming into the end
of the game you're like wait wait wait
hold on I don't know that's not that's
not basketball Starship that's exactly
basketball star shit you better love
that shit too motherfucker you better
like early morning practice you better
like Waits with a team you better like
sitting on a fucking you know chartered
airplane flying to Japan for a fucking
Expo and you can't sleep and you're
sitting there like what the fuck am I
doing with my life who am I even and all
the other stuff so when people think
like I'm gonna be a fucking buy that
badass Pro bodybuilder one top set one
drop set and I'm out give a new machine
something but the reality is that that's
preference but it's not ideal and the
idea is you put in a little bit more
work with the heavy shit once you're
warmed up to it right A lot of people
are just like a bit on the lazier side
they just don't want to grind multiple
top sets even though that's very
effective it's the most effective thing
but they'll take just a little bit less
effective to get away from all that
noise and a lot of times they're kind of
bored and uh not so great on the
attention span Focus so they just want
to use a bunch of Fun Machines I mean
who doesn't right you're traveling to a
new gym you want to try all the machines
right yeah but that that doesn't mean
it's the most effective thing in the
world so again this isn't terrible to do
what I want you to get out of this video
or pedantically stated is
I want you guys to look at the videos of
bodybuilders training for example doing
one tops that one drop set and not be
like oh like I wonder why they're doing
this there must be some intricate
insightful scientific effective thing
about it nah some of the shit they do is
definitely intricate mostly with Farm
but this example is like just just
people doing stuff that happens to be
short to the point fun and nice and
varied and they don't have to fucking
grind they're just trying to get away
from the grind but if you realize that
that's why they're doing that you
probably wouldn't fetishize them so much
and be like Oh I'm gonna train just like
this guy because he does one tops that
one drops it you'd be like what what the
fuck this is because they're lazy I
should really be like grinding multiple
top sets yes how fuck like I just want
you guys to realize that it's not always
not everyone's shooting for Optimum and
even if they say they are sometimes
they're really not they're just using
things that are convenient for
themselves
so it's not exactly rocket science
what can we get away from this what's
the real talk on this here's the thing
a bit of a technical guide first warm-up
great hit your first heavy work set
stick to a similar load to that that
load or something very close that amount
of weight
until either of the following things
happen
your reps fall out of your preferred
stimulus to fatigue ratio range you know
sets of 12 on the roller grates that's a
10 or okay sets of eight it's just not
enough time moving the barbellons no
good so when you get below 10 you're
like fuck that taking weight off the bar
getting back up to 12 to 15. totally
fine
another one is if your reps fall much
under five reps per set then set for set
they're not as hypertrophic anymore
because the volume of work isn't high
enough so then you say okay I hit this
for eight and then seven then five next
set and I want to hit four I'm gonna do
a down set totally fine answer right but
you could get five you know two three or
four sets before that happens in many
cases
next is you get a huge pump tons of
fatigue and you know you're gonna be way
too sore to continue uh uh because like
if you continue to do sets you're gonna
be waitress or you won't recover from
next time then you at the very least
stop that exercise maybe you have
another exercise to do that hits the
muscle from such a different angle that
it doesn't contribute to net soreness
but more than likely you're just done
and you just don't train that muscle
anymore and you go on to training
forearms or calves or whatever other
muscle people pretend to train but don't
actually
and then another thing is
if you know from prior experience or
current experimentation that lowering
the weight will make your next set have
a notably higher stimulus of fatigue
ratio you absolutely can do that
which means some people will take five
sets of the same load some people will
take one set at some load and then
incrementally drop down for multiple
sets after
there's tons of detail here because in a
maintenance phase you probably don't
want to do this you just want to do
Straight sets and keep it simple because
there's so few sets to do
um there's you know in sets of five to
ten you definitely can have times for
drops in sets of 20 to 30 like are you
really gonna
downset something you got for 25 reps
what so you can get another 26 with it
like 23 is just fine right after still
in the head of rep range there's a lot
of nuance there but the idea that it's
one top set one drop set it disappears
The ideas reality some people might have
that some people with three top sets one
down set some people may have just three
top sets and nothing at all and some
people might have a top set then a
lighter set then a lighter set and a
lighter set and they switch exercises
and they go home that two sets and one
of them is higher than the other and
then that's it and you move on
it's a very thin slice of the variation
on training everyone could be using and
it's not in the most optimal part of the
curve either it's on average actually
far away from that right the best
results for exercise for long-term
benefit usually between two to five sets
per exercise
it's usually three or four so just two
all the time is probably not great you
could even do up to seven sets of the
same exercise in one session and it
wouldn't be too much right after you do
your two to five then you can switch
exercises performing one to three total
exercises per session per muscle group
almost never more than three
if you're training in a way or thinking
of training in a way
that has six exercises
each one of them is one tops at one one
down set is it really what it should be
then consider if that's the prescription
that's right for you
and if it's not and if to be honest
you're like man actually if I do two
hard heavy sets I feel the second one
even better
follow your feedback follow your auto
regulation do what's right instead of
just maybe copying folks that are just
doing something they also saw off
Instagram but they're just not a lot of
steroids so you follow them
oh that reminds me of me huh see you
guys next time