hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and have you tried our new
hypertrophy app Shameless plug it exists
Link in the description but hold on that
video is a different video this is about
BS and the idea that ultra high protein
is a must if you're serious about
Fitness how did we get here how do
people have this idea well people find
out that protein does a few things I
find out that it builds and retains
muscle which is true that it suppresses
hunger pretty well for how many calories
it has which is also true and that
jacked and fit people eat a lot of it
which is also true and then all of a
sudden for some of these folks that find
this out they seemingly think they can't
get enough protein got regular folks
eating as much protein as they can and
they say protein's good right like yeah
but you don't train with weights or
exercise you do not need three Stakes or
whatever there's all these convenience
store gas station snacks that are like
now packed with protein you're like
packed with fucking presan protein in
there but it's more than usual and now
it tastes worse but who is the target
demograph demographic for this it has
too many calories from fat to appeal to
fit people they're just appealing to
regular people that think protein is
some kind of superfood and it's
not a lot of times people eat a lot of
protein and in order to keep calorie
balance or just they're too full they
have to cut down
on other nutrients like fats and carbs
and those other nutrients help to
enhance performance and potentiate
muscle growth at a certain level higher
than protein if you already have enough
protein tons of bros eat a gram and a
half or two grams or 2 and a half grams
per pound per day to try to get
jacked and guys that are on gear like I
need extra protein bro I'm on gear nope
that's also false I have a whole video
on that I think and
people will say look if I get a bit
extra protein so what it's a good thing
what's too much of a good thing you get
extra hugs and kisses from a significant
other who's complaining well here's the
reality protein has some downsides one
it costs money and it's generally the
most expensive
macronutrient and if you think you have
to eat a lot of it you could be pissing
away a lot of money you could spend on
other
things past roughly point8 grams per
pound of protein per day only a small
minority of users in a small minority of
conditions will actually benefit from
more than that so any more than 08 grams
per pound per day which is to say if you
weigh 200 pounds you're relatively lean
and you're eating anything more than 160
grams of protein per
day most of the time it'll be pointless
some of the time there'll be a small
benefit up until you get to about a gram
per pound any more than that has no
benefits almost at all in any case
except for a tiny tiny fraction like
your natural bodybuilder two weeks away
from your contest and then you could go
up to about 1.2 1.25 grams of protein
per pound per day while you're starving
and eating almost nothing else and then
any more than that for you will still be
better spent as far as calories on carbs
or fats so as soon as you get to a about
of gram per pound per day and you want
more muscle growth make sure your
training is of high quality make sure
you're eating enough carbohydrates and
fats to power performance and support
your hormones and if you need more
calories just turn up the car and turn
up the fats you don't have to crank the
proteins up anymore there is no benefit
to that and you will not grow any more
muscle thinking that you need more than
a gram per pound per day to grow muscle
is the same thing as pouring so much
gasoline into your gas tank that it
starts to flood out and it goes
everywhere and someone's like hey hey
buddy click that off getting gasoline
everywhere you're like no don't worry
bro I like to really really really top
it off CU like then my car will go even
faster they're like oh you're mentally
unwell I'm so sorry you shouldn't be
getting gas yourself let me put that
away for you and wait hold
up anyway I'm done smoking that
cigarette boom bam why wouldn't I do
that you guys ever think
like if you were really cool you would
smoke cigarettes next to a gas
station Joe Camel would do that Scott is
Joe Camel still allowed to advertise
cigarettes to children I do not think so
kind of kind of
un libertine world are we living in
although we'll say um anthropomorphic
enormous camel with a leather jacket
probably made me less likely to smoke
cigarettes than more likely he hasn't
been used since 1997 1997 was the year
America turned away from
Freedom look I'm not saying cigarette
smoking is ultra cool and makes you
super
attractive I'm just
[Music]
saying I'm just going to stop I'll get
cancelled the next thing I
say damn YouTube anyway folks protein is
great up until about a gram per pound
anything north of that you could be
eating other nutrients to be a better
spending of your money spending of your
time more food enjoyment you get more
diversity of foods and worst best of all
you get better results in the gym and
outside the gym protein is great don't
eat too much of it see you next time oh
wait wait bullshit ah see you
guys