hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
a little emphasis there on a different
part of the word
you know that joke when people say put
the wrong and fastest on the wrong
syllable or whatever i fucking hate that
joke i know i'm not supposed to swear so
early in a video but i just i don't know
there's some jokes when people say and
i'm like i love a dad joke every now and
again but for the love of god some of
them and i hate this word too which is
ironic that i'm using they're cringy
ugh that maybe the most cringy thing is
when people call out cringy things like
there's comments like oh my god this is
so cringe and i'm reading that comment
and i'm cringing how do you like that
for an irrelevant aside this early in
the video let's get back to work folks
we're here for serious knowledge not my
bs
choosing your mesocycle length for
muscle growth how long are your
mesocycles supposed to be because
there's a whole lot of ideas floating
around it turns out you can auto
regulate this to meet your exact
specific needs what are we going to be
talking about first the purpose of even
having an accumulation to deal with
paradigm and thus a mesocycle length
we're going to talk about normative
standards which is a fancy way of saying
like what do most people do and what
works for them depending on their level
of advancement
talk about how competition timing can
constrain you like ideally you would
have a six to one mesocycle but like in
five weeks you have to be at a
bodybuilding show and on stage clearly
that's not gonna work
and then lastly how to fine-tune your
own mesolink to find exactly what works
best for you or at least a very decent
guess
so
what is the purpose of having an
accumulation to deal a paradigm that is
of a certain more effective number of
weeks up and down than could otherwise
be imagined well we can figure this out
by imagining what would happen if we
trained for a really short time or a
really long time and seeing how that
would be problematic there we go i used
a triggering word for you guys
why not train for two weeks and then
deload that's a fine idea right well you
could have trained for longer and got
more results in essence if you train for
two weeks deal or two weeks deal or two
weeks deload it's a fine idea the
problem is if you look back at a whole
year of training like that you really
took like one third of the year to
deload okay if you train for three weeks
and then deloaded you just increased
your total yearly stimulative training
amount by like several months like holy
crap like over a career that adds up
years to your training life and makes
you way way different as far as results
so we don't just want to deload super
often because when you're deloading
you're not doing your best growing early
in the deal maybe a little bit towards
the end you're just dropping fatigue and
if you only train for two weeks you're
probably not that fatigued anyway so why
are you deloading right
and if we say okay but we're going to
train so hard within those two weeks
that we're going to earn that deload it
ends up being that your positivity of
training is incredibly high which means
this for two weeks you're training super
crazy high and then for one week it's
super low because it's deload and then
right back in the next week you don't
have time to ramp up slowly which is
safe and effective you go boom right
next there so you de-load weak which is
almost nothing and you go wisha and you
go to crazy training amounts
that has been shown by multiple lines of
research to increase the injury rate
substantially going from 0 to 60 really
fast in your training from very low
volumes to very high volumes very low
loads to very high loads very low degree
of stimulus to a high degree of stimulus
gets you hurt not always but it does
marginally significantly increase the
probabilities it's just not something
you want to do right so not the best
idea in the world now
on the other hand you could say why
don't i train for like 16 weeks and then
deload well a couple problems
first if you're training remotely hard
you will hit your maximum recoverable
volume by then and then what are you
doing you're just spinning your wheels
training way too much you're
guaranteeing yourself some overreaching
potentially even over training stupid
idea you just lose muscle for weeks on
end someone at week eight asks you how
your training is going you're like
pretty good man but i'm pretty fucking
fried bro at week 12 like how are you
doing like man i can't feel my legs
anymore week 16 you're like well
i can't walk anymore but i'm still in
the gym baby like you know if you're
training really hard can you truly
sustain in some cases maybe but in most
cases you can't go 16 weeks of hard
training back to back and if you hear
someone say that if you look at their
training it's probably not as hard as
they think it is now if you say okay
clearly i can't survive hard training
for that long well what if i don't hit
mrv and just only hit it maybe at week
15 or 16. can i do that well
the ramp up of training would have to be
so low at the beginning
that you are essentially spending maybe
the first month or two completely under
training potentially with almost no
gains in that time so if you're thinking
to yourself all right week one of a 16
week plan i gotta train
but i can't accumulate so much fatigue
that it becomes a problem in week eight
or week twelve i've gotta accumulate
very little fatigue so that by the time
i'm in week 16 only then is the fatigue
too high and i have to deal it was a
question how easy do you have to train
them
in order
to actually
survive for that long and the answer is
like maybe not at all or maybe just
nominally go in and curl the 10 pounders
for a couple sets and put them down like
it would just be multiple weeks of
essentially deloading what the hell are
you doing you're wasting time so again
nominally you could say i'm training for
16 weeks but you're really not you're
de-limiting for a long time then maybe
training hard for 8-12 weeks and then
going uh to a dealer after
not to grace the deal worlds a simple
analogy here is if someone said like hey
you've got a weekend and tokyo long
weekend in tokyo three or four days uh
plan your activities but here's the
caveat you can't go to sleep you're not
allowed to sleep you're not exactly
going clubbing that first night you know
what i'm saying like what is your first
day of tokyo gonna be like if you're
literally not a lot of sleep you're like
okay first day we're not gonna leave the
hotel we're gonna lounge around in the
hotel be in the pool be in the sauna
which is fun but maybe you want to see a
cool concert or go walk around the crazy
districts with all the people dressed up
as whatever maybe you want to do that we
want to see all the cool electronics
nope sorry uh you have to save yourself
for there's no sleep allowed like that's
insane right ideally you would do the
fuck out of tokyo for a day get a great
night's sleep do the shit out of tokyo
the next day great night's sleep so
there's a ratio of their how much
training and how much rest you're doing
that seems to be better just like on a
fun trip to tokyo
there's a ratio of how much fun you're
having to how much rest you need and
sometimes people bullshit you too you're
on a trip with someone like dude that's
fucking stay up all night you're like
yeah i've got like five museums and two
bike doors planned tomorrow fuck you i'm
not i'm not going a whole night without
sleep because then it just ruins all of
tomorrow right so we if they have to
think of training much the same way it's
not just that we're doing good training
now it's how long is this going to be
sustainable for
big deal there now
there are a few conditions that really
if we sort of dial down into it
determine mesocycle length relatively
well first okay you should be starting
at at least minimum effective volume
mind you if you're trying to run for
like 20 weeks straight you actually have
to start below minimum effective volume
and then literally by definition you're
growing a must right so you have to
start at least at uh minimum effective
volume and
no easier or not much harder than three
reps in reserve okay about two to four
reps in reserve because it's a really
good place to start it doesn't get you
hurt um it's really easy to catch on to
good technique then but it's super
stimulative so if you're training if you
have to train only for two weeks then
deload you pretty much have to go to
failure all two weeks maybe not the most
optimal thing in the world stimulus to
fatigue ratio wise and if you have 16
weeks of training to look ahead to
gee you know you might start at like 10
right or something insane like that if
you actually plan on surviving all the
entire 16 weeks without delay so first
start training at least mad
and at least 3r that already constrains
your muscle cycle length significantly
right off hand
second you should be looking to add some
stimulus
most every week maybe not every week but
most weeks that means at least one rep
and or at least something like two and a
half pounds to the bar to the machine
every time you come in some kind of
addition is a good idea first to
guarantee that you're training hard
enough because if you never had anything
your actual reps in reserve could go
down and you just won't have any idea
you got to keep pushing it a little to
keep making sure that your body's in
that adapted zone if you back away you
might be backing way too much or if you
just get used to whatever you're doing
secondly you've got to measure
performance to know when your gains have
stopped or when you're getting close to
mrv if you're always doing the same shit
all the time you can hang on for a
really long time with some optimal
training because your nervous system
gets so good at it but if you have to
add a wrap or add weight add her up or
add weight pretty soon you can't
actually get any better and that's when
you know to back off so we have to have
at least these two conditions of
training has to be pretty hard to start
with at minimum effective volume three
reps in reserve and it's got to get a
little harder over time and of course
this is a real no-brainer but your
training mesocycle
but for more complicated designs of
recovery days and so on and so forth
generally should end just after you hit
maximum recoverable volume especially
systemic maximum recovery volume
maybe not right at mrv maybe a week
later maybe a week sooner maybe you're
right at it but
if you are training
way short of mrv you say you train for
three weeks and then take a fourth week
of deload at the end of the third week i
talked to him like dude how are you
feeling like fucking golden man i keep
going forever oh sweet so next week
you're going even harder like nope
reload like that sounds pretty fucking
stupid because you could be having
another productive week of training on
the other hand if you're doing an
eight-week cycle in week six i talked to
you i'm like how's it going oh jay i
barely can get out of bed man i've been
shitting my all my lifts are going down
and strength and like so d load this
week like nope look in week six bro i
got got to finish this week week seven
or week eight like okay do you by
finishing you mean get nothing out of it
increase the risk of injury if that's
the case then you're doing a great job
so
stopping around mrv is a really good
idea starting around mav and 3r is a
good idea in between those there's only
so much that can happen as long as
you're increasing the challenge just a
little bit each time right another thing
about mrv is it confirms
that
you don't know if you could have kept
pushing it if you never hit mrv
specifically because zero rar training
should be happening in that last week so
for example if you have two reps in
reserve and you're like dude i think it
hit mrv i can't perform how do you
really know if you don't push it so
ideally that last week of training or
one of the last weeks should be getting
real close to zero reps in reserve
and your ability to add reps or weight
or keep the same reps for a weight
edition should really start to flatline
and fall off then you know that you're
really pushing yourself to limb so you
got to start nice and easy but not too
easy and push all the way to the max but
not beyond it and between these two
things there's only so many weeks that a
given individual can stack between those
so for most people what does that look
like because you could be thinking like
yeah theoretically this makes a ton of
sense but practically i don't even know
where to wrap my mind around what to
expect like what if i get this many
weeks in accumulation am i doing
something wrong here it is
beginners generally accumulate very
little fatigue and adapt incredibly
quickly so with small weight additions
and repetitions they can get meet all
these conditions of the paradigm which
is to say starting around mev through
our ir and adding some stimulus every
week and then ending an mrv beginners
can often pull this off for as long as
eight to twelve weeks eight to twelve
weeks that's a hell of a mess cycle i
never in my life gonna survive a metal
cycle that long because i'm not a
beginner anymore and you might not be
either but if you are a beginner if you
train beginners
a lot of people say like hey do i have
to deload in my first month of training
probably not probably not the first two
maybe in the first three if you're
really pushing it but a lot of times
beginners can for two or three years
survive at eight to one paradigms that's
eight accumulation week
one deload week 12 to one totally fine
nothing going on there that's
necessarily wrong now once you're
intermediate you've been training pretty
hard for longer than oh three years or
so
you're
accumulating more fatigue now mostly
because you're stronger and you're
heaving around really heavy loads and
the body can only uh adapt uh to so much
and your ad up you're adapting quite
quickly but not incredibly quickly
anymore so you can't make these kind of
crazy gains to obviate the fatigue that
you used to so your mrv is going to be
hit probably between four and eight
weeks in many cases of accumulation
right and of course that can actually
depend on how quickly you choose to add
uh reps and load and sets the sets
should be auto regulated but there is
some wiggle room where you make a
decision like yeah i think i can recover
from another set and you might say no
and if you make more aggressive
decisions maybe that's more like a
five-week accumulation if you make less
aggressive decisions you don't add as
many sets given the flexibility
algorithm you don't go up and load as
much or you don't go up in reps as much
because there's some wiggle room to what
rir really is you might be able to go
you know less aggressive eight weeks
very aggressive five weeks anything in
between works totally fine including
those two values
lastly are the advanced they accumulate
a lot of fatigue they accumulated
quickly their adaptations are very slow
so they'll often hit mrv between three
and six weeks of consecutive hard
training of course it also depends on
how quickly they choose how aggressively
they choose to manage that but um so
long as some addition of uh stimulus is
occurring gee you know
i talked to plenty of advanced guys i
oversee some of their training and some
people come through and they're like hey
i need help with training how how long
is your typical motorcycle they're like
usually like 12 weeks get the fuck out
of here i know almost for fact they're
not training hard enough okay and if
they say man every time i get through
like two or three weeks i start feeling
like shit i'm like
you're probably just pushing the pedal
to the metal way too soon you need more
of an inroad to get in and then when we
sort of rework their training to be
better all of a sudden most of them
start to cluster into that three to six
weeks of accumulation should you be
doing this many weeks
not necessarily but this is kind of like
a reality check of are you really going
and saying maybe maybe not right
all right
what about competition constraints okay
if you do not have a competition coming
up and most of you don't right even most
bodybuilders know because you compete
but for once maybe twice a year at the
maximum
you can just auto regulate your muscle
lengths no problem which is to say you
do the following you start every measure
roughly minimum effective volume three
reps in reserve you add like one rep or
a small load fraction every time you
come in keep going and going going you
modulate your set numbers based on
fatigue pumps recovery we have tons of
other videos on rp about how to mod you
know adjusting your set volume for your
own needs
and you use
if muscles hit mrv a little early
locally like your biceps hit their mrv
but like the rest of your body is
totally fine you can use a recovery
session for them when you need or even a
recovery half week so that they can have
some more life into them and last a
couple more weeks and you restart the
progression at the midpoint of the set
so for example you started your biceps
at
two sets per week and then now you're up
to where you're training them six cents
per week and then they start to
overreach on you when you do a recovery
half week or recovery session especially
half week the next week you don't go
back to six because that's a lot and
your muscles aren't adapted to it
anymore because that's a little bit of a
break you want to go to the intermediate
value so we started at two we're at six
now then we have to do recovery half
week start back at four and then go up
and start back at five or six or
whatever then go up so on and so forth
you can do that a few times until your
systemic fatigue gets so high that
you're not getting any high quality
training once your systemic fatigue is
high you know whether it's four 8 or 12
weeks later you can cap it say that's it
i need a deload like if someone asks you
like hey are you taking any recovery
half weeks for muscles you're like yep
next week i'm going to be doing a
recovery half week for my back chest
quads hamstrings calves are still good
front delts rear delts are still like
what are you doing just
just deload everything at this point
right and also you may think
oh my individual muscles some of them
are still fine i think okay my systemic
fatigue like my sleep is off my appetite
is off i don't want to train anymore at
that point just take your d load and
call it quits that's it super easy way
to approach mouse design completely
organic so if someone asks you like hey
how long is your mess current mess cycle
you can actually tell them like i'm not
sure
last time the motorcycle was six weeks
until i needed a deload this time i
don't know i'm massing i was maintaining
last time so maybe seven i have no idea
right so perfectly fine answer however
if you have a competition coming up we
face a little bit of a different
situation
you can't just deload whenever because
you have to be ready at a certain time
right so what you do is you plot out
your final date
and you interpolate all the weeks that
come up and you're like okay i'm 15
weeks out
right and then you want to place regular
deloads often enough to make sure
fatigue management is good but not so
often that you're spending most the time
not training so here's a cool thing
if you have let's say a bodybuilding
competition
15 weeks from now
you can think okay reasonably let's say
you're an intermediate or more of an
advanced lifter you can say you know i'm
going to deload
every five weeks all right so four weeks
up deload four weeks up deload four
weeks up deload compete floss
right and you can do this a bunch of
different ways just don't be like okay
i'm gonna go like this like this like
this and then i'm gonna go up for two
weeks but then delude but then go up one
and then i have a show like that doesn't
make any goddamn sense so definitely
don't just go on pure auto regulation
you might be in a situation where like
all right i have two weeks till the show
but my body's completely broken what do
i do well you gotta deal it for one week
but then would you do that last week
kinda has to be a deal it anyway
try to plan it ahead of time and here's
a big uh
sort of conservative
note of wisdom air slightly on the more
deloading i know it's kind of crazy
because you have a competition coming up
but if
you are really really not super fatigued
you can really burn in that last few
weeks
if you are way too fatigued early geez
you might have to take an extra deload
that throws off your progression when
you're deloading you can't lose a ton of
fat so it's better to be a little bit on
the lower fatigue side a third of the
way or two thirds of the way through
your prep than on the higher fatigue
side so don't be like all right
normally i can train for six weeks on
end and then i need a deload but a buck
and need to nude up so
1d load for 15 weeks in the middle and
that's it like
might not be a good idea that's way more
weeks than you normally train so on and
so forth right
cool thing about this method is it gives
you a distinct rer to hit every time
notice in the first method we start at
3rir and then we just increase
the number of reps or the load on the
bar and try to match or beat our our
performance every time until we just
can't do it right so what r are you
doing this week the answer is like i
don't know like it feels like two or
three or whatever i'm just getting
stronger every week i'm just going going
until i can't go anymore totally fine
here if you have a predetermined
mesocycle length you actually get a
distinct rar goal so for example you
have a four week up one down paradigm
just like we described as an example you
can have first week three hour next week
goal is two ir week after that one ir
last week zero rar training almost all
the way to failure and then voila deload
and repeat beautiful perfect but you
have to know your shit in advance and
then
you can actually adjust your load
progressions and your rep regressions to
target that specific rer so someone can
say hey how much weight are you gonna
put on the bench press today and again
it's week three which means it's one ir
last week with this whatever weight
and um number of sets i hit this uh
number of reps i'm gonna at least match
that so i'm gonna put five pounds on the
bar or you're feeling real strong you've
been progressing like 10 pounds it is
this way you get more objective targets
with the other way you don't need
objective targets because you just go
until the wheels fall off you know not
fall off fall off but you go until you
get too tired you can't hpr's and then
you deal it here you have to have that
happen at certain distinct times because
you have to earn your deloads and you
can't go beyond your key loans cool way
to do things you can do
regular deluding pre-planned deloading
even when you don't have a competition
you can do the second method no problem
you just have to have a situation where
you're paying attention to make sure
you're not really off on how many weeks
you arbitrarily chose so
how do you fine tune your own mesocycle
length okay let's say you're not really
sure if you're not training
too many weeks until you deload or maybe
too few you have no idea what do you do
first you start training at minimum
effectiveness then of course you
progress and load and reps to reduce
your rir roughly every one to two weeks
so progress in a meaningful way don't
like add one pound
a week or a rep every three weeks
because you might just be able to keep
training forever and it's all junk
volume anyway because your your rar is
actually falling the whole time so seek
to
decrease your rir
every one to two weeks which means like
you may have several weeks of like three
r one week then next week two ir then
two ir then one rir then one r then zero
and then you deal it that's totally fine
or every week is totally fine as well
make sure you're pushing the pace
and then of course you progress in sets
as normal to keep muscle growth going
well there's a whole algorithm for how
to adjust your sets you add sets if your
pump isn't as good or your muscles
aren't fatigued at the end of a session
and of course you subtract that so just
stop adding them if you're getting sore
and not recovering performance so that
takes care of your sets right because if
you do a ton more sets then this would
call for of course your meso is going to
be shorter but remember
set progression shouldn't be determined
by mesolink that should be determined
auto regulated every single week
independently of anything else that's
going on because you're really trying to
hit that narrow range of like this is a
real good amount of sets to get the best
stimulus to fatigue ratio every single
time
then
after you do this
you do the whole cycle like that you
count the number hopefully you can count
the number of weeks like seven weeks and
then i had to deload
you look back and you evaluate your post
mesocycle results
first thing you want to ask is how how
high quality were the sessions
especially in the first and last weeks
especially in the first and last weeks
of the message cycle
if your sessions were really really easy
in the first weeks and unreal crazy
psychotically harder than last you might
benefit more from a shorter meso to chop
off those extras you don't ever want to
be training almost beyond your abilities
and you don't want to be training in an
easy way because that probably doesn't
get you a whole lot anything right on
the other hand if up front the sessions
were super fucking intense and towards
the end they weren't really all out like
you cut your progression before you
really went to the limits in one time rv
maybe you can make your muzzle longer
because you somehow arbitrarily just
doing a certain number of weeks and
cutting it off a lot of times you see
this with folks they'll get one or two
of these or they'll get one of these
right but not the other they'll start at
a real reasonable number of of sets in
their first week they'll go four weeks
they're nowhere near their mrv they're
still skyrocketing progression and
they'll be like deload
why are you deloading exactly and then
well 4-1 could you have kept going yeah
so your last week was super easy but you
stopped like well yeah i guess i didn't
think that through so think it through
feel you know feel out what your
last meso was on the scale and be honest
with yourself be super honest with
yourself and then of course
measured after the deload not within the
mesocycle but comparing two mesos close
together
how much rep strength did you gain okay
if you gained a ton of rep strength
you're on the right track like you
literally had a very productive mouth
cycle because you're like fuck i don't
know about all these accumulation to
deal with ratios i just made unreal
progress here and this is really awesome
mesotomazon tomezo
if you gained an underwhelming amount
maybe your mezzo was too long maybe your
mezzo was too short but something might
be off there as long as of course your
other training is going well now here's
where the real comparison comes in
you know now about this most recent
measure that you did or maybe you did
two of them to really check the rep
strength
then you take those two mesos of
whatever let's say seven or eight weeks
one with seven one was eight
and you compare it to the ones you used
to do
that were maybe historically you've
tried five or six week mezzos and you've
tried eleven or twelve week measures
see which ones of these three groups the
ones you're doing now maybe the ones
that are
lower or maybe the ones that were higher
and weak number or maybe if your recent
ones ultra high the ones that were
moderate and the ones were really short
see which one of those three groupings
generally tended to result in better
subjective results so for example you
could say man when i did those four to
one mesos a year ago everything was
fucking spot on my muscles were just i
was getting great pumps my workouts were
amazing and then now that i just did
this eight to one meso like yeah it was
good at first in the middle but towards
the end it was just fucking wrecked and
the workout quality sucked like that's
honest shit right there that you can use
to never do that long of a meso again at
least for a long time so subjective
results and then of course which ones
tended to get better objective results
this is where your notebooking uh which
of course i do on a cell phone probably
most of you do as well
comes in super handy right this is when
you notice okay
most of the mesos that i did that were
five to one paradigm
just after that meso the next meso i got
much stronger okay
when i was doing eight to one i felt
like they were going pretty well
subjectively but afterwards i just
didn't experience as big of a strength
boost and the same thing with three to
one well it sounds like five to one is
kind of your golden zone so give that
kind of thing some thought
after a few
of those mesocycles of playing with a
bit more are playing with a bit longer
and a bit shorter uh mouse like length
and actually just looking at your whole
training career most of it the entire
time
you're gonna find out what your
realistic range is
right you're gonna have a real good idea
of what's probably just too little too
few weeks for you to really catch any
wind and you're also gonna get an idea
of what's probably too many i remember
there was a distinct time in my training
career when i was doing three to ones
for a long time and then i switched to
four to ones and it was like wow these
are just better and then before i change
my straining structure to accommodate
for it i tried to go to a five to one
and it was good for a while then i
started getting much stronger and i just
could not survive to five to ones
anymore i had to go back to a four to
one that's a real thing because i was
honest i was actually using subjective
and objective assessment right
you'll get a range it's very rarely will
you get like okay four to one is my
ideal three to one blows five to one is
completely insane it's usually going to
be like shades of gray so you can vary
within that effective range we're
clearly never going to go to two you're
probably never going to go to six but
three four or five may come in handy
based on a few things one preference
sometimes you just feel like gutting it
out longer
competitions you've got a competition
coming up and you only have room for
three to one or for four to one you
don't have room for five to one totally
fine right and then of course vacation
and work and school schedules a lot of
times you get a question of like okay i
have a four to one meso planned so fifth
week is going to be a deload but on the
sixth week i go on a european vacation
and travel with my friends and do crazy
european drugs and go to european dance
parties
that's like my week one of my next mezzo
and i know where they're going i gotta
cut you right off yes it's totally fine
to do one extra week of accumulation and
get nice and fatigued go to europe have
a crazy ass time on your deload maybe
get some sleep and some food and then
come back and then you start meso1 or
something like that right so you can
absolutely
there's tons of flexibility here just
make sure you're realistic here's an
example of unrealistic say hey i don't
want to kind of take a deal out a little
bit too short my euro vacation is coming
up in nine weeks can i do an eight
uh paradigm eight weeks up one week down
and i say okay what's your typical
muscle length like yeah like when i do
five weeks in a row i'm really beat up
like
how the hell are you gonna survive eight
weeks like well i don't know i don't
know like exactly don't do stupid shit
like that at the end of the day remember
you want to make sure most message
cycles go from mev to mrv if you have to
cut off any part of the volume spectrum
you're probably missing out on some
gains
you have to have load and rep increases
occur most weeks okay if you have to
like
i can survive in eight to one if i just
don't increase the load of reps at all
sweet you're just like treading water
for eight weeks congratulations not a
huge accomplishment
next
most mesos should go from around three
reps in reserve
to around zero reps in reserve if you
have to start a meso at failure just to
milk out the few weeks and then or earn
your early deload or if you have to
start at six reps in reserve so that you
don't accumulate too much fatigue and
you can survive your eight-week meso
probably a stupid idea and then once you
have mev and mrv training load and rep
increases most weeks within a normal
range and then three rar progressing to
zero most mesos everything else pretty
much just takes care of itself and then
you're good to go folks questions in the
comments like subscribe whatever other
youtube shit see you next time
you