hey folks dr mike here for onsen's
periodization this week's weekly tip is
about recovery but it's going to come at
you from a real left field angle so
check this out the tip is do your work
first and relax after that what isn't
that some shit you learned in
kindergarten
exactly so
quick little uh discussion on a big
differentiator between children and
adults
children do what they want adults do
what they have to
adults can find schedules and ways of
being that optimize their lives not in
the short term
but in the long term
right
and a part of that a great way to do it
is to make sure that in any given day or
week or month
you try to get as much of your work done
first
and then you punt your relaxation
enjoyment fun times to afterwards and it
is actual really really good things that
it can do for you it's not just some
weird puritanical nonsense from the
1950s
do you want carla junior and you'll be
real successful like not seeing you over
there gee whiz mister yeah i got all
sorts of shitty impressions you probably
never want to hear again so
if you have lingering work and it's on
your mind and i know a lot of you have
been here before
your stress levels will be higher like
your friends are like dude let's go to
the beach you're like oh
i have that test i should study and then
you're at the beach because you're an
idiot and you're like this is so fun
fucking stupid test is still on my brain
look if you can switch off great then
you're probably also not studying for
your chest and you're gonna go fucking
nowhere in life so if you give a shit
about how your life is going it's tough
to relax when you know you have work
still ahead of you right
which means not only do you not get your
work done but or maybe you get it done
later but it actually just ruins the fun
times so really even if you say fuck
work i hate work i'm not a big career
person if you really like the fun times
you want to do the work first just to
make sure the fun times are sort of
painted in bright colors for you
afterwards like i want to enjoy my fun
so i don't want to have to worry about
work i want to crush that shit early and
get rid of it so that i can enjoy fun
super carefree and super relaxed
if you finish your day's work first
then you can relax with much less stress
it makes relaxing fun it also guarantees
you won't procrastinate which is so
fucking sweet because anyone that
procrastinates can tell you if they had
an off switch for that shit to make them
fucking normal they would turn it on
immediately well maybe not immediately
they'd probably procrastinate that shit
too but when they flipped it it would
make their lives much better even
according to them
here's another cool thing when you put
your work first usually you get more
work done because you procrastinate
unless you have more time for it you're
more even healed for it and then you
slowly over time become more successful
and wealthier
because
you've done more work in anything that
you do like yeah like whatever i'm gonna
wave my own flag for a sec i've been
like pretty fucking successful at least
as far as compared to what i thought i
was going to amount to when i was in
high school in college and like one of
my tricks to success is just like i get
my work done first when my i was like my
probably six or seven years old
my grandma said
zele de la gulasmela which is probably
nonsense as far as you can tell it's
russian it's like a little nursery
around for children and it's like once
you've done the deed you can recreate
freely if i told you what it means
verbatim it would make no fucking sense
i almost did but
actually the term for
the term for kind of relax and do what
you want in russian is the same term as
for like walk so it's uh zeledella you
did the deed or did the task
then you can bravely walk and be like
what the fuck so if you google a shit
it'll just be like all right dr mike's
an idiot it doesn't really speak russian
but in any case what it means is once
you've done your task you can
confidently relax and just be yourself
without having to worry and i remembered
that and when i was growing up in high
school i'll make a stupid video about
this bullshit personal crap sometime but
i had crazy bad attention deficit
disorder i could never do any work when
i was in elementary school
middle school most of high school uh by
the time i got to college i had more or
less most of my shit together when i was
able to do my work first and then relax
after it made my life so much better and
really paved the way for all my success
because when i had my work cut out for
me i did it and then i did it and then i
did and all the degrees and all these
companies and shit started piling up and
i was like sweet but at the end of the
day my life's no different for most
people i just go and do my work first
and then i relax after it's really just
about that simple
if you can do that you're just happier
at the end of the day which is really
super important because you probably
want to be happy i know we're all
miserable in our own little ways but if
you get your work done first then you
chill out after it's just a really good
way to do it it's not i know it comes
off as like super condescending like
dumb ass little kids you should work
first damn it and stop skateboarding in
our park but it really like if you're a
little kid that likes skateboarding and
parks if you get your homework done
first skateboarding is a lot more fun
you have to worry about some shit
so there's one caveat sometimes your
schedule fills up with shit that you
couldn't plan like sometimes i'm like oh
i'm about to have a lot of fun hanging
out with my wife at home and she's the
only person that loves me and i have no
friends and then mr nick shaw ceo of rp
calls me and he's like mike we need an
update on this this and that product
description i'm like god damn it mr nick
shaw and i still get it done it violates
my rule of doing work first but
sometimes work crops up on you and
that's totally cool but to the extent
you're able to control it which is a lot
actually like if you're a student you
can do your homework first you don't
have to wait on anyone to do your
homework in most cases if you work a
regular job fuck you actually have a
work day so don't put your work to the
evening and if you're working at home
from zoom in the new zoom economy you
can for sure be in charge of almost all
you should get it all done early and
then once you do that it's gonna fucking
make your life better nine times out of
ten and if it doesn't i'm really sorry
for giving you shitty advice but let's
all think
thank let's all think oh i was going to
say grandma israel helped that was not
her maiden name grandma uh dribinska for
teaching me that old wisdom she wasn't
she was a woman full of fucking hate a
deep hatred world war ii ashkenazi jew
type of hatred but she had some gems to
her she was a sweet lady let's all think
about that get your work done
motherfuckers and then watch my stupid
ass videos with my lame ass jokes
peace see you next week
you