hey folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
pation and I have a question for you is
diet soda making you
fat what do you think let's find out no
no it's not but why do so many people
continue to say that it is making people
fat well I think I have six reasons six
reasons why your mom your grandma your
grandma's one friend that's like she's
75 but know I'm saying she's kind of
cute what up Grandma's friend what up
[Music]
Lucy what am I even saying let's get to
the video
first people who say that diet soda
makes you fat generally have a lack of
familiarity with direct
research studies that actually assign
one group of people diet soda to drink
another group of people water to drink
and maybe there are other studies that
have just regular soda to
drink show that diet soda as predicted
has no cap calories and does not create
a calorie Surplus contributes well to a
calorie deficit and leads to weight loss
in direct experimental studies exactly
as you would predict if it had no
calories and no actual effect on fat
gain so that's just a thing and most
people just don't know because most
people don't read research which is
understandable most people shouldn't be
reading research it's boring as shit and
it's tough to correlate and coate rather
but uh but they sure should have
opinions you know I don't really know
much about mechanical engineering and
you won't see me make a statement about
it cuz I haven't read the research or
know what the fuck I'm talking about but
a lot of people pop off at the mouth
about diet soda just saying make belief
things but there's other reasons they
say this one is that they've seen some
correlational research and they have
misinterpreted that as well there's lots
of correlational data that says that fat
people on average drink more diet soda
than not fat people and people go
correlation implies causation
and thus it's the diet soda making fat
people fat now if you are so inclined to
believe that please explain to me the
following how is
it
that ice cream leads to shark attack yes
yes I know you may have heard this one
before what is the mechanism by which
ice cream consumption causes shark
attacks to happen because if you look at
it ice cream consumption correlates very
well throughout the year with shark
attacks no wait maybe it's because
people eat more ice cream in the summer
and that's also when they go in the
water and the Sharks doing that shit you
guys know that Meme then mhm sharks
ready cuz they're Seafood but to them
you're seafood and they don't give a
shit about your ice cream because
correlation does not imply causation
damn it but a lot of people don't know
that now it could be if we didn't have
direct research the fact that diet soda
drinkers are more often fat than
non-diet soda drinkers uh could give us
pause and be like Oh is there a
mechanism here that actually is
causitive but we already know from
literally direct research that uh that's
not the case uh here's a quick analogy
that's really stupid and off uh the
point entirely if you're like all
right all right I think I think Emily
likes me and your Bros are like all
right what's up man like she fucking
looks at me that way you know what I'm
saying like right right fucking bitch
yeah and like she like texts a lot I
think like it's about me to her friends
right word up us all correlational all
indirect and then finally you're like
hey Emily like what do you think she's
like I hate you Scott Scott Scott the
video guy what's up with Emily you
beefing still that's rude Emily's a rude
person here's the thing case in point
you go directly to Emily she's like n
fam so why the hell would you use all
this other
bullshit same diet soda like well look
at all this correlational data sweet it
it may very well be the diet soda makes
people fat let's look at the direct
evidence oh nope sure shit doesn't so
why is it the fat people drink more diet
soda wait I almost answered the question
just by asking it because they think
they're fat and they're trying to diet
regular ass people a lot of times drink
regular soda because they don't have a
weight problem and they just fucking
whatever goes into the mouth goes into
the mouth and then they continue to do
that until they become fat some of them
and then once they are fat many of them
are like oh shit shit shit I need to
switch to diet and that's precisely when
you do the study and catch that fat
people consume diet soda so correlation
does not imply causation in this case
and we know that for a fact because we
have direct research in a lot of it
showing when you actually test it diet
soda does not make people
fat people also do a lot of half-baked
inferential reasoning and inferential
reasoning is really awesome because you
can't directly study everything in
science so you have to infer a lot which
is totally cool that's just like using
your brain but people will say look
here's the problem diet soda man it's
like sweet things we know make you
hungry for more sweet things when you're
in a diet I'm like yep true word up
palatability is a thing like yeah yeah
and then like so diet soda is sweet
right like right and they're like
fucking makes you drink more regular
soda and eat ice cream and and and have
cookies and stuff okay okay why don't
the people drinking diet soda just have
more diet soda if they want more sweet
stuff I never get a good answer to that
question
I I don't think there is a preponderance
of evidence or actually any evidence
that consuming diet soda makes you
overeat sweet things on top of that yes
in some cases well in most cases having
a diet soda actually smashes the Sweet
Tooth right out of your mouth boom like
a boxer
but on the other hand there are times
when having a diet soda makes you want
to have another diet soda and that's
typically what you do I don't know a
whole lot of people that are like I had
diet soda I was good at my diet soon as
I had that shit your boy needed real
sugar and then I was eating
cookies I did one of the be yeah yeah
I'll
hold yeah hey hey Little Debbie y what's
up girl what's happening oh shit yo what
are you wearing send me a DM hold up
hold up hold up oh damn Twinkies girl
how you know I like that shit hold up
I'm doing a video I'll call you
back hitting up Little Debbie directly
for that shit so good Scott video guy
help me out uh what does Little Debbie
make exactly Twinkies Zebra Cakes nice
Zebra Cakes
hoos shits look like hoos or the exact
ingredients pi oh those shits are so
fucking good bro cream pie just the best
I'm I'm sorry I'm sorry we we we run a
we run a Christian channel
here we don't we don't at all do we uh
yeah little Little
Debbie can you imagine you get like a is
L Debbie Hostess is that the same thing
no competitors same shit I I imagine
like uh you're touring like the Little
Debbie's Factory or whatever and they're
like well small the magic happens you're
like H yes yeah you in the back how many
uh how many cream pies has Little Debbie
taken they're like do you mean made like
yes yes I mean made they're like yeah
the doors that way see yourself out
fucking weirdo
anyway a lot of times people say stuff
that doesn't make sense it may make
hypothetical sense but it doesn't add up
Point number four
four there's a lot of folk wisdom quote
unquote going on that was just never
vetted so uh for example the idea that
artificial sweeteners are bad for you
and must make you
fat uh is an example of the argument
from nature fallacy it's actually
documented as inic fallacy the idea that
Natural Things Are categorically good
for you and artificial things are
categorically bad for you is
categorically wrong actually it's not
categorically wrong sometimes natural
things are good for you apples
Sunshine um Scott you know those
pictures of Adam and Eve like in the
classical books were like you feel me
Eve got that the leaves on leaves but
like you feel me I see past them shits
that's great Adam also he has like a
long leaf you're like damn you really
were the first man huh in any case
that's all great nature sweet but like
artificial stuff can be like rat
Poison's artificial but also snake
Venom's how the hell does that work air
conditioning is artificial as shit but
if you have a plan for society the takes
away air conditioning I will personally
come over with a fucking Pitchfork and
it'll be me and every other living human
I we got beef so artificial things can
be really good or neutral and in this
case diet soda they've been looking for
things that it causes bad for a while
and no the gut microbiome is totally
fine with diet soda don't even bring
that
up but yeah no big deal so people people
just say stuff because fallaciously they
assume natural things are good and they
do this all the time it's very easy to
believe that diet soda is bad for you
because it's artificial and that has to
be bad only that's not true a lot of
times people say a lot of stuff and it's
not really most these people it's not
their fault fault for thinking like this
we a lot of times say dumb shit that we
just heard and I mean gpts you know like
chat GPT gp4 they're like uh learning
our culture and language and world and
they repeat a lot of dumb shit they hear
us say like gbt yeah like you should do
this exercise I'm like that's actually
wrong for the following reasons it's
like ah noted like yes you learned this
from scanning bodybuilding.com no wonder
you fucking suck at this but I say shit
I at least used to I say shit for sure
all the time that I heard somewhere and
I think it's true and it's almost
certainly false I try to do it less and
less but I used to say the following I
used to say you know the Eisenhower
Interstate system in the United States
when it was constructed the reason that
is so many like uh so few Curves in it
and so many straightaways is that
there's like a minimum number of
straightaways for any number of Curves
so that um uh military aircraft could
land on the freeways if the United
States was taking a full frontal assault
and Military airfields were disrepair
and uh it turns out somebody just made
that up it's just not true and I thought
it was cool so I said it my entire
childhood and half of my adult life and
then I looked it up and I was like oh my
God what the hell have I been doing and
there's tons of people like that like I
heard i s is bad for you and you're like
really where did you hear that they're
like and come on man you don't even have
any friends like I I'm on Reddit those
are my friends dildo lover 55 he likes
my posts which is a good friend of
course number
five ego is a motherfucker and if you
are on record saying
something you might not be able to give
it up even if there's a lot of evidence
to the contrary so a lot of people
especially in you know Instagram
comments and YouTube comments and shit
like that you'll say hey you still think
that so is making people fat they're
like yes okay what do you think of this
literature review that says no there's
unlikely they're going to be like H it's
a good point you know I take I take that
back word up by the way I have
philosophy Channel on YouTube just uh
search Mike isard hell making progress
and I have a whole video on how to argue
to convince and right disagreement is
good and stuff like that and it's very
Wishful but a lot of people they're not
into that sort of thing so they'll just
like just crunch into their
ego and uh you'll say Hey you were wrong
and they're like you're wrong
die and you're like whoa that was some
Emperor Palpatine type
shit you guys ever wonder if
uh you know Emperor Palpatine had a lot
of like appr
apprentices you ever wonder if one of
the motherfuckers like walked into his
office like Anakin or some shit he's
like hey hey you got a minute he's like
yeah yeah come in hey like Emperor
Emperor can I call you that he's like
yeah yeah cat's out of the back all um
you don't look so good bro like what's
up with you know you know what I'm
saying you like you have like a
statuesque manliness type of shit like
like a pastor like a father figure type
you know like a swag about you you just
look like you aged a lot he's like do
you remember I fucking Zapped mace Wu
for you bitch motherfucker and aged me
like oh right right right
right just saying we got Androids and
stuff
around sure we got some Botox
homie anyway I'll I'll go kill a bunch
of senators or whatever
fuck yeah that another day in the life
of the Empire Scott um if you were in
the Star Wars Universe would three
options here Scott the video guy Option
One You're With The
Empire option two you're with the
Rebellion option three you're not a nerd
and hate Star
Wars what
teams oh God if you guys didn't hear
that Scott asked what team Natalie
Portman is on ironically yeah she's with
the the she never got a chance to be
with the Rebellion she was with the the
the original the the Republic I'm saying
but she would have been with the
Rebellion but Anakin
Skywalker kind of toasted her ass before
she had a
chance little
bitch good guess only the good D who
sings
that it's a good question the
good which is false by the way
statistically inaccurate all right
lastly oh it's Billy Joel course Billy
Joel he made all those stupid piano
songs honestly if you want to make me
miserable I shouldn't be sharing this
because people are just going to swamp
me put me in a room comfortable room
Refreshments lock the door though so I
can't get out Billy Joel and Elton John
on Loop 10 minutes later I'm gonna end
it all
bro I can't I tried to watch the Elton
John documentary his songs came out I
was like no
awful how many hits did Ela John have
Scott a
lot sex with
men and I'm back in the game Googling
Elton John
anyway last point because I've wasted
enough of your time already charlatan
doctor influencers Dr gundry who's a
fucking liar Dr ax who's pretty
good-looking but a fucking liar Dr
who is very good-looking but huge
fucking liar these people just make
stuff up to scare you so you believe
things and you buy their stupid heral
supplements they get rich and uh you
don't and you just lose your
money sucks anyway diet soda won't make
you fat feel free to enjoy as much of it
as you like I've been Dr Mike see you
guys next
time