I see far too many people make technique
mistakes when doing their curls that are
limiting their bicep growth here's how
to fix
that welcome back Dr M Warfare PhD in
sports science owner AKA proud owner of
moderately sized biceps before we go
into what the best technique for your
curls might be we need to understand
what good technique even is what is good
technique and how much does it matter
well fortunately for you dear viewer I'm
actually the author on a recent
narrative review looking at exactly this
what is the best technique for building
muscle well in all likelihood there are
three components let me break them down
for you first if you need to have an
effective Tempo and based on a met
analysis by sh and feling colleagues
from a few years ago that is going to be
anywhere between about 2 seconds per
repetition and 8 seconds per repetition
once you're within this range of about 2
seconds per rep and 8 seconds per rep
there likely isn't going to be a big if
any difference in how much muscle you
build with regards to your curls that
means you don't want to be power curling
the weight if your curl looks like a
reverse clean where you have your hands
underneath the bar as opposed to Over
the Bar you're not going to grow your
best Instead try to aim for at least 1
second on the lowering or Ecentric phase
to get more muscle growth but in general
as long as your rep takes at least 2
seconds to complete on average your
lowering phase is at least as slow as
your lifting phase you're probably in a
good spot as far as Tempo goes so
potentially aim for at least a 2C
Ecentric phase or so so and try to be
explosive on the lifting face or on the
way up the final takeway on Tempo if
your reps are taking more than about 8
seconds that's probably not good for
muscle growth not a huge issue I see a
lot of the time if anything is the
opposite but it does bear repeating
because some people out there do super
slow tempos on everything next a
theoretically important component of
good techniques is to limit momentum or
essentially involvement of undesired
muscle groups and or joints ultimately
the technique you use while doing curls
should ENT maximize the chances of your
biceps being the first thing to give out
when you end a set the more other muscle
groups or joints you involve the lower
that chance becomes what this means is
that power curling the weight where
you're involving your hips that is to
say your hamstrings your glutes your
adductors your lower back and sometimes
even going on your tippy toes like doing
a calf raise during the curl all of
those things likely do nothing for
building your biceps better but do add
fatigue for your lower body and for your
spinal extensors for no apparently good
reason you'll just be using more weight
then is actually beneficial for growing
your biceps importantly this is actually
the topic of a study that we're
conducting this summer where we're
comparing using very loose body English
heavy technique to using very strict
technique and actually measuring muscle
growth to see whether it makes a
difference but theoretically I would
recommend keeping Body English or
involvement of other joints to a minimum
and in general we want to keep the wh to
the Elbow flexors in this case The Three
Bs the biceps brachy the bracho radialis
and the brachialis and as a minor point
this might mean that you want to limit
shoulder flexion during the curl because
the two heads of the biceps aren't the
only muscle groups responsible for
flexing your shoulder your front delts
and your upper chest do that too it may
be worth limiting this for this reason
just making sure that the elbow flexors
are a limiting factor and that you're
limited by Elbow flexion strength the
third main component of good technique
is range of motion and depending on the
range of motion you use you may actually
see a difference in your muscle building
of maybe around 5 to 20% here at the
main takeaways when it comes to range of
motion we want to make sure that we are
targeting longer muscle lengths or at
least that we're including them so just
doing those top half reps where you're
focusing on the peak contraction is
likely limiting your muscle growth at
the very least you want to have a full
range of motion where you're getting a
stretch on your elbow flexors at the
bottom of each rep and in fact you can
take this to the next level by just
doing length and partials wherein you do
only the bottom half of the rep and
focus on that stretch position and there
is some evidence suggesting that this
might lead to more muscle growth
compared to just doing a full range of
motion now I'm sure you've heard the
claim the biceps don't actually benefit
from lengthened training they don't
actually benefit from being trained in
that stretch position well let's
actually test that claim by looking
at the direct evidence on this topic
because it turns out the most direct
research on this topic directly
contradicts this claim but don't take my
word for it let's look at these four
studies the only four studies looking at
different muscle length training looking
at actual muscle growth to see whether
training in stretch position does lead
to more muscle growth than training in a
more shortened position the first study
is a study by pinto and colleagues that
compared doing full range of motion reps
in the preacher curl to doing roughly
half reps but more so to the top half of
the rep that is to say the more
shortened position both groups saw
muscle growth but the differences leaned
in favor of the four range of motion
group where they included that stretch
position so the first study is in favor
of including the stretch in your
training for the biceps the second study
is a study by pan colleagues where they
compared doing top half partials on the
preer to doing bottom half part contrs
on the preacher craw within participant
which meant that one arm was doing one
approach and the other arm was using the
other approach this allows researchers
to minimize the effect of Lifestyle
variables and genetic variables on the
results they assessed cross-sectional
area of the biceps Breaky at 50% of
muscle length and at 75% of muscle
length both conditions saw similar
hypertrophy at the 50% site with maybe a
slight benefit in favor of shorten
training but at the 75% site there was
much greater muscle growth in the
lengthen partial group compared to the
shorten partial group and when you look
at the overall cross-sectional area of
the biceps that was also in favor of the
length and partial group Next we have a
study by zabita cordine colleagues that
compared the incline curl to the
preacher curl for reference the incline
curl lengthens the biceps a little bit
more by having your shoulder more
extended whereas the pre-ra curl
shortens the biceps a little bit more
but has greater tension in that bottom
position indeed in the pre-ra curl when
your forearm is parallel to the ground
is when the moment arm is greatest they
measured hypertrophy at 50 60 and 70% of
muscle length the muscle growth results
are a bit confusing but here's the
takeaway only the preacher group saw
significant growth at only the 70% sight
however if you look past just
statistical significance you see that
all improvements at the 50% site 60%
sight and 70% sight leaned in favor of
the preacher cor group in my view this
is evidence that when you do lengthened
training for the biceps or for any
muscle you do want to make sure that
there is sufficient challenge in that
stretched position the final study by
colleagues was a study using the
preacher curl performed on an isokinetic
dynamometer which is a machine that
allows you to closely control what range
of motion is being trained through they
compared doing lengthened partials to
doing shortened partials they measured
muscle growth at a variety of sites
including both the biceps Breaky and the
brachialis at all Sites measured muscle
growth was greater in a lengthen partial
group compared to the shorten partial
group these differences were largest at
the more distal sites which is commonly
the case with more lengthened training
or more stretch training versus more
shortened training and so across these
four studies we consistently see roughly
similar growth or just straight up
better growth when focusing on the
stretch position so the claim that the
biceps don't benefit from lengthen
training is actually directly
falsifiable by the most direct evidence
we have on the biceps and muscle growth
so if we want to focus on the stretch
this may work best on exercises that
have some tension at the bottom like a
preacher C or like that behind the back
cable curl that both has tension at the
bottom but also allows you to get a full
stretch on the bicep if you want more
information on the best exercise for
bicep growth check out a video above
here back to good technique for the
biceps this means we'll want to lock out
the elbow on each rep to fully lengthen
the elbow flexors we'll also want to
keep our arms pinned back so as to
extend the shoulder a little bit further
and lengthen the biceps a little bit
more and we'll want to avoid bringing
your arms up during the curl as this is
shoulder flexion and we shorten the
biceps a little bit more and as I
mentioned earlier not only does it
shorten the biceps but it also
potentially involves the front delt and
upper chest a little bit more making it
less likely that the biceps would be the
limiting factor and in fact as a
consequence of This research on the
stretch position we may also want to
pronate the wrist or use an overhand
grip while doing curls since one of the
functions of the biceps is to superate
the wrist if we do the opposite we are
further lengthening the two heads of the
biceps in general when considering the
stretch in your exercises or in your
Technique it's important to consider
both the muscle length and the amount of
tension present in that position so
those are the three comp components from
our review paper on optimal technique
for muscle building a fourth component
is preference and Pain Management if
you're hitting all three of the above
components but a certain technique feels
better or is more enjoyable to you feel
free to use that one for instance some
minor Body English likely won't be the
end of the world likewise if you're
doing all of the above but something
just hurts like your elbow your shoulder
your forearms or anything else and using
a slightly different technique actually
helps with the pain like for example
flexing your shoulders a little bit
during the curl feel free fre to do it
and without further Ado here is the
optimal technique to build bigger biceps
in the curl First grab the barbell or
dumbbells if the gym is empty yes you
can curl in the Squall Rock start with
your elbows fully extended keeping your
elbows flush to your sides curl your
elbows up bringing the bar up in an
arked motion as forcefully as you can
either go all the way up until your
forearm and upper arm are squished
together or for length and partials come
around halfway up until your elbow forms
an angle of 90° avoid pausing in the top
position as this could increase the time
spent at relatively shorter muscle
lengths thereby reducing the time spent
in that beneficial stretched position
control the weight back down taking at
least a second or two once you've
reached the bottom feel free to briefly
pause throughout the whole rep stay as
upright as you can and minimize movement
of your torso if you find that your
torso consistently swings around try
squeezing your glutes keep an eye out
for your heels if you find they come up
consistently try raising your toes a
little bit so that is the best technique
for coing that I can recommend based on
the evidence we have let's go through
the checklist of what makes technique
optimal for muscle building and see if
we actually achieved it first we have at
least a 1 to2 second Ecentric which
means no reverse power cleaning we're
being explosive during the concentric or
lifting phase of the movement and we're
also using tempo as a means to
accentuate or increase the emphasis on
the stretch position a little bit by
avoiding pausing at the top and by
potentially slowing down the movement a
little bit to the bottom and pausing in
that stretch position as far as range of
motion goes the barwell curl isn't
particularly length and biased there's
not actually much tension for most of
the bottom half of the rep but by using
length and partials we can substantially
increase this and circumvent this issue
a little bit alternatively you could go
for a variation like the preacher curl
which increases the tension in that
relatively lengthened position you can
go for a variation like the inkline curl
where you're increasing the stretch on
the biceps by extending your shoulder
further or you could combine both
getting both a better stretch on the
elbow flexors and getting more tension
in that stress position by using
something like the behind the back cable
curl for all of these curl variations
the same fundamentals of good curl
technique would apply finally we are
limiting shoulder flexion by keeping
your arms pinned to your side as this
would further shorten the biceps which
is the opposite of what we want for
muscle growth and finally as far as
momentum or involvement of other joints
and muscle groups that might detract
from the biceps being a limiting factor
by keeping your torso static your feet
on the ground and Your Arms by your side
we are minimizing the involvement of
other muscle groups ensuring the elbow
flexors are What fail first that was the
best bicep curl technique to maximize
muscle building if you enjoyed this
video leave a comment down below like
the video subscribe if there's anything
else you want to see me make a video on
leave a comment down below letting me
know what you want to see if you're
looking for a coach to handle your
training or nutrition check out the link
above and I could be coaching you with
that being said have a wonderful day use
that good technique on your curls get
Jack biceps and I'll see you in that
next one peace