are squats enough to maximize quadricep
growth zebolita corda and colleagues
have participants perform one of two
protocols group one only did leg
extensions group two only did smith
machine squats group one saw increases
in all regions of rest femoris but saw
no increases in any of the regions of
the vastus lateralis group two saw no
increases in any regions of the threats
from maurice but did see an increase in
the middle region of the last lateralis
in other words the light extension and
squat exercises likely grow slightly
different areas of your quadriceps the
leg extension did a better job of
growing the rectus femoris whereas the
squat did a better job of gluing the
vast ladder out to maximize muscle
growth of a complex muscle group like
the quadriceps or the back you'll likely
benefit from using several exercises
this is especially true for muscles with
several functions the rectus femoris for
example performs both knee extension and
hip flexion
and thus doesn't get targeted very well
during most lower body compound
exercises