[Applause]
you're serious about your goals and the
rpe diet app is here to help it creates
a diet for your specific needs
lets you choose your favorite foods and
tells you exactly how much of them to
eat and when expert system AI guides you
along to keep you on track to your goals
for less than $15 a month you have one
of the most powerful diet coaches in
world
cutting-edge data science tailored to
your exact goals the future is here
today
oh that is coal ass I was trying to yeah
too late oh well alright sorry about
that folks that was a great opener
welcome back to the weekly webinar
thanks for being patient with us this
week we were a little off schedule
because Mike and Mel and a whole bunch
of the RP crew was at the squats Connect
Festival and Goa India which turned out
to be pretty cool and I'm sure Mike will
have tons to say about that at some
point but we're glad to have him back
thank you so much glad to be back and
ready to roll let me bring up all the
YouTube stuff really quick all right
cool so ready ready rb+ questions first
as always and folks if you really want
your questions answered 100% then feel
free to join rp+
all right Liam browning says hey Doc's
I'm less than two weeks out from
powerlifting meet and my joints are
destroyed from low bar squatting and
from benching four times a week oof in
there after my meet I plan to work into
a hypertrophy phase but I'm not entirely
sure if my joints to be ready for a
high-volume S&O in the 5 to 10 rep range
would you guys suggest I trained at m/v
for a few weeks and chill out or should
I get back into training hard and high
rep range just working back into high
intensities
over time I have two recommendations
recognition number one take an active
rest phase probably lasts two weeks
power lifters get real beat up and need
long active rest phases right after
needs it over for two weeks train like
you barely mean it like a broken
bodybuilder some tricep extensions a
couple of air squats and go have fun and
eat food and relax and don't think about
lifting much train 2 to 3 times a week
total 15 to 20 minutes at a time
one of those weeks you could just not
train at all give yourself a real big
break second one when you go into your
training after that in the 5 to 10 rep
range is great do not low bar squat and
do not conventional bench pick other
exercises which do not
only look like them high bar squats a
good idea even from squatting is fine
plenty of light pressing so on and so
forth and for benching maybe some
dumbbell bench and camber grunts and
Close Grip something that's not irritate
the same region structures that you're
currently experiencing pain with and do
that for several weeks at least a
mesocycle before you get back into any
low bar the squatting competition Veggie
I would also say the same thing probably
goes for deadlift as well James yeah
actually we we had virtually the same
recommendations the only other thing I
was gonna say is just make sure you also
take your frequency down when you get
back to kind of quasi preparatory
training don't don't just do chest like
one-and-a-half times per week same thing
with like squatting even you can ramp it
up later yeah very good and then also
just make sure liam to take your take
your caper for this meat very seriously
because you don't want to come into the
platform with hurt anything so make sure
basically by the time you compete you
should already be halfway healed at
least and then the one to two week actor
breast after is just icing on the cake
right yeah I think the active rest is a
really good call in that case and that
you know kind of splitting hairs between
like training at MV and an active rest
kind of more or less the same idea but
the active rest gives you the total
psychological relief as well which is
good alright one of my favorite names of
in the universe
Declan fine oh that's a that's a sweet
name
oh he's like he's the kind of guy that
you hire when your company's not doing
wrong way I woulda need an idea man sir
I was imagining like a business meeting
like we've hired this consultant so I
tidy up our books and he's like let me
see all your paperwork and you're like
damn Declan always does everything by
the book fucking Declan hi Doc's
wondering if you could help explain some
muscle physiology here I'm a weight
lifter and I've just come off a
hypertrophy block where I hit a somewhat
easy eight-armed squat 85% before
immediately being crushed by some much
lighter drop sets identical form
relatively better at higher rep range
six to ten then lower reps okay to me my
inability to perform as expected at
lower rep ranges in my tolerance of high
rep work was to just to create a
proportion or slower twitch fibers but
the steep drop in performance on
drops that suggest the opposite or could
a lack of neural adaptations be what is
hindering my one around performance
okay so then he goes unrelated to that
but so I'd like to answer this first
question by saying that if you have
slower twitch fibers then that is a
component of what would end up having
you better at higher ups than lower ups
one percent is equated but that is not
the only factor by a long shot there's
tons of neural factors architectural
factors psychological factors and the
list goes on so if you are unable so you
know the way you tell if your slow
twitch you're faster she's really from
muscle biopsy in multiple sites but
nobody's gonna do that so you what you
want to do is sort of tally up a bunch
of pieces of evidence not just one so
for example the fact that you're better
at reps event at Max's is a piece of
evidence for potentially being more
slow-twitch than not but what about
drop-off set to set okay that means to
be pretty fucking good or rather not
awful if you're gonna connect that box
as well for slow-twitch versus fast or
slower versus faster you don't check
that box or caisson
what about hypertrophy tendency like if
you have her trophy a lot from lifting
then you probably faster twitch then
slower to achieve hypertrophy pretty
well and it goes the slow twitch on that
and you can go on down the line with
multiple other analyses from performance
and behavior and adaptation and all
those together start to tilt the you
know the likelihood into the direction
of yeah I'm probably more slower twitch
- not another one is you know history of
competition beforehand like if you used
to run marathon stead of just some
Olympic pace I guarantee you your legs
are slow twitch them faster toward you
otherwise it's impossible right but it
used to be a very good sprinter and
you've never been at endurance it's
unlikely with many other factors that
wouldn't be convinced that you're a very
slow twitch person so yes that one piece
of evidence to support that you may be
slower to which but it could be a bunch
of different things and the fact that
you drop a lot of rap set to set to set
does not support the solar traditions
but it could also be a bunch of other
things so based on everything you've
said I would personally you'll see what
James says I'm not comfortable
concluding about your fiber type
whatsoever and they would need to be a
whole lot more
or evidence in multiple columns for us
to start to figure out the fiber type in
addition to that if you've collected all
the pieces of it looks like how your
muscles respond to various things the
fiber type guess is almost pointless
because now that you have an idea about
how your muscles responded how they
perform that's just how you train them
you know what I mean so the answer of
all what does this be from our fiber
type is really irrelevant when you've
connected you've collected everything
it's almost like maybe like do I have
the receptors to really enjoy eating hot
dogs versus hamburgers like is that how
my taste works which one do you like hot
dogs or hamburgers well I love hot dogs
so well it doesn't matter what we tell
you about taste receptors you seem to
like hot dogs anyway how would you use
that information in any other way than
to buy more hot dogs Geordi have that
information so hopefully that makes
sense James yeah that was really good I
have kind of two points to add to that
so based on going off of what you just
said like what do you do with that
information
you're also constrained by the
specificity of weightlifting right so
even if you did determine that you were
else more slow-twitch guy what does that
mean you're gonna start doing 15s for
weightlifting yeah slow twitch
weightlifting James you've lift the bar
slower and shit so it's kind of one of
those things were like okay well if you
want to keep doing weightlifting then
you still got to lift heavy even if
you're not particularly good at it right
or you know on the mop maybe the
moderate slide scale of heavy for power
output right the other thing too is like
just to play devil's advocate to what
Mike was saying and not even not even
devil's advocate but just to highlight
some other ideas that this why we can't
say like you might also just be
experienced oh he said I hit a somewhat
easy 8 RM squat before immediately being
crushed by some lighter drop sets well
you might have gotten crushed because
you were more fast which in that first
set just fucking what wiped you out
right and then you're just done at that
point so you could go both directions
and say like tit for tat like which
which one is indicating which which way
and if as Mike said it's very hard you
need a lot of other kind of pieces so I
don't know and I think if your goal is
to be a weightlifter like don't put too
much thought into it you're gonna have
to train heavy if your goal is to be
like a physique person then it might be
worth exploring that a little bit more
person and then he follows up with
unrelated to that is an athlete's
ability to grind out a one-arm squad
indicative of their fiber type profile
or is a to multifactorial to have any
good idea of what is going on definitely
too multifactorial I would never ever
guess fiber type based on one performer
type I'm thinking there are times when
an athlete has what looks like an easy
rep offenders completely unable to lift
just a few kilos more yeah I mean like
that you know that is a piece of maybe
ten point evidence scale and if the
other nine points point one way that one
points this way and you know it's
probably the other thing and if it's
five to five or four or six then you
really just can't conclude a whole lot
there's also kind of a time scale thing
and this is pertinent to strength sports
because you might you might have
somebody doing like reps in the one to
five range like let's say they came off
a high perch free block and this is
their first like kind of strength ee
block and the first time they get to
some heavier weights they all might look
like grinders but three months from now
they might look smooth as fuck you know
so it's kind of hard to say if it's just
if you're just observing this like as a
one-time thing yeah yeah but as it goes
to drop off you're just out of shape
yeah exactly
and he says something very important I
didn't know rp+ existed until I saw the
webinars on YouTube so thanks for
putting them out there Lulu this is
ranking of mental no I don't think we
have the one from last time up on
YouTube yet I got a double check I
checked like a few minutes ago and it
wasn't posted so it's not the one from
11:20 I think there was one in between
wasn't there maybe there should have
been
yeah I think it was because 1120 was
yeah you're totally right now luckily
there are some more questions on 11:20
that we haven't seen yet but
jmo can you can you please message mr.
Holman about that is this do I do Scott
or Jonathan Scott okay I'll message him
thank you so much all right James
mendel Hall related by almost last name
to scott Mendelssohn yeah very very
similar I love to like when I see people
like this in person I like to be like if
you related to Scott mental it'd be like
that's not even the same last night I'm
like that's close are you closely
related to it get the fuck out of my
face or Scott malkinson from South Park
ah another excellent question it's not
even a real person hello preface for my
questions with some personal specifics
and long-term goals
currently 220 and 20 percent it would
like to be 200 to 210 and float between
10 to 15%
key life 10th yeah let me say I should
have to do strongman isn't it funny that
after bjornsen is two kilos that right
same that's the same haven't done
anything like a strength or PE block in
a long time but at a similar body weight
in the past I've squat a 415 and
deadlift 495 and bench 335 would also
like to improve cardiovascular
conditioner for health and recreational
sport purposes so you just want to
become Superman got it mm-hmm
if you questions starting in January 20
2009 I'm doing a straight block followed
by a power block 48 weeks of each
depending on how they go however I would
also like to get leaner would it make
more sense to cut first or cut after cut
further somewhat d trained last two
years have been inconsistent that have
maintained most of my strength and sighs
I'm starting my second month of
consistent 60 week training four
sessions with weights and two indoor
soccer games with enough sprinting to
give me mild Dom's I do want the power
block to feel a bit more explosive and
athletic again so we're dropping 20
pounds to be better for this goal I
so James let's tackle these one by one
yeah my advice is because you're still
sort of D trained your strength block
will not go as well as you wanted to if
you cuts but I think you could cut
between minutes solely if it's eight
weeks I would say you can cut up to 10
pounds when cut any more than that and I
think you will be a little lighter on
your feet I would absolutely not got 20
pounds in eight weeks do not cut during
the power block only cut during the
straight block and prepare for much less
improve you wait to see mean cutting
during the strength block or both us for
both of those oh I well he had us he
said starting January 20 I was planning
and doing a strength block followed by a
power block okay okay I interpreted that
it's like should I cut before I start
any of this sure he says would it make
more sense to cut first or cut after if
I'm interpreting cut first to be like
cut during but he's got during then you
know when you cut doesn't really make
much of a difference but if you want a
peak in power at the end of the power
block you should already be lean so it
makes more sense to cut before but don't
cut during certainly don't cut during
power and if you cut your extremes
you're gonna have to trade off some
abilities yeah so I totally agree with
Mike on that one thing to keep in mind
is is losing weight for the explicit
purpose of like being more powerful is
not necessarily a good idea but what I
will say is if you want to make some
major body composition change and you
have like more athletic stuff that
you're doing like let's just let's just
assume it maybe he's playing soccer or
something like that you're going to want
to
that wait before you move into your
strength and power blocs because it's
gonna take time for your body to
calibrate to your new body size and body
weight and that will definitely change
if you're doing stuff like sprinting so
the way that you sprint you know at your
normal weight and the way that you
sprint at 20 pounds lighter than your
normal weight is significantly different
from from our perspective so you would
want to kind of be at your target weight
before you entered that strength and
then subsequent power blocks so that
your body has time to adjust and this is
something that I've seen with my rugby
guys where if they get a mass phase over
there in a cut phase we make sure that
they had time to readjust because if you
like for on mass phase for example now
you've got this extra ballast swinging
around every time you jump and run and
vice a verse and then it's gone and you
have less of that you have to adjust so
I would definitely as mike said not cut
during both of those and maybe it might
be worth just waiting until you're more
athletic stuff is kind of coming to a
close and then you can do a cut later on
yeah not sure yeah number two because of
the detrained
fact would it be possible to recom some
of a combination of dialed in eating and
activity level stated above all so I'm a
professional painter so my daily need is
fairly high I was moving on me feet a
lot so you know summary comp is almost
certainly gonna happen if you just eat
it maintenance because you're relatively
d trained absolutely what I bet that
that recap is gonna be this grandiose
thing that makes you a lot better no
probably not yeah especially like if
you're not doing a lot of like
hypertrophy stuff you're probably not
gonna see a ton of recom but you'll
definitely see some if you're doing
strength training yeah number three just
just as an intellectual suppose not
curiosity related to this recom occurs
best given any you know sort of whatever
training level you have with a high
level of what I we could call throughput
like a lot of hypertrophy training and a
lot of cardio causes a lot of recom the
less you train the less we cop you have
number three while getting back into
training the last few months I've been
doing a lot of alternating sets in a
ten-minute Imam fashion James what is
the bomb I'm I feel ashamed I don't know
all I can think of is like stupid like a
star force type the
yeah or like the Imam events like the
Muslim equivalent of priests so he says
for example benchpress
benchpress everyone on the minute every
minute on the minute okay benchpress
minute one pull-ups minute to repeat
overhead press minute one barbell row a
minute two four five sets total I've
been getting great pumps and mild to
medium Dom's the following days I've
seen you guys say straight sets are best
am i spinning my wheels turning like
this I've also been enjoying the
different Raya style so here checks out
it's a really really cool insight um we
at RP have developed what we consider to
be sort of their logical approach to
rest times and there's a the key to
hypertrophy training is that your rest
times when you go again that next rest
it wasn't that next set is limited by
the local musculature ability to
contract and not really buy anything
else alright for strength you are
limited by your local musculature and
your neural ability to generate high
forces and not by anything else like a
synergist muscle limiting you or
cardiovascular stuff limiting you so how
you know this is good training front per
trophy and/or strength is if you are not
so out of breath that you're clearly
losing repetitions and clearly not able
to push the muscle and/or the movement
as close to failures who would like and
that's for you to answer so if you're in
real good shape every minute on the
minute never really taxes here or
central it never really creates the
situation where cardiovascular stuff is
a limiting factor then it's great you
said you've been getting great pumps and
mounts medium bombs that you're well on
your way for a lot of stuff is it ideal
it's can be close to ideal if you
recover really fast but if if and when
you have a thought of man uh-oh I gotta
go in five seconds bro and if I rested
another thirty this next set would go a
lot better almost by definition you are
not spinning your wheels but you're sure
spinning I'm up a little bit and you
would benefit from more rest James yeah
and I think the kind of the take-home
message there is that it's good maybe in
some cases but not all cases so why put
an arbitrary constriction like one
minute on the minute that and that's
it's a perfectly fine way to do it if it
gets you in the gym and keeps you on a
good routine and your you can manage it
that's great
from an optimality standpoint like that
might be good for like your bench press
but it might be devastating for squats
or something like that right so it's
like why why why do that you can just
adjust as needed based on like your
breathing and all the criteria that Mike
already described so how does something
Luciano Bruno quickl says hey docks I
hope you're both well great move
bringing our P and rp+ websites together
it looks so fancy now hey fancy huh yeah
good job Sonia
it looks so fancy now that explains you
guys are trying to improve your YouTube
game for that YouTube and sell money you
don't have to sell money that just
delivers we don't even have
advertisements on ours at the moment so
we're not even getting any of that
YouTube then so nothing that's true
moving on number one why are studies
demonstrating muscle memory aka
physiological memory of previous
muscular hypertrophy and strength
training in humans lacking
- literature on elevation of strength
during your training phases which
carries over for retraining phase but
why such an effect hardly been shown in
regards to muscle hypertrophy is it due
to the time constraints of the studies
if I had missed relevant studies would
you please mind pointing me in the right
direction so I would point you to the
James Krieger research review weight
ology dotnet where a bunch of studies
are summarized and discussed in great
depth
best fucking website on the internet or
damn near one of them as far as training
is concerned there are not many of those
studies for two reasons one generally
speaking you can get easier funding on
muscle memory and strength because you
can get funding from institutions
they're designed to research aging and
age-related decrements right strength is
just easier to justify because you could
say hey look if you're not strong enough
to get out of fucking chair you have
trouble being independent and all kinds
of organizations associated with like
mortality and morbidity
because you can justify for function
muscle hypertrophy is a little bit
difficult to get money for because you
can stretch it to say hypertrophy leads
to strength but by itself super imposing
in addition to that a lot of these
studies require huge follow-ups with big
cohorts to figure anything out and
that's really fuckin difficult so I
think would say most of these studies
there's just not a lot of them and
that's my guess as to why the strength
versus hypertrophy or something I think
there's just a lot more people
interested in strength first hypertrophy
in the
search hypertrophy is a very niche
interest and it turns out that you know
beach boy physique people don't really
contribute to research or have a big huh
you know like strength training research
in an advanced state has been occurring
in the United States since the 70s and
80s dedicated hypertrophy research as it
doesn't relate to sport or or anything
like that has been occurring since the
invention of Brad Schoenfeld in modern
times like in 2010 so it's definitely
behind the times out luckily I
personally research just catching up
like crazy but it's still pretty pretty
lacking we know way more about strength
development than I'm her trophy
development at this point from the
research maybe I'm being pedantic here
but I'm not fully understanding the the
question because what what they would be
measuring in both instances are
essentially strength unless I'm missing
something would measure like satellite
cells and cross-sectional area and stuff
like that if they're really looking at
hypertrophy and maybe with multiple
measures like so a lot of times you say
like people retain their strength and
regained in a certain rate but those
those studies won't come with like any
kind of ultrasound measurements or body
cop measurements and because those a lot
of times just I don't think interest
researchers nearly as much as socio is
he asking about people who have like
gained a significant significant amount
of muscle mass and then deconditioned
for a long time okay that requires a
hell of hell of a study to do that
Jochem yeah it's also difficult to keep
it's also the gym well it's also
difficult to just lose muscle mass that
you've accrued over time just even if
even if you're not like getting at the
gym all the time yeah actually here's
another situation so if you recruit
people who never trained trained them
for a while and then later study their
muscle memory they actually don't have
much of a muscle memory because it's
been shown through other studies that
are much limited in scope that muscle
memory actually increases the more you
train so if you train someone for 12
weeks and they lose all their muscle a
lot of times there is no muscle memory
after a certain time but what are the
kinds of people that really have a lot
of muscle memory and get back their size
a lot well advanced lifters how the fuck
do you get them to stop lifting you
basically kamsa's they're already lift
so a lot of the studies you get that
people coming back from injury and
lifting again and how much faster it
goes on and so forth so it's costly I
was going to say the only instances are
case studies of astronauts and people
who get severely injured right that's
the only time where you really see that
effect yeah
and then number two is what's your take
on the cellular or neural physiology of
muscle memory the mind equator domain
theory still seems to be up in the air
we seem to have equal amounts of studies
on both sides and mice and humans and
then he sets a study there as far as I'm
really with the literature of the my
nuclear domain theory is pretty
impressive so I think it explains some
of the variants I know there's a large
neural component as well and this has
been seen in a variety of ways so for
example the cross-training the studies
was really really powerful data so you
know when you train your right arm your
left arm just doesn't lose nearly as
much muscle as you'd expect we're just
fucking crazy this is their muscle
physiology Zandu dick so there seems to
be a top-down ability of the nervous
system to upkeep muscle size which
really is fucking impressive and there's
a recent evidence to that suggests that
like mental imagery and practice can
actually help you maintain your muscle
mass or prevent you from deconditioning
worse nuts and totally nuts so there's a
lot of stuff in addition so I don't
think that my nuclear domain theory
explains all the evidence but I think it
explains a good deal of it all always up
in the air yeah well and stuff we just
don't know yep you're Don
San F says hello I have a pretty good
understanding of the periodization
principles top NRP but after eating the
mini cup manual I'm having a bit of
trouble coming up with a good way to
cone of a bitch mini cuts just always
fucking he's read the mini cut book and
we're still doing Winnie cut questions
you bastard faster while incorporating
many cuts during the massing phases the
book recommends around three to four
weeks oh sorry sorry three around three
four week lesson cycles are massing
followed by around one four week my
cycle of cutting another to four week
mass mezzos two week maintenance one
measure of cutting one measure of
massing and finishing off the mess of
maintenance the book does not recommend
to us at all it is an example to
illustrate a theory just to be very
clear I'm not trying to be pedantic
asshole doesn't recommend this it's just
an example that allows us to explain and
explore all the nuances involved there's
a matter of fact
that last one meso of cutting one meso
of massing I would just cut that off
entirely just go to maintenance if I was
doing a real world thing as far as
illustrations are concerned if we put it
in there mostly to illustrate that after
a while maybe cutting no longer provides
a time efficient solution to resent eyes
the process I hope that makes sense
James does that make sense see what I'm
saying yeah but I guess maybe I'm not a
good good person to gauge that on you
know to you then I was total blog right
so basically it's one of those things
like if you want to show someone like
how many hours they can sleep at night
and still retain performance you can
show like you know you can sleep six
hours and then sleep five unless they
four of them sleep three but you can't
keep sleeping three like three hours
will buy you more time to be able and
active but after three cycles of that
you're just dead no matter what yes so
same idea and then he says so just to
keep that in perspective and he says
that all makes perfect sense after
reading the book but how do I fit /
adjust the standard mezzo basic
hypertrophied mezzo - basic effort Rafi
mezzo three metabolism is a 4e
sensitization strain flock within the
mini cut guidelines one would think that
the resets it ization matter mezzo would
fit nicely within the mini cuts but the
book but both a strength focus of the
mezzo and the low vol you make me think
it's definitely not the best suited for
losing weight due to much lower
periphery stimulus mini cuts are
supposed to have a low hypertrophy
signals all right so you you don't so
first of all second of all any said the
name would be highly appreciated you bet
so the basic appart Rafi basic I've
heard Rafi metabolite recent ization is
a periodization structure we chose to
put into our templates it is absolutely
not the only one it is for people that
don't really know what the fuck is going
on
because they're experts at something
else like their actual jobs and they
just want to structure to follow that's
pretty fucking good that structure can
be adjusted and adapted flexibly to meet
a variety of other structures including
the one you just described it from the
mini cup manual basically what you have
to do is go through and incrementally do
more volume until you're too tired to do
more volume and you take a break by
doing
sensational things and you take that and
you intersect it with the fact that you
have to do incrementally higher volumes
during NASA and mini cuts should
probably be in the lower end of volume
more like mezzo one basic hypertrophy
kind of volumes that start with the
first week of volume and never go up
because you're not increasing volume
during the mini cut by adding sets so
taking those ideas you have to take
whatever scape because here's another
one you're done your schedule might not
exactly fit either one of those two
things so you have to understand these
as concepts and then apply them so for
example you say okay I have two months
of massing I can do two mesocycles
one's gonna be moderate volume the other
is gonna be moderate volume okay because
it's not enough time to go to super high
volume yet okay sweet and then I have
one month of mini cut that's enough time
to do moderate volume to begin with but
never increase it so it's actually low
haul in the entire time after that I
start another metal cycle for two mezzos
because it's all I have time for I'm
pretty used to moderate volumes by now
let me do a metal cycle of sort of
moderate high volume in the single one
and then a second mesocycle let's do
really high volume and then I'm gonna do
a maintenance phase that lasts about a
week a week or two and then another mini
cut that's four weeks again with on the
low end of moderate volumes that's how
you construct that stuff you layer your
plan out and you layer down ideas that
make sense
aligning each phase to what it needs and
then it's gonna make sense we can't
possibly give the periodization for
everything because people's individual
needs and schedules vary so much that
you have to come at it from the
perspective of ideas and phases and
concordance James yeah that was
brilliant if I could just give like a
tldr you can basically take that same
structure if it fits your schedule and
yeah you can basically substitute the
resent ization phase with a mini cut
because it will be just enough for you
to kind of keep your muscle mass while
you're losing weight andr sensitize you
at the same time and then you can go on
to do more massing but that's highly
variable depending on what you want to
get out of it and in your in your
timeline so don't fuss too much about it
really is kind of the idea it's like
just pepper it and when you when there's
a good time usually after at least two
meadows of mass and then go from there
yeah so like hey also ask yourself
questions okay
I'm on a mini cut is the current volume
I'm doing enough to keep muscle on my
body you should be able to auto regulate
that like if you're getting zero pumps
you're everything else and you're seem
to be losing muscle week to week to week
it's probably not enough volume but if
you get just the minimum amount that you
need to maintain it should be pretty
obvious as to how that goes once we
publish the book keep saying this all
the time it's gonna be I was gonna say
it's getting more clear it's getting
more informative I'm not sure how clear
is gonna be as it looks complicated but
it's certainly gonna be more accessible
it's a doozy all right Aidan one name
it's like Prince yeah I think it was
Aidan Brown but I think after we updated
the website sometimes it only shows
heart of the the profile okay
a that says hi Mike and James I have a
question around muscle soreness in
session MeV I'm currently in week two of
my mass phase and I've started with
moderate levels of soreness in week one
and I'm not wondering what soreness
should look like through the Mezo should
you keep adding volume and intensity so
that you get just shy of so on a /lo
model levels of soreness throughout the
whole Mezo while the last couple of
weeks get a bit more soreness than
normal functional overreaching effect
maybe the answer is maybe
so with soreness the state of the
evidence so far and our reasoning about
it can be summarized like this if you're
not if your role as hypertrophy you're
not getting that all sore you have to
answer the question of why not do more
work because more work has been shown if
you're very easily recovering to lead to
more hypertrophy so if you're not
getting sore at all you should probably
do more work on the other hand if you're
so fucking sore that you can't train
properly in the next session you're
probably too sore from two potential
negatives one you're interfering with
overload by being unable to Train
well three negatives another motor
risking injury because you're training
in a pre broken state and three you may
be exceeding the amount of damage your
muscles can recover from without dipping
into the adaptive resource pool and
fucking over how much you're growing so
that leaves us with the following when
you're training so long as your
performance is still good you should
seek to increase volumes so that you
stay above not sore at all but below so
fucking sore that you can't heal by the
next session anything within that is
probably fine we actually have no idea
what the specifics of very little
soreness moderate soreness too high but
still recoverable so on us James and I
can't tell you which one of those is
better because we literally would just
be making enough
no idea is there it because we want to
have a nice extensive long messy cycle
and we want room to grow in room to
adapt is there some logic for starting
out at the low end of soreness and as
the mouse cycle goes a and adding volume
to move into the higher end of still
workable soreness I think there's
definitely room for that at least to
some extent how much of an extent no
clue so just make sure if you're not
sore at all probably add some volume if
you're super fucking sore to the point
you can't recover on time for your next
workouts don't add volume he maybe even
want to reduce it James yeah that was
really good and I think kind of the
take-home here is like you shouldn't
your strategy shouldn't avoid soreness
nor chase soreness for its own sake
right it's more of like you can use
soreness as another one of many proxies
to indicate that you are probably in a
good place that's why we also recommend
looking at your performance your pumps
you know the how much my muscle
connection like we always have a couple
things that we're throwing into the mix
and soreness is one of the ones that we
can use but don't chase soreness
necessarily for its own sake nor should
you think that you should be avoiding
soreness like if you get really sore
from doing stiff legged deadlifts you
shouldn't be like oh my god I should
never do that again right no it's
probably did exactly what you wanted to
do so somewhere in the middle is
probably the right the golden zone we
just can't quite narrow it down yet
[Music]
you
[Music]
also my plan is set up to where I have
three upper and three lower days one
focusing on for example chest with two
chest exercises back to back and then a
back exercise at some isolations my plan
follows is set up with all major muscle
groups so quad focused a hand folks
today shoulder focus day etc but you
don't need a shoulder focus today sure
other than that I think your plan is
good
remember the show which part of the baby
I'm just reading too much into that
maybe that just means he starts with the
shoulder exercise no no he does focus
day right right yeah they still trains
the other stuff in week one as mentioned
previously my experience moderate levels
of soreness due to all the new exercise
I introduced
however in week two I'm not only getting
low levels of soreness and some muscles
not getting sore at all even though I am
on plus five sets and some exercises
bumps throughout the workout or a medium
level and if there's some stiffness and
weakness of the following hours after I
train could this mean that I have a high
session nav and can benefit for more
volume yeah a night yeah yeah boards
going up right it's going up that would
be another it does absolutely that even
though in the sessions there was only
one exercise for the muscle group by or
approaching seven sets which I've heard
you say going past this isn't the best
and another exercise should be added
yeah probably going past five is a meet
of the bests
I think you should split seven sets of
the same exercise and does not sound
like the greatest thing for me from a
stimulus to fatigue perspective and just
from a psychological fucking boredom
prospective good god yeah there's some I
think there are some where you can
really get into a good groove and it
might be like for me like I can do a lot
of sets of like easy curls that's one
where I read or leg lateral raises but
like squats bench press like adding any
other II
adding any exercise once the mezzo
starter can interfere with recovery true
but it shouldn't interfere with recovery
much if you add one set of it so for
example reach five sets of benchpress
the next week you do five sets of bench
again eating one set of dumbbell presses
and that's not gonna interfere with your
recovery if the last week five sets of
benchpress
saw you weh-weh recovered and it was not
remotely a challenge there's no way one
set of dumbbell presses gonna throw off
everything when people add exercises in
they had four sets of them at a time
that's where we get into trouble so I
wouldn't worry about adding one set but
for next time you might know that you
have a high session and maybe I want to
start with two exercises instead of one
and then jack up the volume
like that so that there's no surprises
maybe that's where I was gonna go so
it'sit's there's nothing wrong with
adding an exercise but it's best to do
that with that in mind at the start of
the mezzo cycle so instead of adding
like a whole nother exercise midway
through have that already in the mix and
then just add sets as you go so it's not
like this crazy big variable thing week
to week yep yeah all right and then he
says more questions on the GPS podcast
talking about this topic you made sure
that people who have done high frequency
programs don't really get sore as they
become so well accustomed to it that
their muscles know what to do and damage
takes place i myself been going through
a fat loss phase where the mezzo I tried
out all big muscle group four times a
week and went into five times a week in
the final mezzo I was really careful
with access selection and session
volumes and it was successful but like
you say was certainly not sustained a
lot of my knees and other joints of fell
into trouble oh yeah now under my mask
phase do you think that I have
experienced these higher frequencies
that my muscles know how to heal the
soreness in and is why frontiers for use
questioning the last week in there's
current webinar that I rarely get sore
even though my session volumes over the
6 to 12 that's per session yeah sure
there's there's some adaptation to that
right so your muscles get very good at
recovery if you train them a lot
part of that is fiber type shifting and
many other contributors and as that's
absolutely the case but remember as you
train with lower volumes for a while
you're going to eventually get to a
place where you D sensitize to the
higher frequencies and you'll start to
get responsive again this is one of the
reasons why after a very long very
extensive cut at some point doing a
maintenance phase is a good idea to
reset the ties to get the old very low
frequencies very low volumes where after
you're done with that even moderate
volume Xand frequencies are pretty
fucking gnarly because you're fully
reset some times but if you never resent
eyes then you have unfortunately the
situation where you could crank out fuck
loads of volume and DIC happens to you
which is not the greatest thing in the
world and so we've talked about this
more explicitly like the scenario that
you run into there is right when you're
mev and your nav are creeping up in
flirting with your MRV right so at that
point like you have to do so much
training to get anything out of it
anymore
you're right at that breaking point so
at that point when you find yourself
flirting with volumes and session
volumes where you're like this seems
ridiculous for me to really get anything
out of this that's probably a good
indicator that you are due for a
low-volume phase whether that's active
rest or resented ization that's like the
classic indicator like you're feeling
flat all the time and you have to do
like seemingly an astronomical amount of
stuff compared to what you would
normally do definitely time for a recent
cessation phase boom
so to answer a question that's coming up
let me pull up the he says last question
other than soreness is there other
proxies that I can rely upon to gauge
when to add volume yes go around
sanskritization calm and go to the
expert advice guide or just Google set
progression algorithm Renaissance and
the second link that pops up is training
volume landmarks for muscle growth and
you're gonna scroll down just read the
whole thing it's a fucking ball the
article and you get to something called
asset progression algorithm which tells
you exactly how to add volume which is
fucking awesome
and it relies on a couple of other
things those other things we're actually
not gonna answer right now because
Joseph Heslop actually asked us about
them so we'll just get two birds with
one stone he's oh snap Joseph Heslop
says hi there I've spent some time
researching the best training practices
RP GTS various sport journals and
shamefully just sometimes YouTube that's
no shame in it well we're on YouTube now
so seriously what kind of shame I spent
a large portion of my time endlessly
obsessively theorizing over new training
methodologies that I may improve the way
I do things
hey welcome to our lives but I've had
this one rattling around for some time
now I want to shoot it at the best in
the business and see what you guys think
well James Krieger is not on this
podcast so he should shoot at him okay
so splitting the body into any number of
sections for this example it will be
pushed four legs and you pick a big lift
that incorporates all flesh most of
muscular over that a section say bench
press for the push section that's why
the easiest exam
and train slowly that lift until volume
landmarks for it had been established
preceding this may be James artists got
to go preceding this from the last
question where we said it might not be
good to fill your whole session with one
a share sure sure sure I think this is
more of like a intellectual experiment
we'll see where this goes
preceding this you added a new exercise
perhaps vertical bushing or isolations
for chest wrestle front delt side delt
and see how this changes the previously
established volume line watch for your
bench press it's actually very difficult
to find a blaring landmark for VegFest
which is something we'll get to later
you have a Bioman right for body parts
it's difficult to change to a sink so
basically like let's say you're doing
dumbbell flyes and bench press in your
routine every week and you hit your MRV
it's difficult to tell which one of
those caused your MRV your chest has an
mr v your bench press doesn't really
have an mr v unless it's the only thing
you do and it sure does have an mr v but
you don't know which part of that is
flies they can be exactly the perfect
analogy when you eat a giant bowl of
pasta did you get full from the noodles
or did you get full from the sauce you
can only find that out by eating noodles
and sauce individually which I would not
recommend but then once you mix them
it's a different thing all together so
yeah I'm sorry like I don't mean to cut
off the question early but I just a big
flaw that I just want to point out real
quick so you don't figure out your
volume within marks for let's say your
chest right and then later say okay how
does adding other exercises affect my
volume arts for chest usually when
you're doing this you're going to be
doing it in like the most ecologically
valid state meaning doing it in the way
that you would most likely do it on any
given day right which is probably gonna
be some type of balanced program right
not like a completely like Mike said
like pasta without the sauce it's like
okay my programs not bench press only
and then I'm adding things and seeing
how it affects my bench press a normal
program will have all of these things
and they will all be affecting each
other so that's kind of the issue I'm
taking about the idea I see where you're
going but just keep that in mind he says
a reduction in the MRV of your bench
press could indicate that the additional
exercise was wholly or in part
unnecessary due to the exercise
stimulating in muscles they may already
be a limiting factor for your bench
press indicated by the drop
we can't say it was unnecessary because
it could actually be better than the
benchpress in many respects after what
the bench press is doing so it's it's
like a stupid analogy you're trying to
blow up a car and you're using a really
small gun you use five hundred bullets
in the gun and use like one rocket
launcher and it blows up the whole thing
you said well I was at bullet you know
for 99 then I would have just done it
already with a small gun why we using
the bazooka well the pizookie may be
more efficient right now will the
bazooka interfere with how many bullets
it takes to destroy the car yeah
absolutely but that may be a good thing
so for bench pressing you know let's say
you do incline dumbbell press it's going
to interfere with your bench press for
sure I wouldn't call it unnecessary it
could just be another really good option
they're both competing for the same
adaptive and recovery resources but one
of them may be better than the other or
they could be really complementary which
is most often the case where you do some
bench some incline dumbbells it hits
slightly different areas raises your
overall stimulus to fatigue ratio and
then you're good to go so I wouldn't say
I'm necessary but you could say he does
use many of the same muscles but that's
not exactly something we can for sure
conclude and I'll answer us with your
next question it says do the exercise
stimulating muscle in the Aubrey let me
factor little or no change in MRV could
indicate that the additional exercise is
not interfere with whichever muscle is
limiting factor for benchpress and
therefore providing an East in those two
other muscles yes could also indicate
that it is just very non systemically
interfering so for example if a muscle
if you introduce dead lifting into your
benchpress program I was gonna say God
sorry JMO we all have the goddamn clones
at each other at this point working
together for so long yeah so you know
you deadlift a long time or a lot and it
brings your bench press down but it
doesn't use any of the muscles it just
spills over into systemic MRV so you got
to be very careful some of these
conclusions are sort of they're true as
far as they go but they don't go far
enough right yeah absolutely if an
exercise brings down your benchpress
recovery ability in theater for your
somehow but how interferes is not so
clear just because it interferes and
then so he says little no change never
ever you can indicate the additional
exercise is not interfering with
whichever muscle is limiting factor of
your benchpress and therefore providing
you needed stimulus to other muscles
equates but I know means pretty of those
muscles need a stimulus right the best
way to figure out what muscle means a
stimulus is you decide which muscle
needs a stimulus and you track its own
MRV
the muscles MRV and see if you're me
enough volume to get close to it at the
end of mess like this for example if
squats don't ear fear with your
benchpress that doesn't mean your quads
needed to be trained how do you know
they need to be trained because you want
to fucking training well build your
quads right then you track your
squatting and quad performance to see
how what its MRV is and then you figure
out if that needs to be trained or not
when he says this process could be
repeated so that all muscles in a
section are accounted for okay so for
doing section by section then this is
probably a bit more of a valid concern
but again it doesn't address the
systemic spillover so for example if
you're doing uh you know you're training
your benchpress and your pecs are
getting most of the work your triceps
are getting some if you start doing
skull crushers your triceps could very
well be getting great stimulus and
growing much more improving your
long-term abilities but including
anything that trains your triceps will
automatically fatigue them more because
triceps and chest are part of what hits
your benchpress your bench press will
experience a decline in its MRV if you
include skull crushers but that doesn't
mean they're bad or unnecessary that
just means that your total recovery
ability in your whole pushing complex is
finite so how do you find out if your
triceps you really need the work is you
actually have to go about and find out
what the limiting factor to your
benchpress actually is I've got a whole
lecture series on YouTube for free about
how to figure out limiting muscle groups
and this sort of calculation is part of
it but it's not the only part and he
says the aim would be through trial and
error to construct a close to optimal
program in the way of exercise selection
and set dosages by the addition and
subtraction of additional movements in
response time I already have a base
movement bench press Barry's
unfortunately it's not tenable because
these things change all the fucking time
they change in a nonlinear way with the
addition of different types of exercises
so in order to do the combinatorics of
figuring all that out it would take you
like 15 years to figure out how the
exercises intersect and then you would
retire and then here's like the easiest
way to see this problem or you say okay
I figured out my benchpress right but
now I've been using benchpress for five
months and it's gone stale on me right I
have to use something else now there
your whole your whole scheme just gets
thrown out the window
at that point solid now you should have
an informal idea about what your bench
press
MRV is and an informal idea about how
much other shit affects it so you could
say okay I'm doing like four to six
that's a bench right now how many sets
of skulls can I add without my bench
really tanking or with how many sets of
skulls rather without my bet really take
it as a bad question how many sets of
call skulls can I add to cost me how
many sets of bench of equivalent fatigue
you can get an understanding of that
through careful tracking extra sub
exercise it's always approximate but
it's gonna be like well you know two
sets of skulls doesn't really fuck me up
but two sets of close scripts really
fucks me up and then to four sets of
tricep extensions on a cable basically
doesn't even you know touch me at all so
I know that what I want to do set other
stuff I know roughly which dosages to
begin with and always titrate after bio
regulation yeah and I think that might
just be one of these situations where
you just you can you just kind of have a
general idea for your your best SFR
movements for your chest for example
here's kind of the range of scores of
the other things that I would be doing
whether or not it's a barbell bench
press or a low incline dumbbell bench
press like they're gonna be roughly the
same and I know that the spillover from
my other highest so far accessory
movements are gonna be roughly the same
or within like a range of scores not
like an exact hardline score necessarily
yep I'm aware that variation through
exercise selection and the accumulation
of volume is a form of overloaded
complicate this methodology considerably
but I'd be interested in your opinion of
this approach I guess you got it - Sadie
was inspired by my know how someone's
principle of exercise selection living
factor individual difference and the
work you've done a volume on marks
thanks for a time Joe you're welcome for
our time hopefully what we're asked
about is somewhat instructive and then
he has another question and that I liked
I liked - sorry I like to stop process
like on the idea I think there was just
maybe a few limitations on that on that
methodology but it's a good idea of like
how do I kind of systematically go from
my priorities to my lesser priorities
right that's the kind of the idea and
that's good yeah hey there Mike and
James quick question for finding your
mev so in regards to finding anything in
the updated article log the long and
precise fluid after mezzo you analyzed
training results to see your performance
of that mezzo
question what
mean by performance is it in fact that
while increasing the intensity each week
for four weeks I was able to hit the top
end of a specific recommended rep range
for that muscle group movement
or do you want us to say two to three
ar-ar-ar and hit the same exact
reprimand set for satrap wise it's
actually there's many ways to calculate
performance but because performance is a
very objective true thing that exists in
the world the many ways converge and
they're all just sort of roughly
equivalent plus the pluses and minuses
way to get the job done and the
combination of some of those that become
a nation of ways so here's a real simple
one you track your average you know you
let's say one mesocycle you hit certain
weights for certain reps the next
mesocycle you hit some of those same
weights for who knows how many reps
right you know some of the weights you
hate we're different cuz you hit on
average more but a bunch of the weeks
are gonna have you lifting the same
weight you take all the weeks of measure
one and meso two in which you lifted the
same weight and you take the average
reps for any given number of sets like
for three sets for this week and for
three sets this week what was the
average rep number that I hit for the
same weight once you do that you see
which average is higher like how do you
know you're stronger well last time you
did four or five four four six six and
then this time you did four or five four
eight seven eight clear your fuckin
stronger this time right you just
compare reps or compare weight between
you can compare weight you can compare
reps it doesn't matter
whichever way you do it it's whatever is
mathematically a higher performance on
average now so Tremezzo you don't even
have to do on average you can do peak
weeks only that's a really easy quick
way to do it it's got some inaccuracy to
it but it works pretty well like when
you're going close to failure which
Mazza was better the first or the second
and you could you can use the RIR stuff
to you could say like okay well I used
the same weight but before when I did
this weight it was an IR of one now it's
an IR of three and I got the same reps
boom I got stronger that's a hot zone
also when using the long method of
finding a mini shed the testing be
constrained to just two months asked
because I've seen revived stronger
podcast and maybe with Mike and was
stated that was a good idea to test for
two months this is before the update
article says recommendation stole hold
up but we should really be doing is
comparing when has a cycle to the next
and your last if if so there's one
mesocycle of focus it's not two months
just one mesocycle however you construct
it right you ask the question is is this
my cycle Atman MeV or is it above that
maybe or is it below any fee right if
your performance in this messy cycle
compared to the last one you did before
that did not go up then by definition
you're at maintenance phone if it went
down you're below main that's falling if
it went up a lot
you're probably above made of effective
volume and if it went up just a little
bit noticeably you're probably pretty
close to MeV that's it so it's always
it's not two months it's just a mess a
cycle or whatever that is to you
excellent yeah number three also if
you're a beginner is it better to record
your session performance sona's clump
etc along with your stats I think if
you're a beginner you could probably go
a get away with recording none of that
shit you can be you could be focusing on
having excellent technique with multiple
sets of five to ten reps really becoming
just a technique cycle and then as you
turn into an intermediate beginning to
really focus on relative intensity
pushing the sets a little bit closer to
failure each time to really get to know
what that means while maintaining your
perfect technique later as you become
more from intermediate to an advanced
you could start to focus on my muscle
connection and during this whole time
you start to take better and better
notes of what's going on James and I are
not big fans of people over recording
notes when they're real beginners
because that tends to cause people to
burn the fuck out you know the first
your first computer should be a fucking
you know on iPad that yeah the iPhone or
something
it is not should you don't go to you
know Los Alamos laboratories and use
their fucking deep blue quantum computer
for the first fucking thing you ever
dream so because it could be a little
overwhelming you know like hey do you
like computers kid yeah well here's a
three month
you know fucking Argonne National Labs
internship like wait hold on a second
whoa if I like them for 16 hours a day
like so easy we recommend easing in once
you have a good technique and you're
trying to perfect it because you're
beginner you're gonna get fuckin great
gains anyway and you're setting yourself
up for even better gains later so once
you have that that's what beginners
should focus on like if you want to
focus on some of the stuff as a beginner
you want to nerve the fuck out hey
listen you have our blessing just be
careful that you don't over reach
mentally and just hate the whole fuckin
thing yeah I think the need for like
objective measures is really twofold
right
the more trained you are the more that
you might actually need to rely on
objective measures to make sure that
you're making progress in managing
fatigue but also like how engaged with
the activity or sport you are like if
you're just recreational there's nothing
wrong with just using a lot of
subjective measures to do a lot of your
stuff there's nothing wrong with that
why because there's no need for you to
have all this data that's the thing I'm
Mike I've heard Mike rant about this
tons of times everybody loves to collect
all this data and they have no idea what
they're doing with it right only people
who are becoming more advanced and are
pursuing excellence in sport generally
need more objective measures the rest of
us who are just recreational can do some
objective but mostly subjective and
that's perfectly fine yep yep yep yep
couldn't agree more
all right to youtube yeah let's do it
let's do it okey doke better than
Instagram question I'll follow the right
way better than Instagram yeah pick a
couple questions here let me see how do
I make the how do I do with the share
with the screen well the email button
did it work yeah excellent alright first
is not a question they live we see says
this channel really put up great content
in the last six months thanks thanks
yeah we actually just decided to just do
more YouTube stuff okay this is actually
a really good question that James and I
can tee off on for a couple of minutes
here the question if I EA are is what
would be the main exercises to test a 10
rep max or is it not needed my first
submission I'll see James takes as good
is the exercises you actually are
interested in and the second complexity
is you might never need to test a 10 rep
max just estimated James yeah so I think
that the need for 10 rep max is purely
based on how much objectives stuff you
want to do so if you want to actually
calculate loads based on a percentage of
max then you need to do a max which we
do in our template but you still don't
even need to do that because you could
just guess and if you really guess long
you still get a great hypertrophy
stimulus but next week you can make it a
little heavier or lighter based on you
so now
perhaps so just just for context Mike
and I I mean like arch our most true
background is really in strength
conditioning for you know sports right
and of all the people in the world who
think testing is important its strength
conditioning people Mike and I tend to
be on the other end of the spectrum
where you don't need to be spending a
ton of time doing rep max testing why
because you get all that same
information when you go and train you
get all that information without the
huge massive fatigue of doing a maximal
effort test or the time spent away from
training so it's way less disruptive
just to just get in the gym and train
see what happens guess and check and
then adjust as you go there's nothing
wrong with that
yep all right James here's one for you
Ellie OCD says my boxing coach suggests
we shouldn't lift weights when going up
a weight class as it slows you down and
makes you stiff true or false does are
supposed to rub away class my training
lasts getting fatter does adding muscle
aid in punching power or make you more
resistant to punches if so how he also
said punching is a snapping motion not a
pushing motion I can't you can I can't
conceive any fucking stupider than that
it with all due respect to your boxing
coach ask your boxing coach how he's
gonna punch with a torn packing torn
tricep and will let us know if the
pushing muscles are involved it'd be
like hey do you want to fight Mike Tyson
if both of those pecs and triceps get
cut off and be like yes absolutely
yeah thanks Mike and James James okay so
I don't want to this is an easy one to
tangent on so I'm gonna try and stay
focused here right so let's tackle the
first one shouldn't lift weights when
going up a weight class as it slows you
down and makes you stiff so there is
some there is some merits so we can play
into it a little bit to this idea weight
training does make you sore and stiff
and can impede your speed performance in
the short term right but the benefit of
doing the weight training is that it
helps you put on muscle mass which is
going to in the long term increase your
power strength and potentially your
speed so the strength training helps you
gain weight that is productive to your
sport in this case muscle mass rather
than just being fatter
right and it has the long-term benefit
of making you stronger more powerful and
potentially faster right but that's a
longer-term perspective so with the
proper periodized model what you would
see is some
I'm spent doin hypertrophy weight
training to build up more muscle mass so
like a productive weight gain not just
fat weight gain and then you would have
transition times where now you have that
new muscle mass you're learning how to
use it and get stronger and once you're
stronger now you can actually use it to
become more explosive so that notion is
just is fundamentally wrong in a
long-term sense but there is some merit
and the short-term sense so if you have
a fight coming up on Saturday do you
want to be doing you know 20 sets of
benchpress no I need to put on muscle
for this fight right so in that sense
he's right but in like a properly like
periodized scheme it would be I would
say incorrect but it's like having a a
committee tour your city to give it like
a beautification award and you're like
we need to start building skyscrapers
let's break the foundation of a huge
building right now they're like what the
flexible all this new construction
you're like I guess you guys showed up
earlier than we planned yeah and like
there's also like a fundamental question
there so it's like if you're gonna go up
in a weight class and you are not trying
to gain muscle which is you know you
would need to do weight train to that
what is the other option right there's
only one other option that's to get
fatter how could you possibly recommend
that that's necessarily a good idea yeah
hard sell hard sell hard sell let's also
let's call all these things like if
you're gonna you have to find a guy that
weighs tweener pounds you want to find a
lard ass fucker do you want to fight
someone who's Jack to the fucking gills
I'm not fighting a jack do i fuck that
almost no boxer in every good box or
every decent every shitty boxer almost
everyone in boxing looks at a guy who's
really jacked and they're like do you
want to spar against him they're usually
like god damn it they're you know the
competitive guys as far with anyone but
when you ask them like hey like you're
having a rough day hurting or something
kudos part of a super jacked died or
super out of shape fat guy who weighs
the same they're gonna be like of course
not the jack guy we're kind of fucking
Rico City is this like an MMA you could
say the same thing MMA boxing wrestling
like I say muscle doesn't matter let's
say strength doesn't matter does anyone
actually believe that you look at y'all
Romero and you're like man fuck this
guy's guy's a clown like what are you
fucking kidding me like shit matter his
muscle matters that's why we have weight
classes like I had a gentleman ask me
would do in jiu-jitsu and one of my
training partners who's an MMA guy he
was like man I is enrolled with me no
he's like fuck I thought you'd get tired
and cramp up doesn't all that muscle
cramp you up I'm like you only if I push
you too fast or too far but like if you
I'll push it then it's just an infinite
wellspring of being jacked and annoying
like anyone who's super fuckin strong is
gonna be a fucking problem for people
plain and simple so I actually want to
devil's advocate are Devils what's uh
shit chuckles advocate devil's advocate
our positions just so people don't think
that we're watching meatheads who only
care about strength right or Gomi care
about being jacked so let's take MMA is
a really good example so you can make a
very good case that some of the best MMA
heavyweights were not those who were at
the actual weight limit they were
usually somewhere around 240 ish pounds
so what that implies is that it's not
necessarily in your best interest to be
as jacked as possible or as heavy as
possible that there is some optimal body
composition for each individual athlete
at their weight class where they are
very strong they are not so muscled that
they do fatigue easier but they're not
also carrying around a lot of extra I
don't want to use the term nonfunction
but then I carry around actually a lot
of extra fat that's weighing them down
so the idea being that there is like an
optimal competition body composition
right which is not necessarily the most
muscles right which is an easy it's easy
to say like you should be as muscled as
possible in some cases yes like
weightlifting powerlifting that's an
easy sell and something like boxing or
MMA you probably want the wake the body
composition that gives you the best
output of strength and power without
causing a lot of adverse effects to your
conditioning because some guys do guess
easier and when they're too heavy and
that's that is a a position you could
take another thing is like why don't you
see super jacked guys at MMA of boxing
because reach right like is the thing I
have you 850 pounds you'd probably like
between 510 and 6-2 which is pretty
fucking skinny guy because if any guy
can reach out and touch you when you
can't touch him back like that's the
best thing from a and for sure for
boxing then boxing
height is a huge advantage of the world
heavyweight champs are like six eight
it's unreal and these people aren't even
fucking humans anymore so of course
they're not gonna be muscled up to the
bone but in you know but you know in a
certain weight class you want to have as
much muscle as a little fat as possible
and if you could magically with no
fatigue or training interference
increased muscle mass and decrease fat
mass in a given fighter it's always
gonna make a better case in point
steroids what the fuck you think
steroids do why do these guys take as
much gear as they possibly can if gears
biggest effect just to gain muscle lose
fat
of course it's fucking helps so yeah
yeah and what does that muscle do it
makes you better at the sport it makes
you hit people harder that's a funny
idea alright uh last question for today
and for the YouTube questions
Simon Elle says hey Mike question how do
you encourage people who have average or
below average genetics and he sees
genetically a plus Fitness athletes
that's very fluid influencers slash pts
everywhere an Instagram in a motivation
perspective if someone is very
passionate about bodybuilding
is there any other path then be a coach
for them in their career perspective
this person also doesn't want to take
AAS well so here's the best way I could
possibly encourage such a person if they
wanted encouragement first of all James
and I are libertarian we don't like to
encourage people that I want to do stuff
who some kind of given fuck what you do
like you might be a better computer
program in the weight lifter oh fuck
what I push you into that Peter program
is certainly more productive for society
as a whole than lifting weights out if
you try to give a try to get Bill Gates
to work out like why just microjet to my
values on you that's what's right set so
you should be a like me in every way so
assuming that they were sort of feeling
demotivated but really wanted to stick
in the industry well what I tell them is
this this is actually real real
interesting point if you have not so
good genetics you have to earn all of
your muscle the hardware and then you
won't be dick until and unless you
figure out how shit really works and
your margin for error is very very small
so yeah the person who knows the most is
the person who had to figure out the
most about how to get their physique as
far as their genetics allowed you know
there's tons of folks involved in the
industry which are taking either take a
s nor have a ton of really good genetics
I'll bring up my arch-nemesis - knew
that Myers not oh so she can take credit
for this lyle mcdonald has apparently
dog shit genetics right then i'm not so
sure how consistent is it was lifting
although he says he is you know for how
big Lyle has ever gotten bassoon you
ever lift anything he's clearly has
awful genetics and you know other than
being an asshole and having some
interesting idiosyncrasies a while Moses
shit like real well and it
you know his baseline of knowledge would
make anyone a better coach
you know Lyle probably knows a lot of
shit cuz he had to struggle versus take
some guy who's amazing genetics looks
like a god but literally just knows how
to pick things up and put things out it
may be not even bad he probably does
that wrong James you ever seen Super
Jack eyes like do like a inclined bench
wrong you're like you know how to lift
weights I think you can't instruct other
people to lift weights you can't pass
the USA W level one course like forget
the lifts the assistance parts so you
know for those folks remember when you
are transmitting Fitness to other people
you don't do it by giving them your
genetics you do by giving him your
knowledge and the way you get knowledge
is to learn as much as you can
intellectually and try all the stuff
yourself go as hard as you can and the
more your genetics suck the more you're
gonna have to figure out the best of the
best ways there are people that get you
200 pounds drug-free knowing dick
they make awful fuckin trainers awful
coaches most of the IFBB do not have
other pro bodybuilders as their coaches
most of the IFBB have other folks with
not so amazing genetics that have
figured stuff out a really quick example
Matt Jansen he's probably gonna be a pro
someday because he's got pretty decent
genetics but Matt chansons currently
coaching at half the I knew or something
like that and and who what you know is
he's the biggest body but he's getting
close right he's super jacked but he's
not even close to this guy Matt Jansen
has to earn shit the fucking hard way
because he didn't get gifted he got good
genetics but not amazing and there's
tons of other examples and tons of other
nany guys and tons of other people that
Erick Hamels would be the first person
to tell you he does not have amazing
generous air accounts good coach well
that most other guys into a fucking you
know you know into a plastic bag like
he's just gonna he's just gonna be a
better coach because he had to try so if
hope folks have above-average genetics
and they're trying to figure out
coaching a lot of times I don't have
shit to tell them both of them you got
to get as big because humanly possible
in order to even really test the limits
of your knowledge and see if you know
what you know but for guys who without
great genetics they make excellent
coaches and from a career perspective
you just do transformation photos and
transformation stories you get some
clients because you know your shit
you're not super jacked and then they
get incredible results bring this up and
this is for geared body limited the
principles are even more exaggerated
there's a coach out there I don't even
know what the fuck is
as p p tu o RP - or sometimes i don't
know what the fuck is really mr. Venson
Instagram handle again he coaches lake I
don't even know how many pros and he
always transforms into these total
freaks is he jacked everything what the
fuck he looks like I literally don't
even know his name I don't give a fuck I
don't even think I don't know who he is
it doesn't matter because he brings
results
Hani ran bot who coaches Phil he's not
jacked what about the guy off man duh
ask her in the Kuwait he used to be sort
of jacked but isn't anymore he coaches
freaks who you know it doesn't fucking
Chad Nichols I don't even know if Chad
Nichols if you lifted weights ease coach
Ronnie Coleman and like knowledge its
knowledge and it's doing things the hard
way that's gonna get you good doesn't
matter
Instagram people that have amazing
whatever you'd be surprised how little
money to make from coaching when people
figure out they can't do the fucking
dick yeah those are all really excellent
I had a similar thought process going
through and it was it was on an
unrelated note it was on MMA but I think
you'll you'll get the idea here I was
listening to Michael Bisping's podcast a
little while ago and I was right around
the time that Alexander Gustafson had
lost his most recent fight and said he
was going to retire and the co-host on
the show goes you know I get the idea
that you want to be the best in the
world
but why do all you fucking MMA guys
retire when you still have plenty of
good fights left in you and you still
have a totally viable career option so
what you're not the best in the world
you can still fight and make money and
still do a good job right and I thought
that was really an interesting point
that he made because everyone always
talks about being the best and the same
thing kind of goes in this and this
question where he's like I might not
have the greatest good genetics like
should I you know pursue bodybuilding
sure why not who cares
do you work you don't have to be the
fucking best you don't have to be a
world champion or mr. Olympia like if
it's something that you like and you
enjoy who gives a shit if you have
shitty genetics just do the best that
you can do and get as much out of it
that you want out of it right and just
keep that in mind that there's no
there's no reason not to pursue
something just because you can't be the
best if it brings you satisfaction and
happiness and whatever just do it who
gives a shit you never made people want
to see you fight you got fans you're
gonna you fight for the fans too and for
your own soul and in Fitness it's even
more helpful because you don't coach to
be the best coach you coach to hell
every single person you're coaching
people need your help honey RAM Bob
let's say he's the best bodybuilding
coach I don't know if that's true he's
surely one of them right he can't
possibly coach everyone that's fucking
impossible so you gotta everyone's gotta
help you know um it's just not you know
that that's how it works
uh something from MMA James that comes
to my mind is there's guys that like are
sort of strategizing to be the best and
if they can't they're gone and they
maybe have the reasons you don't get
lowering your IQ for no reasons not good
getting hit that all the time but maybe
you want to move out of different things
but then there's guys
which you know equally good Meritor guys
just like to fight they don't give a
fuck what Lake George Hospital and Nate
Diaz
these motherfuckers like to bang they
probably fighting in in prison if they
weren't fighting legally Lake they just
like to fight and my coach coach way
they're arguably more successful in
terms of how much money they make then
the a lot of the world champions cuz you
know you want to fight those guys I
don't think George Moscone lm8 Diaz may
have never turned down a fight in their
lives they can any actual capacity like
some guy at bars like do you want to
fight yeah why not there is a there's a
bas Rutten tells the story about himself
much better than I ever will but James
you the bas Rutten you want a fight
story yes yeah you guys should have some
stuff because it's on YouTube P key goes
through this on YouTube on video Brian
Urlacher wasn't it Brian Urlacher like
he didn't know who he was in Brian
Urlacher like bumped into him by
accident at like some kinda soiree at a
party and he likes this field bas Rutten
spilled his beer a brine or like I'm
frying records with the fuck man and
he's like hey let me buy you a beer
sorry about that and ya bas Rutten was
trying to bust moon by the way is one of
the legends of MMA and Brian Roderick I
was like nah man like Simon were clay do
you want to take this outside
imposter who's like okay and Brian
Urlacher circle fuck answers a question
like that
and Brian's do like football buddies
pulled him aside and they're like you
fuckin know who that is this cattle in
your football career when either Brian
Urlacher came up later he's a gay is all
big I'm allowing you to live right now
okay moment you breathe this for me Mike
before we go pull up your share exactly
as it was when you were doing the
YouTube comments there was something
that was distracting me severely okay
nattie or not look at that fucking video
on the right like when we would talk I
just couldn't stop looking at it I was
like what is this is Jim shark athlete
David lame actually migrate to sad I
have a lot of respect for a guy beside I
think he's great but these anadi are not
videos are just I have a different
submission who gives a shit right I
guess we're Tahoe so funny sorry when we
were reading that I kept like my eyes
kept glancing over to the nattie yeah
it's all about figuring out who's on
drugs so you can sit at home and be like
I know it I'm just still hypothesizing
but all right on that note I think we'll
wrap up this one for this week guys
thanks again we were a little off
schedule this week so appreciate your
patience we'll get this one on youtube
and hopefully uh I think we're on
schedule normal for next week yeah yeah
okay so we'll be at normal time well
this week we were off schedule we'll be
back on a normal schedule of Tuesdays at
4:30 Pacific Standard Time and 7:30
eastern US time so we'll see you next
time
boom folks see you next time