Jared feather ifbb pro has a full series
on mastering full range of motion I did
my PhD on range of motion do he and I
disagree about the importance of full
range of motion well let's watch this
video and find
out welcome back Dr mil wolf today PhD
in sports science and more specifically
in range of motion and today I'll be
reacting to a video by Jared feather
teaching about full range of motion I
basically want to see do I agree with
with him when it comes to range of
motion or not without further Ado let's
get into it what's up guys you already
saw a video where I put Tristan through
a l session with another one of my
clients but here we are again he's
joining me for my last hard L session
with somebody else that I'm actually
putting in a vlog who was in uh where
were we just New York New York New York
New Jersey so we were in new york/ New
Jersey yeah and uh we all trained at a
jersey barbell together and you all will
see that probably before this video
currently working on it um but the
Neil's a free he won Charlotte Pro uh we
became really good friends there I've
seen him now like five separate times
just randomly it shows which has been
really neat um so I'm going be putting
denil and Tristan who is currently my
client through a leg
session probably going to be pretty
brutal again last hard L session of my
prep uh so it's cool to have denil and
Tristan both here pick my
ass three yeah three so three sets here
uh my up matching the first set like 15
to 25 on the first set it's going to be
pretty hard I'm subbing this out guys
for
uh my gr hand raise which was what was
initially programmed on this
day but again I take out the really
super duper essentally damaging
exercises when I'm deep deep into prep
since I am a week and a half out and I
have had hamstring thrs in this message
cycle on the other day it's not a
novelty stimulus there nothing that's
facted it's not going to be too crazy
three sets I won't be too
sore and this will be safer first up
seems like they're doing seed of leg
curls I like the see of leg curl
probably the single best hamstring
exercise when it comes to a leg curl
variation a study by mywing colleagues
compare the seed of light curl to a lion
light curl and generally found more
favorable hamstring hypertrophy from the
seed of light curl which makes sense
because there are more lengthened in
that exercise sounds like he's usually
doing glute ham raisers instead for this
exercise slot not a huge fan of glute
time Ray the resistance curve is very
shortened biased the lift is hardest in
a relatively shortened position but so
far C light girl gets a thumbs up um
he's really just modifying a couple
things today cuz he wants to jump in
with me and train pretty hard leg s is
in place of leg Crest outside of that
the only thing really changing is the
exercise order he's doing his seated and
leg thrs now whereas he usually does
them last and we had a conversation on
my Channel about that it says he gets a
good connection with his hamstrings he
usually does him at the end he likes to
quads for a weaker body part but he's
fine with doing this to that day I still
can do really well in his uh leg prath
performance and the squat performance
and it's not too crazy novel of the
stimulus I believe he's also in his
overreaching leak so we're both
basically in our last hard week of
training before we take a D Lo slash I'm
going to be peeking so yep I really like
the idea of starting the session with
the seated leg curl because it doesn't
impact performance on subsequent
exercises now full disclosure the most
up-to-date met analysis on topic didn't
find a difference on hypertrophy in
terms of the order of exercises so it
doesn't seem like it's a hugely
influential variable but personally I do
like sequencing exercises in a way that
minimizes the impact of one exercise on
performance of the next so if by
starting with l CRS your squat
performance is unhindered but starting
with squats your L cro performance takes
a hit maybe starting with like makes
sense and we're basically just killing
the he probably trains harder than
any
sh it's going be 15
25 first set on second everyone's
technique looks pretty solid here
appropriate Ecentric creation generally
looks like they're pausing in the
lengthen position which might be a way
to spend more time in that lengthen
stretch position generally a pretty
explosive concentric I like the
technique overall the rest balls
matching the first
set so he has a couple of these
exercises on his on his Messa cycle
already in the app so I'm going to have
him at least match or do what the app is
having him do on those specific
exercises obviously when we get to leg
extensions he's not doing those he's
doing leg press instead so we'll go in
we'll swap out that exercise and he'll
just be doing what I'm doing for today
uh but everything else that's on there
like squats lunges he's going to do that
specifically for what the app is telling
you to do when it comes to the my rep
match technique I don't know I think
it's fine I think straight sets will
work just as well I don't think there's
an inherit advantage to using my rep
match over straight sets honestly it is
probably just mostly a way to keep
trading interesting and engaging nothing
wrong with that
[Music]
I
am got to
get pause what you
at that's 21 21 Tristan's technique here
was awesome I like the PA at low muscle
lengths I like the explosive Ecentric
looks like he went pretty close to
failure here as well one thing or one
tip I like to give people for the seated
leg curl to increase the stretch even
further is to lean forward in the seat
by increasing the amount of Hip Flex
you're increasing the stretch on the
hamstrings even further which judging by
the study by mywing colleagues may even
give you a little bit of additional
hypertrophy there you go get it
[ __ ] you know you're close to a show and
you're [ __ ] 10
headb broadly speaking I like Jared's
technique as well here I think he's
doing a good job of accentuating lower
muscle lengths through the tempo making
sure to pause in a lengthen position
personally I like to lean forward to
increase the stretch even more I like to
lengthen partials on ler while doing so
but this is pretty solid
regardless more one
more so now on the next one basically
what you're going to be doing is going
until you're about one in the tank you
might get like 15 rest Balls to the top
and then until you get to
19 so if you get 14 pause three pause
two oh yeah it does [ __ ] count I my G
yeah yeah POS it's a I love it because
it also makes you go full range motion
before it counts the [ __ ] that's what
I hate about have to fully open F so
without knowing the full context of the
person Jared's trading with her that
isn't Tristan Lee for God his name
entirely my bad I'm not a huge fan of
Jared making imp pause in the shorten
position context he's jar client
obviously if he's dealing with some pain
or what have you anything to justify
that approach totally understandable but
on principle I am not a fan I think
that's a mistake generally it's
essentially making you spend more time
in the relatively shortened position
when we have around 25 studies on muscle
length at this point generally lending
Credence to the idea that training at
shorter muscle lengths is probably worse
for muscle growth than training in
length positions and so if we're
accentuating the shorten position even
more by spending time in that shorten
position and pausing there probably not
the best deal for
hypertrophy more on
it looks like Jared had quite a few reps
in the tank there not sure if that was
intentional generally I'd recommend
taking sets a little bit closer to a
failure than what he did here that's why
three sets I think the Neil is going to
be good huh three sets here maybe two
sets on Lake press for you one or two
sets of the squats and like a set of
lunges that'll be fine like us see a lot
of people doing like uh five sets per
exercise seven exercises nah it's
ridiculous you keep injurying pretty low
like that too F on muscle activation
yeah just a technique really good
technique slowly controlled full range
of motion [ __ ] like this the intensity
techniques we're going to do a m rep MCH
on Lake press too my
hando so I do think that if your Tempo
is dog [ __ ] if your range of motion is
dog [ __ ] and you go from that to having
a more controlled exentric say at least
a second or two per rep and all of a
sudden you're incorporating the stretch
position you may need to do Vol to get
the same overall amount of hypertrophy
but I think he's being a bit hyperbolic
here saying that oh you go from needing
seven exercises of five sets each to
only needing like one or two sets per
exercise I think that's a bit hyperbolic
we're working with everybody's specific
anthropometry which I always talk about
you guys see me talk about that a
million times denil is a little more
narrow he has really [ __ ] good hip
and Ankle Mobility so denil is a little
more low narrow you're going to see in
the
video um opens the hips really well gets
super deep uh Tristan's more like me
ankle Mobility is not really quite there
that's why he has in the Nikes I have on
my uh Adida power lifts mine have an
inch heeld lift instead a 3/4 so me and
Tristan have a little bit wider stance
more of a hip open toe out the KN is a
little different so you guys for your
anthropometry keep those kinds of things
in mind if you're lower on the pad
you're probably going to point the toes
out a little more if you're higher on
the pad and your hips are wide that
might make up for the toes not being
pointed out as much play with your foot
position get as much forward knee
flection as possible that's going to
benefit your quads way way more agreed
here I like the technique being
displayed by all three of them ideally
I'd like to see them pause at the bottom
not a huge difference but might
accentuate the length position a bit
more they could do partials again I'm
just splitting hair is because I I in
fact did my PhD on range of motion but
um overall really solid the one thing
I'll say about the leg press and
something I disagree with Dr Mike isal
and J feon is the usefulness of the leg
press as a quad exercise versus like a
glute exercise I actually think that the
LA Press is probably a better glute
exercise an adapter exercise compared to
a quad exercise when you break it down a
leg press is a lengthen partial for the
gluteus maximus you start the lift in
90° of hip flexion and you go into a
fully lengthen position for the glutes
provided you do it properly meanwhile
for the quads it's a full range of
motion which is totally fine but based
on some more recent evidence most of
which was in the quads by the way
lengthen partials might actually lead to
more growth compared to full of motion
and so if I had to say the like press
was squarely a quad exercise or glute
exercise I would probably put it more so
into the glute category which is totally
fine just something to be aware of my
load is reduced from the previous week
I'll try to remember put those cards up
here but you'll see I was 495 for sets
of 10 to 15 this week I did
455 for sets of 10 to 15 uh lowering the
load to get more reps was a good idea
this deep in the prep again not worried
about the weight in the bar I'm worried
about coming in here and getting the
[ __ ] volume in so we're going to move
on to squats and then I I will
potentially cut out lunges too because
lunges are one of those exercises that
cause a shitload of EAS damage to my
glutes lunges are one of the best glute
Builders um because my glutes need to
come in for my show I try to stop
training those about two weeks out um it
creates less inflammation and as you
guys know Doms or delayed onset muscle
soreness actually inhibits the uptake of
blood glucose in the glycogen quite a
bit so if I'm going into this next
week's with sore glutes as I begin my
carb up my glutes might not look the way
I want them to look because I'm not
uploading or I'm not uploading uptaking
that uh blood glucose in the glycogen
and really filling out my glutes the way
I want to so lunges might also be taken
out we'll see how I feel after the
squats um we're going to get to
squatting I'll be making a little bit of
modifications to their technique on this
as well especially denil I assume he
hasn't really squatted with me before so
let's get to it I think Jared is
generally correct about avoiding really
damaging training right before a show as
this can inhibit glucose uptake into the
muscle and thus the peaking process
however one thing I'll pick up on real
quick is that he said it was a delayed
onset muscle soreness that was
inhibiting glucose uptake into the
muscle and therefore interfering with
the peaking process but in reality that
is the muscle damage process not the
soreness process and importantly
soreness is not really a solid predictor
of muscle damage so let's try not to
conflate muscle damage and delayed onset
muscle soreness they are not the same
thing and in general from what I've seen
Renaissance peration tends to prioritize
using soreness as a proxy for muscle
damage or recovery or what have you a
lot more than I would be comfortable
with just like
[Music]
[Music]
it's
open Yes yes
again [ __ ]
I suspect that they both had quite a few
more reps left in the tank here could be
mistaken it's always difficult for
someone else to gauge your proximity to
failure but I suspect he had a lot more
reps in same with Jared here I'm aware
he's only a few weeks out from his show
and looks at things looking stacked
looking lean but he had a lot more reps
in the tank what I will say is all of
their techniques were really solid good
Ecentric good control at the bottom even
POS at the bottom really solid Squad
technique for
hypertrophy got this we got this
come
[Applause]
[Music]
on Sir come
on this set of squats for Jered looked a
lot better I'm a big fan of the split
Squad variation they were showing
earlier I think it's a great way to get
really stretched quads glutes adors get
a lot of stimulus in it's more stable by
virtue of holding on to something with
the contralateral arm I personally like
holding on to something else as well if
necessary like a rack or anything else
really rather than a broomstick using a
Smith machine can walk instead or my
all-time favorite split squat variation
has to be the safety bar if you do these
split squats with a safety bar in a rack
and you're able to hold on to the rack
oo you can do some crazy things in there
I'm I'm
done taking the lunges out like I
said um since I'm not doing my lunges
they actually I program bulgarians so
they're going to do their bulgarians I'm
going to give them those same coaching
cues I kind of did with Tristan last
time we're going to see how bad we can
hurt uh danil today guys it's going to
be fun uh in insert danil's wincing face
here and uh let's see what happens J
looks pretty [ __ ] dead all right
everyone that was the session so that
was Jared's like day with a couple of
friends a couple of clients specifically
as well started with some seated like
curls then moved into some like pressing
then moved into some squatting and then
moved into some split squats for some of
them sounds like a pretty quad emphasis
leg day which is totally fine I do
supect that the split squats at the end
might have been a bit Superfluous unless
they were traing quads like once a week
or once every two weeks even because
ultimately the movement pattern involved
in the leg press in the squat and in the
split squat are all pretty similar we're
talking about simultaneous knee
extension and hip extension on all three
exercises generally their technique was
super solid I think they emphasize to
stretch pretty well in most exercises
full range of motion which is ultimately
what they're known for I personally
disagree with with such a strong stance
on full range of motion being best but
hey that is just a difference in opinion
I like the fact that they started off
with light curls before doing the qual
training I think a lot of their sets
were relatively submaximal whether by
Design or not I'm not sure generally I
would have liked to see them take sets a
little bit closer to failure for better
hypertrophy but overall honestly pretty
solid I'd give this like a a seven or
eight out of 10 so that was me reacting
to Jared feathers mastering full range
of motion series if you enjoy the video
leave a comment down below letting me
know who else you want to see me react
to leave a like as well and maybe
subscribe and hit the bell I know like
50% of you aren't subscribed so I really
appreciate it if you hit the Subscribe
button finally if you'd like me to coach
you consider checking out the link above
and that could become a thing in the
meantime have a great day I hope you
enjoyed the video and I will see you
guys next time peace