so guys we're on our way to pick up some
new stuff for my at home gym so I'm
expanding on what I showed in my last
video I think I'm actually gonna pull
over here cuz I need to give you guys
update because so much has changed this
is the last time I talked about the
virus here on the channel I'm having to
update my approach to add home training
and I want to keep you guys in the loop
on that so I'm gonna pull over over here
and tell you guys everything that's
going on it's so nice out right now like
just look at these mountains it's so
beautiful right now like I forgot what
it was like I mean I'm antisocial as it
is but like this has been another level
for me and I really appreciate it I
almost want to film this outside all
right so guys if you remember in my last
video I laid out four key principles for
at-home training if you didn't see that
video I'll just flash them up here on
the screen real quick I think those four
principles still hold and for anyone
doing at home training you should
absolutely follow those I think at the
time a lot of people were thinking well
maybe the gyms will be closed for a week
maybe two weeks whereas now it's looking
like realistically probably more on the
scale of months now I'm noticing a lot
of people in the fitness community are
kind of panicking and thinking oh are
these at home workouts gonna be able to
keep my gains for a couple months and
what do i do what do i do at this point
here are my brief thoughts basically I
think it really depends on your level of
advancement I would split this up into
two separate categories the first
category would be beginners to early
intermediates so people who have zero -
let's say like two years of training
experience I really don't think you have
much to worry about and this is what the
literature shows us as well in that last
video what I showed was a study showing
that when you take three weeks
completely off from the gym you do lose
a bit of muscle but you gain it back
quite quickly that doesn't seem the most
relevant to our scenario now now it's
gonna probably be a more extended period
of time
not complete d training but just
suboptimal training for this I think we
want to look at a 2011 study which
basically showed that even when subjects
reduce their training volume to one
month they were able to maintain the
muscle that they had built for eight
months another group that did absolutely
nothing
completely back to baseline so they lost
all the muscle they had built so what
this study tells us is it's way better
to do something than nothing
even if it's only 1/9 of what you were
doing before now I could even be more
optimistic than this for beginners you
could actually continue making progress
while training at home especially if
you're stimulating the muscle in a way
that it hasn't really been before so if
you've never done sets of like 50 to 60
reps like hard sets of 50 to 60 that
could actually spark some new muscle
growth for you so I wouldn't look at
this as all doom and gloom if you're a
beginner to an intermediate level lifter
now my thoughts for more weight
intermediate to advanced level lifters
are a little bit different and that's
why I'm on my way to go pick up some new
equipment here now I think what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna go pick up my buddy
Pat because we actually went halfsies on
a bunch of gym equipment and I'm gonna
share my thoughts on what I think people
who have let's say 3 plus years of
extreme experience should do when I go
to pick up Pat so we'll talk about this
Jim yeah
so are we gonna set this up and do a
workout today like it's at Oakland okay
yeah how long is it gonna take this
setup we'll see I'm down I think we
should do it I think that'll be sick so
anyway yeah we're gonna go grab our
stuff this happen
[Music]
so guys we need to run back to my place
and grab a wrench
turns out you can need some tools to put
together a home gym so we'll grab my
toolbox grab the dumbbells that are at
my place and then back to business this
was gonna be my like more minimal gym
options so like I still think this is
fairly reasonable so this is a pull-up
bar that I didn't actually assembled I
decided I don't need that with the power
rack that we've got different levels of
dumbbells and things and I would say
that's probably pretty good for most
people especially as the time period
gets longer so and we're gonna move this
over to the garage and this is actually
sake I'm actually really excited it's
gonna be like a new challenge to see how
I'm gonna adapt my workouts it's just
like minimalistic barbell and dumbbell
training but like I honestly think and
for anyone listening like si is running
my program or running another program
that has different machines and that
sort of thing like if you just have
these basics it should be pretty
straightforward how you would adapt a
program to fit with a minimalistic set
I'll probably provide some more insight
about that as I go through we're gonna
get started and go through a workout so
we're doing a leg focused full-body
workout that includes deadlifts so as I
kind of like go through my spiel here
I'm gonna give my opinion on
intermediate to advanced level lifters
I'm just gonna overlay some b-roll from
our workout so first things first people
probably gonna ask how much we spent on
this so what was a pet $2,300 so we
decided to split it between the two of
us so we got all this stuff for 2300 I
also already thought the the dumbbells
that you guys from my place and I think
that was another 250
so about just over 2,500 bucks for all
this split between the two of us and
that's C 80 so Americans probably
mm maybe not like this best
state-of-the-art equipment but
definitely gonna be good for our
purposes for the next month or two or
however long we in this situation couple
issues still first is that it's actually
still pretty cold here in Canada it's
like 4 degrees Celsius right now or
something like that so we're gonna
probably have to get a heater in here
because my hands are really cold and I
feel like even with warm up it might be
hard to keep our body temperature up and
then the other thing is these plates
that we got we just measured them
they're 15 inches and a standard barbell
plate is typically 17 point 7 inches
which means when we're doing deadlifts
we're basically going to be pulling from
a one point three five inch deficit so
we're gonna need to get some math set up
over here to kind of elevate those
plates a little bit because or Pat and I
were thinking maybe we'll just leave the
place the way they are and just get
super strong because pulling from a
deficit it's actually harder I think I
like the idea of properly month but if
you guys you know run into that issue
yeah it's harder to deadlift with
shorter plates it just increases the
range of motion a little bit next quick
update thing I decided that I think it's
best if I delayed any videos that I've
already pre filmed in the gym until gyms
reopen so that includes the science
applied series so I'm gonna continue to
show full body workouts in this gym and
I'm also going to do something at home
for people who don't have this set up
but I'm just going to delay the in gym
videos that I did with mountain dog and
the science applied series until most
people have regular gym access that just
seems to make the most sense to me and
I'm just gonna continue with mostly that
at home related stuff for the time being
so yeah I said at the beginning of the
video that I don't think beginners to
early intermediates really have to worry
too much about muscle loss as long as
you're training hard at home and doing
something to keep some kind of tensile
stimulus on the muscle you should be
able to maintain your gains if not make
gains for at least 3 or 4 months so I
said I was going to share my tips for
late intermediate to advanced level
lifters because I think things are a
little bit different for people in that
camp myself included
I'm suggest like it's harder to continue
making progress as a more advanced
lifter I think it's also easier to lose
progress as
more advanced lifter and part of that is
probably because it just takes so much
more volume and so much more stimulus to
make progress and if you really ease off
on that stimulus if the muscle will
probably more be more likely to go away
so I have 3 bits of advice for people in
that Kingdom my first bit of advice
would be that if you can't afford it
getting a simple set up something like
we did here with some basic barbell
equipment and some dumbbells is probably
a good idea I think for late
intermediate to advanced level lifters
just doing the kind of high rep at home
workouts might not be able to cut it to
maintain all your muscle mass past those
first few weeks now if you can't do that
for whatever reason I was lucky enough
to have a friend who has a garage that
was not being used so I'm lucky in that
sense if you're not able to do that I
wouldn't chalk it up to something that
is out of your control and you're just
gonna lose your gains I think that if
you have that mentality of oh well screw
it then I'll just take this time off or
I'm not really going to exert myself
then you're guaranteed to lose a lot of
gains but if you really give it your
honest effort honest best effort and
stay really motivated even with the
at-home training I honestly do think
that even late intermediate to advanced
level lifters will be able to maintain
most of their size especially if they're
training hard and those workouts and
especially if they're in a caloric
surplus which is the next thing that I'd
recommend first I think it is important
for more experienced lifters to accept
the fact that you probably will lose
strength that was an important thing for
me I didn't want to lose all the
strength I built up on the squat bench
press and deadlift because that's really
important to me and my goals are in line
with that at the moment but if I wasn't
able to do this I had to accept the fact
that because strength is so specific you
know you have to lift heavy if you want
to maintain your strength I would accept
that I'm gonna lose some of that
strength focus on doing the higher rep
at home stuff and just focus on
maintaining my muscle mass and then
based on the muscle memory research that
we have we know that that strength will
rebound pretty quickly once you get back
to regular lifting again so just focus
on the hypertrophy don't worry about the
strength too much and don't get
demotivated now my third bit of advice
would be to enter a caloric surplus can
that a bulk except the fact that you're
gonna put on a bit of fat but that's
really gonna help attenuate your muscle
loss and then when you get back to
regular lifting again because of the
muscle memory effect you're in a great
spot for body recomposition so then at
that point you can either go back to
maintenance or enter a very slight
deficit and you should be able to lose
fat and build muscle at the same time
which is gonna be great for transforming
your physique and you'll probably get
back to your peak physique and then get
past it again pretty quickly once
everything gets back to normal so those
are my basic thoughts on how we're gonna
get through this
I don't think beginners in early
intermediates have much to worry about
as long as you're training hard and
being consistent with that at home
workouts you're gonna be fine you'll be
able to maintain your muscle mass for
more experienced lifters you might have
to accept some strength loss but you
should be able to maintain your muscle
mass if you're training hard and if
you're in a caloric surplus and if you
keep a positive outlook on this as for
us we're gonna get into this workout I
guess you guys would have already seen
it so I'm gonna end the video here and
if you enjoyed it please leave me a
thumbs up don't forget to subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here in the next one