hey guys it's Sean now I wanna hear and
today I'm covering a huge huge topic and
one of the most sought after goals there
is out there how do I get six-pack abs
now there's no secret that virtually
everybody out there even people who
aren't involved in bodybuilding Fitness
want to get that flat tight defined
midsection how do most people go about
this well they train their abs 3 4 or
even more times per week they slave away
on sets of 50 to 100 reps or more they
pop back their thermogenic fat loss
pills they follow some bogus fad diet
and then they expect rapid results to
show up now for the majority of people
those results never show up in any
significant fashion why it's because
virtually every single person out there
is structuring their 6 pack AB program
based on a false premise and that false
premise is the myth of spot reduction
the spot reduction myth is one of the
most common misconceptions in the entire
fitness industry and to put it simply
what spot reduction implies is that it
is possible for you to burn fat from
specific areas of your body by training
those specific areas with resistance for
example spot reduction would imply that
performing bicep curls is going to burn
fat off of your bicep area or that
performing leg curls is going to burn
fat off of your hamstring area the truth
is that this notion of targeting fat
loss from specific areas of the body is
completely and totally false let me
clear this up once and for all
you cannot target fat loss from specific
areas of your body any time you train
with weights all you're really doing is
stimulating the specific muscles that
are involved in the movement but that
stimulation has no effect on the fat
stores in and around that area
fat loss only occurs on a holistic level
in other words when you place your body
into a calorie deficit through proper
diet and exercise you're going to lose
fat
your entire body as a whole you have no
control over this and there's no way for
you to target specific areas of the body
to pull fat from so what does all of
this have to do with achieving six-pack
ABS well everything C everybody already
has a 6-pack to some degree the problem
is that for most people it's simply
hidden underneath the layer of fat but
underneath that layer of fat are the
abdominal muscles and causing those
muscles to appear flat separated and
defined is a simple matter of reducing
the layer of fat sitting on top of the
muscle as well as the layer of fat
behind the muscle surrounding the
internal organs the layer of fat sitting
on top of the muscle directly beneath
the skin is known as subcutaneous fat
and the fat that is behind the muscle
surrounding the internal organs is known
as visceral fat now since spot reduction
is flat-out impossible and since there's
no way for you to specifically target
abdominal fat loss through exercise we
can conclude that achieving six-pack ABS
has almost nothing to do with the
specific ab exercises that you perform
in the gym rather achieving six-pack ABS
is almost entirely a product of your
bottom line body fat percentage now this
isn't to say that some abdominal
training isn't necessary as it's
obviously still a part of a complete
weight training program all I'm saying
is that if your goal is to get six-pack
abs then lowering your overall body fat
percentage is the absolute primary
factor involved get yourself into a
proper calorie deficit consuming about
15 to 20 percent fewer calories than
your maintenance level focus on small
meals consumed every two to three hours
throughout the day focus on high quality
proteins natural unrefined carbohydrates
healthy fats drink plenty of water
follow a sensible cardio and weight
training routine that's the six pack AB
formula right there not some bogus fad
diet or fancy exercise routine or
weight-loss supplement achieving
six-pack ABS is all about basic overall
fat loss