okay so guys in this video I'm going to
be speaking with dr. Brad Schoenfeld
about some pretty interesting and
cutting-edge topics around exercise
science and its application to training
for maximum muscle gain but before we
get into that I want to give a huge
thank you to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
Squarespace is the all-in-one website
platform that I've been using to run my
own website since about 2015 and I also
use them to run my own online store
where I sell all of my training programs
and they have sleek designer custom
templates in 24 hour customer support
which I'll use any time if I run into
any issues and I always find them to be
really helpful in the whole process of
getting your website up and running is
actually really simple
so if you guys are looking to get
started with your own website for
creating your own online store I
definitely recommend using Squarespace
and if you go to Squarespace comm
forward slash Nippert you can save 10%
off your first purchase and I'll have
that as the first link in the
description box below as guys I was
lucky enough to actually teach a guest
lecture at dr. Sean Feld College in New
York over Skype a few weeks ago and then
he agreed to come on my channel and
podcast for an interview the next day so
I would say many of you guys are
probably familiar with dr. Schoenfeld
and his work and he's actually one of
the most prolific researchers in
exercise science worldwide he's
published over 150 scientific articles
in peer-reviewed journals
so it was a real honor to get to pick
his brain for an hour and he's written
articles for just about every health and
fitness magazine that you can imagine
and he's also the author of several
best-selling fitness books including the
Max Muscle plan and I know many of you
guys are probably already familiar with
his written work so I figured rather
than rehash topics that we both covered
elsewhere I wanted to explore some new
territory so for example I asked dr.
Brad his opinion on the mountain dogs
training style because we both trained
with John in the past I asked him about
training technique and my technique
Tuesday series and we discuss what the
role of technique might be for
hypertrophy and of course we discuss his
new and controversial study on training
volume that showed benefits to higher
volumes than had been previously
recommended and we also talked about
some other really cool stuff about
modifying the resistance curve on
certain exercises
whether internally rotating on a lateral
raise is a good idea or not
and we ended up having a really good
conversation and I think it's one that
you guys are really gonna learn a lot
from so without further ado I hope you
guys enjoy my discussion about exercise
science and its application to training
for building muscle with dr. Brad Sean
Phelps all right guys so I'm here with
dr. Brad Schoenfeld Brad thanks so much
for coming on so it was interesting
yesterday we hopped on skype and I
noticed I got the notification saying
over one year ago you had your last call
and after we spoke I was thinking about
it and I was like it must have been at
least three years ago because I remember
where I was recording that and I'm two
apartments ahead of that place where I
was at the time now so I guess it's been
a pretty busy three years further both
of us actually put a really good
interview but hopefully this one will go
good fruit yeah I'm sure it will for
whatever reason just for the listeners
who don't know we actually recorded an
interview I guess it was probably two or
three years ago now and we just kept
having those connection issues but it
wasn't it wasn't a total waste of time I
still managed to learn a bunch of stuff
and hopefully we'll be able to quickly
recap most of that here now and then get
into kind of the newer stuff that you've
been up to so Brad what I wanted to
start with is I guess the most
fundamental thing of all so what I've
been noticing lately as I've started to
hit more of like a mainstream audience
is I'll get this sort of sentiment that
just expresses skepticism towards
science in general so it'll usually come
in the form of well Jeff why are you
trying to apply science to this like do
you really think that Arnold ever cared
about science did he ever need that to
get the results that he got or it'll be
like you don't need all this science
just train hard eat right and you'll get
the results do you ever get that
criticism and if you do how do you
respond to that yeah I do and in some
respects that you chew and in some
respects it's backwards thinking so
there's no question that you can get the
majority of your results up so the sort
over by just doing the very base you
don't need science you know you can
within reason you could just do a basic
type of program and for the vast
majority of people they'll respond
fairly well the question is can you
obtain your can you maximize your
genetic potential by just doing that and
I would certainly say the answer to that
is no that's where science comes dead it
number what helps you to maximize your
own potential I think it's particularly
important for people who are hard
gainers for people who are starting to
approach their genetic ceiling or have
been training for very long periods of
time and hitting plateaus so this is
when it becomes much more important but
certainly if you say or know first of
all did you so science so that the fact
that that's kind of a I think a misnomer
that bodybuilders are total bros I mean
they do to some to varying extents but
Kedarnath have potentially gotten better
results if he had of applied more
science that's the thing that people a
lot of times are not looking at my to
that I would say yeah right I think that
a lot of people who see us communicating
this science think that we don't in like
it's there's no engine it takes the
enjoyment out of training or something
but like I love to just get in the gym
and get after it myself and sometimes
I'll train with the intensity that a bro
would or I'll use some flick some bro
methods into a training program or what
people might think would be bro methods
and I think that you're sort of the same
way like I've seen some of your training
with John Meadows which will maybe we'll
talk about later but when you actually
get in the gym and kind of get after it
I feel like there be maybe more common
ground with the bros then maybe people
might expect based on your writing and
so on and so forth so I think that's
just a really good point to to expand
upon that first of all an evidence-based
approaches often misunderstood because
an evidence-based approach is not simply
looking to science it's a three pronged
approach it takes the best current
evidence and that that involves
synthesizing the entire body of current
evidence looking at the limitations the
generalizability of it which I can touch
on in a minute and and basically drawing
the opinions that you have to know how
much evidence is there it was there
strong evidence is it weak evidence
then you take your own personal
expertise into account and then the
needs and the abilities of the
individual there's a lot of limitations
so science and research will never tell
you what to do
basically research is going to provide
general guidelines to to use as a
foundation so you're not kind of fishing
in the dark I like to use that analogy
if you just go without sonar and you go
fishing you might catch fish but there
might not be fish there so you're kind
of getting into that ballpark you're
giving yourself general principles but
if you look at a study that I carry out
the individual responses to every group
is going to be hugely varied sometimes
people are gaining 20 percent muscle and
one person's getting 20% muscle another
one's getting zero on the same exact
program so genetics are going to enter
into it stressful
everyday stress levels nutrition sleep
so many factors that has to be taken
into account and you have to realize too
that at the especially when you start
getting more and more the lead if you
will like elite bodybuilder levels like
you so studies are carried out in people
like like you so we carry that trained
individuals trust me they're trained but
they're not Jeff nippers or they're not
John Meadows or they're not they're not
high-level bodybuilders that are at
different levels in terms of their
ability to push to recover to push to
the level of their genetics ceiling how
close they are so all of these factors
need to be taken into account and that's
why a true evidence-based practitioner
is going to train pretty much everyone
differently they're training everyone
based on their own needs and they're
gonna not research is going to be the
foundation by which they get their
general principles but they're gonna be
then taking into account practical
experience and if they don't they're not
going to be optimizing results right
right sometimes you'll see people who
they'll be like well if there isn't
something on PubMed that that supports
this then it's no good or whatever and I
don't think that that's a truly
evidence-based approach you just have to
take in but there's certain things that
you'll learn from coaching clients or
being in the gym yourself that you just
can't get out of a study sometimes yeah
well I would go as far to say that that
is just as bad as people who completely
show in science that the people who are
just like
showed me in a pubmed citation on that
first of all if there's not good
evidence you then revert back to lower
levels of of a hierarchy of knowledge
but as you just said I mean I had before
going into academia that was personal
trainer for eighteen years I own my own
facility you see things when you're
training people and I tell my students
were potentially looking to be
professors if you want to do what I do
apply the research at least have a
couple of years under your belt to be
the personal training strength the
conditioning experience whatever so you
understand how the individual responses
are and you get a sense of the gym I
think one of the primary reasons that my
research has become quite popular is
that I'm invest I'm a kid in a candy
store that I'm investigating all the
things that I wanted to know when I was
a trainer I'd be carrying out training
and saying well how come this has not
been studied well or whatever and anyway
I think it goes to the point that the
people who are pure you know I'm not
going to believe it unless there's a
study on it is ultimately just as
short-sighted as those who dismiss
science there's a marriage and that's
why the core bridging the gap between
training and between science and
practice with science from training
right on the point of training status
which is something you mentioned that
that's a criticism I'll sometimes get of
studies in general it's like well you
know this is all fine and all for people
out there in the general public but once
you start to get more advanced you can't
really apply this and well I think that
from a practical research perspective it
could be that if you were to do a
eight-week study or a 12-week study on
me you might not get anything of
significance just because I'm so much
I'm so close to my genetic limit anyway
so in order to detect the differences
you almost need to work on untrained
subjects I do you think that that's
correct what I'm saying I mean that
certainly is correct so I think there's
two different things at least that I'm
interpreting here so that you're
certainly correct there but that doesn't
necessarily mean that you can generalize
with the untrained yes you would it
would be very difficult or harder to get
a statistically significant effect on
someone like yourself doesn't mean we
couldn't see something but the other
fallacy there is to say that you can't
try any
parallel between a well-trained person
or not so it's a continuum of course
so you're human so if we're going
through the continuum of studies you're
a cell culture study in vitro you're
going to have very poor generalizability
the rat study is going to be better than
the in vitro study but not so as you
start going a human is human so now yeah
you're gonna you're gonna start to see
differences can you get 0 different is
there zero you can take out that's
ridiculous to say that you can't take
anything out but you do need to look at
the generalizability so if I'm carrying
out a study and sarcopenia elderly women
in a nursing home the generalizability
to someone like yourself is going to be
much lower than if I carried it out
let's say just on an untrained 22 year
old male subject yeah and really that's
where the continuum comes in and this
one I'm talking about is one of the
problems that we run into in today's
where people call themselves
evidence-based practitioners many people
who are not have not done research don't
appreciate it obviously you do which is
kudos to you but they don't appreciate
the nuances some of them just that I'm
talking about now but others that need
to be taken into account there's
unfortunately I think now a lot of what
I call arm to your abstract researchers
basically they've they just look at the
abstract with study sitting in their
chair and they think they're in
evidence-based practitioner it doesn't
work that way
right back on the point of Arnold I feel
like you did touch on an important point
there which is if you approach your
training with I would say a rational
approach where it makes sense what
you're doing like you're you're you can
kind of be your own scientist in a way
you try one thing out try to control for
as many variables as you can if that
doesn't work switch and try something
new and I think that if you can blend
that with the scientific literature that
may have some degree of generalizability
then that's probably the best way to
figure out the best approach for you I
actually this actually came up in a
recent podcast I did on Omari softs show
and Gregg knuckles brought up the idea
of just the value in learning for its
own sake it's like astrophysics podcasts
may never have any applicability in
terms of like improving your life or
leading to some new medicine or
something like that but it's just
it has inherent value to learn about
science just for its own sake and I feel
like that's something that's important
here as well great and by the way just
to touch back on what you said before
you taught me an evidence-based approach
that's exactly what it means is that the
research is used to provide general
guidelines then you become an N equals
one when I'm Trey I'm working with a pro
bodybuilder now naturally classic
physique bodybuilder Joe tall D to give
him a shout out and we it's an N equals
one so we do exactly what you said I
have basic principles that I'm applying
but he said he's an outlier in a lot of
ways and what we I manipulate things
that he does we try to control variables
and say all right we're gonna now do
this we're gonna just take this and see
how you respond and try to do it in his
control the fashion is possible specific
to him because if you look at the again
the continuum of responses I mean he's
he's different than the people than the
means and research reports the means
people are not means
yeah means in the averages so the
perfect segue here is you did a series
of videos with the mountain dog John
Meadows as I did
how was that yeah John's the legend
John's a good friend of mine and he's
just someone in the industry not only
that I respect professionally but just
personally he's just a really good
person and someone who was very true to
the to the sport of bodybuilding and to
exercise science and and he's someone
you talk about someone about
bodybuilders being gross John is someone
who really looks to employ scientific
principles in his training and these I
mean I've consulted with him on a lot of
things and he he looks at the research
so John is someone that I think would be
a very good example of someone not and
not in it for himself but he trains tons
of pro bodybuilders and physique
competitors so I think that's a really
good example of someone who takes an
evidence-based approach yeah I think
that a lot of people have this
perception of his training that it's
just all blood and gore and just
throwing whatever at the wall and seeing
what sticks but it's really much more
thought well thought through than that
and having actually trained with him
I realize that the really hardcore
intent stuff is reserved I feel like for
when it's appropriate at least from his
perspective so when we did let's say his
you know leg workout for example you're
really only taking that final set to
failure or all-out and all the other
working sets or warm-up sets or whatever
are kind of just gradually leading up to
that one and I actually really like that
approach if not from a physiological
perspective at least from a
psychological one because it's really
enjoyable that the training sessions are
really enjoyable and I feel like let's
just say for example you've got five
sets of five to do on the squat even if
it's only seventy five percent of your
one rep max it just feels so overbearing
and monotonous after set to you know
what I'd be so by the time you get to
set five you're just mentally it's just
done with it in some cases you know it
whereas with this I feel like the whole
way you're going you know you're
improving the mind muscle connection and
warming the joints up and then you're
getting ready for that final set where
you really go all out and that's a
training style that I haven't seen too
much if from will say like the
evidence-based side but it's one that I
actually personally really enjoyed I
don't know if you've trained with that
style when you were with him at all I
think that you kind of led the way a
little bit from the videos I remember
but what do you think of that in general
it's it's kind of more like the Dorian
Yates style approach but maybe slightly
higher volume than what he did he did
usually the first exercise he'd warm up
warm up with three sets or so and then
do a hard one but then his other ones
were more like one or two sets and John
is a little more but I mean I actually
not only do I agree with it when I book
the max muscle play I'm not trying to
give up put to my book but I mean that's
a very similar approach right
about your repetitions in reserve which
I now talk about I used before Eric Elms
that come up with that Gaza even our
reps to failure or concept but I used
the rpe type of scheme where it would
build up and then you're doing Canio
asset to failure on most of the working
sets now I think that failure is again
something that can be periodized so it
doesn't have to follow that I don't
think anything has to follow that set
paradigm all the time so can you start
increasing failure if you're getting
close to a show to try to overreach I
think that's something that can this is
again where the individual some people
respond well to that some people don't
and that I don't think making that's why
I always hesitate to give cookie cutter
recommendations and generalizations like
that we can talk about guidelines for
things but then it has to be modified to
the individual what do you think of the
drop sets rest-pause ISO holds because
he does incorporate more of that than
what you tend to see you know again from
the evidence-based side do you think
there's any merit in that does he overdo
it at all with that stuff well I
definitely wouldn't say he over does it
I think the question because I don't
think we can make that determination
again that would be more individual if
you're asking what the research shows
that I can kind of give you a better
handle on and by the way there's not a
heck of a lot of research on any of the
specialized techniques drop sets there's
been a few I actually collaborated on a
study which did show a benefit to drop
sets was carried out in collaboration
with a group in Japan and it was
somewhat underpowered but we used MRI
which is a gold standard for measurement
and we did find a benefit to equalize
volume of drop sets versus non drops of
traditional training the other
literature though there's been three
other studies that I recall offhand that
have been carried out and really showing
no difference but again that's what
volume is equated so if you're asking if
volume is equated is there a benefit to
it I'm sceptical at this point like I
said our study show but you have to look
at a body of research you can't just be
partial you know to a study you've got
out
carry it out but but here's what I would
say that doesn't necessarily have to
follow that in that fashion so you can
use drop sets to add on volume number
one I think that is something that
without adding on a lot of time to the
training session whereas if you're let's
say you do a on your third snack you do
a drop set rather than having to do an
extra fourth set or even two more so
that's if you do a double drop etc I
think that could be a way to get more
volume in at a time efficient matter and
just from a time efficiency standpoint
if you're looking to train in less time
it's shown that it has no detriments so
you're getting the same muscle growth
for less time so it's more efficient
some of the other specialized techniques
have not been studied well enough for me
to give I think good evidence based or
do research based conclusions on that
and let's draw strong evidence-based
conclusions on it I would say that I
think there is at least a good logical
basis for accentuated eccentric training
just based upon the fact that II Centrex
provide different signalling patterns
intracellular signalling it's been shown
compared to concentric training and
eccentric training also has been shown
to at least differentially from a non
uniform perspective have different
effects at least not quite a separate or
distal versus concentric which has
greater mid to proximal hypertrophy so I
think adding those in might enhance your
response and I don't think there'd be a
given to me everything we start to look
at is cost-benefit is what is the cost
what is the benefit cost this time
across this potentially negative effects
I don't see a lot of extra time there
does it take a lot more out of you I
don't think so depending upon how you
structure your workout so I think
accentuated II Centrex are a beneficial
technique to selectively utilize it's
not like it should be again I think
people hear about this and they do it on
every set every exercise or whatever and
you have to again think selectively
right how would you set up an
accentuated eccentric would you have
like a training say you're doing a leg
curl would you have a training partner
push down on the negative more or would
you just go slower on
how is that typically looked at in the
literature yeah so well the literature
does different things a lot of times
they're using isokinetic devices that
you wouldn't have access to but I mean
there's multiple ways you could do it
several ways one of them let's say if
you're talking about a leg curl you can
lift both legs up and then lower with
one leg which is a very common good that
you could do the same thing on so it
depends upon what you're doing you could
do that leg press to do that a lot of
machines to afford that capability you
certainly can also just have you could
just load it on a bar let's say you're
doing a bench press probably one turn on
squat but let's say a bench press you
load up the bar with one hundred and
twenty hundred thirty percent 1rm and
then have someone bring it up have a
spotter bring it up and then you just
lower it under control so there's
multiple ways that can be accomplished
well you can't have someone actually
give accentuated pushing down where
you're resisting the push right right
because you are stronger on the
eccentric obviously like you can go down
with a on a squat with more weight then
you can get back up with which is why
it's so difficult to cheat on a deadlift
but you could like go down on the squat
half way and then manage to get right
back up because it starts with the
eccentric phase so I guess from like
maybe from a recruitment perspective
like overloading the eccentric might be
able to get everything targeted a little
bit better because it seems like you
know if you're maxing out your
concentric strength but yet you've still
got 40% eccentric left in the tank it
would make sense to do that if you're
really trying to fry everything I'm not
sure it would be the recruitment
standpoint because you're getting pretty
close to if you're training card
especially as you get to a more advanced
you're recruiting the vast majority of
fibers
there's obviously nuances there which
I'm that we need to go into now but I
think it more as a stimulation
standpoint like I said there's it's been
shown that actually the signaling the
intracellular signaling patterns are
different so the there's different
pathways that are utilize which is just
not only is it intriguing but it
suggests that you're going to it could
be synergistic in terms of the
hypertrophy that you get from just doing
let's say standardized
right I remember you wrote a paper it
might have been for the NSC a and it was
something about it was kind of like a
review of all the different intensity
techniques so you covered everything in
and kind of covered the potential
mechanistic basis for it was like drop
sets rest-pause statical it was like
everything in there it was a really
interesting paper do you think you've
updated at anything since then or do you
feel like it's coming far yeah that was
purely a hypothetical paper because
there really was little to no research
that had actually with the muscle growth
so it was just more speculative it was I
would call it a hypothesis base paper
where now that we have more evidence as
I mentioned though as the evidence it's
generally not strong enough where I have
strong conclusions I think we're now
starting to get there's been an
explosion in terms of hypertrophy
research and I'm really happy to see
that that was one of my even I came into
the field one of my hobby horses was to
help to drive that so it's been very
rewarding in that respect but we still
have a long way to go and topics like
that well we can still I think we have
better hypotheses now that we can or now
we're starting to be able to draw weak
theories but to really get strong
theories we're going to need more more
evidence more research-based evidence
I'm not sure how you'll take this
question but is there any of those
intensity techniques that you see that
you feel like you can write off as like
this probably isn't the best thing to do
I think that comes to mind no you know I
would say that so the super sets but
there's so many different types of super
sets we actually carried out a study
seemed to show a negative effect that it
hasn't been published yet but it seems
to show a negative effect of agonist
antagonist super sets and we kind of
hard to figure out why but I'm not ready
to write that off I just don't think
there's again I have to if that's
replicated with several studies then I'd
start to question it but sometimes you
have a study and you see strange results
and it's not replicated there's another
study I remember that looked at
separated versus grouped super sets and
they kind of found that the separated
which I guess would be similar to
the agonist antagonist but you could do
like say I don't know dumbbell flyes
super setted with leg press for example
and that was shown to have greater
benefit than doing group super sets
where you would do like a leg press with
a leg extension just because there's so
much more carryover fatigue from the
extension back to the leg press probably
reduces total volume load or whatever
and so I would I find that result
surprising also because you'd think that
the the separated muscle groups would
interfere or less with each other and
then yet still give you the benefit of
save at like saving time which i think
is the main benefit of using super sets
at all
if that's the same study that I'm
thinking of it was not a they didn't
measure I perchick that was an acute
study that looked at EMG if I recall so
I don't I don't believe now maybe
there's a different one I know there was
one that looked at EMG and I don't
recall and I seen all the literature and
maybe it's just my mind is is not on it
today but I don't recall seeing one
that's actually looked at the hyper
hypertrophic response between those two
types of super senses if it hasn't we
can find that please send that my way
yeah I'll do that I know it was reviewed
in the mast research review and I
covered it about a year ago but now that
you're questioning and I'm questioning
myself so I'll link it below for the
listeners and I'll send it to you after
another thing I wanted to talk about is
training technique so I recently started
a series on the channel called technique
Tuesday where I'll take one exercise
I'll do a deep dive on it I'll talk
about some of the EMG research I'll look
at different biomechanics of different
variations and some coaching cues that
you can apply to kind of make the most
out of the movement I feel like in the
science-based community there's so much
discussion about training volume
intensity frequency and these acute
training variables that I find sometimes
just something simple like technique can
take a bit of a backseat even if it is
an assumed presumption that technique
really matters but still I feel like it
doesn't always get the attention I think
it deserves where do you rank training
technique on the hierarchy of what
really matters
for results as certainly so again it's
somewhat of a difficult question answer
is it important absolutely can you get
good results and have shitty technique
yeah
so there's several several things to
consider in this number one there's a
spectrum of bad technique so let's say
I'm doing a lot of ways so that I'm
doing allowing race like this where it
basically becomes a front raise and
you've got people that I see they're
just starting to do this well that's
horrible technique where basically
you're in the sagittal plane you're
instead of the frontal plane and you're
gonna work your front delt your interior
delt instead of your middle delt now if
you start coming more into the scapular
plane and then here okay now you know at
what point do you say okay now your
technique is good so the again it's
really not a binary choice there if you
and look the muscle is produces its
greatest force when it's directly in
line with gravity so if I do a let's say
lateral raise I'm in the frontal plane
but I'm lifting with an externally
rotated shoulder what muscles directly
opposing gravity my anterior delt
so and I have I need to internally
rotate how much of a difference is that
going to be on your mid Dell we don't
have hard evidence of that but just
certainly biomechanical principles and
applied anatomy dictates that that will
be not the greatest thing to develop
your your mid Dell how much difference
is that going to make I can't quantify
that with a percentage and say you're
going to get 25% more and then technique
to me it also then starts to get into
how much momentum where you're going to
use you like are we just talking about
actually doing the movement with proper
kinematics we're now starting to talk
about are you lifting using your back
with a biceps curl or are you lowering
the weight without directly about where
basically the waitress just flowing down
you're not directly opposing gravity so
all of these sorry all of these factors
need to be taken into account and they
can have anything from very large
effects to somewhat smaller effects but
the better your technique is what I
would say is the better your technique
is the better
chance you have of maximizing your
genetic potential right well one thing
that I think you could make the argument
in favor of really keeping your
technique good and consistent is that it
you sense progressive overload is so
important if your technique is gradually
breaking down it might not be that
you're in but you're handling you know
progressively heavier weights you may
not actually be progressively
overloading you may just be
progressively reducing your range of
motion cheating so you need two
different muscles right yeah looking to
work but what that said I mean like you
said there are plenty of very jacked
people who use a lot of body English you
know as an evidence as a the
evidence-based I what what is your
recommendation when it comes to cheating
like is it how much is okay and when is
it okay so again here's now where I
think this is a really great point to
bring up because this is again where
people in general tend to think in
binary terms always great form never
great forms you know high reps low reps
short rest long rest and in truth we
have a wide range at almost an endless
number of permutations that we can carry
out so what I say is there a detriment
and as to doing some cheap reps
absolutely not
can that potentially help to get eke out
some extra gains it potentially could I
think that if we're looking at the body
of training that the vast majority
should be in in good form
it's kind of like when we talk about
diet you know is it just eating all junk
food skittles and Ben and Jerry's or is
where can you have ten percent of your
diet that's consisting of that there are
there's all sorts of in-betweens there
yeah I guess going back to the eccentric
stuff you know one potential way to
overload the eccentric would be to cheat
a little bit on the concentric and then
let's say you're doing a curl you know
use a little bit of hip drive to get it
up and then really control it back on
the way down but I feel like that's
probably a sort of thing that I would
reserve for
Advanced trainees who obviously already
mastered proper form first and then
maybe have encountered a plateau with
their progression and maybe reserve it
for like the last set of an exercise as
an intensity technique or something like
that yeah I think that your chances of
injury if you're not very advanced or
have a good good handle on your form on
how to properly kinematics probably kind
of exercises that your chances of
getting injured when you're doing that
would be significantly heightened and it
would not be a good cost benefit right
so I have to ask you about this because
it came up I uploaded a video on lateral
raises and I recommended well I didn't
necessarily recommend it I said I've
personally internally rotate at the top
slightly so slightly point the pinkies
up and as you said there's pretty good
biomechanical grounds or implied applied
anatomy for thinking that that would
activate the middle delt more at least
more than having your thumb up where
you're almost government that the
anterior delt is going to be right in
the line of pull there my comments
section was 50% this is terrible advice
you're gonna injure your shoulder or so
on and so forth I even included in the
video a paper that it was a I think a
some kind of physiotherapy paper I
forget the author's on it but it said
you know there's an increased risk of
impingement so you say you know use this
at your own discretion if you have
shoulder pain don't do it it's you know
you're getting marginal returns here but
still it was still everyone was so
scared to do it
so I just need your take on this I can
set my conscious conscience clear
colleague of mine Laurie Koller well
probably five years of some go on the
upright row we got very similar
responses which is by the way it's very
similar your internally rotating and we
reviewed the literature and really our
conclusion based on it was that if
you're not going above 90 degrees 80 to
90 degrees then there's the risk is very
limited now well people are different if
you're can I say that no one's going to
get an engine for
that is certain people are gonna have
certain genetics where it might hurt but
it's possible I would say that the
evidence does not support what those
people are saying and they can go read
my paper the paper that we wrote on
upright rows which is basically the same
exact principle can you explain what
impingement means basically just so
because people are really scared of that
yeah well it's where the head of the
humerus which is your upper arm bone can
knock into the acromion process of the
scapula and basically have your
supraspinatus muscle which is one of the
rotator cuff muscles sits above there
and it can jam in there and cause
Benjamin that can basically pinch mnye
is when the two bones are pressing onto
the muscle and that just causes acute
pain which over time could lead to
inflammation and injury but you know
it's like an acute instance of
impingement is not necessarily the same
thing as any an injury is that it would
that be correct or do you think that
they are the same thing well it can lead
to fraying of the muscle of the ten
minutes oh yeah I mean if it's if it
happens once so it's kind of like if
you're I mean friction you want to think
of it like friction against a an item
that altima wears down the the item to
the point where it frays and does cause
localized damage the reason I ask that
is just to put it into perspective
because I feel like people think you
know you're in you're in this position
only the people watching will see it but
you're at the top of a lateral raise you
know going from a neutral position
internally rotating 10 to 15 degrees I
mean that's all that we're talking about
it just you have to and you've got 15
pound dumbbells in your hands I mean
like Tim from my perspective even though
yes the risk of impingement is there and
if you do feel pain it's just that's an
obvious cost-benefit analysis for any
trainee I think but by the same token
you have trainees who are doing
600-pound deadlifts and you know the
amount of shearing stress from that I
would
and has if you were to measure it just
it has to have a greater overall
potential risk than a 15 pound dumbbell
with 15 degrees of internal rotation
it's just seen as I'm saying to me it's
a great point I was actually just gonna
kind of mention that a lot of times it's
those same people who were going you
know 1 RMS that fiatter were beyond 1
RMS and squats to the point where their
knees can't handle it and anytime you're
training there's a risk of soft tissue
injury it's just a matter of balancing
and again it's risk reward I wouldn't go
very heavy with with those types of
movements anyway like the lateral raises
and something where I'd be doing 3 reps
on it you'd want to use somewhat lighter
way that probably and it's probably in
general I don't advocate going below
about 6 to 8 reps and usually it's more
like above 10 so you're staying with
lighter loads like you're saying and
form there it's gonna really matter so
you're not just sliding it up when I
when I certainly was doing my own
training my own personal training I was
as for employees especially this moves
like that where you start risking
impingement so these are questions that
are somewhat difficult to answer because
we're not getting there's no way a lot
of this is based upon conceptual theory
and I'm modeling biomechanical modeling
so everyone is different and if you're
susceptible to engagement could they I
would give the caveat that any of these
recommendations were subject to the
individual mm-hmm of course so Brad
before we jump into the volume stuff one
thing that I wanted to ask you about was
your own training style something I'm
just kind of curious about myself how
would you describe it currently like
what kind of split do you follow
as someone who has probably done more
research on training splits than anyone
and has it evolved over the years
so it has though it's one of the issues
you gotta remember I'm not as young as I
once was nice because none of us are not
obviously dictates I would certainly say
one big differences that have become so
much smarter I think
my recovery you kind of mentioned not
trade I tend to train to failure even
less than the recommendations before or
my IRA ours are generally one or so I do
go to failure now more occasionally but
I try not to push that so I'm more
conservative than that well so in terms
of our recovery but also I just my time
schedule is so crazy now so I don't
train sometimes with my ex when I'm
working with this body builder and I do
actually train with him sometimes I
don't do the well I'm doing what he's
doing I'm not going to the same
intensity levels of effort that he's
using but I'm like it's more eclectic I
try to work each muscle group twice a
week I was bro split I know actually you
kind of mentioned this yesterday earlier
in my career I was kind of big on bro
splits and I moved away more to trying
it to hit muscles at least twice a week
now but my schedule makes it so that I
get to the gym hopefully as much as I
can if I when I have three days I'll
make sure I get to the gym just because
I might have two or three days right off
I mean this just came back up in my mind
again because we were just talking about
lateral raises and I kind of want to
hear your opinion on different loading
schemes so for example do you think that
there's any merit in doing say a cable
lateral raise instead of a dumbbell
lateral raise because with the cable you
get more of a consistent resistance
profile throughout the range of motion
do you what's your take on exercise
selection cables dumbbells etc I do I
think that changing around the just kind
of minor alterations in terms of the
modalities that you use can make a
difference now are they going to make
the difference between you gaining 10
pounds of muscle no but can they be 4 so
this is where again when you're asked if
you're asking me for the stockbroker or
the insurance salesman that's coming in
and he wants to get some muscle and get
more fit and it was by the fact it's not
going to make any tangible difference in
his physique no but for someone who
wants to maximize or optimize their
physique who's especially bodybuilders
or
aspiring bodybuilders I think that can
put kind of finishing touches on the
physique and make the difference between
maybe placing or not mm-hmm can you
speculate on why it is the case I mean
like yes you have a more consistent
resistance profile which I guess would
imply maybe more time under attention so
like with a dumbbell just in case anyone
isn't aware with a dumbbell you have
basically no tension at the bottom
because the line of pole or the the the
way the weight the dumbbell is loading
is directly in the same direction as
gravity right so there's just no tension
on the muscle whereas up at the top
you've now created a moment arm and you
have to work on the shoulder so there's
much more tension at the top and there
would be at the bottom if you're using a
dumbbell if you're using in cable
because the actual cable itself is
pulling the arm in at all times time
points you have more consistent tension
do you think it's a 10 do you think it's
a tension thing or is it something else
so here's what I think I think that this
strategy what you're talking about is
the strength curve so yeah for the
exercises and my speculation is is that
that has different stimulating effects
on the muscle whether what the
mechanistic factors are is kind of hard
to speculate on but my least and this
has not been shown through the
literature but I think at least
theoretically or hypothetically that it
would allow for different differences in
stimulation that would potentially have
an additive effect and and now look and
now you're talking that's like a lateral
raise which is a single joint targeted
movement when you start talking about
exercises let's say like a chest press
on a barbell versus a machine now you're
also talking about reducing stabilizer
muscles so having greater muscle
involvement of the target muscle versus
less the stabilizers and that I think
you start to even get more differential
effects whereby it can make let's say a
difference to do hammer strength presses
on the day dumbbell presses which is
going to have again differences in terms
of balance and barbell presses so do you
think it's more so
it's just a good idea to switch up these
loading modalities so use dumbbells for
four or five weeks then use cables and
kind of go back and forth or do you
think that because of the potentially
more optimal resistance profile of the
cables that cables usually come out on
top for these circular sort of movements
I think I mean to me that what my
approach has been to Gary the moves I
think there's a novelty the body adapts
look at I think even the soreness is not
indicative necessarily just well it's a
front of a good workout or not but it is
it tends to be indicative of a novel
stimulus and when you change exercises
you tend to it's it's a novel stimulus
you tend to get more sore from it does
that mean you're getting more results
not necessarily but it does tend to mean
that it's working a muscle in a way it's
not as is used to does that again I want
to make it clear does that necessarily
mean you're getting greater results no
but without evidence to the contrary I
don't think there's a negative to it so
again that's where we talked about cost
benefit to me you take advantage of what
you can and my general philosophy is is
to vary your movements and does it have
to be every four or five weeks not even
that's so certain moves I think machines
can be varied a lot more so freeways
like I think there's certain core moves
that should be kept in the routine on a
regular basis just because that when you
stop doing them for periods of time
your kinematics are off and it's just
very difficult to get back so like your
squats your rows you basically you're
free weight type movements but machine I
can hop on a machine and have zero
neural you know the deficits six month
four I could not use it for six months
and then basically hop on a say hammer
press and and do it six months later and
not have any deficits in the way that
could is so another highly theoretical
question here I feel like my questions
are just totally in the clouds like but
let's just imagine you had someone who
was squatting for five years you had
someone who does leg press for five
years same frequency same intensity
they're both progressively overloading
you know a lot of people put
squats on a pedestal maybe they deserve
it in some sense but how much of a
practical difference are you would you
predict between those individuals so
that's that's such a hypothetical
question I couldn't answer but here's
what I will say there was a study done
and I'm forgetting the fonseca was the
name I believe the author and they
actually looked at just doing squats
versus doing squats oh for two weeks I
think it was for two weeks then leg
pressed for two weeks then I think was a
lunge for two weeks
and you got better growth in several of
the quad muscles for the that I actually
just posted about this analogy a few
weeks ago where I think was the medialis
and the REC film got greater growth than
just doing squats so again that's why I
think I don't think that's irrelevant
even if I were to hypothesize I don't
know where that would go because it's
just not I don't see what the practical
value of it I think the more practical
value is is that by changing around
their exercises to some extent will
provide a synergistic effect and that it
wouldn't be good I would say either way
it's not going to do you best to do
squats and here's what I also answer
your question because I don't want to
completely shirk it but squats are going
to involve other musculature that web
presses are so if you're just talking
about product where it should be
remember that squats involve stabilizer
muscles in different areas of the body
including the upper body that aren't
involved in light press so if you you
know you wouldn't just be looking at
quite if you aren't just looking at
quads I think it's a different argument
than if you're looking at overall
musculature right yeah the reason I
think the practical relevance of the
question is sometimes people can't do
squats and they're then thinking that
they're gonna lose all their gains or
they're not going to get the same gains
just because they can't squat and in
that case I'll say you know what there's
the squad is not a mandatory exercise
and I just wanted to have an expert kind
of speculate on what the practical
difference between a squat and a leg
press might actually be in terms of
outcomes like are we looking at
you'll get 50% because people really put
some of these compound movements on a
pedestal and you know swear that you can
get way better gains doing
in doing you know an equivalent machine
variation and I'm just wondering like
are we looking at 1% difference 10%
difference half the results is something
in that but you obviously gave the
science the the actual scientific answer
which is I have no idea well and here's
what I would say and I would be quite
confident that from quad specific
standpoint there would not be much you
know again just looking at one versus
the other on that hypothetical example I
can make a case that maybe the leg press
you have create a quad development over
time but certainly I agree with your
point that squats are not mandatory and
remember too that it's not just back
like people thinks once they have two
backs what you could do there's so many
thing you could do Bulgarian squats you
could do I mean my favorite variation is
using a it's a machine so I can have her
a side backspace machine that's used for
shrugs a lot and and for dad wefts I
think but anyway you put a bench up
behind you when you actually can do
Bulgarian squats on it so you don't need
to balance like with dumbbells but
there's goblet squats there's so many
variations of squats so you say people
can't do squats many variations and
again my general recommendation would be
to at least have some variance that you
shouldn't be just focusing on one move I
think if you just did squats versus
doing and that has been shown in that
Fonseca paper versus doing a combination
of moves that you will ultimately get
better
quad development yeah yeah that Fonseca
papers when I spoke about on the channel
before and I'll link your Instagram
posts below if people want to go and
read the the summary of that because I
think it's really a really interesting
one that actually shows a benefit to
having more exercise variation like you
said so Brad last thing I want to touch
on is the new paper that everybody has
been talking about so the the volume
study I'm actually spoke about this with
Brett Contreras when he was on the show
so my listeners will be familiar with it
so we don't need to do a full deep dive
on it but just very quickly I've got the
notes in front of me here so you had
three different groups a low volume
group media moderate volume and high
volume group the low volume group did
six to nine sets per body part per week
moderate was 18 to 27 sets per body part
per week and the high volume group was
30 to 45 sets per muscle per week which
sounds really absurdly high on paper
maybe not to really highly advanced body
builders but I think to the
evidence-based community it sounded
really high and what you've basically
found was that hypertrophy just
increased with increasing volume so the
highest volume groups are the most gains
in terms of biceps and quad size can you
just kind of obviously I just give the
quick cliff notes but can you share what
you take away from this paper from a
practical perspective in terms of
training volume I want to back up where
your point was about that it sounds
insanely high yeah what have I told you
that the highest volume group trained a
little more than 3 hours per week so
each session was about an hour three
times a week is that do you train more
than that I mean every body leader
there's nothing about people so is that
so here's part of the problem when
people hearing this the study was not
designed to look at how many sets per
muscle per week should all muscles be
trained basically the design if you're
looking when and this is again we're
evidence-based when you try to impart
what evidence-based conclusion should be
it's be hard for people to understand
that through through some of the
nonsense that's put out on the internet
you can only generalize a study to what
it was designed to show me we look to
see is there a threshold for a given
muscle group being trained for a given
number of sets so again the overall
volume was quite modest even at the
highest level the lowest I was training
16 minutes per session was 39 minutes
for the entire week 13 minutes per
session I think it was so again it was
specifically designed study to test a
given hypothesis about a threshold for a
given muscle not what we should train
all muscles so my my conclusions are a
couple
I think that the potential so we did not
find the threshold that there was not a
threshold not certainly I've always
speculated it's in my all my books and
certainly my new textbook that there'd
be at some point there will be a
inverting you which is a hormetic curve
where you'll see a plateau and then
ultimately you keep doing it see a
regression and that would be due to just
first of all not seeing additional
benefits through greater volume and then
seeing overtraining detriments at some
point overtraining I want to step back
to and say that overtraining is systemic
so it would be hard at least for me to
visualize just than the type to say that
we did it especially for short periods
of time you can see any type of
overtraining response because there
systemically there just wasn't a lot of
total work for all the muscle verbs
you're going to be doing if I was going
to do total routine that was a
bodybuilding routine I'd be having so
many more exercises for other muscles
and that would really start to drive
negative responses if we kept volume
constant so the the kind of take home to
me is that there is a least of potential
for greater gains with so much higher
volumes some interesting factoids that
weren't in the studying we actually have
a paper that would be going into review
pretty soon we're currently writing this
up but to me one of the more interesting
factors of the study was that the
responses were primarily driven the
volume based hypertrophy responses by
responders so there were plenty of again
you look at a and we posted the and I
know James Krueger as to the individual
responses that we posted you see some of
the one setters they had very good
responses hypertrophic responses but
there were more in the one set and the
three set as opposed to the Fox hood
he'd filed this dose response so the
three set had fewer poor responders than
the one set and the 5 set tendinopathy
were poor responders than the 3 set
group and the I think my most relevant
conclusion that I've taken from it and I
know myself and some of my colleagues
James Krieger and some others were
starting to employ this
your concept is that for a given week
muscle group or a lagging muscle group a
specialization period of using higher
volumes might help to optimize the
hypertrophic response in a given muscle
and so you know I know we talked a
little or kind of discussed about my own
recommendations we have a change in the
sense that I think overall it's kind of
general buying guidelines are I still
recommend somewhere between 10 to 20
sets per muscle per week over time and
I'm also a believer in period izing this
so kind of undulating so there's a
cyclical increase going from lower to
higher and not I believe in kind of an
overreaching phase where it would be
more towards like the 20 but you can
have these we talked earlier it brings
back again your individual responses I'm
going to some people are going to do
better on less than 10 sets some people
are gonna need more than 20 at some
point I wouldn't again have people doing
large volumes for long periods of time
that's another thing to the study it was
reasonably short term it was eight weeks
and and the other important thing to
remember too is we didn't do
intermittent test it so we didn't do
tests and let's say after the four with
the mid period midpoint period like at
four weeks could have been that most of
the games were realize or all of them at
four weeks and that they got nothing or
maybe they even started to regress so
those were all questions that that can't
be answered from from the literature
right another thing just on the point of
tracking volume and how on paper 30 to
45 set sounds scarier than it in fact
was in that study you guys counted a set
of let's say bicep volume on both you
know any any movement that involves the
biceps whether it be compound or
isolation
whereas if I were to say you know do
thirty to forty five sets of biceps it
wouldn't probably be your natural
instinct to think about lat pulldown or
row work which you would have included
in that study so you know from a
practical perspective when I'm thinking
about tracking let's just roll with the
biceps biceps valium do you think you
should include lat pull-downs or rose or
should you just include isolation work
well I definitely think you should
include it the question is do they have
a one-to-one relationship and that's
actually another paper that we're
working on to try to quantify that and
it's very very difficult to quantify so
there is there has been some studies
that have shown that there is no
difference between so if they'll they
had subjects just do like lat pull-downs
and just do bicep curls and they had
very equal growth there's been a several
of those studies now I'm still somewhat
skeptical I put it this way gun to my
head you're saying to me you're training
a pro bodybuilder you're not going to do
bicep curls needs bicep work no I can I
do it so I don't necessarily think it's
one-to-one how much less is it is it
point eight is it point six is it point
five you have to prove Conners have I I
don't know and and I don't I think for
the purposes of this the recommendations
I'm giving does include that I do think
that there's less need to use a lot of I
think people tend to overwork their arms
with similar joint movements when they
don't need to they'll do 15 sets of
bicep work and 15 cents of tricep work
after doing 15 sets of chest and back
work so there's 30 sets by the way and
that's in one session by the way that
they're often doing that and I think
that that's overkill so it's a hard
question to answer look I think people
don't know if to think of this but same
thing also for the quads I mean a squat
is not just the quad exercise so is how
much is it people have to think it's one
to one they people don't think of it
like a biceps curl when I mean a packet
says it's a lat pulldown well it's a
polo as a bicep exercise but they think
with a squat which involves multiple
other muscle groups they just think of
it as a product that's always one to one
I'm not necessarily sure that they need
to thinner your quasi Sasori going to be
fully stimulated by the time you and
this [ __ ] were or other muscles going to
take over yeah a couple things I'm aware
of at least one paper that showed better
biceps hypertrophy when you included
isolation work as opposed to just
training
indirectly but I'm also aware that there
are those studies that the minimalist
camp will always cite saying you know I
just do pull-ups and your biceps will
grow but from all of my experience as a
bodybuilder I've found it to be
unanimously the case that if you want
bigger arms you got a curl and there is
research to support that as well this is
a scoop on you show and uh I'm
collaborating on the paper with a group
from Brazil and we got the same thing
that there was a benefit to single joint
over multi-joint hasn't been published
yet so I can't cite that out but uh it
has to go through peer review but yeah
again I but that doesn't mean you don't
include it at all so certainly there is
you are stimulating the biceps how much
again your guesses your opinion would be
as good as mine yeah and then another
thing is you know yeah I think would
want to consider the range of motion
that you're taking the elbow joint
through so like on a row you know
especially if you're doing it like a lat
like dominant row where you're kind of
driving the elbows down you're getting
actually pretty like a pretty minimal
amount of elbow flexion out of that so
should I feel like I mean that just
almost definitely shouldn't count as a
set in the same way that I've heard you
know a set of eight reps on a EZ bar
curl should you know so there are all
these variables so when you're trying to
distill it down you know maybe I would
say for now until maybe we have a better
formula for it just be consistent with
it like if you're counting rows count
them moving forward if you're not going
to count rows as bicep work then don't
start counting them you know what I mean
it's kind of like if you're you know
tracking your macros it becomes a
guessing check like figure out what
amount of calories is going to have you
gaining or losing at the appropriate
rate and adjust from there it's kind of
the similar thing with volume like it
doesn't so much matter what exactly the
number is as long as you land on
something that has you progressing
without overtraining so I think two
things there is I kind of disagree with
that but I would say that ultimately
finding what works for you so again
research is just providing guidelines
and however you want to get to that
point that's fine but I think it would
be a mistake not to count it because if
you're telling if you're just going
let's say alright I'm not counting it as
bicep curls so now I'm gonna do 15 sets
of bicep curls
you are definitely getting stimulation
to the to what effect anyway I think
that that has to count just like again
then whereas a squat count if we're
going to take that approach as a squat
just the glute exercise and how much
does it count for hamstrings yeah I
guess I was saying you wouldn't let's
say you don't count the lat or let's say
you don't count rows just on the
assumption that you're getting some
bicep work out of it so you're just
gonna reduce so let's say you'd normally
do you know tend or let's say you'd
normally do 15 sets of biceps well you
might find that if you're only counting
the isolation stuff eight or ten is
plenty you know yeah and then as long as
you're consistent with it over time
you're gonna realize that well okay now
you know my progress is stalled on eight
sets of isolation biceps a week maybe
I'll bump that to ten or what-have-you
but even in that case you know before
increasing volume generally I don't know
I don't know how you feel about this but
I would turn to other probably other
variables first like you know is your
technique actually good you know are you
actually training at an appropriate
level of effort have you switched up
exercises at all recently and then
probably consider increasing your sets
from there yeah I do agree with that I
think those tend to be more newbie and
kind of moderate when you get to the
more advanced level I generated me those
were kind of Givens most of the people
that at least that I work with that are
you know good bodybuilders with people
that are more advanced those questions
already answered Churchill yeah for sure
and then you what you're basically left
with is volume and I guess look
progressive overload you can always Jack
the load up a bit or mind muscle
connection you know some advanced people
are kind of just going through the
motions not really thinking about what
they're doing that can that can actually
make quite a bit of difference because
even using myself as an example I found
my
fourarms tend to be so dominant on curls
that when I did think about actively
supinating a little bit more and really
engaging my biceps on the curls I found
I was able to shift much more of that
emphasis on to the the biceps obviously
I'm not measuring that but that was kind
of my personal experience with it by the
way I just want to get at me and for us
we've touched on this before but this is
again we're binary thinking that people
think about volume recommendations as a
stagnant that you should be training at
a given volume and again my personal
approach is that should not be the case
that you should look to use volume in a
periodized fashion like you would other
variables and that doing high volumes
for long periods of time is going to be
detrimental so our study was eight weeks
and I could say maybe even at a shorter
period maybe he would have gotten better
results certainly anecdotally I never
use high volume cyclists for more than
four weeks or so usually so they're
they're more targeted short term
approaches and that to Meis structuring
it so you're going from only then you
want to cut back and would have D loads
put in there as well so I think that
this is where when you especially just
getting more and more advanced to
optimize your growth that's where this
becomes more and more important as
getting a total philosophy of training
right so all things considered just for
the people with short attention spans
they can skip to this timestamp after
all that you still tend to recommend 10
to 20 sets for the most part for most
people provide per week that is some
general a general recommendation yeah
and that is manipulated between
individuals might be a little lower than
10 might be a little higher than 20
depending on the individual yeah I
uploaded a video saying because you know
that all this research is coming on the
back of I think it was krieger it was a
meta-analysis showing and you might have
you were probably that basically doing
greater than 10 sets a week was better
than doing less than 10 sets a week and
now this paper was kind of to figure out
where that upper threshold where it
starts to taper off might might lie and
I did a video at the I think it was
actually but for this new study came out
saying well you know as far as volume
goes the best we can really say at this
point is
greater than 10 sets is it seems to be
better than less than that right and
people in my comments were just like you
are you crazy like 10 sets a week is
just so ridiculously low I mean like if
you think about back right that would be
doing you know three sets of pull-ups
two sets of cable rows twice a week
that's it I mean I don't I don't
personally like out of all the people
I've coached out of you know my friends
who body builds like no one is training
with that low of volume it seems like a
pretty low threshold to me 20 he not now
you're getting more than like I think
the practical zone but I think that
that's what more than a safe low ball
from high perspective that we have the
data is looked at arm and leg
hypertrophy we don't have any data on
bad guy so I don't see a reason why back
muscles should respond differently than
the legs or the arms I was sort of you
know I mean you could make a case the
arms really a smaller but the thighs but
if you looking again for
generalizability that has to be
mentioned there that we make these
generalized recommendations based upon
what we know through the literature and
there are gaps this is where you try to
use your best judgment right so before
we wrap it up I do want to have you
comment on this paper because it came up
at the very tail end of my interview
with Brett and so it's out of James
Fisher and Steel's lab and I do think
it's published now I'm not sure if it
was when I interviewed Brett but anyway
so very quickly it was a 24 week study
all on done on women and they basically
found exactly the opposite I think of
and you can correct me if I'm wrong but
it was pretty much the opposite of what
you guys found where they compared five
sets a week ten sets a week 15 sets a
week and 20 sets a week so they had four
groups and measured hypertrophy amongst
those and they basically found that I
think at least for some muscles the 5
set per week was that the best and the 5
to 10 set
both groups 5 and 10 sets per week
groups were it was sufficient to max out
hypertrophy so basically their
conclusion was there's no further
benefit from doing anything over 5 to 10
sets a week
what do you think of that finding well I
can only comment on what the you know
what I've seen in the study so there's a
couple of things number one I think it's
the fact the study that we carried out
was a replica basic was a replication
study of the study published in Brazil
by Regis ratty Ali and Roberto so Mayo
who I know a very good group there and
they used Navy personnel they did a 26
weeks though they had do a six-month
study it was carried out on a ship was a
Navy personnel who were they were not
resistance training that was kind of
where our thing was that we wanted to
see people that actually were lifting
but they were doing military they were
very thick so they were doing
calisthenic exercises and they showed
much greater ducks who talked about some
people who were surprised the $0.30 well
they showed like 20 more than double
sometimes triple the growth in the upper
body muscles I would also say by the way
I forgot to mention that in our study
the lower body muscles seem to respond
better than the upper body muscles to
greater volumes and maybe that is
because we didn't have single joint
moves that could be that we did we might
have seen differential effects so so why
so we now have these both these studies
which showed these higher bonds
another colleague of mine Cody Huang
published a study Mike is riotta
actually was on that study as well
another colleague of mine and they was a
shorter term study but it was a
different design but they kept ramping
up volume and they found that the
volumes started to peak around 20 sets
but actually it kept going they did show
it why not now a children it definitely
went up just looking at the decks or
results they did a an accounting of
water content so intracellular water
extracellular and that reduced the
effect but it still was statistically
significant or at least it could be
practically meaningful it didn't just
completely level off so there was also
kind of
counterintuitive to the results I can
say the if you're asking me to speculate
it seems like they were over trained it
seems somewhat hard for me to imagine
that because again the overall volume
that they were doing wasn't that great
so it was the the 20 sets it was like 60
total sets per week so that my guess
would be they're training roughly the
same amount of time maybe three hours
per week like one hour per session but
it was over six months so I definitely
would for me keeping volume very high or
very high but even that high I would do
that generally for that period of time
and their strength results why I would
say the overtraining you can see more
the hypertrophy leveled off but the
strength they should have very tight
correlation between the strength
leveling off and the high perch with you
have oh my god it was in women the one
other thing that would be different than
the study that we carried out and by the
way so it's kind of intuitive you could
say that our study was eight weeks so
that by consistently training at that
higher volume over time that had the
overtraining effect but the rat ele
study was six months and not only didn't
they show a plateau they they showed
much greater growth than we did with the
highest volume with the thirty cent
volume the other thing that could be a
factor and this is actually something
that James and I have talked about James
actually ran a a statistical basically
did he not published but he did a
statistical analysis and that seems to
show that doing more than a ten sets or
so purse per session so that's splitting
up fine when you're doing let's say
thirty if you knew thirty sets you don't
want to do thirty sets in one session
that bro split like splitting it up over
more sessions the study that you're
referring to from that lab they did a
bro split so they did a push at day a
pull day and then a leg day and could
that have potentially hasten the onset
of overtraining or negative effects
again you can't we can only speculate on
that and each study is a study unto
itself what I always say is every study
is a piece of the puzzle and I'll tell
you look at the body of research over
time and that's how you draw conclusions
that bro split
part is an interesting piece though
because you can imagine doing 20 sets of
quad work in one a single training
session it's not really surprising that
you know that would be difficult to
recover from and you probably have you
know what Brett would call wasted sets
in there because at a certain point just
per session you're not going to get too
much more out of increasing volume a
kind of like what you just said and at
least over six and especially when
you're doing it over six months right so
yeah so one thing that I just find I
don't know if I want to call it Quincy
Dental but interesting is that you know
these people
this group has published reviews before
kind of having this minimal approach
where it's like you know optimize your
efficiency in the gym by taking you know
a couple one or two sets all out to
failure and that's the best way to train
and you can get your best bang for your
buck there I think they've also said in
reviews that there's no benefit to
training at a higher frequency and you
know that they have this kind of
approach to it why is it that it was
this group that got that that result is
there any idea ideology behind it I'd
not to accuse them of anything it just
it does seem coincidental to me dude
looking at it I mean that I can't answer
I know they're good researchers so what
I would say is that good researchers can
have differences of opinions I think
that the if you just look at our main
analysis which you brought up earlier
the evidence is I think quite compelling
I don't see how anyone could look at
that and say anything of the sort so if
you actually look provided what's called
a scatterplot of the results which
basically is each study and it's its
effect size and where it's median point
is if the median point is to the right
of the zero line that means it favors
the multiple said the higher volume' if
it's to the left it favors the lower
volume only one study was shown to favor
the lower volume out of fifteen studies
that we looked at the chances of that
happening
the statistical probability that that's
happening by chance is almost
infinitesimal so and it just goes
against you know the thought of the one
set to failure which has obviously been
popularized by arthur jones and then my
commencer and people over time but it
just goes against every individual has
principle we know so to say that
everyone responds the same it's like
saying that everyone can go in the Sun
again it's the same suntan because we
know when I carry out a study these
spread of of differences that have seen
or are best so just that in itself would
say that it just doesn't make sense so
that's all I could say and again I think
that replication is important like I
said we our study was a replication of
the radio a study we just did it over a
shorter time frame so I don't know what
would have happened if we carried it out
longer we might have seen the same
results as the study the Fisher steel
study you mentioned I don't know so I
can just say that it wouldn't be a way
that I would advocate training so I'm
not sure why I'm not sure what utility
you really get out of that type of study
let's do training very high volumes over
one period of time at least to me brings
up that it's just not a smart use of
your volume right I guess from their
perspective they're just making the case
that you know if you can get the same or
better or you know um even almost the
same results with five sets versus
twenty sets a week then from an
efficiency perspective you know if
you're someone who doesn't have a lot of
time to go to the gym it might make more
sense to do less volume but train closer
to failure and that's I think their
argument from that perspective no no I
don't I don't necessarily agree that I
don't agree that you can get the same
benefits from doing a very low but now
look to say their study it was it did
show at least early when I reviewed it
it looked like basically was an inverted
u so the five had greater effects than
like fifteen twenty but the ten seemed
to come out on top the most so there was
some what have been inverted you could
that be because of the bro split and
that
ten basically they just didn't
distribute the volume well enough those
are questions again that time will tell
yeah yeah alright well Brad that's all
that I had for you this has been a great
discussion I feel like people are really
gonna benefit from it we touched a lot
of stuff I hadn't planned on and I think
it was it made for an interesting chat
all right well good stuff I really
appreciate you coming on I know you're
insanely busy I can only imagine how
many experiments here you're running at
this very moment so I was just talking
so the train to earlier today with my
buddy Joe but so today I'm working with
furs and I told him about you I had to
get out of the gym or actually that cut
out a piece that's early and you know
it's when I was going on your podcast I
told him to check it out I said you're
one of the guys in the industry where I
really respect and to me a body builder
like yourself who has a high profile
that is taking science to the masses
that's kind of my whole hobbyhorse when
I got into this field as an educator I
made a commitment to saying you know
what I want to try to bring
evidence-base I want to try to make
people aware of the importance of
understanding science they're not going
to be able to go through the literature
like I can or or I you can but if we can
make them aware and at least make them
aware people to follow who are credible
where they can trust them and not just
trust you know Elliott Hulse is talking
about Type three muscle fibers and [ __ ]
like that then I think that to me is is
great and what you're doing is great the
fact that you're crushing it that you
got you know all these YouTube followers
now it's just I think of the testing
it's good for the industry the testament
to what you doing so well it means a lot
to me I probably will have said in the
pre-interview segment that I think I
take your name in vain more than
probably anybody else so it means a lot
coming from you and it's been an honor
to chat with you so I appreciate it yeah
any time hopefully we'll do this again
and just let me know when the when it's
well I have an obviously I promoted on
my social media awesome I appreciate it
Brad for everybody listening I don't
forget to hit the thumbs up button if
you're on youtube subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys in
the next one
[Music]