[Music]
hey guys
dr. micha drill here for renaissance
plus today's topic is advanced nutrient
timing for special situations oh you
know we're all special snowflakes in our
situations are special but generally
speaking there are some principles of
nutrient timing that make really good
recommendations for most kinds of
situations most people not all they wake
up at some point in the morning they
don't train right after they wake up
they generally have some time may they
go to work me to go to school a lot of
people train mid morning afternoon some
of the evening and then individuals
usually have some free time and they go
to sleep and when they're at working at
school they can eat maybe not whatever
they want but certainly every couple of
hours we're gonna talk about situations
that do not fall into that paradigm and
thus how to make sure that we get the
most that we possibly can out of those
special situations so we're gonna talk
about a couple of particular situations
we're gonna talk about early and
training that is if you train really
early maybe first thing upon waking or
within 30 minutes of training the normal
pre-workout meal is gonna suffer some
problems and we'll have to work around
that there is another situation in which
you may not be able to eat your normal
so if you train in the afternoon or
early evening maybe five o'clock six
o'clock something too many Jules have
jobs in which they're not really able to
eat their pre-workout meal at work or it
might have to be just during lunch you
know train till 6:00 p.m. we're gonna
figure out a way around that and super
late p.m. training as well so if you're
training maybe at 9:00 p.m. to go to bed
at 11 I mean can you really fill the
post-workout window with carbohydrate at
that point maybe not some ways around
that and lastly we're going to talk
about periods of difficult sort of
situations - eating maybe at work so for
example some jobs are not really
conducive to just getting food whenever
you want we'll talk about how to it
because there are some really really
good tips so to put it out there before
we talk about special timing let's talk
about normal timing what normally does
nutrient time you recommend generally
speaking you want to eat even amounts of
your daily protein fraction throughout
the day about three to six hours apart
so you have anywhere between four to
seven meals roughly equivalent servings
of protein that together make up your
daily intake and you eat pretty much you
know with a good meal spread so that
means that you wake up and you have oh
you know breakfast within the hour that
you woke up and probably also a good
idea to have a meal later towards the
evening with plenty of protein if we
spread our meals out evenly like that
what we're making sure to do is to
supply the blood more or less constantly
with amino acids that way muscle loss
can be prevented around the clock and
muscle growth can be supplied around the
clock that's a very good thing because
if we don't supply the blood stream with
a continual stream of amino acids and we
have really big breaks we could still
grow muscle we concern still burn fat
but both of those processes especially
the preservation of muscle during fat
burning suffer to some large extent so
we want a good meal spread because it
makes sure that our blood levels of
amino acids protein building blocks are
always high to supply us with a constant
stream for growth and muscle loss
prevention so basic rules eat every
three to six hours do not be super
frequently and spread your meals out
relatively evenly in addition to that
around the workout window we want
relatively low levels of fat because
they interfere with the rapid absorption
of amino acids and of carbohydrates want
relatively high levels of carbohydrates
particularly in the meal or several
meals before workout on lots of
carbohydrates to make sure we top off
glycogen stores to provide the nervous
system with fuel which is mostly prefers
carbohydrate after training we want more
carbohydrates in an ideal situation
because those high levels of
carbohydrates are really replenish
glycogen
huge catabolism and promote leader Nabal
ISM much better or just a little a
little bit better in the grand scheme
but much better as far as timing is
concerned than just eating carbohydrates
any old other time so you're starting to
see that we have the structure developed
yet around the clock or rather eat an
even spread of meals eat them every sit
three to six hours and carbohydrates
pre-imposed
not so many fats pre-imposed problem not
all schedules make this an easy task
you can look at this and say man you
know that sounds like it some pretty
simple rules I can do that but not all
schedules are conducive to that and
we'll have to develop workarounds the
big question here is what to do in these
suboptimal situations where it might be
kind of hard to actually eat it even
according to these very basic rules
first a situation that we're gonna look
at is early a.m. training which for our
definition is training either more or
less immediately upon waking although
unless you have a garage gym there's
probably some transit time usually
within 30 minutes of waking you're gonna
be training what's the problem there
well the problem is ideally we want to
pre-workout meal why because over the
nightly fasts because you don't eat
while you sleep it's physically
impossible you maybe sleep for eight
hours that's eight hours of you not
having eat your blood sugar levels are
gonna be pretty low in the morning
generally speaking and all of those
benefits higher amino acids to mute
catabolism from Ronin ableism in the
blood higher levels of carbohydrates
don't fuel the nervous system we top off
glycogen they're not gonna be there for
you and those are big benefits to why a
pre-workout meal exerts its good effects
okay well let's just eat a pre-workout
meal - hold on a second digestion and
absorption especially of normal Whole
Foods with plenty of protein carbs and
fats especially if they're not powders
that can take a little while you may not
even get meaningful quantities of
carbohydrates and amino acids in your
bloodstream but for an hour hour and a
half until after you've eaten a normal
meal well there are two problems
first of all those nutrients aren't
around when you need them to fuel your
actual performance mean you're done
training by the time they get into blood
and secondly when you train especially
hard you have an only a certain amount
of total blood in your body when you're
training really hard most of that blood
gets shunted it gets pushed into the
working muscles that's why you get a
pump so if you're running and doing a
lot of rowing a lot of jumping a lot of
squatting you'll have a pump in your
legs if you're doing a lot of pressing
upper body a lot of pushing a lot of
curling you're gonna get an upper body
pump that blood doesn't just come out of
nowhere that gets sitting around in some
weird compartment of your body and then
just rushes in when it needs help that
blood has to be taken out of other
places one of those places is a little
bit to some small extent your brain
which is why if you do a lot of high rep
squats you get a huge pump you get a
little dizzy a little confused right a
little light-headed because there's not
enough blood for your brain to work at
its optimal but that's not as common was
much more common is usually in the
relaxed state of your body there's a lot
of blood on the gastrointestinal tract
because that blood basically takes all
the nutrients that you've digested and
it also supplies the cells of digestion
with nutrients and makes that whole
system run very well or run in a high
capacity however if you're training hard
and you just ate breakfast a pretty big
one you're simultaneously trying to
digest food where's the blood gonna go
well it usually goes to the working
muscles because there's a huge stimulus
there if you're actually training hard
the blood will go there there'll be very
little blood left over relatively
speaking in your gastrointestinal tract
what's gonna end up happening and this
is kind of unfortunate is that not much
digestion will go on the digestion
process slows down and sometimes your
body kind of making an executive
decision to go Kate there's no digestion
happening this who's gonna come out
because it's gonna be starting to rot
soon just sitting around then out the
other way it goes and you end up
throwing up so even if you don't throw
up your food and look we've all been
there too big of a breakfast and then
too early of a session that's hard
you're not blowing chunks even if you
don't throw up the problem is that
digestion really slows and then there's
that same delay factor and you're super
uncomfortable because
got a super full stomach the foods not
going anywhere your workouts gonna stink
it's bad all around right so that's a
problem we can't have our normal big
balanced breakfast we have to do some
workarounds because problem number one
we don't have a lot of fuel going on
problem number two we can't put in the
normal fuel source so there are a couple
of solutions to those some individuals
seem to be very okay with not eating
much for a long time but I would do my
hypertrophy leg workouts individually I
that if I did very high training volumes
lots of sets and reps I would get so
much upset in my GI tract and so high of
a risk of throwing up that I actually
started to do them in the morning these
workouts fasted I would wake up I would
just have water and maybe like fish oil
tablets or something like that and my
multivitamin just stuff I took every
morning I would go to the gym I would
have my intro workout shake I would
start training and I would sip my shake
very slowly sometimes not at all because
even that little bit of shake could come
up and then after the workout I began my
days eating if you have a lot of energy
to train without eating which some
people do because technically speaking
the glycogen is already loaded the night
before your muscles can be good to go if
mentally you can be there without eating
much as long as you start your intro
work out shake as soon as you're able
and you have a good post-workout meal
and then meals after not eating is okay
it might not be ideal for all people and
some people need something to get them
going one good idea is to have your
typical intro workout shake or intro /
post-workout shake
it's got whey protein super fast
digesting it's got very high glycemic
index carbohydrates plenty of water
plenty of electrolytes and you have a
central workout shake and you need some
of its energy ASAP as opposed to just
intro workout right so what you do is
you wake up
you've got gym in 15 minutes you start
sipping on that shake if it's so fast
digesting that by the time your workout
gets going after you're done warming up
you actually have some of those amino
acids and carbohydrates in your
bloodstream and then they're observing
the beneficial effect so you start
sipping that winter workout shake and
the only reason we're not having a real
you could say well hold on so we're
having an intro workout shake as soon as
we wake up why don't we just eat food
because food takes longer to digest in
the shade the neutral workout shake is
our fastest digesting possible thing
short of setting up a glucose and amino
acid IV it's the fastest it's the
easiest on the stomach so you can have
plenty of it it won't cost you itis
trust most of the time and it will get
where it's needed going fast supposed to
have any egg whites and oatmeal which
will be there hour later hour and a half
to late into workout can be there within
1530 minutes which is exactly what we
need it if you train maybe 45 minutes
I'm sorry if you wake maybe 45 minutes
before training let's say you wake up at
6 a.m. you trained at 6:45 or maybe you
train at 7 or maybe even you train at
7:15 you may be in this gray area where
like a serious breakfast just too much
it still leaves you too full but intra
workout isn't good enough so you might
want to take the food amount and raise
it just a bit total calories you're
gonna take the glycemic index and the
digestion rate of the proteins and
carbohydrates and you're gonna lower
them just a bit from fastest possible
you're gonna keep fats low still because
we don't want fats to delay digestion
absorption too much a good candidate for
me like that is a bowl of kids cereal
right or very low fiber cereal with skim
milk and maybe some whey protein that
digests very fast not as fast as the way
and the glycemic carbohydrates shake but
close kind of intermediate to that in a
whole food meal so if you have training
in an hour but you're not the kind of
person that like to Train a full stomach
as soon as you wake up maybe before we
even brush your teeth or a shower or
anything like that the bowl of cereal
kids cereal a little bit of skim milk a
little bit of whey protein in about an
hour you'll probably feel your best
that's what to do in the situation of
early am training so we have a couple of
options for you the big thing about
intro workout or I'm sorry about early
a.m. training one of the big take-home
messages we want to kind of give you
guys is there's this idea that we have
to have a balanced breakfast before we
start our day we're not to have good
breakfast before we train as long as
you're eating well
in the other parts of your day
especially the day before and as long as
you have fundamentally good nutrition a
big balanced breakfast is not a
requirement for being a high level
athlete with high level results it just
isn't as a matter of fact a dmitriy
klokov one of the outstanding weight
lifters of our era has been on record
saying that he doesn't even eat
breakfast usually he'll go keep her
first training on an empty stomach he's
eaten plenty of the night before after
he trains he goes and he has food litter
in the meal right after right so you
don't have to have this big balanced
breakfast don't think you because a lot
of individuals get trapped in that
paradigm of art my work schedule means I
have to train a 6:00 in the morning
does that mean I have to wake up at 4:00
to eat breakfast no you can use any
variety in these strategies and you're
gonna be just fine from a nutritional
perspective nothing to worry about
second consideration you can't eat your
pre-workout meal exactly when you want
so for example you work out at 6 p.m.
but you can't eat anything between when
lunch ends at maybe 12:30 or 1:00 and
5:30 p.m. when you get out of work again
out of school a little bit of a problem
because a lot of individuals that
especially diets like individuals
running the RP diet templates or any of
the other diet products that we have put
out anyone running a renaissance diet in
general it is gonna see that you know
the pre-training meal is usually one to
three hours or so before the actual
training so if you're training at 6 ng
we're talking about maybe you eat at 3
p.m.
certainly not 12 and that's a problem
because you could say oh geez you know
what I'm gonna do you could have lower
energy levels you could be starving by
the time you're training right there's
something we have to consider is we're
not just talking about energy levels yes
a pre-workout meal gives your energy
levels a boost but also you know when
you're doing squats but you really want
to be doing you know sandwich to mouth
reps that's a problem it can be really
distracting it can be de-energizing so
it's not just a matter of making sure
we're properly energized but also a
matter of not being hungry so what can
we do in this respect I see three basic
options of action here one and this is
an interesting one but it doesn't
violate any principle
and some people in the fitness world may
not be used to this particular course of
action and think it kind of a bad thing
but it's not here's the deal you have a
lunch and then maybe five or six hour
five or six hours later you have
training your fundamental mission is
twofold you have to keep yourself full
enough to not get super hungry in
between them and you have to supply
yourself energy that is still available
in amino acids that are still available
when you start training in your intro
workout shake takes over how do you do
that you have to eat a lunch that is
really just massive with tons of low
glycemic index carbohydrates slow
digesting carbs a bunch of protein
because high protein levels delayed
ingestion absorption and ultra huge
amount of fat are relative to your daily
caloric intake of course so you never
want to exceed your daily macros with
that meal it's all got to be in context
but compared to other meals of the day
you're gonna have a huge meal then
because the meal interval after it it's
just gonna be a really really long time
right so what you want to do the high
fats the high proteins and the low
glycemic carbs and especially the really
big food volume is just gonna take your
digestive system a long time to even
begin to process and absorb all that
stuff and the absorption and release
into the bloodstream for pretty good
energy levels is gonna take a long time
hours and hours and hours for example if
normally you had a pre-workout meal you
are able to run out from your office you
are able to run out to the burrito place
your normal 3 p.m. meal before your sick
skin workout was a regular burrito bowl
bitter rice black beans something like
that a serving of chicken and maybe just
a little bit of cheese and some veggies
you would have slammed that down no
problem
three hours later you're feeling great
you're not super full you're not
starving everything was good you can't
eat that kind of meal at lunch if all of
a sudden for a week or two you got
you're working on a big project at work
and they say look you know unfortunately
maybe we're doing some filming at work
or something like that you can have you
running in and out of the office it's
disruptive
and you've got to be on-site or maybe
there's a an inspection going on here
job you can't just be eatin protein bars
and like what does that guy do for a
living like I don't know you got to be
on task or whatever it may be maybe
you're in the medical field you have to
do a bunch of surgeries or something
like that a lot of individuals do animal
research just can't bring food into an
animal research lab you can't bring
anything into that thing you can't eat
from 1 p.m. until 6 p.m. so what do you
do if you have that regular burrito bowl
for lunch you can like just not think
much through it and be like yeah I'll
just have the same burrito Balt lunch
you have that lunch and by 4 p.m. you're
literally trying to eat your eyeball you
can take your eyeball I'll eat it
because you're starving to death if you
get to the gym if you don't eat your own
eyes and nothing works because you're
just completely out of energy bad deal
because that meal was not designed to
last that long
how do we make it last that long we
increase the calories we increase the
food volume both of those slow digestion
down we increase the protein increase
the carbs make sure the carbs are lower
glycemic index and we increase the fats
so then let's say you still go to the
same burrito place what do you order you
get there giant burrito maybe the one
that takes two tortillas or something
like that you load it instead of chicken
maybe you choose steak because it's
fattier you get cheese in there you
might put sour cream in there you might
put walk in there double meat instead of
single and plenty of brown rice you have
that meal and I guarantee you two things
one you're gonna feel interesting after
cuz you're no oh god it's gonna be
almost impossible to finish that thing
you're gonna have a little bit of eating
fatigue after or you're like oh my god I
feel so bloated this is crazy
good news though in addition to that
you're gonna feel way too full to Train
within the next two hours you're gonna
feel decent for hours and then five or
six hours later when your training is
you're gonna feel perfect that's when
that meal is really gonna be mostly
digested already a lot of those
nutrients are gonna be in the blood you
won't be hungry you'll show up to the
gym feeling perfect and then after the
gym you can have your next meal etc etc
workout shape blah blah blah but you
guys see how that works we take a bunch
of food fast proteins and carbs we put
it in so the whole thing leeches
over a long time does it cause a little
bit of I don't want to say discomfort
but really kind of excessive phoneless
feelings yes but that's option number
one if you really can't eat anything at
all during that workday
second idea you eat a just a bit smaller
version of that meal but remember you
get out of work at 5:30 takes you 30
minutes to start working out get to the
gym 6 o'clock what you can do is have
maybe 80% the same size burrito
something like that maybe in you know a
little bit less sour cream a little less
block something like that and you'll be
kind of ready to go by 5:30 or 5 instead
of by 6 but what you can do as soon as
you get off work you can start sipping
your intro workout shake what that
allows you to do is push that back about
30 minutes not much maybe an hour
because you start sipping a workout
shake maybe after the first couple of
sets after the warm-up so you push back
the intro workout shake an hour allows
you to reduce that lunch meal maybe not
feel as bloated not feel it's crappy not
feel as super full so that's option
number two still a big lunch bigger than
usual
not crazy big like option number one but
you start a pre-workout shake as soon as
you get off work real deal though here
it is those two options are fine but at
minimal expense and almost no
inconvenience here's the lowdown you can
maintain your same eating frequency if
you're really so if the being full thing
doesn't bother you it bothers me a
little bit bothers a lot of people I
know but some people really don't care
they feel fine when they're full doesn't
really affect them their productivity is
great with that strategy I just
described to you number one or number
two
totally fine however is you don't like
being full and you really like to space
out your meals then there is a big
advantage and it's a little bit spy
stuff I'm not aware of almost any jobs
there are very few in which they don't
allow you to take bathroom breaks short
of being an actual surgeon on human
beings and in which case there are even
exemptions to that or exceptions rather
you can probably go to the bathroom at
work which means if anything that you
have on has pockets
you can stuff one or two protein bars
into the pockets or if you're really
spent for time shakes shakes with
proteins and carbohydrates mixture an
easy one is a waxy maize it's a very low
glycemic carbohydrates our tix a long
time just great from your replacement
and a mix of casein and whey protein or
just a muscle milk or something like
that that you bought at the gas station
you go to the bathroom at 3 p.m. two
shakes in a bar or something like that
in the bathroom I know super demeaning
super spice not people in there coming
in blush in the toilet and you're
chomping down trying not to get them
here let them hear the wrapper okay
obviously in most workplaces your
toilets relatively private so it's not
really an issue sneak them in there eat
them and look it doesn't have to be in
the toilet a lot of us have offices we
just can't take a break for 30 minutes
to eat and cook up food or something or
heated up let's say you have a mobile
job of some kind let's see who repair
equipment for a living
you repair computers and televisions and
you're traveling which means you can't
have tupper over with you or something
like that
there's no time to just sit back do
fork-and-knife literally in on the car
when you're driving in the car or even
you know if you're at an office where
you're repairing certain supplies you
can just take a protein bar take a quick
break you don't even have to go to the
bathroom eat a protein bar it takes 30
seconds 2 minutes if you eat super
slowly it takes five seconds if you can
chunk a protein shake with some carbs in
it and you can get all of your nutrition
no problem to be completely honest with
you guys this option 3 is something that
if someone really kind of denies that
option that they have it or tries to
make their situation just hopefully
impossible and says that where there's
no way I can even no way I can eat
during this time again my first feelings
on it is where do you work and how does
the government allow such inhumane
working conditions to occur maybe you
have a you know a factory where the
gears are designed to suck you in - I
don't know it's 1910 over here it's
unlikely in almost every circumstance I
can think of you could smash bars and
shakes is that the tastiest option no is
it annoying to not be able to sit down
relax from
yes can you get your sport nutrition do
what it takes absolutely right given
that one some thought because that
option three is a really good idea for
most people next concern late p.m. or
late evening training most of the time
we have this formula we eat or sorry we
train and we get at least two or maybe
even three meals after training and
those meals are high in protein and
carbohydrate relatively low in fat they
were planted glycogen they get us onto a
recovery and everything's really really
good however sometimes people have
really busy schedules they can't do this
they can't do that and the training ends
up getting pushed back to let's say
something like 9:00 p.m. to go to bed at
11:00 training might be an hour long
your commute from the gym to your house
maybe another 30 minutes and you know
you've got like bedtime rituals to get
ready for bed you have to brush your
teeth you got to put on your nightgown
or whatever and maybe you tuck in with
your favorite book or something like
that there's stuff going on so a few
training is that closer even closer you
can't have for her two meals there's no
way you might even be able struggling
with one some recommendations if you can
sleep on a full stomach
to some people they sleep even better on
a full stomach some people it's neutral
some individuals have heartburn
indigestion just discomfort sleeping
they get really sweaty or something like
that they just don't like to do it some
people just get sleep disturbances when
they eat too close if you can sleep on a
full stomach if you can tolerate it
smash food right after that means nine
o'clock you start lifting or nine
o'clock you start your training 10:15 or
10:20 you get home microwave Tupperware
meal 10:35 you had better be sitting in
front of your TV eating that food you
have a lot of food teams you've got a
structure or day to keep food and take
decent throughout the day but because
there's a little bit of a window for
loading glycogen and setting up enough
protein amino acid your blood for most
of the rest of the night feeding
yourself through the recovery of the
rest of the night
she's not just a normal name you don't
have to eat a ton of food if you train
at 2 p.m. and you ate a bunch of good
meals then you went to sleep at 11
you're going to sleep at 11 you got to
smash some serious food you're gonna eat
a lot of food in that meal if you can
tolerate it right so as much food as you
can tolerate try to eat before you go to
sleep
that could be Vuitton that could be
somewhere in between that can be very
little try to do your best right you can
do the second option here it's not
needed for most people because nutrient
timing just isn't that important in the
grand scheme and if you're eating
protein throughout the day anyway you've
taken care of the number one thing yes
you can set an alarm for the middle of
the night to wake up and eat you take a
couple sandwiches you make them you put
them in the fridge you get a protein
shake in the fridge 3 a.m. your alarm
rings if you're the kind of person that
wakes up to pee at night anyway me if
you're the kind of person that falls
asleep super easy anyway also me and if
your kind of person that thinks food is
super delicious even in the middle of
the night again me you can set an alarm
go to bed a usual 11:00 wake up a 3 a.m.
March upstairs or downstairs or across
the hall open up your fridge your foods
already pre-made now a huge tip for you
guys a little tip don't make your food
at 3 in the morning first of all you
have any roommates whatsoever family
members they're gonna try to choke you
to death for making that much noise in
the middle of the night it's second well
if you're making food in the middle of
night you can do a bad job anyway and
you're also going to open your
sleep-wake cycle up right so if you're
around longer than about 15 minutes you
have a bunch of lights on things are
buzzing and making noise when you're
cooking you're gonna activate your
wakeful state and you're gonna try to
fall asleep back after it's not gonna
work it's got to be pre-made food you
got to make it the night before or some
other time it's got to be ready to eat
get a couple sandwiches it should be
something relatively easy to eat too you
don't have to have something with a lot
of setup in it preferably you should be
able to eat it cold cuz even running the
microwave is already time ticking wake
up if you can make it a shape that's
perfect or local to move up that's it if
it's a pudding awesome if it's a
sandwich in a shake no problem
smash it don't rush and choke to death
but don't start scrolling Instagram and
stuff like that excessively it's not
like a sit-down meal get the food in go
right back to sleep if you're capable of
falling back and sleep under the
circumstances that's a pretty good deal
if you're not don't have to do it it's
not one of the situation's is like the
dedicated lifter does what it what it
takes and eats every hour or when he's
asleep it's a very small benefit only do
it if it can cords with a general way
that you do things period and and if it
doesn't really come chord don't worry
about it because timing is a very small
percentage of small fraction and there's
some decent research that you might
actually be able to be healthier and in
a long-term grow more muscle and lose
more fat especially if you don't eat
much during the actual course of the
night itself so if you keep your intake
relatively low during the night if you
don't eat at night there may be some
advantages to that and some
disadvantages so don't sweat it but if
you're into this kind of thing if you
can pull off especially if you have a
super big super hard workout at night
especially if you're trying to gain
weight that might be in your best
interest to try to eat at least
something at least start with a base of
protein and maybe put some carbohydrates
on top of them you probably don't need
to eat a lot of fats and that meal and
here's why when we eat a bunch of food
and we're active through the day just
normal activities the carbohydrates are
going to be refueling our muscle
glycogen and they're going to be used
for activity as well the proteins are
going to be used for muscle growth etc
etc the fats are used as a calorie
buffer so there are daily tasks are
taken up or fueled by those fats and the
carbs and proteins don't just get wasted
away on those and then we end up not
building a whole lot of muscle or
whatever but when you're sleeping you're
very very inactive unless you dream like
crazy and punch the pillows it doesn't
need to be a lot of fat involved during
that time and because there's not a lot
of fat it also doesn't burden digestion
really all that much so really good idea
there to keep it meal relat relatively
lean now the last option here is if
you're not the kind of person that eats
much at night
it can't really fall asleep on our full
stomach if you're definitely not waking
up in the middle of the night to have
food a really small advantage exists
here if you're able to take in nutrients
post-workout but again let's go back to
the early early principles calorie
balance is a huge factor to body
composition and performance total daily
macronutrients are a big important
factor nutrient timing is like 10% and
probably at least 5% of fat is taken
care by eating protein meals throughout
the clock
probably more than 5% maybe like seven
and a half let's say you're talking
about two to three percent improvement
in your overall nutritional intervention
as far as effect from eating a bunch of
food when you don't want to or when you
can't really even sleep
and remember missing sleep way way worse
than doing the nutrient timing thing
right way my potential for bad huge bad
effects versus a tiny thing you get from
eating in the middle of night or falling
asleep or whatever so the reality matter
is if you just spread out your carbs and
protein in the morning and in the middle
of the day and keep your macros and
calories the same aligned to your goals
I mean you really just don't have to eat
a bunch at night so get home eat
whatever you can if you're just not a
big night eater sleep it off
wake up the next morning you better get
to breakfast as soon as you can start
the rest of your day nice make sure
you're getting all the proteins and
carbs that you need in the end of the
day the super late p.m. training yes you
can do these things like we get up in
the middle of the night you can do the
big meal if you can't do those or to the
extent that you can't don't sweat it
it's a really small concern last concern
and we really talked about it already
but some more recommendations here when
it's not really in a pre-workout is you
have a situation where it's really hard
to eat at work some professions have a
hard time with food intake during work
using one of the most extreme examples
is that of surgery right human medical
surgery bariatric surgery heart surgery
even cosmetic surgery
requires a constant attention to the
patient the room is obviously an
basically a surgery room an operating
room food products biological products
are not allowed near the patient okay
and a lot of surgeries it's not like you
can work on it for a while and another
doctor rotates in and works on it for a
while and you just go do whatever well
it's really annoying to scrub in scrub
out right a lot of times the way surgery
happens because it requires one or a
surgeon or all the whole team to be
present and because it requires this a
really really high level scrubbing
procedure that can take 20 or 30 minutes
by itself what ends up happening is you
got about an eight-hour block there
sometimes longer sometimes shorter you
cannot eat a lot of the individuals
don't even go to the bathroom during
that time your situation might not be as
extreme or it might but we're gonna give
you recommendations based off that kind
of situation first and then after that
your situation if it's not as extreme
you don't have to worry about as much
it'll be easier to accommodate so
potential solutions if you're anything
short of an actual surgeon and you're
not working on people for eight hours at
a time bars and shakes you can do
anything with bars and shakes if you
have pockets and you can get 30 seconds
to yourself bars and shakes are the way
to go I have a lot of personal trainers
tell me I can eat I'm training clients
all day bs I've been a personal trainer
for a long time a bunch of my friends a
personal trainer even teach a personal
training course at University there's no
way you can't eat if you're a personal
trainer we see why I got clients you
know every hour on the hour and only
have five minutes between clients five
minutes it sounds to me like you've got
time for a bathroom break and an eating
break yes you can't have actual meals
but you can have bars on shakes for sure
you've got an eight-hour work day or
something like that
it's just two bar and shake meals split
in the middle and you're good to go and
as a matter of fact you have breakfast
or something you work for four hours you
have a real lunch you work for another
four hours you don't even eat bars or
shakes so a lot of people are under this
assumption you need to eat every two
hours that's nonsense
usually bigger meals eating every four
is just fine this kind of meal frequency
stuff Hardy to work all it really comes
up if you're eating every five hours or
or less frequently that every six hours
no one time you can eat a lot of times
if let's say you can't eat for the whole
eight hours then you can usually have
bars with shapes so before you give up
on this whole idea give bars and shakes
the thought most of them you don't even
after forgery you just slip them in to
your you know if you're a doctor you
slip them into your medical coat your
white coat you got bars bars shake shake
walk around you guys all have like you
know a trillion notepads in there
everything it still weighs about a ton
you walk around you go to the bathroom
between seeing patients shake right
drink the shake eat the bar you're good
to go really really easy solution if
that's not working for you or if bars
and shakes alone can't supply you let's
say you're a very large individual
you're trying to gain weight you can't
eat enough bars and shakes throughout
the day to gain weight on sort of like
poisoning yourself so big breakfasts and
big lunches are huge as there's this
myth in training that if all of your
meals aren't little small meals little
bird meals throughout the day you're
gonna get super fat and you're not gonna
be able to lose fat if you're trying to
lose fat or you're not gonna gain muscle
optimally that's BS as long as the
protein supply is relatively relatively
equivalent you're good to go so if you
have 80 grams of protein in breakfast in
only 30 or 40 grams of protein in a bar
on a shake later you're totally good
right
you just have to space them out so that
the 80 grams takes longer to digest you
have a barn shake and maybe two hours
after the barn shake you have another 80
grams or another 40 grams of protein but
between here and there and maybe five or
six hours so here's the deal if you're
really pressured and you can barely eat
at work right maybe just a barn shake
here and there but you needing a lot you
better wake up and smash breakfast to
pieces
alright I'm talking about huge breakfast
tons of protein low glycemic
carbohydrates lots of fats a bunch of
food so that by the time you get to
lunch you don't have to have a midday
snack or maybe if you're gaining weight
you can just eat those protein bars
midday by the time you get to lunch
you're good to go and you're ready for
another meal as opposed to be starving
two hours later and now that we've
gotten to lunch and we have another half
of the workday left another huge lunch
if you get lunch you don't get lunch
your breakfast needs to be even better
right when you get huge breakfast and
use lunches you can eat like just four
times a day here's a schedule huge
breakfast
huge lunch huge meal right after
training after you get off of work or a
small meal before training and then you
have your training shake and whatever
and you have a meal at night that's also
really big that's only four meals a day
with maybe a shake here and there but
they're really big meals so you have the
same amount of calories macros and for
remember our timing recognitions four to
seven meals a day if somebody tells you
that seven meals a day same split or
same intake split over seven meals is
much better than over four to pretty
much line two because that's not true
it's very hard in the literature to even
see a difference in your four and seven
meals they in anything so don't worry
about all I'm only eating four times a
day if you're eating two times a day you
could be missing out four times you're
totally good
big breakfast big lunch big after work
snack you're good to go you're well on
your way there's nothing to worry about
here's the deal if you're really
pressured let's say you are a surgeon
you can't have bars and shakes you don't
get lunches and dinners you don't get
breakfasts you've got to be at surgery
in a surgery or last eight hours or last
12 hours like that here's what you do is
not very palatable but you got to do
what it takes you take in Casey and
protein and in addition to that a huge
amount of fats what that does is casein
protein of slow digesting fats are slow
digesting together they're like molasses
in your stomach right super slow a
mixture of super high fats and a super
high quantity of casein protein can
literally take more than ten hours to
completely chowder to your blood there's
a surgery right there
now we're data wise that meal which will
probably replace your breakfast if your
surgery starts in the morning and those
gonna take a long time to eat it's gonna
be something to the tune of for average
size let's say 200 pound individual
it'll be 100 grams of protein from Casey
alone so we're talking about four scoops
of protein I'd recommend a pudding at
that point because the mixtures and
that's not gonna go down make a pudding
and nut butter or sprinkle a huge load
of peanuts or something like that or
almonds into that Casey it's gonna be
half a jar of peanut butter or something
like that you're gonna say to yourself
this meal is gigantic I'm gonna feel
super sick after yes but it's the only
kind of meal that's gonna keep you
pumping for 10 hours and remember every
painful bite and want a new
I think about at the end of that meal
cycle you're gonna be suing someone up
and you're gonna make oh my god I'm
going to eat then because I'm starving
to death you don't want that put it in
where it counts
tons of KC and protein tons of healthy
fats you'll be going for a long time are
you gonna feel great right after well
you're gonna feel super full and kind of
sick two or three hours later you're
gonna feel much better four to six hours
later dude a few golden eight to nine
hours later you're gonna feel a little
hungry ten hours later surgery's over
and you get to you whatever you want big
points to remember to kind of wrap this
up I've said it a bunch I'll say it
again bars and shakes go a long way
there is a lot of tomfoolery in the
supplement industry a lot of the
advertisements are like you have to have
this bar you have to have the shake if
you want optimal results and cold foods
not good enough that stuff BS but bars
and shakes there's a huge convenience
booster it is particularly for these
kinds of situations that are designed
take advantage of that they're there for
a reason you can eat them incredibly
quickly there bring a bowl they don't
spoil - pretty much anywhere you could
always have them around and they're
super quick super easy perfect for these
kinds of situations if all of your other
eating is really good throughout the day
you don't need huge pre-training meal
you don't need to be Rocky Balboa and
drink the eggs before you run you don't
have to have that a lot of really good
athletes don't eat much or anything
right before training but almost all of
them eat well throughout the rest of the
day so if you can't eat a ton before
training it's not the end of the world
another one probably more muscle has
been lost total over our population from
worrying about not eating an appropriate
meal intervals versus the actual
catabolic effects of those meal
intervals being inappropriate you can
worry yourself into going oh my god we
got I haven't had my meal oh my god it's
been five hours and fifteen minutes
instead of exactly five hours the
world's coming to an end
don't stress just do your best that you
possibly can if you didn't prepare the
day before and you got screwed over a
little bit prepare for the day after and
you'll be good to go you don't have to
be perfect and here's a good reason for
that timing is still a small component
it's ten percent if you get most of your
timing right you get a quirky
in there you get most at 10% anyway
right calories are huge don't screw
those up no excuses there macros are
huge don't screw those up timing if you
can't be perfect not a huge deal
certainly doesn't outweigh this
psychological stress and the physical
effect of worrying all the time worrying
is gonna for sure ruin your gains timing
bowel practices every now and again
do your best to do them if you can't fix
the problem just don't worry about it do
your best and I guarantee you you'll
barely ever notice anything guys thank
you so much for tuning in next time