[Music]
we want to run far on you what's up guys
so we're here at the gym as the last
workout and we be doing with Pat before
I go to Tampa we're going to hit arm
workout I know you're reading a book
from Liverpool
I ran a territory mobile pick up you for
you the house is looking like marry me
you win another one no will not no more
for yesterday you were colossal your
posture is very awesome gotta get
everything [ __ ] when I am something you
can't be selling her love seafood
another way my daughter for my no
machine can ever thank you for every
muscle for you to see yeah yeah he was
like he's like this guy she's [ __ ]
friend I can't keep up you want to say
hi to my subscribers I'm gonna focus on
you I got this like chicken fingers and
south
[Music]
hey I want a.m. last night I got 10 full
hours suite which is much needed because
the total travel time 16 to 20 dollars
something we're in the lab Stephanie go
up and we're actually filming for her
channel today we're spending the day
here in the lab I'm doing some Murphy
and then we're going to go Shane really
yeah we're going into my cancer hospital
there and get these really actually just
redid the whole thing but like a super
fancy has a curious vertical got record
what kind of crust left your salad is
okay and we just finished up at the lab
this weather is absolutely beautiful I
can't oriental Asian market
my skill mala accidents pretty much
heard that I could get an exotic fruit
in here okay we're going here MD
oriental market percent for Mookie
cookie - hell is that
it's scary insane as ever fake they're
actually illegal and costly holy oh they
have yet kinder here I'll trade you this
is Canadian because there's still stuff
left here from the 10k challenge but I
told you that I'm still useful ease out
any welcome now so yeah that's true
actually if you like these would be
great like those that's so messed up I
never thought I'd ever eat another
monster stick in my entire life
can't believe you didn't eat well
self-control time please I've blended
this hey babe can't believe that I
blended this it's seriously so good and
crazy how like your appetite drives your
gustatory sensations so much hmm yes
very specia I went to a record store cuz
she bought a new record player and we
got to to finals top is probably my
favorite album of all time
I love love heltah deceased by Radiohead
sound and then we also got good kid maad
city short on that can you turn it up -
elderly man once in the election there's
a definite trial attending a whole bunch
stuff broken snickerdoodles peanut
butter cup cafe there's caramel
max macchiato my dad and skill you're
not you're a basic white girl not no
pelisek that's their new pre-workout
line high volume this is their tom
product BCAAs one of that during your
workouts mine
peach nectar that actually counts it
that why I am trying to coach at the
same time I'm Phil and I'm filming hair
job sure here's the full stack so thank
you pe science for both stuff can we try
it look at this living cell towards miss
hope like
just didn't 185 or 6 no help
so this is our first workout together in
Tampa and we train legs Steph is running
my powerlifting program so she started
with a bunch of squat volume for three
sets of six while I did hack squats for
much higher bet some of you may know my
lower back has been bothering me for
some time now
and while I've never gotten the imaged
or had a diagnosis that I was fully
satisfied with I've been working around
it by training my lower body and higher
rep ranges since I find it to be safer
and more comfortable for my lower back
and since there's a lot of research
suggesting that provided sets are taken
to or at least close to momentary
muscular failure the actual rep count
doesn't matter too much for hypertrophy
services and so for me it just isn't
worth the risk
for me to go heavier long builder covers
a few months ago I began by only being
able to do leg press and have since
upgraded to machine squat variations
like this one which I find my trying to
be improving on despite working
typically in the 15 to 20 reference and
in my experience if anything I've
actually noticed the visual improvement
in my quad and overall leg size and
doing this probably due to the effect of
novelty doing something my body wasn't
that situated to or perhaps just a
moderately steady caloric surplus
opinion or generally increasing long
I've also been doing high reps on the
rocking lunge typically working for 3 to
4 sets for 30 total stride kind of
keeping a more upright posture on these
to be more comfortable for my lower back
which will place more of the emphasis on
applause we're leaning forward was make
the movements slightly more glucose in
my glute science explained video I
didn't include a deadlift variation in a
few people pointed this out this is
because deadlifts don't hit the glute
well they definitely do we just didn't
have them programmed in for that day I
will always include a Romanian deadlift
at some point in the training week
usually a dumbbell variation which hit
both the hamstrings and the glutes
through hip extension and to make this
more glue focus can actively posterior
lethal to pelvis throw the concentric
they squeeze your glutes together at the
top this is a variation coined by Brett
Contreras as the American deadlift I
personally don't do them this way I just
do them like the classic Romanian
deadlifts and I'm just trying to isolate
my hands
so this is and we finished off this
workout with some seated leg curls and
machine hip abductions which weren't
filmed and that was it
here's the post-workout meal so stuff
just made this chicken panang curry and
I'm super excited to try this first meal
that you cook for me to be rated yes I
need the circumstance to be better
please okay
yeah lady had to be good by the way this
orange and pineapple high volume was
super good and the prolific peach early
what was it
mango splash also really really good hmm
looks good if I get visual seriously
delicious
may give you an honest right maybe in a
19-3 really I'm actually very happy
about it considering how hard the critic
you are I was thinking maybe we're gonna
give it an eight no it's seriously like
that's why I wanted to have so much
don't like me this is really good as a
messed up that I rate my girlfriend's
cooking for me second or third highest
rating I've ever get let's watch
broccoli I know but that's like my
favorite food it's like my favorite food
how you learned I just overhear
everything
hey guys I just wanted to say thanks so
much for watching the video I know there
wasn't a ton of informative content in
this one but I wanted to do a couple of
vlogs because I'm traveling a lot
Stephanie and I always have such a good
time I also wanted to say that there's a
steam vent on the lens of the camera
there's like a couple little dots there
I want to apologize for those almost as
noticed or not I think that some of the
LA block you might have it there so just
be aware of that
please forgive me I hope that you liked
the video if you did don't forget to
thumbs up button or subscribe to
channels haven't already also thank you
guys so much for your feedback on the
glute science explain video you haven't
watched that one yet I'll put a link to
it right here and you guys in the next
video
[Music]