previously on Dr
P oh man what will I do my gains will
melt off stop crying F I got
you effective
do okay I I get it now I get the general
concept of the minimum dose but how
would I go about actually making my own
program for strength and high
viry
it is me again the minimum dose guy with
another minimum dose video for you this
time we're not just talking about the
general concept of the minimum effective
dose if you want to check out that video
the link should be somewhere here now
when it comes to strength things may be
a bit more interesting uh than some of
you may think for those of you that
don't know I did my PhD on the min minum
effective dose for strength specifically
looking at powerlifters and what I want
to do with this video is essentially
break it in two parts first I'm going to
talk about people that have just general
strength goals for our average lifter
that goes to the gym and wants to see
their bench press go up and then I'll
talk about the minimum effective dose
for more powerlifting specific strength
for people that are really really really
about that one repetition maximum
strength life and care about us that if
you're somebody who is engaging in
resistance training and wants to
experiment with the concept of the
minimum effective dose you have nothing
to worry about as far as losing gains
losing strength or not making progress
this is a concept that is supposed to
get you an effective response from your
training with the least amount of
training possible this is not an
experiment of doing as little as
possible and potentially losing games
for you average lifter who is in the
trench
in the gym but there are times where
things are rough you're not able to get
your usual training in you're busy you
have other things on your mind and so on
and so forth what can you do to still
make meaningful strength gains over
let's say a period of 6 to 12 weeks the
current scientific literature that has
been done on trained individuals so
people that have spend time in the
trenches much like you chose that with
one to three sets per lift per week so
one let's say one to three sets of
squats per week with sets of 6 to 12
repetitions are roughly 75 to 85% of
your one rep max strength so a
relatively heavy weight and those sets
performed very close or to muscular
failure so to the point where you're
attempting another repetition and you're
unable to get one those sets so just a
few sets per lift per week
are more than enough for you to make
significant one repetition maximum
strength gains in lifts like the squat
and the bench first that's it if you're
somebody who's going to the gym just get
fitter bigger and stronger doing your
usual sets of 6 to 12 very close or two
failure will allow you to make
significant strength gains on your main
lifts or even your accessory lifts over
6 to 12 weeks pretty good right and
indeed it is now if you are a
powerlifter or somebody who is
specifically after those 1 RM strength
Gaines and you are really focused on
getting your squad bench or deadli 1 RM
strength up with some aspiration to
compete in powerlifting or even just
test your strength in a gym environment
here's where things get a little bit
different now we know that for strength
it is the concept of specificity is very
very important so essentially doing
something that is very specific to the
test that you're going to be testing
your strength them and in the concept of
the minimum dose that comes in the form
of singles single repetitions that are
essentially almost the same as the one
repetition maximum test the infamous max
out that you will do whenever you decide
to test your strength the studies that
we did and we took a bunch of
powerlifters showed that with as little
as one to three rep itions per week per
lift one has a relatively okay chance at
making meaningful one repetition maximum
strength gains they have to be near
maximum repetitions where you're leaving
at best one to two reps in reserve and
are looking much like a max out but not
an entirely allout max out that said
when adding a couple of back off sets to
those single repetitions so adding a
couple of triples at around 80 to 85% of
whatever you hit for that single
significantly increase your chance to
the point where our study showed a 99%
chance of making meaningful gains um
over the course of a few months so if
you're somebody who just cares about
their squad bench or deadlift 1rm
strength or whatever 1rm strength going
in the gym and doing a hard heavy single
almost near your limit followed by a
couple of back off sets and doing that
one to three times per lift per week
will probably be enough for you to see
great gains over a certain period of
time now that period of time and that
comes back to General strength as well
and anybody experiment with a concept
may vary from person to person so this
type of training will not only allow you
to still make gains in a time efficient
manner it comes with much less soreness
and overall fatigue than if you were to
do higher training volumes and it's
something that you can supplement to
your usual training if let's say you
want to take the concept of the minimum
effective dose for strength and combine
it with a hypertrophy training program
so let's say you're training for
hypertrophy but you still care about
your squat one repetition maximum
strength you could do your usual
hypertrophy work but at the beginning of
the session just throw in a single and
maybe some back off sets on your squad
do that a couple of times per week call
it a day still Focus mainly on
hypertophy but still get a lot of your
potential strength gains for the squad
by just doing a few sets per week the
concept of the minimum effective dose
for strength can be relatively flexible
and you don't necessarily need to take
these guidelines as extremely strict
guidelines you could even start as low
as one set per week see how that feels
obviously the fact that you're doing
singles if you're a power lifter or even
if you're doing sets of 6 to 12 reps
your performance within those sets will
be telling you after a few weeks how
things are going if you're seeing those
sets slightly go up that means that you
know you could potentially stay as low
as one or two sets per muscle group or
per lift per week whereas if things are
not feeling great and you're not seeing
much of a response you can just add a
set and then take it from there keep in
mind that this is a concept and not a
method of training where you're going to
be optimizing your gains but rather
something for you to have there
sometimes as a backup and sometimes as a
relatively long-term approach when life
gives you lemons and what do we do when
life gives us lemons we drop ship them
on Amazon and we start our own lemon
store # grind said # your Networth is my
netw worth because your network is
buying my lemons buy my lemons of Amazon
the minimum effective dose concept for
strength is something that has been not
only tested as far as the literature
goes but a lot of lifters out there
again of all all kinds of level I'm
talking about Elite athletes Elite
strength athletes that Focus solely on
getting their one repetition maximum
strength up all the way to beginners is
something that anecdotally has worked
really well for a lot of people take
that concept experiment with it and just
tell yourself that hey there is enough
data there to give you peace of mind
that even if you're somebody who is
absolutely addicted to getting as strong
as possible the few weeks where you're
unable to get your 2hour sessions in and
a few heavy sets will still do the trick
or at least the majority of the trick if
you want to learn more about the minimum
effective dose or try some free
templates minimum do training.com for
free templates minimum dose. trining for
the literature don't forget to like
subscribe notification icon and of
course as always to just please send me
money or any type of goods that you may
have lay around tables chairs honey
whatever you can find free stuff send it
over my home address is right below in
the description terms going the supply
home address not included thank you for
watching and we'll see you guys on the
next one on the fly out in the streets
it's on side send location I will see
you there stoping taunting me who the do
you think you are free content for your
buy the book buy the lemon
[Music]
go