so today i wanted to share a somewhat
concerning dm i received on instagram a
few weeks ago from one of my subscribers
i know the title on today's video is not
click bait because this subject
definitely does relate to me as well and
there's a very good chance that it
relates to you also so it says hey sean
not sure if you'll see this but i'm
currently struggling a lot with body
dysmorphia i've been lifting for three
years and gained a good 20 pounds of
mass my dexa scan shows 11 body fat and
i have a visible six pack but i still
truly feel that i look like i
really believe fitness social media is
to blame i can see it affecting my
lifting partners too we're always
comparing ourselves to online
influencers and it's hard to deal with
any advice so here's the reality and not
a lot of people want to talk about this
but i would say that the vast majority
of people if not all people who get
involved in bodybuilding fitness for
aesthetic purposes because they want to
look a certain way and who spend any
reasonable amount of time online looking
at fitness content almost everyone deals
with this to some degree even if they're
not consciously aware of it now quick
disclaimer here i'm not some kind of
expert when it comes to body image
disorders and if you're having a serious
struggle with this to the point where
it's significantly affecting your
day-to-day life then i would strongly
advise that you see a professional about
it who specializes in that area you know
if your shoulder was hurt you would get
professional help for that if you had an
infection and your throat was hurting
you would get help for that so
if your brain is hurting that is a
physical part of your body as well and
there is zero shame in getting help for
that also now that said when it comes to
more moderate cases of this so you know
the average gym bro out there who's
trying to achieve a lean and muscular
body or who already has achieved a lean
and muscular body but still feels
inadequate because of all the other
physiques they're seeing online in that
case there definitely is some advice
that i want to share with you here to
kind of bring you back down to reality
so that you can view this whole fitness
thing in a more accurate light and just
feel better about it in general i've
been training for 20 years at this point
i've interacted with countless thousands
of people over that time i've dealt with
this myself to a certain degree so i do
have some pretty good insight into the
subject and if you watch this video
through and apply the tips that i'll be
discussing i'm very confident that it
will make a positive difference for you
moving forward so the challenge with
fitness social media or just social
media in general is this and some of
this might sound a bit out there but
stick with me because it is highly
relevant so human beings we are highly
social creatures and we're naturally
hardwired to always be comparing
ourselves to the other people around us
and that's because throughout
evolutionary history that was an
extremely important thing to do so that
you understood what was going on in the
probably 100 person or so tribe that you
were living in the drive to want to fit
in with the group the drive to want to
climb up the social hierarchy that is
completely and absolutely normal because
throughout history it was a matter of
life and death you didn't survive
without the group and you didn't
reproduce if you weren't accepted by the
group and you are the descendant of all
the people who successfully reproduced
going all the way back to the first
humans on earth and even further than
that so you carry their genetic
programming anyone who says that they
don't care what other people think is
completely full of okay truly not
caring what other people think that's
called being a sociopath that is a
psychological dysfunction now yeah some
people care more other people care less
and you can definitely train yourself to
care less to a certain degree if it's
something that's causing you stress but
no matter what everyone cares what other
people think about them and there's
nothing wrong with that it's absolutely
natural and it's how your brain is wired
from the get-go but the big challenge is
this
biologically the human brain hasn't
really changed in probably the last
hundred thousand years or so because
biological evolution is a very
slow-moving process however the
environment that we live in has
dramatically changed from what it was
throughout probably
99.9999 of our evolutionary history
especially in the past 200 years or so
and even to a huge degree in the last 10
years or so with the huge spread of the
internet and the spread of social media
and those changes can make things really
tough on this kind of ancient hardwire
because it's not yet optimized for this
environment instead of living our lives
in the real physical world surrounded by
a tight-knit tribal community like we've
done for countless thousands of years
now
we still live in the real world but in
way bigger cities with massive
populations which is not normal on its
own and we're also spending more and
more time in this online digital world
which is inhabited by at this point
about 60 percent of the entire world
population or around four and a half
billion people and the big kicker is
that within those billions of people the
ones who receive the most attention
online the ones whose content you're
most likely to be exposed to is
naturally going to be the most
extraordinary and the most exceptional
of absolutely everything that's out
there and that's exactly where the
fitness industry can become a real
problem for some people you know the
habits of consistent proper training and
healthy nutrition those are meant to
build self-confidence and to improve how
you feel about yourself
but if you allow yourself to get too
deeply wrapped up in it if you're
spending you know hours and hours on
youtube and instagram and tick tock
scrolling through this endless content
then it can actually start to have the
opposite effect since you're
disproportionately being shown a tiny
select group of individuals on the very
very extreme end of the bell curve the
0.00001 percent in terms of physique
strength looks athletic ability and
everything else and i'm going to give
you some really important tips for how
to deal with this in a second here so
keep on watching but the fact is even if
you're not consciously aware of it when
you're consistently taking in this
endless imagery of the absolute most
aesthetic most muscular shredded
physiques in the world it gradually
rewires your perception to where you
start thinking that's the norm that
these are the people within your social
circle that you need to be comparing
yourself to and living up to in order to
fit in and naturally that's going to set
you up for some potentially serious
problems because in reality not on
social media in the real everyday world
the vast overwhelming majority of the
population actually exist somewhere
around the middle section of the bell
curve ranging from a bit below average
to a bit above average and only a tiny
fraction exists on that very far end so
now you've gone ahead and created this
massive expectation gap between where
you are and where all these elite
individuals are and the bigger this zone
is the more unhappy you're naturally
going to be and because the primary goal
of a social media app is to keep you on
that app for as long as humanly possible
so that they can show you as many ads as
possible the algorithm is going to take
that tiny little subset of extraordinary
people and inflate it so that that's
mostly what you see and then conversely
it's going to take the majority of
people out there the 99 plus of the
population and it's going to shrink
their visibility down and filter them
out basically so your mind ends up with
a totally warped perception of the
social world and what your position in
it is and that on its own is challenging
enough but this gets taken to a whole
other level beyond that because even
within that tiny subset of elite
individuals their eliteness is being
artificially inflated even further so
not only are you generally looking at
the best of the best in terms of muscle
building and fat loss genetics but you
also have to contend with the enhancing
effects of things like filters fully
optimized lighting pumps oil tanning
perfect angles not to mention that
whatever photo or video is being posted
was probably the very best one out of a
collection of 10 20 50 maybe 100
different ones that were taken then you
factor peds into that which is totally
rampant in the industry some people are
open about their use but just as many if
not more either don't say anything or
they just blatantly lie about being
natural when they're not
and then if that wasn't enough some
people just blatantly alter their
physiques using photoshopping apps you
know you'd be amazed at what these apps
can do nowadays and how realistic they
are so what you're looking at on that
screen technically isn't even a real
person so
all of those factors combined and it's
no wonder whatsoever why scrolling
through your instagram feed is making
you feel not so great about yourself and
not so proud of your accomplishments and
it's no wonder why this causes so many
people to resort to extreme behaviors to
try and deal with it because they just
never feel big enough or never feel lean
enough they might end up turning to
enhancing substances cutting to
excessively low unhealthy body fat
levels
various eating disorders can come into
play this stuff is really not that
uncommon in what we call the fitness
industry but the key thing you don't
realize is this
if you're someone who simply trains in
the gym on a consistent basis you eat a
reasonably healthy diet you have some
decent visible muscle definition to
where the average person out there would
look at you and know that you work out
and you have body fat levels somewhere
within the healthy range so let's say
below about 20 for a male and below
about 30 for a female
with just those basic things covered
you're gonna be in better shape
physically stronger and probably
healthier than the vast vast majority of
the general population those things
alone probably put you in i would say at
least the top five percent fitness wise
and for many of you probably top one to
two percent but you just don't realize
it and it's pretty damn unfortunate that
people can put in the work for months
and years on end yet still feel inferior
because they think they're supposed to
look like the top
99.99 of people who technically don't
even exist because the way they look
online is not how they look in real life
anyway how the hell are you supposed to
look like steve when steve doesn't even
look like steve and sometimes steve
doesn't look anything like steve you see
steve online and then you see him in
real life and it looks like two
completely different people and you know
it's completely understandable why
content creators do this because if they
don't optimize their photos and videos
if they don't display the very best
version of themselves then their content
is way less likely to be pushed by the
algorithm you know they won't get
visibility and they're just going to
lose out to the other people who are
doing all this optimization you know if
i'm posting on my instagram you bet your
ass i'm going to show you my best photos
from the best angles and the best
lighting you know of course there are
certain lines that i won't cross that i
think are legitimately unethical like
being a straight up fake natty or
photoshopping your pictures using
excessive filters but fitness content
creators really have no choice but to
sort of play the game otherwise they're
going to be far less likely to grow
their audience but you know i try to at
least balance it out by sharing videos
like this to explain how this stuff
really works behind the scenes and to
provide solutions for you which brings
us to the main question here which is
how do you actually deal with all of
this what are some steps that you can
follow in order to reprogram your mind
into a more realistic outlook and to
maximize the enjoyment of your fitness
journey and make it a more rewarding
experience and something that brings you
more confidence and more contentment
rather than less well keeping in mind
that a certain level of discontentment
and dissatisfaction is also just human
nature and that's never going to go away
completely no matter what you do because
it's just how your brain is wired
there are some things that you can do to
reduce it and to at least keep it at a
healthier level so the first i would say
is just basic awareness a lot of people
especially beginners they're just not
truly aware of all the points we just
talked about in terms of just how much
online photos and videos are optimized
to make someone look much better than
they do in real life that you know
straight-up photoshopping is sometimes
involved the huge role that genetics
play you know drug use the fact that the
algorithm is mainly set up to show you
the absolute best of the best in terms
of what's out there and so just being
conscious of these things does go a long
way on its own the whole sort of
instagram versus reality meme is kind of
a cliche at this point but it is very
true what you see online is not
representative of the real everyday
world
now the second thing that i would advise
is that if you really feel that fitness
social media or even just social media
in general is starting to detract from
your mental well-being then
crazy idea but you do have the option to
just stop looking at it or at least
let's say more realistically you can
look at it a lot less than you currently
do and also you can be very conscious of
what you specifically choose to look at
now i know that's easier said than done
because these apps are literally set up
to get you as addicted to them as
possible but you've got to try your best
to break that cycle of constantly
checking your feed over and over again
you know mindlessly scrolling and
clicking all over the place body
dysmorphia aside that's just not the
best thing for your psychological health
in general so one thing i would highly
recommend is to do an audit of your
following list so go through and look
one by one at all the people you're
subscribed to on youtube everyone you're
following on instagram or tick tock or
wherever else and ask yourself is this
person legitimately providing value to
me or is looking at their content just a
distraction that's actually making me
feel worse deep down maybe it's overly
curated overly optimized they're clearly
on peds maybe their physique isn't
something i aspire to anyway if it's not
providing legitimate value that's making
your life better in some direct
practical way then just hit the unfollow
button and if there are certain accounts
that you really don't like seeing for
whatever reason you can also just block
them and they won't show up at all
anymore the truth is that i personally
have a list of several hundred accounts
in my instagram that are just straight
up blocked so i don't have to see them
pop up in my recommendations not just
fitness accounts but any account that i
don't want to see for whatever reason so
just try to focus on subscribing mainly
to people who are delivering real
educational content or genuine
inspiration that directly assists you in
your life rather than just aimlessly
following people for those juicy
dopamine hits another thing i sometimes
do is just completely delete the
instagram and youtube apps for portions
of the day so maybe i do a quick check
earlier on and then i just delete them
for the rest of the day and then
re-download them later that way i'm not
tempted to keep checking them all
throughout the day
you can also use certain app blockers
that restrict your usage there's youtube
plugins that will prevent the home page
feed and the suggested videos bar from
showing up so you're not as distracted
by them and of course there's also the
option to just unplug all together but
nowadays i understand that that's
probably not realistic for most people
but you know maybe what you could do is
take periodic breaks so um every week or
two weeks you just totally disconnect
for a period of time all right after
that once you've taken some steps to
just look at fitness social media less
in general now what you want to do is
start directing more of your attention
into the real everyday world and start
really observing the everyday population
because this digital fitness world and
all these digital fitness people you've
absorbed your mind into are not an
accurate representation by any stretch
of the imagination of the real world
that you actually inhabit on a
day-to-day basis
and you need to readjust your perception
to understand that to the average person
who doesn't even exercise regularly
which describes the majority of people
relative to them you do have a very
impressive physique if you've been at
this for a consistent period and you've
been doing things properly what we tend
to forget is that the bodybuilding
industry in general is really just a
subculture it's actually a very very
small slice of the population at large
and relative to the population at large
you're probably already in the top few
percentile in terms of muscularity and
leanness now the next tip would be to
learn to enjoy training and nutrition
for the way that it makes you feel
rather than just for the way that it
changes your outward appearance now
there's obviously nothing at all wrong
with wanting to look a certain way you
know this idea that it's all about
what's on the inside that counts and
it's superficial and shallow to care
about your appearance
that's obviously complete for a
wide variety of reasons but the point is
just don't make that your only focus you
know in my case for the first few years
of training literally the only purpose i
saw for working out was in terms of how
many inches of muscle it was going to
put onto my body and how much body fat i
was or wasn't carrying but when i
started to enjoy working out just for
working out itself because it feels good
to be physically active because of the
effect that it had on my mood and my
mental well-being just being grateful
for the fact that i have a body and i'm
able to train in the first place i
personally found that really helpful
and then beyond that lastly
you really need to keep in mind that
your physique is just one small aspect
of who you are as a complete individual
it's easy to get hyper hyper focused on
this one area to where you're walking
around and all you can see are people's
physiques you know you're standing in
line at starbucks and comparing your
calf to the guy standing in front of you
but ultimately the amount of muscle
tissue and fat mass on your body is just
one tiny slice of your entire being what
about your career
finances your social and dating life
other hobbies and other pursuits that
you might have your character as a
person your intellect how you conduct
yourself in the world your values right
there's so much more to life than the
roundness of your delts or the
prominence of your lower ab veins now
having round delts and having prominent
lower ab veins is cool and all but try
to start viewing yourself more as a
complete package beyond just your
appearance because that's going to
diffuse the focus and help you become
less physique obsessed now with
everything that we've talked about here
today keep in mind that i'm not saying
don't continue pushing for higher and
higher fitness goals if you truly want
to i'm not trying to glorify mediocrity
which i'm sure some people might say in
the comments you know if this is a
genuine passion for you and your goal is
to be the absolute best you can possibly
be in this area maybe you genuinely do
want to be in the top 0.0001 percent and
fitness social media isn't causing you
stress and you just find it motivating
then by all means go for it okay
everybody can make their own choice here
but at the end of the day we do this
fitness stuff because we want to feel
good we want to feel confident we want
to feel happy with ourselves and if
you're struggling with body image issues
and your metric for success is to look
like the fitness influencers in your
instagram feed i can tell you with
absolute certainty that that is a
dangerous road to go down and that you
are playing a game that you almost
certainly cannot win if you found this
video helpful don't forget to subscribe
and turn on notifications to stay up to
date on all of my future content here's
two more videos you can check out now
thanks for watching the video guys and i
will talk to you again soon