if you get to 2 minutes and 38 seconds
you're still like
okay I guess it's time to go do another
set like no it's not motherfucker you
are not ready your cardio's not ready
what are you doing
hey folks Dr Mike here from Amazon's
characterization I think tracking your
rest times might be a bad idea on the
net balance in most cases uh-oh what
that's crazy we need to keep track of
our rest times between sets but then we
know all the things and the numbers
you will notice if you are using the RPI
hypertrophy app that as of the following
in this video at least we do not have a
rest timer in the app
there is also no plan to install one
and earlier
hypothesized versions of the app we had
a rest timer
as something we were going to make and
we ended up steering away from item I
want to tell you why and whether or not
use the app
why it might not be the best idea for
you in most cases to track your rest
times between sets
but first let's talk about what the
benefits could be and might be of
tracking arrest times between sets I can
think of at least two things
first tracking your rest times between
sets can keep you on task because
sometimes if you don't track your rest
times you have a tendency to scroll on
your phone flirt with the girls flirt
with the guys flirt with Grandma flirt
with Grandpa get yourself into orgies
you know typical gym stuff
and five seven or eight minutes later
you still haven't done your set if you
had a rest timer every two minutes every
three it would be like hey idiot go back
to work so in that sense it can be very
helpful
it also can help in a related way of
letting you know roughly how long you
need to rest because if last week you
know you lead pressed and you rested
sort of two or three minutes between
sets this week if you're now getting to
three minutes and 30 seconds on your
timer you're like all right time to get
back to work so it can really ground you
in that sense and that's a good thing
in addition to that
it can let you use a variation a
training modality where you
intentionally constrain yourself to a
certain amount of rest
it's totally fine two curls and then put
the dumbbells down and rest until you're
ready to go or it's totally fine to say
okay I'm gonna take 15 seconds or 30
seconds between every set of curls for
the next six sets and that way I build
up a lot of metabolites it's kind of
like Maya repish in a certain sense I'm
just constraining myself to rest times
if for nothing else in variation it's
fun to do something different and also
you know it can drive a lot but
metabolites as long as they get a total
number of reps that's really high it's
going to yield pretty much the same
growth that as resting longer well
you'll have to do more sets but because
you're only resting 30 seconds between
sets and the Reps in each set are a
lower number you end up doing the same
amount of work even it can allow you to
constrain the time so if you're time
crunched and you're on a lunch break and
you know okay I got to get all these
sets done and I gotta rest only 45
seconds between sets it's going to be a
great thing for you so in those respects
rest time tracking watching the clock
can be really good so I said the
beginning of this video I said I don't
think it's a good idea on the net
balance which means I have more reasons
coming up right now of why I think and
when I think and how I think tracking
arrest times leads you maybe astray of
what you should be doing instead first
there is no need for the data
you want to track your rest times
let's say it's not just to give yourself
a certain rest time as a different
modality or because you're in a rush in
those senses rest time tracking is great
but that's not almost tracking is is
like the rest time is a specific amount
of time and as soon as that time hits
you go again
tracking means like you figure out how
long that you're resting and you sort of
write it down or the an app keeps track
of it for you and you go okay this is
how long I'm resting
what you really want to know during a
rest break is is it time to go again
and how much time that takes has nothing
to do with if you're ready to go again
if you're ready to go again and have
another productive set is based on the
four Factor formula the four Factor rest
high model we have like three other
videos on YouTube about it but I'll sum
up what they say and if you're curious
type in four-factor rest is retell
hit search on YouTube and you'll find a
few videos about them here's what the
four Factor rest model says
you are ready to do your next hard set
of any exercise if four things are true
one you're not breathing heavy anymore
your cardio will not be the limiting
factor on the next set two your neural
strength how you feel how strong you are
are you capable are you ready for
another heavy set feels good because
like right after a set of curls your
grip feels weak Everything feels uh
after a few minutes you're like you know
what yeah I'm ready to crush your shit
out again all right check number two
your sin are just muscles are ready so
if you're doing a set of curls you put
it down and your biceps are healed after
a minute they feel totally fine but your
forearms are still shaky and really
tired and really crampy all right I'll
rest longer because I'm not targeting
forums but forums are synergistic and I
don't want forearms to be the limiting
factor another good analogy here a good
example rather
is if your lower back is still fried
after a set of squats you don't squat
for your lower back you squat for your
quads so if the situation is such that
after two minutes of rest after squats
your quads are good to go but your lower
back is still fried you gotta wait
longer because as a synergist you don't
want it to take the disproportionate
amount of being the limiting factor you
don't want it a situation where you stop
that next set because your lower back is
really fried even though your quads
could have done more work because then
as far as quad stimulus they didn't get
close to failure actually just your
lower back did that's why you acted so
they didn't get a good stimulus so if
synergists have to be healed and lastly
most of the time
we're doing sets of at least five
repetitions in length because five reps
have enough stimulus enough volume Five
total repetitions is enough of a muscle
growth signal that we counted as like a
real hard working set if you're doing
sets of two and three that's good for
strength but if you're resting so little
that you're doing sets of two and three
each time that you're going to be doing
like a hundred sets to get to your total
rep goal rest longer have higher quality
sets of at least five repetitions or put
even better rest long enough that you
get into the target rep range for what
you want to do so if you're doing lat
pull downs and you're saying you're
doing them for sets of 10 to 15 reps if
you did 12 on your last set you go 30
seconds of rest you can do like six
that's out of the rep range you're
targeting the Mind muscle connection
will be all off nothing is going to be
great your Technique might be off
because it's just way too much of a rush
if you rest for two or three minutes you
might be able to get a set of 10 or a
set of 11 that takes you into that 10 to
15 range again in all as well so just to
recap
you are ready to do your next set when
your cardio is good when you're not
breathing heavy anymore when you feel
strong again when your synergists are
cooled off and they won't be limiting
factor and when the target muscle itself
can do either at least five repetitions
on the next set or as many repetitions
as gets you into that Target rep range
you chose
this is when you know you're ready to go
again
and I was I will illustrate in just a
little bit
the time it takes doesn't matter because
you know when you know when you know
a quick analogy just to drive this point
home
do you ever time how long on a road trip
that you've been driving so that you
know when to get gas
no why because you have a fucking fuel
gauge for that you know to get gas when
it drops below a quarter tank or
whatever
there's a gauge for that you don't need
another time someone's like hey how long
will be driving for do we need gas yet
you're like what do you mean look at the
fuel gauge and say yes or no this is a
thing you could be driving for two hours
but it's like mostly downhill and you're
like Dad actually we've been driving two
hours but we're like more than half a
tank or you could be driving two hours
but you're like Crossing you know from
Utah into Colorado on on a road trip and
like yeah like you're down to an eighth
of a tank and you should have pulled
over fucking light years ago and now
you're going to be stranded in the
middle of fucking Utah and you know
being in Utah at all is terrible but
stranded in Utah even worse I'm kidding
Utah Ian's
Mormons
um we're good it's all jokes so in any
case it's like if you have the four
Factor rest time formula to tell you
when to go again and when it's not
checked off all the four boxes it
doesn't matter what the time says don't
go and when you have checked all four
boxes it doesn't matter what the time is
it's probably time to go
you get what I'm saying here it's data
that you don't need collecting rest
times nobody lost nobody found there's
no reason to have
next you say okay okay okay
I still like to see how long this takes
I still like to collect my data
I have two problems with that
my first question too is why
in sports science
really in all engineering style
endeavors
you never want data that you don't use
because collecting data
processing data and storing data are all
bandwidth eating
and you want as much bandwidth for doing
important shit that actually works and
actually makes a difference in your
project or your goal your Endeavor and
you want to minimize clutter
data stream clutter is what you're going
to get if you collect rest times it
means you have to tell an app or a
stopwatch like it you're like here's the
thing you're done with satellite press
you're finished you're acting like oh
god oh I'm gonna click my shit I'm gonna
put it down okay okay the rest time's
gone I'm gonna look at it every now and
again what am I looking at it for I
don't fucking know you should be looking
at your breathing and your strength and
your synergists and your target muscle
there's nothing you're going to see on
that clock that's going to tell you
anything you don't have to check back
with anyway for how your actual body is
feeling and then before you go on on
your next set you need to be in your
mind right cranking up that gank strap
in your headphones but instead you're
like okay I'm gonna hit the rest time
and put that away and then I go why it's
clutter the data stream is clutter the
data collection is clutter the act of
actually collecting the data by clicking
the fucking button is clutter
you need to focus on the task at hand
and you need to forget and try to
eliminate all of the extra noise when
you are collecting data for data's sake
you are not being a nerd you're not
being a scientist you're not hashtag
PubMed Warrior you're just doing
something fucking stupid and it makes
you look smart because you're Mr arrest
time to be like oh that guy's got to be
real smart except if other smart people
in there who know how to train are
looking at you they're going to be like
what's the clock for
monitoring my rest times you know be
like no I don't know can you explain to
me what advantage you're like well you
know I'm trying to keep things
try to keep things organized why
why no seriously why and you will not
have a good response to that very likely
because there may be no good response to
that
next
big problem why is there no good
response Point number three attends to
one of the concerns
you need a different rest time between
different types of sets
so the idea that you say to yourself
look I'm going to rest two minutes
between sets and that's my rest timer
keeps me on track
this is already a problem remember the
four Factor rest time formula tells you
when you're actually ready
and what that formula ends up summating
to is different based on all kinds of
different conditions
for example
set one
to set to rest break
there's a bit of a shock there
very High Reps in the first set maybe
you need three minutes to check all the
boxes of the four-factor S times that
you're ready to go again
set two versus set three you might be in
the groove set to you to do as many reps
and your your blood flow and
everything's great maybe you need less
rest
maybe it was three minutes for set one
to step two and then you're ready to go
maybe it was 2 minutes and 30 seconds
for set two to set three so you're
resting an extra 30 seconds for nothing
because you assume the same rest times
every time but you shouldn't have done
that between different sets you guys
will notice this
as you do a set if you're doing the RR
method reps in reserve your first set
will be like 15 your second will be like
10 then it'll be like eight and seven
and six and six or something like that
the amount of rest you need between a
set of six and a set of six is usually
way lower than a set of 15 and a set of
10.
for obvious reasons you're not exerting
as much cardiovascular demand so your
breathing never gets as heavy so you
don't have to wait for your breathing to
come down you're not it's not set up six
is not as fatigue instead of fifteen so
your neural Drive is going to be back
sooner your muscle is not going to be
fatigued the synergist starting as
fatigue so a lot of times you need more
rest for the higher reps and less rest
for the lower reps if the weight is the
same and you're just getting more tired
or you have an interesting different
response to fatigue and you actually
need more rest between each side who
knows you never can tell unless you try
and if you've got a rest timer and
you're like I gotta here is two minutes
between each set you are needlessly
decreasing the quality of some of the
sets
because you're not resting long enough
and you are needlessly increasing the
time of the workout because you're
resting too long for some of them is
just a great way to get a lot of wrong
answers
next different exercises for the same
muscle group can demand a lot of
different rest resting between sets of
rows three minutes maybe on average on
average of course Point number one there
the the sets still vary for pull Downs
maybe a minute and 30 you're ready to go
because pull Downs you don't have to
brace yourself you don't have to fight
gravity you just it's just vertical only
there's not as much muscle being
stimulated so even if you say okay for
back stuff
I typically rest three minutes it's like
okay typically though isn't a formula
typically means you're still some sets
not resting enough some sets resting too
long
what about different muscle groups oh my
God this is totally nuts when people say
like yep I rest two minutes between sets
I have a one of the rest time videos
there's a comment that came up early it
was like don't watch this video it's too
long and boring just rest two minutes
between sets I swear oh God choke that
guy to death I'm kidding but like that
is a moronic fucking statement because
if you train quads properly and it takes
you two minutes to rest between sets of
quads does it take you two minutes
between sets of biceps are your biceps
systemically fatiguing and draining as
your quads if so you have the biggest
fucking arms in the world and the
smallest most pathetic legs you like
Harry Potter legs and Rich piana's arms
or some shit like that you know almost
every case quad and glute and back
training is going to fry you and you're
going to need way more rest than between
sets of calves or sets of biceps sets of
forums that's the triceps even sets of
bells there are huge differences between
sets between types of exercises and even
between muscle groups
and so the question I have for you is
how many different rest times are you
going to keep track of and there is an
intelligent response to this you say
well I'm going to keep track of
everything week to week to week because
it it is is an auto self-solving problem
uh you know set one to set two I have a
rest time that I write down
or have an app that tracks it for me set
two to so three have one and it's you
know Compares biceps to biceps squads to
quads set one to set two set one to set
two in the next week all right fine we
got that solved totally
here's where problem number four comes
in
if let's say last week
you took two minutes and 35 seconds
after one set of leg press to be ready
for your next set you're using the four
Factor s model you're just timing it
you're saying okay I'm ready to go up
235 okay my app has noted that
does this mean this week
set one of leg press you need two
minutes and 35 seconds again why do you
have that number to stare at because
inevitably if you say well look I don't
actually want to stare at that number on
the second week it's like the fuck are
you collecting the data for
so you clearly if you want an app to do
this sounds like I'm being very
defensive right clearly if you want an
app to do this you're going to want the
data like in the next week like last
week after set one of leg press I rest
two minutes 35 seconds what is your
brain going to do inevitably well this
time I need rest two minutes and 35
seconds but hold on a sec what if that
violates the four-factor rest formula
What if after two minutes and 15 seconds
you're fucking good to go do you still
wait another 20 seconds sure it's not a
big deal but if you're gonna wait
another 26 here's the real kicker if
you're going to use the four-factor rust
formula anyway why the fuck do you even
bother collecting the fucking data let
me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you can modify
an existing program or you can just run
the programs exactly as they were
written by a personal this app programs
everything for you exercises weights
sets reps frequency the whole thing
after every single workout on every
single week the adjust to your unique
parameters with every single input we
have over 250 exercises in the app with
detailed video tutorial links to every
single one you never have to be confused
about technique or form ever again I'm
guessing right now you're pretty
interested in the app download the RP
hypertrophy app today
if you get to two minutes and 39 seconds
you're like
I guess it's time to go do another set
like no it's not motherfucker you are
not ready your cardio is not ready what
are you doing two minutes and three of a
second it's like so what that's just a
fucking number you wrote down last week
was last week this is this week you are
using more weight this time things are
different maybe you're Mass gaining your
cardio is not as good maybe you're
cutting your glycogen is not as high
you're more fatigued who knows
in the end the four Factor rest formula
is the right answer anyway it is the
ecologically best answer
I think I made this analogy on another
time I was given an interview about this
and so it would be very Kurt about this
it's uh is uh I think yes was on our RP
podcast with Mr Nick Shaw
there are all kinds of activities that
if you time them and you try to compare
your times week to week to week it's
gonna be nonsense guy go garbage in
garbage out
if you time how long it takes for you to
make love to your significant other and
then the next time you make love you're
like all right here we go
and 37 minutes hit it I'm sorry what if
that 32 minutes you guys both nutted
like crazy and everyone smoking a
cigarette in bed you're like I really
should continue for another five minutes
she's like you're right you just have
like dry like you having fun she's like
no okay times a Time diligence is
diligence or you're at like
36 minutes and 57 seconds and it's like
the most passionate shit of your life
and you're like dude we could do this
for fucking hours and then 37 hits and
you're like and we're done
Shelley was your name you've been great
here's the door what what
who cares who gives a shit love making
I'm trying to be politically correct
here
it's a code for anal
lovemaking takes as much time as it's
going to take
because there is a definitive start
point in a definitive very unequivocal
endpoint on both y'all nodded we out
they've been accomplished and it's gonna
take a different amount of time based on
about a trillion different things or
based on nothing at all it's just gonna
be the situation of the situation and
you know everything you need to know
about whether you're well on your way to
Hidden and whether you're done
internally you do not need a clock for
this
training is much the same way you know
that when you're done breathing heavy
when you're feeling nice and strong
again when you can do the synergists are
not limiting factor when your muscle is
ready to go for at least another five
reps or start a rep range you're fucking
good if you're not good yet you need to
rest longer for best results if you're
good you don't need to rest any more
time you can arbitrarily but why it ends
up being arbitrary
so at the end of the day if you really
think it through yes there are some
compelling reasons
to get some rest times going if not just
to ground yourself or build up the habit
of taking the right amount of time and
as a beginner you might benefit from
some rest time tracking of your coaches
two minutes between every set you'll
start to learn after a few weeks like I
don't need two minutes after biceps I
need more than two minutes after quads
but coach does is two minutes that just
builds kind of good habits for you don't
float around and waste time or rush into
the next that clients do both things
once you are like a late beginner mid
beginner even for sure an intermediate
Advanced rest time Tracking not always
it's always nuanced always Shades of
Gray but it's usually just data for
data's sake and there's no good reason
to collect the data or use the data and
because it's data and it occupies your
cognitive stream to some extent and your
work stream if you're clicking the timer
on and off
it's actually net negative because
you're collecting data you do not need
anyway let me know if that makes sense
let me know if you guys have any really
compelling reasons because I'd love to
hear from you
about why maybe we could track rest
times and ways in which they're good
that I didn't talk about or let me know
from your experience if you have some
thoughts about like well actually yeah I
used to track rest times and I realized
it was just like a road to nowhere and
it was fucking pointless
um let me know what you guys think see
you guys in the comments RP hypertrophy
app link below and of course our members
area where nerd stuff like this is just
a daily occurrence see you guys there
peace