what's going on guys welcome to the
video before we get started with today's
video I did want to give you guys a
quick update on how my training has been
going the last couple months
this was supposed to be an AMRAP test
video so I wanted to go in the gym test
my maxes on the squat bench press and
deadlift and show off to you guys how
much progress I've made on this program
long story short I'm not going to be
doing that in this video I'm not gonna
be doing that just yet to put that in
context I'm gonna give you guys a quick
recap of how my training has gone over
the last couple months so let's check it
out
alright so my current training program
was ten weeks total in length split up
into three training box block one was
mostly focused on getting adapted to the
increase in frequency so there's a lot
of emphasis on technique volumes about
moderate and intensity low to moderate
for this first block in the second block
and emphasis on increasing effort
increasing intensity primarily through
the addition of top sets in higher RPS
and then there's also a slight increase
in volume the rep counts are a little
bit higher and there are a few more sets
in total in block - now week 3 begins
with a d load week intensity is lower
volume is a little bit lower as well
then finishes with an AMRAP
in wrapped week so the MRAP week is the
max testing week where you do as many
reps as possible with a specific load
usually around 90 percent of your one
rep max what happened to me was at the
beginning of the d load week I got sick
problem was the weights that were cement
to be really light actually felt really
heavy they felt heavier than the weights
felt him block - which is not a good
thing so that didn't function as an
effective d load for me so I say you
know what no I'm not going through with
these M rack tests it's not a good time
for me to do that I'm gonna be
responsible and I think what I'm gonna
do is either go back and start all the
way over at block 1 again or I might
truncate this block a little bit and
then run through block 2 again which is
a bit more of a peaking type phase then
do the D load and then do my M reps so
the M rocks are coming within the next
month or two I'm really excited to do it
trust me it's taking a lot of willpower
for me to pull back and not
because I do think I've gained a lot of
strength but I think that this is just
the more responsible thing to do a
friend of mine Radu Antonio I think I'm
saying his last time right he's another
youtuber I'm a huge fan of his channel
he has a theory that the reason people
stop making progress is due to these
little micro injuries and illnesses
Radu's basic theory is that you get an
injury here that's going to help your
progress for a while then here you start
to recover but you get sick again so you
catch a cold or something that helps
your progress for a while then you
recover again injured or sick again hold
your progress for a while so if we could
have just avoided these injuries or
illnesses which is not always
preventable then maybe we could have
just made incremental progress better
over time without having all these ups
and downs so anyway that's a full recap
on my training program once to report it
has gone great it's been absolutely
fantastic I've loved it but I think the
responsible move is for me to kind of
start over again and run through it
again before doing my maxes with all
that said we're gonna go for a workout
today we're gonna start with benchpress
and my friend Pat is back in town so
it's gonna be awesome to get a workout
in with him I want to make sure we got
it here on camera his bench has blown up
it's ridiculous so I'm excited for you
guys to see it it'll check him a few
guys over at the gym let's go
[Music]
excited to get it in men know
so we cope at night so faster that for
what a week yeah yes so we did we did
one workout also a bench workout or
another one I think the last time you
were on the channel we gave them an
update on your rhabdo situation so
obviously you're pretty well recovered
from that now upper body like completely
recovered upper body lower body so you
got to be careful with right yeah I got
shot I'll link that video down below if
you want more background on that alright
so we're gonna take off the workout up
first we've got three sets of three reps
85% of our one rep max so I actually
didn't calculate that yet what's your
one rep max right now go away for
applause I didn't really yeah I didn't
really tell you really hit that for a
joke oh he's in for a dolphin see your
1rm there's got to be at least play
424 yeah 416 yeah so let's use 415 is
your mats
350 - 350 okay so that's what we'll
throw on for your 3x3 you good for that
today
that's light okay well let's let's Jack
it up yeah yeah a few it's because I'm
starting the program over so if the
weight started lighter than what we
hopped in on that workout late
but we'll still we'll still ramp it up
we'll just go according to RPE right
we can Auto regulate that we're just
gonna progressively pyramid our way up
so I'm just gonna fire a bunch of tips
at you guys and then Pat is going to
talk about some things he's done to get
his bench all the way up to now 405 so
anyway first tip first tip is going to
be treat your warmups exactly like you
would a working set so try to make every
rep on your warm-up look as if you had
heavy working weight on the bar so here
setup the same your technique the same
really lock in those mind muscle
connection cues and those strength cues
that you use for working so the gym
we're training out here this for the
record they only have thirty five pound
plates on the upstairs floor so these
are not 40 times these are 35 so it
might look a little misleading but Pat
is gonna work up to think about it 365
today this is 325 right here probably
one of those last warmups
alright tip number two take advantage of
training here now full disclosure I am
sponsored by Rhys but they do make great
affordable training gear the brand new
pic doesn't have to be Rhys I just want
to say that out the gate starting from
the bottom up I find using a heeled shoe
helps for some reasons run it allows me
to get my heels planted better which is
a requirement if you're going to be
competitive in powerlifting and it also
just helps me to feel more stable on the
floor contributing to better leg drive
so something like this is not going to
add thirty pounds to your bench but can
when combined with the other stuff could
make a difference a belt so a lot of
people this is like the most commonly
asked thing I get about my bench
other than the urge why do you wear a
belt so this is a small thing doesn't
seem to have much of an effect for
everyone but I think it's worth
experimenting with especially if you
have a belt and it's really similar to
the squat and the deadlift so when I put
on the belt it increases increases
intra-abdominal pressure so when I do
the valsalva maneuver and hold my breath
before I descend it's going to create a
more rigid compartment in here
increase the pressure and then prevent
energy loss throughout the whole system
so it's going to make more of a rigid
column through the whole body and I find
the belt gives me something that I can
kind of push my air against and I find
I'm a bit stronger when I wear the belt
than if I don't wear one so I wear it
would be wrist wraps so these help
because they help keep the wrist more
neutral when you bench a lot of people
have a tendency to let the bar
fall back almost in their upper hand
rather than sitting right above the
wrist the problem when you have the bar
sitting back here is it creates a space
between the joint in the application of
the load and that creates an energy weak
so basically your forearm has to work to
some extent to prevent the bar from just
put your hand from falling off and so if
you keep the bar directly over the joint
your forearms don't have to do that same
work so there's no moment arm between
the axis of rotation and the application
of load but these do is they just help
make it a little bit easier
that risk straight again not gonna add
30 pounds to your bench but when
combined with the other stuff can make a
difference in the final thing you're not
using chalk that can make an enormous
difference because especially if you're
going to take my advice and take a
slightly wider grip when people are
stronger with a wider grip
you might notice on bars that aren't
quite as gritty there's this tendency to
have your hand slip out as the set goes
on that's not safe and not an efficient
way to pinch so if you use chalk you're
gonna have a much more stable grip on
the bar I've made a mess so hesitant
number two tip number two a bottle I
still have some left over from the
grocery haul it's an inside joke if you
won't get money clip I toasted aisle
this big bag so big bag some bags coming
in this is like I'm gonna excess you
just explained all that gear and all
I've got I just moved so I don't have my
stuff ready I'm gonna loan him my gear
and see how it works but the size
difference might not work out some of
the doctors in the world like comes to
mind he he does use training gear but
like he squats in Jordans and does like
unconventional stuff so I like to take a
shotgun approach to these cues so it's
like I'll throw a bunch of different
stuff at you and some of it will stick
some of it will work for you some of it
will be worse for you some of it'll be
neutral I mean the key is to just take
it all experiment with it and pick out
the handful of things that work better
for you so tip number three is to find
the appropriate amount of elbow tuck so
I'm gonna demonstrate this this is the
way most people most bodybuilders bench
so yeah it's perfect
thanks back so they'll take a wide grip
and they'll bench with very layered
elbows down to their upper chest almost
like a guillotine press I don't think
that's the most optimal way to bench for
strings I think it's fine for a
hypertrophy
some people get cranky shoulders when
they do it that way a lot of power
lifters you'll hear will do an extreme
elbow tuck so they'll bring the bar way
in front of them touch it to their
stomach and have their elbows out in
front of the bar I don't think that's
the most optimal way to bench unless
you're wearing a bench shirt which no
one does in the gym I think the best way
to bench is to have a moderate tuck let
the elbows slightly on the negative
bring the bar to the highest contact
point on your chest that's usually going
to be the bottom of the sternum down
here so not down on your stomach but not
up on your upper chest right here and
then when you press you're gonna think
about layering and pushing so rather
than staying tucked in keeping your
elbows out in front of the bar you're
gonna think about layering as you push
the weight up so tuck down on the
negative and then flare as you press the
weight out ever since Pat's been in his
offseason he's been making amazing
progress so I'm gonna let him take over
say a couple of things that he's found
really helped him and kind of accelerate
his bench press so something that really
helped me personally is that I made sure
that my setup and the bar path was
consistent I did this because I wanted
to ensure that was actually progressing
each week instead of kind of cheating
the bar up and then making sure that I
hit the correct RPE because if you train
too hard and you can't recover then the
following weeks you won't be able to
continue to progress so making sure that
the RPE leave the ego at the door
to leave that room for progression
moving forward one other thing I was
gonna say was like for you I feel like
maybe being in a in a surplus like you
were eating yes so many calories but
you're telling me yeah and I feel like
that can make a big difference to like
yeah you might gain a bit of extra fat
but your bench exploded yeah I find
bench it might go in both directions
like for me then my coaching experience
bench press is one of the first lifts to
take a hit when you start cutting down
definitely so then when you bulk back up
I mean in your case it's been the one
you've made the most progress on our
of all but I really like the idea of
like leaving your ego at the door like
an auto regulating if you're not feeling
a strong one day don't try to push it
and get injured longevity is the key
yeah that's really good alright guys Pat
and I are gonna finish out this workout
he's got his last set on the bench press
here now Shawn's gonna finish it out
with an edit so you guys to stay tuned
for that like the video if you enjoyed
it subscribe if you haven't already all
past channel linked down below make sure
you check it out I'll see you guys all
here the next one hey maybe I'll let me
do the slide with me of you feel like
550 enough faster you can get high with
me that's a deal right I mean if you're
a little sly with me if you feel like
550 and the faster you can get high with
me that's a deal all right that's a deal
right that's a deal right coming down
like percipitation
I never met a limitation pay to play my
limit nation gotta go to Google for the
information I'm a superstar so I gotta
shine top dollar be the bottom line I
don't feeding [ __ ] out of line turn
your heart rate so it