alright guys welcome back to the ice
cream for Pierre's podcast we're going
to be continuing with the interview with
Kamal Patel of examine calm so this is
part two so what we're gonna focus on in
this episode is supplementation mostly
supplementation for physique athletes as
for people looking to build muscle and
gain strength so come out first thing I
did post that I'd be doing this
interview with you on Instagram and my
facebook so if you're not following me
there you can follow me it's just at
Jeff Nippert on instagram and you can
just request me as a friend on facebook
or go to facebook.com forward slash Jeff
Nippert for my pro bodybuilding page but
yeah so on Instagram I got a lot of
questions pertaining to pre-workout
supplementation so homonka asks are
sorry actually homonka asked if you guys
were hiring at examine calm so alright
oh macha where we're not formally hiring
we had a big hiring call last summer but
if there's ever very special people then
you can email us okay
each sire asks if you could make your
own pre-workout with a pump and
stimulatory agent in it
what would you include and then a
related question Missy Smith trains asks
about the difference between arginine
and citrulline in terms of increasing
blood flow and the efficacy of those the
efficacy of those so I wouldn't put
either of those in the pre-workout
supplement because neither as as
effective as nitrates so I think
probably the best option out there right
now is the beet powder but beet liquid
is better because you have to take a lot
of beet powder pills unless you like
mixing the beet powder into water to
make a beet Gatorade type thing so I
guess I put that in the pre-workout
supplement as well as caffeine and then
the rest would depends
most of the people I know strangely
enough trained fasted so I might put
some BCA in there and then beta-alanine
depends you know
no no supplement will have as high
responder percentage as the big ones
protein creatine but I guess beta
alanine and then another one is it
remains to be seen how well nootropics
various different ones do for focus
during workout but it's probably better
to put that into separate pill and it's
it's probably even better to cap your
own so I wouldn't even make it um and
try out different combinations starting
from the most basic getting to the most
obscure but those are the ones I would
focus on and neither is citrulline or
arginine like I said are as good for the
pump as nitrates because it's a
different mechanism and citrulline
arginine have a rate limiting step
whereas nitrates don't interesting I've
always heard that citrulline is better
than arginine given that it doesn't
break down and the tractor isn't
absorbed as well or something so then
citrulline is then converted into
arginine which is then converted into
nitric oxide but I suppose nitrates or
probably have get to get there faster
yeah a bit more direct and then I know
that there are some supplements that
combine citrulline and arginine which
isn't totally necessary so don't for
those cool and then what about caffeine
I don't think you mentioned a stimulant
so caffeine is the the one stimulant
that at least for people who aren't
chronically drinking a ton of caffeine
every day um has a predictable response
pre-workout most other things don't have
a predictable response meaning that
either a great chunk of people don't
respond at all or have a weak response
Laure have a response that could include
like too much shakiness so I put
caffeine okay cool and then as for the
nootropics that you mentioned what are
your thoughts on acetyl l-carnitine as
sort of like a mood enhancer in a pre
and then also huperzine I noticed a lot
of pre-work oats are now adding
huperzine to pre-workouts what are your
thoughts on those two this is an
interesting one because nootropics were
the first supplement I ever kept myself
and and I just bought all of them
through I don't know if my examine comm
contract makes me not able to say who I
bought it from but I bought a lot of
powder and I I cap tall of them and you
know when you say caps do you mean like
put them in put them in the pill yeah
okay yeah using I don't remember what
it's called but the package has a little
car too and a capsule guy with like a
capsule helmet and you stick the
capsules and those things and pour the
powder in where would you where would
you go about like purchasing that's sort
of you know I bought mine on Amazon but
it was eight eight years ago or so they
probably even out more of them now but
uh you know usually we say it's better
to buy supplements from companies that
either have had their product used in a
clinical trial or have all the
certifications from the various boards
that being said um capping is super fun
and I guess in my capacity as examined
calm guy I wouldn't recommend it but you
know like from the beginning I didn't
care about whether I should eat protein
three or five times a day I wanted to
know what weird substances helped me in
different ways so so I cap stuff and I
would kind of do a randomized trial on
myself and and I I thought that I
wouldn't be but I'm so susceptible to
placebo cuz I kept huperzine worked for
me or it helped me um and then I was
like oh maybe I should have somebody
else cap and make a placebo people
helped as much as huperzine did now I
don't you know I don't there's try
whatever and if it helps you then great
but just don't try placebo because then
you'll realize that
faceva yeah but that being said you know
there are a ton that if you try some
scattershot experimentation one will
probably work for you just depends I
don't know how many major ones are now
10 to 20 the rarest Reseda MS and
huperzine and etc yeah do you think that
there is any cause for concern just in
the the low dosing of huperzine that's
required I mean like it's mildly
concerning to me when it comes like from
a standpoint of the homogeneity of the
mixture of the pre-workout itself that
like if huperzine were to just like say
cluster in one area you could be getting
like a mega dose oh yeah given that it's
dosed at like on like a microgram scale
compared to the gram scale of all the
other ingredients so like I'm weary of
pre-workout supplements that have
huperzine included them in them in a
powder form do you think that's
necessary you know that's that's one
reason why it's nice to cap your own cuz
control for that kind of thing and put
stuff in different capsules you just
can't I know that there's like there's a
company here in San Francisco that that
delivers nootropics and they got a lot
of funding in the past year and its
really great and I know they have a very
controlled manufacturing process I don't
know if there's a way to get around that
though cuz it's almost like if you think
about it from the different ends of the
spectrum whereas whey protein is all the
same way protein and then like
homeopathic medication is zero to one
part per trillion parts of the thing you
know somewhere in the middle is
nootropics
or at least a low dose ones like
huperzine I'd be very worried I mean the
the counter to that is that these things
don't have side effects but like I don't
know that's is that the main concern
because you're taking it to help you and
if it's not in a certain batch that you
take but there's a lot in a different
batch how are you even supposed to tell
if it's helping you yeah exactly yeah
yeah and then a related question from
Joel Patera he was he said if one were
to adapt to the stimulatory property of
caffeine
what would you have suggest as an
alternative or Nicholas Berg says would
you recommend just stopping caffeine for
a while and then start taking it again
yeah so most people stop stop with
caffeine but that's easier said than
done
I'm lucky in that I I don't like coffee
or tea or anything that's bitter
got the supertaster gene but um you know
people who don't have that like my
girlfriend doesn't work out but if she
were in that situation and she had to
stop coffee she only drinks a cup or at
most two a day but when she doesn't
drink coffee that day goes badly so how
many days of having a bad day are you
willing to give up in order to get the
benefit of caffeine if you're very
mentally strong maybe you can do that
but if not so ways to get around it are
I mean there are other siblings who can
try but caffeine is the most reliable
caffeine and theanine sometimes theanine
could both mitigate the over excitatory
effects of caffeine and sometimes
potentially accentuate the focus from
caffeine so with the very rare odd
person on caffeine and theanine combined
is better than caffeine alone for focus
so maybe you could reduce your caffeine
dose if you stacked with other stuff but
it's really the only other option would
be lowering caffeine and adding other
things that might synergize with
caffeine but the better cleaner way is
to stop caffeine for a while right are
you familiar with the product tea crying
teehee ace yes that's all the rage in
the past your so I know it has what two
studies I don't know I'm not overly
familiar with it to be honest it's it
seems like it has for having a I might
be totally wrong with this but for its
two studies or whatever that supported
it it seems okay but kind of like hmb
when there aren't that many studies and
it shows strong effects then you really
need to replicate the results in a
larger sample that's more dippers yeah
it's you know worth crying most of these
things can't hurt
right right okay so that's that's it for
the viewer questions the questions that
I had for you if you could recommend
just say three supplements to someone
who wants to sort of max out their their
muscle building potential what would
they be
alright let's assume there's no
financial constraints just I mean oh
whoa hey I just beat this team but
they're but but we're natural
okay yeah so um let's see I mean I'm
tempted to stray and we're no
supplements but really it's almost
always gonna be creatine whey protein
even things that aren't linked in
studies to muscle gain like vitamin D
I'd say vitamin D just because the
majority of people who are in our
audience live above twenty degrees
latitude um which means that if you
don't pay attention to vitamin D then
you don't get enough vitamin D and
especially people who have darker skin
like myself like I took a multivitamin
for years and then I had my first
vitamin D test done in 2006 and I was at
like 19 which is quite low for somebody
who had been taking over a hundred
percent of the recommended daily
allowance which means either that you're
not taking it with fat which I was
taking it with fat or that your vitamin
D metabolism differs from most people
which probably is the case with myself
so even though there's not that many
trials for vitamin D and muscle gain and
the trials out there are there that
there are don't show that strong
relationships I think there's probably
more to the story it's probably that if
you take vitamin D over twelve months
it'll have a stronger effect than in the
short-term trials and it might approach
muscle gain in very different mechanisms
than like anabolic and stuff would and
there's also a link between vitamin D
and testosterone yeah immunity so in a
trial
in a randomized trial of let's say 12
weeks kind of a standard trial you know
you take the supplement or the placebo
and then they do leg extension or
whatever and then they see what the
difference was at the end compared to
baseline what they don't do though is
they don't always report results
according to intention-to-treat analysis
which means if somebody dropped out are
they counted in the group that they
started in are they not counting at all
are they counted in what they ended up
being in because if somebody dropped out
of placebo and then they ended up taking
vitamin D before the trial ended are the
counter in vitamin D you should really
report all three of those or two however
many there are but they don't do that so
let's say during a trial of twenty
people two people dropped out because
they got sick um you know are those
people ditched if you look closer is
that potentially they just weren't
healthy or maybe even they had lower
vitamin D levels so then they got sick
and then they dropped out whereas if the
trial was like a year long and they
boosted their vitamin D they'd have
stronger immune systems and then they'd
make greater gains at the gym you know
who knows those things are not tested in
trials so the muscle gaining supplements
you see are only the ones that have
obvious muscle gaining effects not the
indirect ones I'm just gonna quickly ask
you like so about creatine which is one
of them do you think that is there's a
timing component to it so does it matter
before after workout any time of day at
all yeah there isn't a ton because most
people whether they know it or not so
whether you do ten or twenty grams a day
and then you lower it or your teen five
grams a day or even if you're taking
three then you're slowly saturating your
muscles and it doesn't matter how much
you lift in that session it matters how
much you lift over time so it doesn't
really really matter at least you know
marginally yeah there was that new study
I don't know if you're familiar with it
out of Jose Antonio's lab and that
showed a at least I think an acute
effect yeah timing it after the workout
which I thought was interesting and
a whole lot of people started to say
like oh you should be taking [ __ ] yeah
your work up now but it's like that's
like one short term
yeah the cute effect is great especially
if you're in a competition yeah but
that's not what most people are gonna be
in right so you'll reach you'll reach
saturation levels faster if you
supplement it after your workout
probably but regardless overtime if your
goal is just to build muscle you're
gonna reach saturation levels sooner or
later anyway as long as you're taking
say like 3 grams a day or something yeah
and the one creatine researcher that we
interviewed when our research I just
came out he personally takes creatine
and then I don't know when he stops
after like two months or something for a
few weeks and he doesn't do it for a
very specific reason he he does it
because creatine levels drop off fairly
slowly after you stop supplementing so
um it's not gonna hurt you a ton to stop
supplementing creatine and he doesn't
have a good reason why it would help you
because there's no obvious um like
sensitization to supplementing creatine
you're not really really gonna stop
making creatine yourself but he just
does that because I don't know if he has
some hidden reason but because it drops
off so slowly and it builds up over time
and you get creatine from food not a
huge issue save money if nothing else
fine yeah yeah or or if he could be
listening to some of your advice and not
doing yeah I was saying everyday okay
you know I was like should I bring that
up alright so the other thing is test
boosters so the aspartic acid zma are
really popular in bodybuilding are there
any others and are those effective at
all yeah the one everybody should take
is horny goat weed no there's there's
none there's no test boosters
testosterone boosting is about
maintaining things that support
testosterone production so probably the
number-one thing is a lot of people
don't get enough magnesium
so again enough magnesium don't think
you have enough magnesium because you
get magnesium in your multivator
because I'm sure 90% or more of
multivitamins contain magnesium oxide
which is poorly absorbed any other
magnesium would be better magnesium is a
bulky nutrient so unless you're taking a
multivitamin that you have to take
multiple pills of you're just not
getting enough and what are food sources
of magnesium so I think the number one
food source for Americans is coffee not
because it has a ton of magnesium but
because Americans drink a ton of coffee
and tea but nuts and legumes and stuff
like that has magnesium magnesium is
probably one of the things that a lot of
people should consider supplementing
because like when people ask me about
their their personal chronic conditions
or things that are affecting them at the
moment
it'll be things like you know I have
more social anxiety than I used to I'm
not sleeping so for those kinds of
things it's often a mineral that you
don't think of so I'm correcting a
magnesium deficiency improve sleep so
for people who take a good-enough
supplement or eat a really awesome diet
it's not an issue but it doesn't hurt to
supplement magnesium so much they'll try
it interesting and while we're on the
topic I did actually have a number of
questions about sleep supplements okay
so are there any other than say in the
case of a deficiency that would actually
help with sleep or circadian yeah yeah
there are some so if creatine is at one
end of helps more than half of people or
whatever percentage sleep supplements
are on the other end it's really hard to
tell if asleep supplements gonna help
and a classic example is melatonin so
theoretically a melatonin should help
almost everybody sleep but it doesn't
and um it helps sleep quality less often
than it helps you fall asleep quicker
and the reason is because people's sleep
issues can get really complicated so
sustained-release melatonin is probably
the first thing that's recommended
because if you take regular melatonin
some percentage of people will wake up
after an hour - and then not be able to
fall back to sleep
so sustained-release
and then after melatonin there's things
that really work for just a scattering
of people like it's often things that
have to do with anxiety lavender so
lavender pills or aromatherapy reduces
anxiety allows intrusive thoughts to
kind of fade away better and lemon balm
and things like that things like glycine
can also help but again those things
only help a very small percentage of
people and it's hard to tell if that'll
help you so much better than any
supplement is something that will make
you look stupid so if you're willing to
try it
amber tinted glasses that block blue
light are the best way to fall asleep
for most people and it's cheaper than a
bottle of supplements and you can use it
forever problem is is you have to wear
something on your face that makes you
look stupid
but if you're okay with that then you
know go to Amazon or wherever look up
blue light blocking glasses and try it
out for a couple days and is there an
amount of time that you should wear
those say before going to bed the
glasses so the researchers there's these
researchers at John Carroll University
and in Ohio which is also they come from
my hometown and they know a lot about
blue light and they recommend wearing
them like when the sun goes down which i
think is nuts
cuz unless sleep is like ruining your
life you've tried everything else and
you've tried these glasses for an hour
to when they don't work other than that
you know just try it for a certain
amount of time let's say half an hour or
an hour see if it improves your sleep
and titrate up or down which is kind of
a good strategy for any supplement and
don't think of this as any different
than a supplement because it really is a
supplement you know supplements are
things that supplement the things you
already have in your diet or life and
supplements don't have to be pills
it could be aromatherapy it could be
these glasses and these are things that
you should titrate up or down so more or
less time with aromatherapy more or less
time wearing the glasses you know even
get an app to record what your reaction
was and see how it changes over time
because I'm weary of quantified
self as a movement because I think
people overanalyze when they're the
worried well and overall healthy but
sick people are people with sleep issues
it's the best time to track your dosages
of supplements and see how it affects
you and the one time that I worked with
a physician on a quantified tracking
program a few years ago here in San
Francisco the results are astounding so
even something like we talked about
fischels supplements and our food
podcast something like that that I'm
wary of if you track it over time fish
wall helps so much more than if you just
take fish oil and see if it helps and
it's simply because you remember to take
it every day and if it helps you then
you keep taking and if it does and you
stop and that advice is never taken you
know people will take a supplement for
20 or 24 months even though they can't
feel any difference um and you know it's
tough because you can't always feel a
difference a lot of things are for
health but you shouldn't waste money on
supplements that they either have to
help you or have enough evidence that it
will help you and you just won't ever be
able to feel it I know this is something
you've done a lot of research on or at
least some research on i which i think
is really interesting but do you think
that there's a role for mindfulness
meditation here in terms of helping
sleep and maybe i know we're getting
limited on time but maybe you can just
briefly touch on what the health effects
of that have been in your research
experience so um what the mindfulness
meditation researchers say is if you
could cap mindfulness meditation and
take it it is possibly the most powerful
or one of the most powerful drugs so not
even a supplement and the reason is that
um not to sound too hippy but so when
you go about your daily life then
everybody has problems and doesn't
matter matter whether you live in
Somalia or the US you know problems are
largely internal in your brain so it's
very easy to have an office job where
you go in and you sit in a cubicle and
you do your stuff and then you go home
and you de-stress and then you go to the
and you come back and you eat get in
that routine every day and not be aware
of your state of mind and what
mindfulness meditation does is you know
step back see the forest for the trees
and concentrate on your body and it's
kind of the other end of bodybuilding
so in bodybuilding people become very
aware of what they eat on a gram for
gram basis and very aware of their
movement and occasionally posture and
that kind of stuff which is great but
along with your actions you know your
posture and weightlifting and what you
eat the third part of the triad or
whatever it's called is being aware of
your mental state so if you pause for a
second then Europe you'll become aware
that there's thoughts always going
through your brain and one of my
favorite eastern philosophers said when
you think then that's you that thought
is equivalent to you when that thought
goes away you go away there is no maybe
religious people unlike this but there's
no soul tying things together in your
brain there's nothing in there's no part
of the brain that is like what what ties
your previous life together and the
current state of mind it's really a
series of thoughts which means that if
you can develop the habit of focusing on
the thought at the present then things
start to become more clear over time and
while that sounds hippy the end results
are certain parts of your brain become
thicker so most of this research has
been done on either mindfulness
meditation or compassion meditation and
people who do those types of meditation
have certain areas of the brain that are
thicker than others you know the
critical side of me says oh one of those
people had thicker parts of the brain
before and you know they just have even
thicker parts than people who don't
meditate there's not a lot of studies
and most likely it's the meditation that
does it the way that this can help
health and even body composition is that
it isn't things like the grams of
protein that you eat that limit your
gains in the gym it's things like
getting sick
I'm not feeling good due to stress
you're not getting enough sleep and
getting injured and those are things
that are impacted by mindfulness and
mindfulness is just a fancy way of
saying that you're aware of your
thoughts so is this a destructive
thought can I let this thought pass
without it consuming me do i ruminate on
whatever it is you know I've been
injured a lot in my weightlifting life
and I can't lift weights at all anymore
so after a few shoulder surgeries I
started to think you know was it that
the surgeon screwed up is that when I
was doing shoulder presses with too
heavy of a weight and my arm bent
backwards is it when I was doing close
grip bench and I dropped the weight on
my chest I I was a very clumsy
bodybuilder as you can tell but you know
those types of things stick with you a
lot more than you're usually aware of
and if you can tease them apart by
developing a habit of mindfulness
whether it's through mindfulness
meditation or just incorporating it into
your life it can be really really good
yeah I read a book by Jonathan Hite
who's a sociologist and I think he said
something along the lines of if there
was a pill that was completely free with
no bad side effects that would give you
improved mood better overall well-being
better sleep more productivity it's like
would you take it and like it's obvious
that you would and this is basically
what you're getting with mindfulness
meditation because it's completely free
no side effects and it has all these
potential health benefits so I think
that it is actually an important part of
the equation that people just don't it's
essentially the master habit so you know
people who are into health love habits
eating healthy food you know maybe even
intermittent fasting or whatever it is
going to the gym the ultimate habit is
being in control of your thoughts
because then you can do things that you
would ideally do if you had a ton of
time to ruminate and you won't battle
with yourself so you know I'd say for
anybody if you have sleep issues anxiety
issues or whatever for one of the first
things you should look at is mindfulness
maybe not even meditation
but just being aware of your thoughts
that's great and come on we'll wrap it
up in a minute but at the beginning of
this supplement talk you said you were
tempted to go down the road of a bunch
of obscure supplements so maybe you
could just mention a couple of those
maybe some new supplements or exciting
things that people might not have heard
of that might have some promise so one
thing is I just blanked on the name well
maybe I'm not supposed to recommend
other people's website but Adele Musa s
adversity calm which left
Olaf red I posted you know he posts like
every couple hours so you're gonna have
to hunt for this but it's a three
letters and then three numbers it's a
peptide that could help in tendon repair
which is very important for bodybuilders
and there's another one that also has a
numbered letter combination that is
experimental and these are available on
the internet not on Amazon they don't
have a ton of research and a lot of it
is in vitro but a lot of injuries are
tough to correct and there's not a lot
of ways to approach injury without
injecting stuff and these are oral so
you know a huge benefit and if you're
not taking growth hormone or certain
steroids there's not a lot of good
treatment options so look at these two
whatever they're called go to adults
website another one yes sir for our
listeners Iowa I'll make sure I dig that
up and link it in the show notes for the
podcast and in the description box for
the video just so you guys don't have to
go on a hunt for it yeah and and to be
clear this isn't one of the first things
you should look at because looking at
pain and nutrition and tendons it's
things like it's on simplistic but if
you have problem with the tendon you
know eat a tendon because it's good to
have the things that make up the tendon
tendons made up of collagen and various
stuff you could either eat for you know
Vietnamese soup with tendon or get the
supplements collagen and whatnot and
even small doses of collagen can act in
ways that large doses don't so on
denature collagen you see too can 40
milligrams of it can help in ways that
10 grams of regular collagen don't buy
the same sensitization
kind of effect that that allergy
reducing treatments have you take a low
dose of this not around meals and it
could go through your gut not intact but
someone intact and desensitize your
connective tissue from being attacked by
your own immune system so you might have
that even if you don't have obvious
rheumatoid arthritis but so collagen and
that type of stuff should be ahead of
those supplements but if you have really
hard to approach problems with tendons
and ligaments then you've probably heard
of things like platelet-rich plasma
those even though they're super
expensive probably are a lot stronger
than any supplement you can take and
before going for platelet-rich plasma or
other similar options probably try
Prolotherapy which is just dextrose um
there the evidence is mixed but that's
probably because the efficacy depends on
the joint so it's not as good on for
example I think wrist joint it's better
on knee and elbow joints because of the
type of joint it is these are hinge
joints and they have a more structured
range of movement so go to a physical
medicine rehabilitation doctor p.m. NR
or a sports medicine doctor but before
you have your surgery try some other
options like these because even if it
ends up costing a few hundred dollars
it's better to avoid surgery than to
have surgery and have something effected
your whole life right and before we wrap
it up is there any anything else that
might be more specific to muscle
building you know no because anything
anything that's new is usually in a very
small group sample size and I would
never recommend those things until
there's at least two studies so nothing
new anything that's new that's really
effective is gonna somewhat be a
prohormone because there's no great ways
to boost muscle outside of that and even
like ashwagandha the king of indian
herbs had one study that showed that it
massively increased muscle gain but it
was in untrained individuals the I think
the study was maybe from India and I'm
always even though I'm Indian I'm wary
of that because Indian and Chinese
trials have positive results way more
off
than us trials do so for muscle building
rather than a magical new supplement go
for a magical new sleep routine because
that'll ya great advice
alright come on well thank you so much
for sharing all that information with us
I really really appreciate it it's just
an excellent conversation I learned a
lot it's really my pleasure I know I I
had big shoes to fill cuz you've had
some awesome guests who have been sort
of my guiding lights through my career I
think first person I ever looked at was
Lyle McDonald in 1997
I'm miscellaneous fitness weights use
using that group so before my time good
job
so come on before you go is there any
social media you want a plug I mean I
know I've already given examine calm a
nice boost and I just I mean if you're
not using examine calm it's really just
yeah just use the website everything's
free get in touch with us I respond to
everybody so if you just want to talk
shop talk about supplements then contact
us awesome all right well thank you guys
so much for listening to another episode
of the ice cream for Pierre's podcast my
name is Jeff Nippert and I will see you
in the next episode