the pump is not important let me break
it down to illustrate how deceiving the
pump can be one study has compared the
swelling in the lower and upper chest
stemming from the flat versus incline
bench they found similar upper chest
swelling when doing the flat bench
compared to the incline bench and yet we
do have a study comparing the incline
flat bench and measuring hypertrophy
showing greater hypertrophy in the upper
chest from an incline bench as you would
expect so even in studies using swelling
as a means to determine what the best
exercise is doesn't even seem valid and
more importantly how the pump feels and
how much your muscle actually swells are
not the same thing so outside of you not
getting a pump at all from a session I
wouldn't pay attention to the pump
that's why