[Music]
hey folks dr. Michael Hotel Renaissance
period ization covering all of the
chapters in basic terms big overview for
the Renaissance diet 2.0 book available
right in the link in the description if
you're ever curious about way more
detail and we have it on all these
subjects ever once scientific references
every single chapter every single point
is referenced excessively in the
description in the link so part 2 of
chapter 6 which part 1 with supplements
and you can see that video if you like
is hydration we ranked hydration within
the 5% of supplements and hydration so
we're saying the effect of all sub ones
and all hydration is a total of five
percent that's super super low but water
is essential to life and hydration is
important for optimizing especially
performance but also keeping you upright
which is you know sort of important for
your body composition if you're dead not
really good for body composition but
although it does burn a lot of fat if
you think about so here's the deal why
are we not prioritizing hydration more
highly the number one fundamental factor
is the power of human thirst if you only
drink to thirst you will be ensuring the
vast majority of your health if you
never drink ever unless you're thirsty
you almost certainly not affect your
health hardly at all with poor hydration
it's a very rare that hydration is
seriously messed up enough to cause you
health decrements if you're just
drinking a thirst knife you to ignore
your thirst yeah you can get into some
trouble but if you drink the thirst
you're probably very healthy which means
your body composition is probably
unencumbered can you benefit from a
little bit of alteration for performance
yes and we'll cover those details but
it's just very small even if you just
drink the thirst rip performance will
still be good it just won't be amazing
we'll get to what amazing is but that's
really why the effective hydration is
ranked solo by us you can't mess it up
that much unless you're just crazy and
ignoring stuff they're fundamentally
human
like thirst let me put that into
perspective why didn't we rain calories
like that which if you're hot follow
your hunger it's to be alive yeah but if
you follow a hunger there is no real
guarantee you're not gonna be either
super overweight or super underweight so
if you're trying to get muscular and
gain weight on purpose you can't follow
your hunger because probably telling you
some wrong stuff it's never telling you
to eat enough you're trying to lose fat
lose weight and get healthier and get
more performance you probably have to go
completely against your hunger you'll
must never go completely against your
thirst for optimization and performance
it's basically just automatic so yes it
is important but remember we talk about
diet priority principles we're talking
about the ones you actually have to
think about if you hardly ever have to
think about something and it happens
automatically we're not gonna paid a lot
of attention to it which will be a point
we'll come back to in just a bit so
thirst will almost always keep you safe
and healthy but there could be some
benefits to going above and beyond
thirst for performance here's the deal
basic guidelines just regularly drink
plenty of fluids with meals and between
meals how do you know you're well
hydrated if you're regularly peeing off
the yellow or clear you're probably
really good right if you're peeing sort
of like dark tea color all the time
that's not really great possibly see
your doctor right
you're definitely if it's super dark
yellow all the time you're chronically
dehydrated not a very good thing very
unlikely but if you're really worried
about your hydration pea and clear and
off yellow most the time is a really
good idea before during and after
training what you want to do if you want
to optimize is drink electrolyte
enhanced beverages right like a calorie
three Powerade for example on purpose
not just by thirst why there is a thirst
delay with performance what does that
mean that means if you are mid session
mid training mid competing by the time
you become thirsty your performance has
already fallen so if you seek to redress
your performance when you start drinking
again it takes a long time for your body
systems to get internally hydrated
getting hydrated is not a matter of
putting fluids down your throat because
they have to get to your throat into
your stomach so on on so
leach out through the blood get into the
intracellular space get into the actual
space between the cells within the cells
hydrate all the muscles that takes some
time if you are training during that
time it happens very slowly and you
could actually be losing so much sweat
per minute or per hour that no amount of
water you can realistically drink is
gonna keep you actually a rehydrating
during that time so if you train for 30
minutes 45 minutes in your training a
air-conditioned gym don't you worry
about any stuff you've got Brazilian Jiu
Jitsu wrestling practice if you're out
on a soccer field for long time if your
outdoor endurance athlete if you're
doing crossfit and a gym which doesn't
have air conditioning and most of them
don't which makes cross fear some real
tough people a certainly tougher than me
if you're doing in you'll work out so
the day there and stuff like that for
hours on end
sweating a ton make sure before you head
to the gym you drink water on purpose
with some electrolytes in it during
drink even when you're not thirsty keep
sipping on it and after start the
replenishing especially if you have
another performance session later
because by the time you get thirsty it's
already too late your performances
already suffered that's a really really
big deal small explanatory variable
doesn't account for a ton of performance
but if you want your best you definitely
have to do it and I'll split this way if
you have a bad training session or 205
you learn your lesson your surgery new
water you don't want to mess like up
like this at a competition and if you go
into an endurance race and you start
getting thirsty during the race not good
you already suffered in performance now
here's a real big fallacy so earlier we
said that you know it's a fallacy in
some extent to think of that per
hydration as super important as a
priority and dieting there's kind of a
mystery as to why well number one it's
automatic but here's the real big
problem with thinking that no hold on
hydration is super important it's even
more important than calories folks only
remember have a certain amount of
bandwidth whether it be mental or a
financial physical or emotional to
dedicate to dieting all of us do some of
us have a lot some of us have a little
given our circumstances so on and so
forth
you can fill up that bandwidth with
things that make a big difference
calories macros timing etc but if you
fill up a lot of that bandwidth of
things that don't make a huge difference
like my new differences in hydration
you're going to be taking away resources
mental emotional financials so on from
the other important stuff and the net
effect won't be as great case in point
I'm sure you've seen this a lot folks
will start eating healthy and they'll
start eating for performance NS a man
you know I started a diet so I got to
stay real hydrated some drinking water
you know every every hour I've got my
bottle with me all the time what does
that do it makes them pay attention to
something that makes almost no
difference whatsoever you'll be fined as
drinking water normally and it drains
their willpower and it drains their
patience right if you if eating healthy
means not just eating four good meals a
day and calling it even if eating
healthy and eating for performance means
you've got to have a friggin water
bottle with you everywhere you go and
you got it hold on I'm gonna be the
middle of a meeting but looks time for
water cuz my you know I have to say like
I'm a machine now it's just gonna drain
you and give you almost nothing in
return and we don't want folks spending
a lot of time doing stuff that doesn't
really have that huge interval and
that's why we have too little rain
hydration so low because it's not worth
this huge investments with a small one
for the performance-oriented doing super
hard workouts for everyone else just
relax drink fluids normally make it a
habit to drink with meals and you're
good to go thanks for tuning in
[Music]