over the past few years we've had
several studies comparing the push down
to the overhead extension exercise which
is better for building big
triceps welcome back Dr Miler wolf here
proud owner of a newly upgraded audio
setup so if you enjoy the new audio
leave a comment down below cable
pushdowns are a super popular exercise
go into any gym and you will see plenty
of people doing the push down exercise
and it is an effective exercise the
question isn't is it effective it's what
is a more effective exercise the push
down or the overhead extension on a
theoretical level the push down exercise
does a lot of things right by being an
isolation exercise it's ensuring the
triceps are a limiting factor likewise
and I think this is why a lot of people
use it it tends to be the easiest on
people's elbows people with elbow pain
in my experience as a coach as an
athlete tend to be able to do the push
down without experiencing much elbow
pain even if they generally suffer from
elbow pain the push down is also pretty
time efficient and that you can just
load the weight on the cable stack and
get going it's essentially plug and play
and finally underrated benefit push
Downs kind of make you look a little bit
jacked at the bottom of every rep you
get that Peak squeeze where your triceps
actually look big not me because I have
tiny arms but for most people anyways
and finally when it comes to getting a
good stretch in the toy muscle group the
push down is pretty good at least for
the medial and lateral head let me break
it down the triceps have three heads the
long head the lateral head and the
medial head the lateral and medial head
are only responsible for elbow extension
which means that no matter your arm
position as long as you're getting your
elbow flexed those two muscle groups
will get a good stretch in the push down
exercise and so for lateral and medial
ahead of hypertrophy the push down
should be a pretty effective exercise
however when it comes to that third head
the long head of the triceps arm
position does influence how much of a
stretch is getting with a push down with
your arm by your side your long head is
relatively shortened whereas if you were
to put your arm overhead as in an
overhead extension
you would be stretching out the long
head further that's exactly why you see
people stretching their triceps by doing
this pose right here by having your arm
overhead you're further lengthening the
long head now my checklist for what
makes an exercise good for hypertrophy
is very well and good but what about
actual studies testing out this Theory
are overhead extensions leading to more
hypertrophy compared to push Downs do we
have studies actually comparing the two
turns out we do in total we have three
studies that I think are relevant to our
discussion here two are comparing the
overhead extension to the push down
exercise and the final one is just
looking at different ranges of motion in
the school Crusher exercise the first
study conducted comparing the overhead
extension to the push down exercise was
a study by sasakian colleagues back in
2018 they took nine untrained women and
assigned one of their arms to to push
downs and the other arm to do overhead
extensions and this is what we call a
within participant design a design in
which two limbs of a participant are
assigned to do different training
interventions to wash out any
differences that nutrition sleep stress
even PD use could potentially have on
participants of one group but not the
other with a within participant design
you're essentially washing out all this
since your left arm and your right arm
are impacted similarly by your nutrition
stress sleep Etc it just allows you to
test that effect a little bit more
precisely unfortunately the sample size
in this study was relatively low at only
nine participants this is definitely
ameliorated by the fact that they were
using within participant design but nine
people still isn't a lot when training
one of their arms with the push down
exercise they went from 90° of a extend
to about 170° of elbow extension so
almost to a full lockout from about the
halfway point to a full lockout when
performing overhead extensions with the
other arm they went from 30° of elbow
extension to 110° of elbow extension so
in neither case were they getting a full
range of motion for the push down they
were actually doing shortened partials
for the overhead extension they were
actually doing lengthened partials they
measured muscle thickness of the trips'
long head using ultrasound measuring
both muscle thickness and
cross-sectional area at two sights one
more proximal sight closer to the
shoulder and one more distal sight
closer to the Elbow since hypertrophy
doesn't occur homogeneously that is to
say it doesn't occur the same across the
whole muscle certain regions might grow
a little bit more it is useful to have
multiple measurements here are the
findings in terms of muscle thickness at
both the more proximal site and the more
distal site overhead extensions resulted
in more hypertrophy however when it came
to cross-section area the results were a
little bit different in terms of total
cross-section lay area increase in the
triceps is long head both conditions
observed similar increases however in
the arm performing the overhead
extensions the participants saw
specifically a greater increase in
cross-sectional area in that distal
region of the muscle closer to the Elbow
whereas when they were doing push Downs
they saw a greater increase in
crosssectional area closer to the
shoulder in that proximal region overall
most of these hyy outcomes did favor the
overhead condition importantly though
the sample size was quite small at only
nine participants total so more studies
would be beneficial fortunately we have
just that and that's a study by mywing
colleagues with a similar design once
again they used a within participant
design wherein one arm was doing push
downs and the other arm was doing
overhead extensions however they had a
much larger sample size than the
previous study at 21 participants
similarly they did a better job of
equating for the range of motion being
gone through in the two exercises in
both the overhead extension and the push
down participants went from 90° of elbow
extension to full extension in addition
to a larger sample size and equating for
the range of motion a little bit better
they also used a slightly better method
of assessing changes in muscle size and
that is magnetic resonance imaging or
MRI they measured muscle volume of the
long head of the lateral and medial head
combined it was difficult to tell the
two apart on the scans and finally of
the triceps overall and guess what they
found they found more growth in the
triceps overall in the Long Head
specifically and in the lateral media
head combined in the overhead group
compared to the push down group in the
overhead condition they observed about
50% more growth compared to the push
down condition so when you look at these
two Studies by sasakian colleagues and
by naan colleagues broadly speaking the
following takeaways are to be had one
overhead extensions generally lead to
similar or greater hypertrophy in most
muscle groups involved in most areas a
potential exception is the proximal area
of the triceps so to cover that you
might want to have a slight Variety in
excise selection across your program
just to make sure you're getting some
stimulus for that area as well however
when it comes to overall hypertrophy
especially in the long head I suspect
overhead extensions are a better choice
importantly these findings were also
corroborated by a study by godu and
colleagues in the school Crusher in this
study they used a between participant
design where participants trained with
either a full range of motion in a
school Crusher or with a partial range
of motion somewhere between a midlength
partial and a lengthen partial the
average muscle length being trained
through in the partial range of motion
condition was longer or more stretched
than the full range of motion condition
they included 44 participants who all
needed to have at least one year of
training experience under their belt and
so this study is actually one of the
only ones conducted and trained lifters
making its results potentially even more
important for us lifters in the four
range of motion group they went through
0 to 120° of elbow flexion in the
partial range of motion group they went
from 45° of elbow flexion to 90° of
elbow flexion they measured increases in
cross-sectional area by using a formula
involving ultrasound measurements to
make a long story short the midlength to
lengthen partial group did see
substantially more hypertrophy a
substantially greater increase in
triceps cross-sectional area and so
overall when you break down these three
Studies by stasak colleagues maying
colleagues and gooing colleagues you see
that training in a more lengthened
position results in similar or greater
hypertrophy compared to training in a
more shortened position and specifically
in the studies by sasakian colleagues
and myoan colleagues it does seem like
the overhead extension is a better
choice for tricep growth overall
compared to the push down so why are
overhead extensions better is it because
you're getting the muscle more
lengthened is there anything special
about the stretch some people online
mistakenly call increased hypertrophy
from lengthened training stretch
mediated hypertrophy I believe that to
be a misnomer and I've been working on
several studies now looking at stretch
mediate hypertrophy increased
hypertrophy from lengthen training and
kind of seeing how they align with
stretch mediate hypertrophy that is a
term that originates from many animal
studies where by stretching an animal's
muscle with a relatively High Resistance
Around the Clock they often see
increases in muscle mass of 100 to 300%
in contrast we generally see increases
in muscle size of about 5 to 10% from
lifting in untrained lifters across
about 8 to 12 weeks in animals we also
see extreme things happen like increases
in the number of fibers in your muscle
which is something that we don't have
evidence for yet in humans and so to
make the jump from seeing stretch meted
hypertrophy in animals and assuming
that's exactly what's happening here
with lengthened partials is a pretty big
leap of faith however based on these
super secret studies I'm currently
involved in I can say a few things about
why lengthen training may be more
beneficial than shorten training keep in
mind these mechanisms are relatively
speculative broadly speaking a muscle
fiber can grow in one of two ways
visualize a muscle fiber as a cylinder
that muscle fiber can either increase in
size outwards and increase in its radius
which is called radial hypertrophy and
can be proxied by increases in penti
angle or increases in the length of that
muscle fiber which can be proxied by
increases in fasal length broadly
speaking with lengthen training we do
tend to see one notably higher increase
in fasal length that muscle fiber
getting longer and also slightly greater
increases in pation angle that muscle
fiber essentially getting thicker and so
two of the primary ways in which we grow
muscle appear to increase to a greater
extent following lengthen training
training that stretch position compared
to shorten training which would then
explain why we see more overall
hypertrophy for more lengthen training
than more shortened training generally
let me give you a few takeaways one
generally for tricep growth if I had to
pick one exercise the overhead extension
will likely lead to more hypertrophy
mainly in the Long Head compared to the
push down two although we observed more
hypertrophy of the medial and lateral
head and the overhead extension in the
myo study as well I would wait to see
replication of these specific results
before we put too much stalk into them
indeed muscle length shouldn't be
different between the push down and the
over extension for the lateral medial
head and finally this difference in
hypertrophy might have to do with the
idea that you see greater increases in
fasal length and pation angle from
lengthen training versus shorten
training your fiber is essentially
getting both a little bit thicker and
also a bit longer that's the video If
you enjoyed this video with the new
audio setup hopefully video looking
crisp as hell as well please leave a
comment like the video and subscribe do
you want to see me break down a
comparison of two different exercises
breaking down which one is better for
growth based on the science leave a
comment down below letting me know if
you would like me to coach you take a
look at the link above I got to pay the
bills you hear me all of this video and
audio equipment isn't going to pay for
itself that's a video have a phenomenal
day peace