if you click this video you've most
likely set the goal of trying to lose
some fat this year this is my goal for
the new year as well I'm trying to get
under 10 body fat for the first time in
a few years however if you follow
Fitness content at all you've probably
also heard that most diets fail over the
long term this is true just take a look
at this study on The Biggest Loser
contest which followed up on the
participants from the 2009 show six
years after the show was over out of the
14 people who participated in the study
only one person had kept their weight
off after six years five of the 14
subjects had regained all of their
weight back and two of the 14 ended up
weighing more than they did before the
show even started so fully half the
subjects had at least gained all their
weight back similarly this 2020
systematic review on the challenge of
keeping it off will the results have
eight separate weight loss studies and
found that while all the studies were
able to induce weight loss during the
dieting period they also all saw average
weight regain after the diet was over
with a few studies showing overshoot
beyond the original starting weight now
I think a large part of why this trend
is so common is that people often don't
realize that getting lean for a
temporary time frame like a fitness
event or a wedding or a photo shoot is a
different goal with a different set of
strategies than getting lean and staying
lean over the long term now before we
get into those strategies to get
everyone on the same page give me one
minute to explain how fat loss actually
works fat loss occurs because of a
caloric deficit this means that you're
consuming less calories than you're
burning you consume calories by eating
food and you burn calories in four ways
there's your resting energy expenditure
which is the number of calories your
body Burns just sitting there so to keep
your heart beating and so on there's
your exercise activity thermogenesis
this is the number of calories you burn
from exercising there's your non-line
exercise activity thermogenesis or neat
this is any activity that isn't exercise
so stuff like getting up sitting down
typing and tapping your fingers and then
there's the thermic effect of food which
is the small number of calories your
body Burns digesting the foods you eat
so let's say we add all that up and it
comes out to 2000 500 calories burned
over the course of a day and then we
tally up everything you ate that day and
it was 3 000 calories that would mean
you ran a 500 calorie Surplus for that
day but if instead of 3 000 calories you
only ate 2 000 calories now that would
mean you ran a 500 calorie deficit for
the day and if you sustained that 500
calorie deficit over time you'd lose
about one pound per week which is
actually a reasonable Target for most
people to aim for so that's all pretty
simple but there's a very important part
that many people Miss it's important to
realize that as you lose weight the
number of calories you burn will
decrease this is called metabolic
adaptation as you lose weight you won't
burn as many calories through resting
energy expenditure because your body is
getting smaller you won't burn as many
calories per unit of exercise because
your body is becoming more energetically
efficient you won't burn as many
calories through meat because your body
is becoming less hyperactive in fidgety
and you won't burn as many calories
through the thermic effect of food
because you're eating less food so keep
in mind that the 500 calorie deficit you
started out with probably won't be a 500
calorie deficit after a few weeks or
months of dieting and that's because
when you decrease the number of calories
you're eating you also indirectly
decrease the number of calories you're
burning and sometimes these adaptations
can happen very quickly even within days
so to account for metabolic adaptation
which will occur you may need to lower
calories a bit further to keep up with
your desired rate of weight loss or you
can simply accept the fact that your
weight loss may take a bit longer than
expected alright so in order for any fat
loss diet to work it needs to have three
crucial things a sustained caloric
deficit to cause fat loss weight
training to support muscle mass and
enough protein to support muscle mass
usually 1.6 to 2.2 grams of protein per
kilogram of body weight or 0.7 to 1 gram
per pound is a good Target to aim for
and pretty much everything else
including the number of meals you eat
the timing of those meals and what
specific Foods you focus on can be
largely dictated by your own individual
preferences so those are the basics for
how you lose fat now from here most
people turn to short-term strategies to
try to get that fat off as quickly as
possible but this is a mistake yes all
the most popular fad diets will cause
fat loss in the short term that's what
actually caused them to become so
popular in the first place but low
calorie crash diets tend to result in
more muscle loss and eventual weight
regain and yes isolating yourself from
social events and avoiding restaurants
may help you fend off tempting foods for
some time but can also deteriorate your
relationships and eventually make the
diet feel unsustainable and yes cutting
out entire food groups may help you
avoid overeating for a while but can
eventually lead to nutrient deficiencies
and uncontrollable Cravings that make
weight regain inevitable so if you want
to not just get lean but stay lean you
need to take a better approach so next
let's dig into three specific strategies
that'll help you not only lose the fat
but keep it off over the long term the
third strategy on my list is the most
frequently neglected in my experience
but also probably the most important
alright the first long-term strategy is
to diet more slowly so that it barely
even feels like you're dieting at all
now the general science-based cutting
rule is that you should aim to lose
around 0.5 to 1 percent of your body
weight per week on a fat loss phase so
if you weigh 200 pounds right now you
should try to lose one to two pounds per
week or in other words if you want to
cut 20 pounds it should take you 10 to
20 weeks to get there this is what I
typically recommend as well however
there may be some benefits to going even
slower in fact on my own current weight
loss Journey I've lost 24 pounds or 11
kilos and that Journey has taken me 40
weeks or just about nine months I
started my cut at 187 pounds or 85 kilos
and now I'm down to 163 pounds or 74
kilos that evens out to an average
weight loss of just over half a pound
per week and because I've taken my sweet
time with it the weight loss itself has
felt incredibly easy ridiculously easy
I've been eating out at restaurants
going out with friends eating pizza and
Sushi and the slower pace of things has
helped me be very chill about my diet
now you can see a few times here where
my weight spiked noticeably the first
bike was in the middle of August when
some friends came to visit Stephanie in
Toronto we were eating out almost every
night I gained two or three pounds that
week but when I back it's really just a
tiny blip in the overall trend this
other Spike lasted for most of November
I gained four pounds that month but I
was visiting stuff in New Orleans it was
during Thanksgiving and again it's not a
big deal at all when you zoom out and
look at the overall trend and I think
this mindset is not only okay but
actually smarter because it'll help you
not only be chill throughout the diet
process it'll help you stay chill once
you get to your goal weight by going
slow you won't feel deprived or eager to
get off the diet because you won't feel
like you've been dieting very hard all
along this will help you maintain the
leanness you eventually reach much more
easily and I think it'll be worth that
extra bit of time it takes for you to
get there so to make sure you're losing
around that ideal rate of 0.5 to 1
percent of body weight per week I'd
recommend a caloric deficit around 20
percent below your current maintenance
to do this simply take the calories you
need to maintain your weight right now
and slash 20 from it if you don't know
how to find your maintenance calories
I'll put two methods up here on the
screen that you can pause and read and
of course if you don't want to track
calories at all you can instead focus on
tracking your body weight while making
intuitive Common Sense lower calorie
food choice choices most of the time for
some people those simple Common Sense
choices will be enough to get things
moving for others a tool like
intermittent fasting can be very helpful
or if you're like me to relieve tracking
stress you can just Loosely track
calories and protein without worrying
about the carbon fat numbers so for
example if I'm eating something that's
harder to find the exact macros for like
a specialty sushi roll I can just
eyeball it as five or six hundred
calories and call it a day this way it
only takes me a total of maybe five
minutes a day to track what I eat I
should also mention that in addition to
giving yourself plenty of time to get
lean you also need to give yourself a
realistic end Target no matter how slow
you go you simply can't expect to
maintain six percent body fat all year
round at a certain point your sleep
libido energy and mood will all plummet
and all you'll ever be able to think
about is food so even if you could do it
this isn't a state of existence worth
maintaining anyway generally speaking
most men can expect to maintain
something between 10 and 20 body fat
which looks something like this granted
I do think that your starting place can
impact where you end up for example if
you've been sitting at a 40 body fat for
10 years it might be harder for you to
maintain 20 body fat than it is for
someone who's genetically leaner to
maintain eight percent body fat but you
just need to find an end point that's
realistic for you and realize that
everyone is unique in terms of how low
they can comfortably go someone else's
eight percent might be your 18 and
that's okay for women the realistic
range tends to be between 18 and 28 body
fat which looks something like this and
once again the bottom line is that if
you're trying to maintain a physique
that's leaner than your genetic body fat
set range it'll be very hard for you to
sustain even if you do everything else
right okay the second long-term strategy
is to leverage habits to make the diet
feel as easy as possible regardless of
how motivated you feel right now as you
watch this video eventually your
motivation will dip back down when that
happens and it will happen if you
haven't built the right habits you'll
most likely start veering off track
however if you can operate on autopilot
you've got nothing to worry about when
this happens so I want to share a couple
of my favorite science-based habit
building techniques that you can use to
make your life a whole lot easier in
those later stages when most people slip
up the first habit building technique is
called Temptation bundling this is when
you pair an activity that you already
want to do with an activity that
supports your weight loss goal for
example I really enjoy watching true
crime video essays on YouTube this
Behavior comes naturally for me but I
don't love doing cardio and I'm often
tempted to skip it however if I link the
more enjoyable activity of watching
crime videos with the less enjoyable
activity of doing cardio a much less
tempted to skip the cardio some of my
bodybuilder friends do this by playing
video games while hitting their cardio
at home as another example if you're
trying to build the habit of meal
prepping on Sundays try saving your
favorite podcast for when it's time to
do your meal prep that way you'll make
that new Behavior more gratifying in the
moment my other habit building technique
is to align your everyday environment
with your goals for example if there's a
particular food that you consistently
overeat maybe leave it on the Shelf next
time you're grocery shopping or if
you're regularly stress eating at night
keep alternative stress relievers like
video games books and puzzles close by
so you can use them for stress relief
instead if you're missing gym time in
the morning because you scroll on your
phone before getting out of bed try
leaving your phone in a different room
or picking up an old school alarm clock
to get you up faster now if you do
everything that I've said in this video
so far or even most of what I've said
you will reach your goal you absolutely
will however that's not the end once
you've reached your goal you need a plan
for what to do next and this is the part
that almost everyone neglects so my
third and final strategy is to have a
smart post diet plan now there are two
very common mistakes that I see people
make after reaching their fat loss goal
the first and probably most common
mistake is when people just don't have
any post diet plan at all in this case
as motivation decreases they revert back
to their old eating habits and gradually
creep up up in wait until eventually
they're back to square one the solution
here is pretty simple you just need a
post diet plan we'll get to that in a
minute the second mistake which is more
common amongst the more sciencey Fitness
crowd is meticulous reverse dieting this
can be just as bad as the first mistake
if it drags out the diet unnecessarily
keeps you hungry for longer than you
need to be and leads to an eventual
breakdown of willpower now I'm planning
to cover reverse dieting in detail in a
future video but for now reverse dieting
is when you gradually increase your
calories from your deficit intake up to
your maintenance intake over the course
of several weeks or months and even
though it's quite popular I don't
actually recommend it as part of a post
diet plan instead I recommend going to
your new maintenance calories right away
if you no longer have the goal of losing
weight why be in a caloric deficit if
you're not cutting anymore you should
get to maintenance and get on with your
new goal of maintaining now finding your
new maintenance calories at the end of a
diet can take a bit of trial and error
but for the most part should be
something around 200 to 600 calories
above what you were eating at the end of
your cut so let's say you're eating 2000
calories by the end of your diet the
very next day you should boost your
calories up to 2 200 to 2 600 calories
probably closer to 2600 if you didn't
crash diet from there you should aim to
more gradually increase your calories
until you get them as high as possible
while still maintaining your body weight
on average so let's say your cut is over
and you go ahead and bump your calories
up to your new maintenance intake of
2600 calories that's a great start but
it doesn't mean that 2600 calories is
now a fixed maintenance for you you
should instead think of your maintenance
as a dynamic range meaning you might be
able to maintain your weight by eating
anything from 2600 to 3 000 calories so
over time you should try to increase
your calories toward the top end of your
maintenance calorie range this process
doesn't need to be long and dragged out
either simply monitor your average
weight trend from week to week and if
you're still more or less maintaining it
may be time to add some calories and the
reason this is a good idea isn't because
it's a special trick for boosting your
metabolism but rather because if you can
eat more food you'll feel less
restricted which will make it easier for
you to maintain your
more food also improves training
performance which is always a good thing
especially if you're looking to enter a
lean gaining phase after your cut of
course if you don't like to track
calories you should still continue to
track your body weight once your cut is
over regular weighing has been
associated with better long-term weight
maintenance in the scientific literature
and that behavior alone will help keep
you accountable to your new goal of
maintaining of course this doesn't mean
you need to weigh yourself every single
day but I usually do recommend weighing
yourself at least two or three days a
week during a maintenance phase as long
as doing so doesn't give you any
emotional stress now before we wrap it
up I'd like to take a minute to
recommend the macro Factor app is yet
another tool that you can use to help
you reach your fat loss goals I'm a part
owner of the app and I've been involved
in the app's development since day one
and I truly believe it's the best
nutrition app on the market first of all
unlike most diet apps it isn't just a
food logger it's quite literally a
nutrition coach that uses science-based
algorithms to detect changes in your
metabolism and make adjustments to your
food intake based on your individual
weekly check-ins this is insanely
helpful for accountability also unlike
most apps macro Factor was designed with
both weight loss and weight maintenance
in mind in fact after you've reached
your weight loss goal there's something
called Dynamic maintenance mode that'll
help you keep your weight within plus or
minus two pounds of your end weight this
is a huge feature that I haven't seen
any other diet apps use it also has the
fastest food logger in existence which
means tracking really shouldn't feel
like a chore once you give it a few days
to get the hang of it and then unlike
any other app I'm aware of it also
doesn't punish you if you miss a day
here and there so you can be more chill
about your diet overall so if this
sounds like something you'd like to try
out for yourself you can get a free
two-week trial of macrofactor at the
first link in the description box below
there's also a very active Facebook
group and subreddit that I keep an eye
on where you can ask questions or post
updates I find these communities are
really helpful for accountability so if
you do sign up make sure you get in
there as well alright that's it for this
one guys thank you so much for watching
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one