thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video okay welcome everyone to a
new episode of myth-busting to be
looking at the idea that some cooking
methods are better than others when it
comes to retaining the nutritional
quality of vegetables this video will be
somewhat of a follow up from my previous
myth bust on fresh versus frozen fruits
and vegetables so if you haven't had a
chance to watch that one yet I'd
recommend checking it out so first why
is it that some people think certain
cooking methods are better than others
and well it seems to come from two main
factors heat and water higher cooking
temperatures are claimed to break down
or destroy certain vitamins like vitamin
C and more water is claimed to cause
water soluble vitamins to leach out and
be lost in the cooking process and while
there certainly does appear to be some
truth to these claims often the cited
studies are examining just one specific
vegetable and usually only test one or
two different cooking methods making it
difficult to get a good view on their
nutritional quality and although these
studies do usually reveal one cooking
method to be superior to the others
forming general conclusions from these
findings can be misleading since it
makes the assumption that the same
vitamin or phytochemical will behave in
the same way in different vegetables
this problem was highlighted in one 2015
paper where researchers examine
differences in folate carotenoids
and vitamin C content and 13 frozen
vegetables after boiling in water
steaming pressure steaming or microwave
cookin and as you can see here in the
table there was a lot of data and as it
turns out what cooking method is better
depends on what nutrients are looking at
and what vegetable you're cooking so
just looking here at whole spinach
branch we can see that beta-carotene a
precursor for vitamin A was preserved
best actually increased by 24% from
steaming
however with hashed spinach pressure
cooking was better than Stephen and I
know a lot of people are wary of
microwave use and its effects on
nutrition but this same study showed
that beta carotene levels increased in
sliced carrots by 12% after microwave
and according to a science-based
medicine article on microwaves and
nutrition microwave cooking is a safe
technology it's fast and convenient and
as it turns out has a favorable profile
in terms of the
effects on food nutrition but that
doesn't necessarily make microwaving the
best cooking option across the board one
2015 review came to the conclusion that
steaming seems to be the best cooking
method for maintaining nutritional
quality however these researchers only
looked at pinto beans peas broccoli
onions and potatoes and this conclusion
in particular seems to have come mostly
from their findings on broccoli so the
only real consistent trend across the
literature was that boiling often
performed the worst and is finding
actually agrees with the common advice
to avoid high temperatures and lots of
water especially for vitamin C content
since boiling did in fact retain the
least amount of vitamin C for all 14
vegetables in the bureau step however
considering the high degree of variation
in the cooking methods i tend to agree
with the author's conclusion that the
absence of general results for all
components and all vegetables except for
boiling highlights the difficulty in
giving a simple real recommendation for
the cook to best preserve the
nutritional quality of frozen vegetables
so to wrap this one up I would say that
the idea that some cooking methods are
superior to others in terms of retaining
nutritional quality especially when it
comes to vegetables is somewhat busted
although it may be possible to in
concept select the best cooking method
for each specific vegetable and then for
each specific nutrient I would say this
is extremely impractical to say the
least I would be aware that on average
steaming might be a bit better and
boiling might be a bit worse but I think
the most practical advice is to try to
include a variety of cooking methods if
you can and above all else simply have a
diet that's filled with a variety of
different fruits and vegetables um so
that's it for this one guys before we go
I want to thank Squarespace for
sponsoring this video
many of you guys have probably seen my
new website and I just finished
rebranding and redesigning it and I
think it looks pretty sweet and of
course this was all done within the
Squarespace platform now which I've
personally used to run my own website in
my own online store for the last three
years Squarespace is the platform that I
recommend and they have really aesthetic
designer custom templates in 24 hour
customer support which I used a lot
through my own redesigning process I'm
so if you guys would like to get started
with your own website or your own online
store you can go to Squarespace com
forward-slash Newport and that'll save
you 10% off your first purchase so thank
you again Squarespace for supporting the
channel thank you guys so much for
watching I really appreciate it if you
haven't subscribed already make sure you
do so and I've got a new vlog on the way
for all you guys next Monday so I'll see
you all here again on July the 23rd for
a new myth bus