here are the exercises I think are best
to build the ABS aka the six pack
according to the
science welcome back sixpack shortcuts
AKA Mike Chang here bringing you another
ketogenic fat burning diet and sixpack
abing workout wait a sec that ain't who
I am Dr mother Warfare PhD and Sport
Science with wolf coaching bringing you
AB training science before we go into
what the best abex sizes actually are we
need to understand what they do and I
think this is actually one of the most
common mistakes in the gym and that's
misunderstanding what the ABS are
responsible for broadly speaking as far
as Aesthetics go I think we can group
the ab musculature into three distinct
categories the first is the Rex
abdominus or the six-pack muscle the
second is the obliques by and large
internal and external and the third is
the transverse abdominis muscle first we
have the rectus abdominis and because it
literally looks like a pack it is going
to be the most important for our
purposes here training it directly is
going to be the biggest yield in terms
of aesthetic improvements importantly
the rectus abdominis is responsible for
spinal flexion the exact thing you're
told you need to avoid during the
deadlift having your spine round is what
you want to do when you're training your
abs next we have the external and
internal obliques importantly these are
also responsible for spinal flexion
meaning that whenever you train directus
abdominis muscle you will get some
internal and external liic stimulus as
well however these two muscles are also
responsible for lateral flexion of the
spine so essentially bending sideways
and lateral rotation of the spine and if
you do have an oblique machine at your
gym in all likelihood it is targeting
rotation of the spine as a means to
train the obliques and finally the
obliques are also responsible for
intraabdominal pressure or essentially
bracing importantly the obliques are not
a muscle that you need to train 100% or
else your physique is going to be awful
for a lot of people if you do want to
grow your obliques it's going to be a
case of all right let me do some direct
oblique work once a week to get the
highest returns I can on my time spent
training obliques you're not going to be
isolating them four or five times a week
they are quite low for most people on
the list of priority muscles to grow
it's very much akin to training your
wrist extensors directly for a lot of
people and finally we have the transfers
abdominis I don't think you need to
worry about training it directly and
that's because the transfers abdominis
is predominantly responsible for
intraabdominal pressure that bracing
action we spoke about earlier that you
would get sufficiently from a variety of
compound movements like the squat and
the deadlift in all likelihood but
Additionally the transverse abdominis
just isn't that big it's not
aesthetically impressive and so for most
people if you're going for Aesthetics I
wouldn't worry about it based on this
Anatomy we have a few logical
conclusions one we need at least one
exercise to effectively train this
musculature of the rectus abdominis the
six-pack muscle and the obliques and
that is an excise that needs to involve
spinal flexion when it comes to muscles
that are predominantly responsible for
intraabdominal pressure just doing some
compound lifting in your program like
some sort of squatting variation some
sort of deadlifting variation will
likely cover you to a sufficient extent
when it comes to those muscle groups we
don't care about quite as much anyways
so let's talk spinal flexion because I
think this is one of the biggest
mistakes when it comes to AB training
and that's not understanding how to
train the ABS a lot of people when
they're training their abs are
prioritizing a ton of hip flexion which
is the opposite of an RDL you're
essentially bring your torso closer to
your thighs but they're not really
changing spinal positioning all that
much you want to look like cat
stretching and someone performing a very
round back deadlift during your ab
exercises you want to hyperextend your
spine getting a deep stretch on your abs
and you also want to Crunch down in your
spine looking like you're pulling with a
round back on deadlift whenever you're
training your abs try and prioritize
actual spinal flexion and extension as
opposed to hip flexion so we just
learned about the anatomy of the ABS now
we know how to train them but we don't
really know what exercises to pick
because there are a lot of exercises and
some of them aren't very good and some
of them are going to be better what do
we look for in a good abex size well we
look for the exact same things we look
for an any good muscle growth exercise
and here's a list of criteria that make
an exercise good first we need to be
targeting one of the primary functions
of the muscle we care about for the ABS
as a whole that's going to be one spinal
flexion so making sure sure your back is
extending and flexing during the
movement is a good start lateral flexion
of the spine which would then Target the
obliques you could certainly do rotation
if you have a machine that allows for it
but for lower people lateral flexion is
going to be a better option next up the
target muscle group should be the
limiting factor and therefore be trained
close to failure sure the hanging leg
Ray is a convenient option you just need
a pull a bar and you can get going but
equally your forarms can give up first
you can get a nasty lat pump that is
going to have you stop the set early
there's a lot of things that can go
wrong before your abs actually reach
failure next whatever exercise we do
pick for muscle growth should be stretch
friendly and that means three things
first it should get the Tet muscle group
into a stretched position second it
should Place plenty of tension in that
stretch position and finally ideally it
would be length and partial friendly
getting a stretch in the ABS means that
the exercise allows you get a decent bit
of spinal extension having tension there
means that it's a difficult part of the
range of motion and the exercise being
length and partial friendly might be
beneficial as we have a line of research
now suggesting that length and partials
might lead to more muscle growth
compared to a full range of motion when
it comes to the stretch position some
machines straight up don't allow you to
get a full stretch in your abs when it
comes to the resistance curve certain
exercises are going to be better than
others for example the ab wheel roll out
is going to be most challenging in that
relatively lengthened position making it
a potentially good option for ab
hypertrophy and finally we have a couple
of bonus points these are only going to
be relevant in certain situations first
certain exercises are more time
efficient than others generally the
exercises involving just your body
weight dumbbells or a stack loaded
machine or cable are going to be more
time efficient compared to exercises
that require some setup when it comes to
the weight or the equipment required
from the exercise like a lot of Farwell
exercises generally dumbbell cables
stack load machines are going to be more
time efficient and if you're someone
with limited time to train this is
fairly important and the second bonus
point is microl loadability or
essentially how small is the smallest
increment you can adjust the load by
relative to how much load you're using
here something like a body weight
movement generally doesn't do super well
just because you're stuck with using at
minimum your body weight but ultimately
provided you're sufficiently strong to
do the exercise for at least five reps
per set it's not a huge deal you can
simply progress by adding reps week to
we and indeed a study of Plotkin
colleagues shows similar hypertrophy
whether you're adding reps week to we or
adding weight week to week so for
hypertrophy microl loadability not a
huge concern without further Ado now
we've discussed the anatomy of the ABS
that then inform how we train them and
the criteria that make different
exercises better or worse for muscle
growth let me give you my two best picks
when it comes to spinal flexion
exercises that is to say exercises that
predominantly Target the re abdominis
and the obliques and then lateral
flexion exercises which will
predominantly Target the oblique
musculature I'm going to give you a few
options here for spinal flexion one
great option for example is the cable
crunch or the machine crunch if you have
a good machine available provided you
have a good machine available both of
these exercises allow you to get a full
stretch in your abs by extending your
spine fully you can set them up to have
a reasonable amount of tension in that
position they're both length and partial
friendly they're reasonably stable you
can easily adjust a load on them you're
not constrained by body weight it's just
a solid option all around the main
technique cue here is going to be
emphasized spinal flexion and extension
and not so much hip movement ultimately
the main function of the ABS does seem
to be spinal flexion next we have the
decline crunch now this is a great
option because you can both get your abs
lengthened and have plenty of tension in
that position but it does come with a
short coming of not being as micr
loadable and honestly just being a
pretty hard exercise that beginners may
not be able to do properly once again
the main technical cue on this is going
to be to focus on spinal extension and
flexion and not so much hip flexion and
extension and the final couple exercises
I would recommend for growing the re
abdominis musculature is going to be the
dragon flag and the ab wheel roll out
while neither of these put a huge
stretch on the ABS both of these
movements are very challenging in that
relatively lengthened position
potentially making them a decent option
for hypertrophy with that being said
with how challenging both of these are
for the roll out you could do them
either kneeling or standing depending on
how strong you are I'm definitely doing
a kneeling cuz you know bulk went too
far so while you do have some options
with the roll out not so much for the
dragon flag and so instead if you're not
strong enough for Dragon Flags I would
recommend the lying leg raise instead
just like the dragon flag this exercise
is most challenging at the bottom of the
rep when your abs are relatively
lengthened for both ab and oblique work
one major ship I have to make it more
engaging and less boring is to superet
it with calw two evil Birds one stone by
super setting them it becomes less
boring and I find myself not enjoying it
but at least doing it which is good and
finally for the best oblique exercise
for growing those obliques that you may
or may not want to grow that dumbbell
side bent either standing or seated the
seated variation may make it a little
bit easier for you to focus on lateral
flexion and may also reduce fatigue ever
so slightly by being seated as opposed
to standing whereas the standing
variation requires less equipment and
personally that matters to me when I
trade in a busy joke importantly both
are essentially plug andplay you grab a
dumbbell and you get going they're
typically more available than the rotary
torso machine which as I mentioned
earlier is the only machine you'll often
see in commercial gyms to train your
obliques directly via one of their
functions minus the machine crunch and
so it's widely available it provides you
with a good stretch essentially as good
of a stretch as you can make it both of
these variations are length and partial
friendly and as a small bonus as Jeffrey
pointed out in my reaction to his
training they do actually also train
between the OS to an extent anyways that
is the video I just broke down AB
science 101 gave you some good exercises
to train both your Reus abdominis the
six-pack muscle and the obliques so
hopefully you should come away from this
video knowing what exercise to do to
maximize your ab hyper if you enjoyed
this video please like comment subscribe
comment down below what other muscle
groups you want to see me break down the
best exercises for subscribe I know like
half of you are not subscribe to my
channel watching this video right now I
will personally come to your house and
start crying my eyes out about how few
subscribers I have please just subscribe
in the meantime have a phenomenal day
and I'll see you guys my subscribers in
that next one peace