and I have a total of I believe three
sets on both of these are going to be
taken to an 11 RP of less than zero
R so you motherfuckers better wake up to
this
[Music]
shit folks Dr Mike here for Anan
periodization this is Dr Eric Helms and
he represents a 3D muscle journey and
himself of course he is in the gym
training super evidence-based he is a
natural professional bodybuilder he is
40 years old he is weighing about 185
LBS or so so between 185 190 whoa big
man and we are going to be following him
around he's going to do his normal
training he's got a couple interesting
things he does couple of sciency things
couple of unique exercises let's chat
with Eric let's watch his workout I'm
going to ask questions here and there
and we'll see how it goes you ready I'm
ready let's do it so we're starting with
a uh single arm pull down the idea here
is we're trying to get a little more
stretch than you can normally get
bilaterally just so we're training at a
longer muscle length also ideally I want
to choose a machine or some type of row
that makes it harder in the initial
phase so the tension is higher at that
longer muscle length that's probably
going to increase muscle growth on
average this machine the force curve
just playing with it it's not super
biased towards here so what we're going
to do is we're actually just going to
overload it and then we're going to do
like the 2/3 partial so we're just going
to focus on the initial phase not trying
to bring it all the way down and we're
training in the 5 to8 rep range and
we're training to hit like a roughly a
one R in the first set of four and then
we're just going to let the fatigue
accumulate um and get closer to failure
on that last third or fourth
set now what we're going to do to save
time is what we're going to do is called
an antagonist paired set so once I
figure out what what the working weight
is here as soon as I I finish and I hit
the the target rep range the target R
we're going to go over and do some
incline work for my chest and we're
going to alternate those there's a lot
of good data to suggest that doesn't
compromise performance because they're
antagonists so essentially the local
muscle is resting or even being you know
moved through an active range without
Contracting while the other muscle group
is being trained so you can be more
efficient without compromising strength
or volume not something to do with like
compound leg exercises obviously but for
chest back bicep tricep isolation on the
quad hammy that's a great way to be more
efficient with your
[Music]
time this is a great machine you can
feel it's a lot of tension right at the
bottom it's not too hard to lock out
compared to starting it off it's exactly
what we want I would love to be someone
who responds to low volumes but in the
upper body I'm not so I have to get a
fair amount of work done to progress
especially at this stage of my career
where I'm 40 and I'm trying to make
actually a dent in the Pro ranks I have
to do a fair amount of volume so I need
time-saving techniques so yeah we'll go
ahead and call that a warm-up cuz again
we're also going to be in the 5 to8 rep
range on this so I need to go reasonably
heavy but we're probably just going to
add another 10 kilos on there on each
side oh fck yeah there it
is all
right
yeah
error all right so that was nine reps
and I do think I could have gotten
another rep so we'll go up slightly and
loow on the next five five yes the
service the service I get here at RP Mr
Helms thank you very much cool so that's
first working weight number
one
yeah let's go ER that's perfect loading
beautiful that of seven reps probably a
one rir it's kind of hard to gauge rir
on back work because there's no obvious
stopping point you just you can't pull
this far but it's one of the benefits to
kind of doing the lengthen partial that
I was doing
there all right match it up on this
side
all right I love the fact that this is
chest supported too cuz it prevents you
from angling into it and actually losing
the stretch on your lat and of course
it's just nice to brace against and
we're back to chest press God damn this
is the easiest job I've ever fucking had
fellas do your thing Mr
Helms
[Music]
yep yep yep yep
yep yep so that was probably another one
R set think I could have killed myself
to get another one but we went up 5
kilos and now we're in the rep range at
did eight not nine Eric sir do you count
that last work set here as a sorry that
last set as a work set even though it
was a little bit off the Target rep
range yes super super absolutely um I
mean we're one rep away from the target
rep range yeah if IID started that load
I have enough experience where oh I
would have hit 15 I would have just
stopped on three reps and called it a
warm up extra warm up perfect
exactly let's do
it yeah all right so I train up body
like three and a half times per week
this is all based upon what do I need to
bring up to be competitive highly
individualized very different from what
my clients might use my the other
coaches at 3dmj historically I've seen
this over and over my upper body
recovers fast so you'll see that I do a
lot more my upper body vers my lower and
that's what's produced the balanced
physique is a relatively unbalanced
program yeah fuck
yeah so that was seven still in the
range that was no more rir but probably
not complete all out hardest it could
have
been all
right so you might be wondering if I
have an rpu range like start at 9ine let
it progress up to 10 or a one r R to
zero R and if I have a rep range what
does progression look like what we use
is called Dynamic double progression
where essentially within the rep range
I'm trying to work towards the top of it
while being within the RP constraints so
when do I go to go up and load because
double progression is kind of modeled
after is the idea that once you hit a
certain rep Target that's the first
marker to get to double that's you
increase load so let's say doing 3 sets
of 8 to 12 once you can do three sets of
12 with that load then you're allowed to
go up an increment and you start
building back from the bottom within
that I'm then also stopping at a given R
so when I'm allowed to progress in the 5
to8 rep range starting at a deer a one r
or a 9 RP if I can do a load for eight
reps at one R in my first set that's
when I'm allowed to go up cuz cumulative
fatigue will accumulate in different
ways and sometimes you'll fall out of
that rep range exceed the RP Target but
if that first set I'm able to do that
for multiple weeks I know next week
using my training log it'll pick it
up
finish
finish shit
yeah yep that was probably close to a a
Max effort yo man I had at least five on
that motherfucker you try it three more
[Music]
please
[Music]
all right so that's the first pairing
now we've got a rowing movement and then
we also have a flat bench variation that
we're going to use so okay my name is Dr
Mike and I'm Eric Helm's plate boy my
hobbies are uh collecting uh model cars
and uh sometimes I also collect
stamps let's cheuck a 10 on I think and
the rep range is slightly different for
these now we're just shifting into
another rep range for the workout 6 to
[Music]
10 now one thing that I do that I do
specifically because my midback needs to
come up is that after I finish the row
I'm actually going to just do midback
shrugs so once I've actually fatigued
the lat I'm going to get a little more
work into my upper back which typically
has a lot more juice left so even though
I might get eight nine 10 reps hit near
failure I'll still be able to get
another eight or nine just focusing on
scap of the
retraction all
[Music]
right and shrug
[Music]
[Music]
Eric um earlier you said something to
the effect
of not only does your upper body grow a
little slower than your legs but it
seems to recover faster do you think
that maybe has something to do with
fiber type or do you think that's not
something we can include at this point I
honestly don't think we have the the
mechanistic information on that yet I
think that's certainly possible it could
be part of it one thing I will say is at
least on the fatigue side of things um
there are data not necessarily always in
resistance training but there's an
interesting study where they looked at I
think middle distance Runners and they
went through an overreaching block and
the overreaching was more likely to be
non-functional meaning that the
performance decreased to a greater
extent didn't recover in the athletes
who are more predominant and fast switch
fibers it's a different sport obviously
we're extrapolating a bit here but you
know there's other data there to
indicate simil other things um I would
guess in a multiple regression it would
play a role but I would guess it's maybe
not the most dominant Factor just
because there's so many other things
going on um so for example you typically
see better set to set recovery on
average when training Sub maximally in
women and that probably has more to do
with blood flow or other factors which
is one of the reasons I think maybe it's
not just primarily a fiber type sure
what about total muscle size in
relationship to the rest of your body
like you're Jack just going to beat you
up to train if you're not super Jack and
strong you can train all the time and
recover absolutely and actually you know
um basically oxygen delivery and
metabolite a surface area thing surface
area volume mus sizes volum volum thing
so you're off by a huge Factor yes and
there's even some thoughts that might be
part of the reason why you struggle to
get bigger and one of the limiting
factors could be something related to
that yeah as uh regulated by myo stattin
which is trying to make sure your
myclear domain ceiling doesn't get all
fucked up and there's certainly
questions as to the um validity of or
the role of myonuclear domain theory in
muscle memory and at what point do you
need it to get bigger and all that so
this is still all interesting stuff
we're uncovering
But ultimately what you're going to be
doing if you're in the gym with yourself
is just looking at how often can I train
and how hard can I train in those
sessions and still recover still recover
and most importantly progress because I
do think sometimes there's a
disassociation between what someone can
recover from and what they will benefit
from take the beating versus improve
exactly you know i' it's it's it's an IM
it's an impure comparison but I've often
said that um you know crossfitters
aren't they do have impressive
muscularity and and they've accustomed
the themselves to being able to train
with very high volumes and recover from
it in time but I don't think indivs
would go well that's the volume they
need to grow as well of hyper training
right and they might in the short term
need that to grow but if they backed off
a little bit they become more sensitive
to volume they may not need to make so
many volume improvements in there to
actually get the growth get it getting
stronger be better at them yeah I I
think there is probably some anchoring
that is um more robust and a larger part
of this part of the signal to the noise
in what is just an inherent appropriate
volume for it quote unquote you that can
be moved by training but I anyone who's
worried about oh man I I got really
nervous I started doing 50 sets per week
am I going to able to grow on 20 almost
assuredly you know you were probably
just doing 50 sets because you did 50
sets and I don't think there's that you
can be like oh well I'm stuck at 50
because I've done it I've just seen too
many times where I take someone who's
massively overdoing volume and they
start growing because we reduce it yes
and also uh per recent data from all of
these really high set stud studies uh
and recent data aerated by a lot of Milo
wolf and Dr pack are talking about this
a lot that for a lot of people you grow
some muscle doing three sets a week and
you grow a lot more doing 52 sets a week
but you grow muscle at various rates at
every interpolation point in between so
when people say like my body's used to
50 man I got to do 52 or 54 there's no
way 50 is going to do it like no even 30
is going to do it even 10 is going to do
it just at a different rate and it may
be a better rate if you're so far close
to your V that your body's barely trying
to recover doesn't have time to get you
jacked yeah absolutely and sometimes we
focus too much on the most recent kind
of controversial study Like the quote
unquote 52 set study forgetting that we
have a meta analysis with 10 times that
power sure so I don't care that the most
recent 50 quote unquote 52 set study had
non-significant results importantly
favoring the group that eventually got
the 52 sets I care about what the meta
analytic data says and that's indicating
that most people are going to do great
and somewhere in like 8 to 12 set range
probably is a great place to start and
focusing on quality so we're going to do
Cable
Crossovers and then we're also going to
do a single arm cable push down which
I'll show you and we're going to change
it so we're actually taking the chest
out of it so we can do it with the
Crossovers and antagonist pair set so
this is just another opportunity to
train the chest from another angle
another rep range and I have a total of
I believe three sets on both of these
are going to be taken to an 11 RP of
less than zero
r so you motherfuckers better wake up to
this
[Music]
shit
there we
go there we go
Eric yeah so that's actual momentary
muscular failure I attempted a rep I
didn't know if I would get didn't get it
so I'm going to count that as 12 at at
10 11 an 11 RP or less than zero R I
don't know now the exercise were ING
with it is a laat push down a straight
arm lap push down kind of like the cable
single arm version of a dumbbell
pullover except unlike a dumbbell
pullover or a lat prayer which at the
top does actually hit the pecs so you
think about it the PEC is lengthened in
full shoulder flexion so for the initial
part of shoulder extension the PE is
actually doing part of that action so to
cut the peck out of it since I just
fatigued the hell out of it we're
starting already at the 90° Angle now
the downside of that is we're losing
some stretch on the lat so how do we
account for that that I simply angle it
so I'm reaching around my rib cage and
I'm actually getting stretch on the lat
but taking the peck out so it's a nice
way to actually allow these to be an
antagonist paired set yep let's
[Music]
go all
[Music]
right
[Music]
okay so one of the most common shoulder
exercises is lat race uh the one one of
the most common variations is a dumbbell
lateral race um and make no mistake in
competitive bodybuilding the appearance
of a Vaper and especially in men's open
division bodybuilding
the delts are arguably the most
important muscle in the upper body um
however the dumbbell lateral Rays has a
profile just because of where gravity is
where it gets increasingly harder as the
muscle gets shorter which isn't the best
pairing for an otherwise ideal exercise
so could even say it's backwards yes uh
one of the ideal ways to even out that
Force curve and actually have an
emphasis throughout or at the start is
to do a cable lle wrist and one way to
put even more emphasis in a more
lengthened position is to pull either
across your body or if you have a
pathetically small set of glutes because
you're still trying to eat your way out
of contest condition behind the back one
really has to depend on shoulder
Mobility shoulder comfortability and
bout size now what I'm going to do is a
drop set one thing that I will say is
that the data indicates this might be
slightly less efficient than straight
sets so if you maybe you need to do an
extra set or two compared to three so
I'm going to do four drops and I kind of
think of that as three sets of lateral
raises I counted as four honestly it's
just me comparing my own log book so
it's not a big deal you can count in a
different way but most important thing
is counting it consistently so you can
gauge progress and again we take these
all to
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
failure
seven all right and this last one is
very much mental you kind of just have
to fight through the fatigue and just
keep
going let's go
[Music]
Eric yeah there we go 10
10 all right what are my numbers
eight 8 6 7 10 let's
[Music]
go three
more
Yep finish I cut grab the C like a dumy
got to redo two more
one yeah fuck yeah and that's the
session guys so that was a chest and
back focus uper body session and day two
which we'll do next is going to be legs
and then we'll clean up and get some arm
workor because we didn't really do any
direct arm workor today dope Eric this
has been really enlightening thank you
so so much guys feel free to try any of
the stuff that Eric said I think it's
all fucking awesome you'll notice little
differences little nuances there's no
room for Dogma not on this channel not
in the I was going to say not in the
evidence based Bas I sure wish that was
true anyway we're working on it Eric
when people want to learn more about
what you've got going on they want some
more wisdom where do they go you
definitely want to go to 3D muscle
Journey
this program I actually developed in
concert with my offseason coach because
it doesn't matter how much you know you
are your biggest blind spots yourself so
Brian Miner one of 3dmj coaches uh he
helped me construct this individualized
program and a lot of the principles
though are Universal and uh we have a
great course in the 3dmj vault called
bodybuilding program design which is all
about theory of where the principles are
and how to individualize it so check out
3dm musle journey.com or 3dmj vault.com
and you can learn about how we came to
these decisions
awesome amazing time thank you so much
and we'll see you again
[Music]
soon