we have tons of direct studies on it now
that compare training shy of failure and
training to failure and the training shy
of failure almost always beats the
training to failure in the compared
groups and then people will say well now
hold on a second a lot of times there's
these are beginners so the group that
thinks they're training three reps away
from fail is really training like six
reps away from fairlike yes that's true
and the group that's training to fail is
training like really three reps away
from fail now yes that's true and
they're like so see that doesn't work
like no no it works even better than you
thought it did because now we have a six
rir in reality group beating a three RAR
group six IRS better than three RAR yeah
for wegaters maybe hey am I saying you
should go train a 6r I already yes I am
if it's your first six months of
training absolutely