hey what's up guys so in this video I'm
going to give my fiber recommendations
and I'm going to be answering the
question of how many grams of fiber
should I eat per day but before I do
that I want to digress for a moment and
just sort of talk about how it's not
just the overall amount of fiber that
you get per day that matters but the
type of fiber and where that fiber is
coming from so it's not uncommon to see
dieters set a target fiber goal for
themselves like 30 to 40 grams of fiber
and they try to reach that every day and
then you'll see people going out and
using supplements like Venna fiber or
foods like quest friars and fiber one
butters just to reach their fiber goal
and this generally isn't problematic
because typically in a high fiber diet
the dieter is essentially forced to eat
a ton of micronutrients because
generally high fiber foods are also
micro nutrient rich foods however when
you use a ton of supplementation or
functional fiber sources just to reach a
fiber goal it can be problematic in the
sense that fiber has been shown to
decrease nutrient absorption and so
while this does mean that less calories
will be absorbed it also means that less
micronutrients will be absorbed so it's
important to use high quality dense
micronutrient rich sources of fiber and
not just a bunch of these supplements
simply just to reach our daily goal
another reason why it's important to
consider the type of fiber has to do
with satiety or how full you feel after
a meal and one of the most frequent
things that you'll hear touted by
proponents of a high fiber diet is that
it makes you feel fuller now this sounds
pretty uncontroversial and we've all
sort of
this this effect that fiber has on us
however in looking at the actual
literature I was surprised to find that
this isn't actually as well founded as
people would have you believe in a 2011
systematic review that looked at 104
randomized controlled studies they found
that only 43% of the studies that they
looked at were able to detect an effect
of fiber on appetite by as little as 10%
and then in a later 2013 review these
results were corroborated and that 59%
of studies showed no effect of fiber on
satiety at all now granted there are
definitely some methodological issues in
assessing something as subjective as
appetite in an objective way and the
results of these studies in no way show
that fiber has no effect on satiety
conclusively however what was most
interesting in my opinion about the 2011
study specifically was that they found
that in the studies that did show an
effect of fiber on satiety those studies
consistently fed the subjects more
viscous forms of fibers or in other
words more viscous fibers were able to
reduce appetite or increase satiety more
so than less viscous fibers one of the
proposed mechanisms to why they can
actually blunt appetite in the way that
they do is because they have a water or
holding capacity in the stomach they
hold on a bunch of water and in this
causes stomach distension which doesn't
sound very good but stomach distension
is a known signal to the brain to reduce
hunger so what are some sources of
viscous fighters I was sort of surprised
to find that passion fruit at least in
my searches showed the highest
proportion of viscous fiber per gram and
a hundred grams of passionfruit gives
you 10 grams of fiber in something like
five or six grams of those or viscous
fibers another really good source of
viscous fiber is oats and I think that
this is why in my experience when I
switched back to eating oats after
I ate pancakes or toast through most of
my prep I felt a lot fuller for a lot
longer another good source of viscous
fiber is beans specifically black beans
and lima beans which have a little bit
more than the other varieties and so now
with all of that out of the way I will
get my recommendations but first I just
want to say that you don't have to get
any amount of fiber in your diet since
it's not an essential nutrient just like
any other type of carbohydrate so unlike
something like vitamin C for example
which you have to get in your diet or
else you will get scurvy and die you
don't have to get any fiber in your diet
and you would be just fine that's not to
say it's not a good idea and there
aren't health benefits to getting a lot
of fiber in your diet there definitely
are without further ado the Academy of
Nutrition and Dietetics recommend a
minimum of 20 to 35 grams per day for
adults and for children they recommend
their age plus 5 in grams of fiber per
day now my personal recommendations are
that you get 10 percent of your daily
carb intake from carbs or from file so
if you eat 500 grams of carbs per day
and you should get 50 grams of fiber per
day as a minimum but I set a bottom
minimum for everyone at 20 grams so even
if you only eat 100 grams of carbs per
day your minimum should still be that
minimum of the a and D which is 20 grams
and I also encourage all of my clients
for example to ensure that they get at
least two servings of green veggies per
day or one green veggie in one orange or
red veggie and then also two servings of
fruit per day and this is just to
encourage that fibre is coming from
micro nutrient rich sources and that's
for the reasons that I mentioned earlier
so guys if you found
this video informative please do like
the video subscribe if you haven't
already and thank you very much for
watching