partial range of motion training for
more strength gains does that sound too
good to be true well it likely is true
so stick around and find out how to use
partial range of motion within your
training to get stronger
welcome back soon to be Dr Milo Warfare
with wolf coaching and today we're
talking about a topic that's near and
dear to my heart and that's because my
PhD is actually on this very topic my
PhD was on range of motion and its
impacts on muscle hypertrophy and
strength and today we're talking about
why incorporating some partial range of
motion training in your program might
actually lead to better strength
improvements compared to just doing full
range of motion now you may have seen
people in your gym do partial reps on
the bench or on the squat you know doing
those half squats or not going all the
way down on a bench but that's not
really what I'm talking about here I'm
talking about using partial range of
motion as a way to gain more strength in
your full range of motion one rep max
whether you're a pal after or just
someone who wants to maximize your
strength in a given lift so without
further Ado you know the deal let's talk
about the science we have seven studies
looking at the idea of adding partial
range of motion training to your full
range of motion program of these seven
studies three were performed on the
bench press three were formed on the
squad exercise and one was performed on
the leg extension exercise let's start
with the bench press there's been three
studies two have been conducted by
massian colleagues back in 2004-2005 and
one by Clark and colleagues back in 2011
both Massey studies were super similar
both in terms of methods and outcome
essentially they had participants either
trailer bench exclusively with a full
range of motion or the other group Train
their bench with 50 sets with a full
range of motion and the other half of
their sets with a partial range of
motion doing about half the full range
of motion on the bench not coming quite
all the way down in both of these
studies they measured bench press one at
Max in a full range of motion so coming
all the way down to their chest and they
saw that both groups gained a similar
amount of strength in other words
replacing some of your volume with
partial range of motion on a bench
didn't seem to lead to any worse
strength adaptations than just doing all
of your volumes for range of motion
finally the study by clerky colleagues
had participants either do all their
training with a full range of motion or
do a quarter of their training with a
full range of motion touching their
chest on the bench and blocking out
fully a quarter of their volume with
just quarter reps a quarter of their
volume with half reps and a quarter of
their volume with three quarter reps in
this study strength improvements were
pretty similar across the groups with
one exception the group doing partial
range of motion training saw greater
force production improvements near
lockout on the bench that last quarter
of the rep than the full range of motion
group did likely because they actually
spent some time training in that range
of motion and training pretty hard so
for the bench not super convincing
results some very slight potential
benefits to doing some parts range of
motion training but nothing crazy
generally though you'll notice that the
difference between the full range of
motion group and the group doing a
variable range of motion is generally
leaning towards neutral to positive in
favor of the variable range of motion
group so at the very worst you're not
really missing out on anything and at
best you might be gaining some slight
advantages as I mentioned earlier
there's been three studies on the squad
the first one by bezeiler and colleagues
compared doing exclusively full range of
motion squads in the program versus
doing full range of motion squats and
partial squats and these partial squads
participants descended until about 100
degrees of knee flexion which is right
around parallel depending on how the
squad is executed so the variable range
of motion group that has their training
with a full range of motion Squad and
half their training with that restricted
depth Squad what they found is that
there were greater one rep max
improvements in their full range of
motion Squad in the variable range of
motion group so actually replacing half
of their volume with shallower squats as
opposed to just doing all of their
squats to full depth appear to result in
Greater Runner max strength improvements
the second study that only looked at the
squat was performed by Whaley and
colleagues in this study one group
destroyed with a full range of motion
during the whole study and progressed by
adding weight to the bar week to week
the other group called a progressive
range of motion group stayed at the same
weight week to week but actually went
from doing a very shallow squat like a
quarter squat to gradually doing more
and more range of motion until they it
in the same range of motion as the four
range of motion group this is a pretty
interesting study design and something
that people have done in practice a good
deal but actually the improvements in
one repetition maximum as measured with
full range of motion weren't any
different between groups they both
gained a similar amount of strength the
final study on the squat actually
Incorporated four different exercises
the squat the leg press the deadlift and
the leg curl one group did all of their
exercises with a full range of motion
whereas the other group did half of
their training with the top half of the
range of motion and half of their
training with a bottom half of the range
of motion and actually strength
improvements as measured by a full range
of motion one repetition maximums in
these four exercises were similar
between groups so overall the data on
the squad seems pretty compelling again
neutral to positive effects but actually
more notably positive compared to the
bench press finally the seventh study
was looking at the light extension
exercise this was a study performed by
Pedrosa and colleagues where they
compared four conditions participants
legs were randomized to one of these
four conditions the first condition
performed all of their leg extensions
with a full range of motion getting a
full stretch and a full contraction the
second condition performed only the top
half of the full range of motion as
partial reps the third condition
performed only the bottom half and
finally the fourth condition performed
half of their volume as top half reps
and half of their volume as bottom half
reps they measured strength using one
repetition maximums in each of these
ranges of motion so a full range of
motion runoff Max a bottom half on Earth
Max and a top half under Max in the
light extension here's the interesting
thing by just doing half of their
training in either of the halves the
range of motion condition 4 doing half
their training in both the top half and
the bottom half saw similar improvements
in their partial range of motion one rep
max as did the partial range of motion
groups who just did all of their
training and the respective range of
motion being tested however with regards
to the full range of motion strength the
group doing half their training at the
top half and half their training in the
bottom half so condition 4 saw similar
but greater improvements in 4 range of
motion strength than the four range of
motion group who did all their training
as full range of motion in other words
this study is actually pretty compelling
evidence that doing partial range of
motion training as part of your routine
can enhance full range of motion
strength like full range of motion when
it Maxes like squatting to depth Etc
more than just doing full range of
motion so when you take all seven
studies together rarely is there a
positive effect to not doing partially
into motion as part of your training and
generally there is a neutral to positive
slightly positive impact of adding in
partial range of motion training into
your program for full range of motion
strength now the question becomes why is
this the case well one reason could be
something called a shift in length
tension relationship the length tension
relationship is simply describing how
much force is your muscle or a sarcomere
or a muscle fiber able to produce
depending on its length and depending on
the joint angle you're trying to make it
produce Force at in other words when
you're at 50 degrees of knee flexion how
much force can you produce at 100
degrees 150 degrees how much force can
your quads produce this is called the
length tension relationship several
previous studies one of which was
performed in 2014 by McMahon colleagues
have demonstrated that the training can
actually shift the length potential
relationship so for example by doing
partial range of motion training in the
caloric study in 2011 they were able to
shift the life detection relationship
such that participants were able to
produce more Force closer to lockout in
the bench and so if you're currently
failing a lift because you have a
weakness and lift somewhere like for
example on the squad right above
parallel a shift in the length tension
relationship making you stronger at
those joint angles where you usually
fail could plausibly make you a lot
stronger now here's a caveat with
targeting a weakness in a given lift it
is quite difficult to accurately
diagnose a quote-unquote weak point or
weakness in a given lift after all if
you load a board heavily enough you will
eventually fail you're not able to lift
infinite weight and just because you
fail a lift at a given point does not
mean it is inherently a weak point it
could just be where you're supposed to
fail but you're just too weak overall to
lift the weight and try to address that
as if it were a weak point wouldn't
really yield any positive results you
just need to get stronger overall for
example in the case of the squat failing
right above parallel is a very common
failing point it is not necessarily a
weak point you just need to get stronger
overall the same goes for the bench
press a few inches above the chest or
for the deadlift especially Sumo right
off the ground there are certain points
in the lift that just seem to be the
hardest regardless of whether or not you
have any weak points and so if you rush
to think that you can diagnose a weak
point easily you may just spin your
wheels trying to address it at any rate
if you genuinely do think you have a
weak point in a lift partial range of
motion training may be a way to address
it and thus get stronger overall by
removing a limiting factor within that
lift another reason why incorporating
partial range of motion training within
your program could be beneficial is by
allowing each part of the range of
motion to become more stimulative as was
Illustrated in the pedrosis study using
light extension by doing only bottom
half or top half training they were
potentially able to use more weight and
make each part of that range of motion
more stimulating and as a result
actually got stronger through a full
range of motion than the full range of
motion group did it's possible that this
is the case because you're able to make
each part of the range of motion more
stimulative as opposed to a full range
of motion where you would typically
consistently fail or experience the most
difficulty at certain parts of the lift
in the squat for example the last 30
percent of the lift is actually quite
easy so unless you do some partials you
will never be able to load that part of
the range of motion sufficiently for it
to become stimulative enough one final
mechanism that could help with partial
range of motion and improving your
strength would be something called
length and partials in metal met
analysis we look at the effect of muscle
length during training on hypertrophy
and indeed it seems that training at
lower muscle lengths is beneficial for
hypertrophy so if using a partial range
of motion within your training allows
you to train at lower muscle lengths
which induces greater hypertrophy and
greater muscle size allows you to lift
more weight using partial range of
motion as long more muscle lengths might
be one reason or one mechanism as to why
partial range of motion can help you
improve your full range of motion
strength by just making you more react
but enough about the science behind how
this could work how would you actually
incorporate partial range of motion
training into your full range of motion
strength training program generally I
would not let partial range of motion
take up more than about 20 or at the
very most 50 of your overall training if
you're seeking a hypertrophy
specifically you may want to try length
and partials as your partial range of
motion training protocol generally as
far as how much range of motion you
should go through during this training I
would aim for half reps so about 50 of
your full range of motion if you
genuinely think you've diagnosed a weak
point or a weakness in one of your lifts
you could do the partial range of motion
around that part of the lift that you
seem to struggle at so for example if on
the bench you seem to struggle around a
few inches off the chest you could just
do the bottom half or so and train
through that range of motion as a means
to get better at that part of the lift
if you don't have a clear weak point
that you can diagnose and you're not
specifically going for hypertrophy you
may also just do any part of the range
of motion finally a word of caution the
finding that adding in push range of
motion training into your routine
improves one of max strength with a full
range of motion isn't super consistent
although effects are generally neutral
positive what I will caution against is
changing too much of your training to
partial range of motion indeed one of
the findings of my old met analysis was
that performance improvements or range
of motion specific so you see the
largest improvements in your performance
in the range of motion you're actually
training so strain too far away from the
range of motion that you're going
through in your preferred strength
outcome well that's a powerful Squad
piloting bench that left chin up
whatever may not be wise anyways that's
the video Try incorporating some partial
range of motion trading into your
routine for strength and see whether or
not it helps in the meantime if you like
the video please comment like subscribe
and I will see you guys in that next one
peace
it's time for
the cap check
so today we have a black and white cat
I will end you how do you reject a call
I am so sick of this stop
why are people blowing up my phone