three tips to take your crunch from meh
to Great tip one weight them the ABS are
like any other muscle they grow best
when you weight them and you train them
close to failure so something like a
cable crunch where you can actually add
weight easily is going to be better than
just going body weight every time two
focus on the stretch something like a
traditional crunch is fine but a
medicine ball crunch or even a jack
knife situp can allow you to get more of
a stretch bonus points if you pause in
stretch position three focus on spinal
flexion not hip flexion your six-pack
muscle the Reus abdominis is primarily
responsible for spinal flexion so when
you're doing crunches don't just focus
on getting up and down focus on
extending and flexing the spine don't
just train your hip flexors if you're
currently feeling crunches on the side
of your hips you're probably
overemphasizing the wrong kind of
flexion woo I just covered