when it comes to building muscle reps
between six and twelve are commonly used
with the belief this best promotes
muscle growth this idea does somewhat
stem from a pre-existing rep range
continue also stating one to five reps
of superior strength or thirteen past
reps are severe for endurance this
continuum does have some truth to it the
evidence to support the idea strength is
best trained with lower reps given
strength is based on lifting heavy loads
training with lower ups makes sense
likewise the evidence does also support
the idea endurance is best trained with
higher reps given endurance is based on
sustaining multiple contractions this
again makes sense however when it comes
to the muscle growth rep range this
continuum is slightly misleading this is
simply because the current evidence does
not support the idea of muscle growth is
best achieved exclusively in the 6 to 12
rep range the best evidence relating to
rep ranges and muscle growth comes from
a 2017 meta-analysis by shown from
aquatics for those unaware meta-analysis
of studies that combine the results of
multiple scientific studies that address
the same topic returning to the
meta-analysis by showing fear and
colleagues they found that both low load
and high load training resulted in
similar increases in muscle growth
provided reps were taken to muscular
failure if we were to take a look at the
individual studies involved in the
meta-analysis we would see that the
loads used range from 30% 1rm to 85%
warrant this would equate two reps
between 35 and 5 so why is the actual
muscle growth rep range so wide to
understand this we first must explore
the concept of motor units
motor units consist of a motor neuron
and the muscle fibers they innervate
multi-units can generally be classified
into three kinds slow multi-units fast
fatigue resistant motor units and fast
fatigue herbal motor units slow most
units are small motor neurons that
innervate slow twitch muscle fibers
these contracts slowly and produce low
forces but are highly fatigue resistant
fast fatigue resistant motor units are
slightly larger motor neurons that
innervate fast twitch oxidative fibers
these contract faster and produced
greater forces fast fatigue herbal motor
units are larger motor neurons that
innervate fast twitch glycolytic fibers
these have the fastest contraction and
greatest force producing abilities but
they do fatigue quickly motor units are
recruited in a progressive sequence when
force requirements are low slow motor
units are recruited
however with increase in force
requirements those faster motor units
are recruited to aid those slow motor
units high levels of multi unit
recruitment is an important component of
maximizing muscle growth simply because
this is one of the main aspects of
mechanical tension at this moment in the
research mechanical tension is the best
categorized rival of muscle growth
physiologically mechanical tension is
primarily equal to the amount of force
generated by a muscle again this is more
or less equal to multi recruitment it's
believed various mechana senses lightly
located within a neuron muscle fibers
detect mechanical tension and
subsequently initiate a signaling
cascade that ultimately results in
muscle growth
based on the principles presented you
may be tempted to take heavy loads and
therefore lower reps are required to
achieve high levels of multi-unit
recruitment it is true heavy weights
readily recruit faster most units as
force requirements are initially high as
a reps approach failure further
recruitment also likely occurs with the
light loads and therefore higher ups as
force requirements are initially low
slow machinists are primarily recruited
however as reps get closer and closer to
failure those faster motor units are
recruited to help sustain water
production what this means is that both
light loads and high loads are capable
of achieving high levels of most unit
recruitment this is the primary reason
as to why the actual muscle rep range is
so wide
before we end some of you may be
wondering about the research related to
perhaps below 5 and reps above 35 there
is evidence that reps as low as 3 can
build muscle optimally however three of
the studies that did find this used a
greater amount of sets with the low rep
range groups so all in all it isn't
entirely clear I should mention that it
has been reported that training with
heavy loads and multiple sets is more
stressful on the joints and connective
tissue potentially meaning that in the
long run it's likely smarter to train
with reps above 5 if the goal is to
solely maximize muscle growth as full
reps above 35 the only research that
gives us a fair comparison comes from a
list of idiots and colleagues they
compared the use of 20% 1rm 40 % 1 RM 60
% 1 RM and 80% water up on the bicep
curl a leg press what they found was
that as expected the loads between 40
and 80 % RM led to similar increases and
hypertrophy of the elbow flexors and
vastus lateralis however using 20% at 1
RM led to significantly less hypertrophy
of these muscles roughly half that up
loads between 40 and 80 % worn around
using 20% or 1 RM usually means you're
performing more than 60 reps per set to
achieve failure
it's likely that using 20% of one room
is just too light to maximize mechanical
tension the threshold could be lower
than 60 reps therefore just to be sure
it's probably best to not exceed 35 reps
additionally outside of the lab I'm not
too sure many would willingly perform
more than 35 reps for any exercise
[Music]