[Music]
hi guys and Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization and today I'm gonna make
one of the recipes from my sweets
cookbook called something sweet that we
released in the holiday season 2017
and this is one of my favorite recipes
so if you do not have a cast-iron
skillet you can use a glass pie plate
for this and just spray it really good
with cooking spray it'll be totally fine
but if you do happen to have a cast-iron
skillet it just makes the best cookies
so we're going to have this on low heat
I'm gonna add some coconut oil and some
coconut sugar and we're going to
just cook this over low heat together
you can probably tell right away this
isn't one of the healthier recipes I
talk about it into something sweet
cookbook that you know you have to have
desserts in life there's gonna be
periods where you diet there's gonna be
periods where you don't diet you know
you desserts are like a great part of
life and so I certainly have my share of
desserts and so this is one of those
indulgent kind of recipes it's not
something that you're going to be making
every Sunday night as a part of your
meal prep and once that's liquefied just
pull it off the heat stir and vanilla
and date sugar date sugar or something I
use a lot it's just dried and ground up
dates it's sort of like a brown sugar
throw that in really good we're just
gonna let this sit for five to ten
minutes just let it hang out so we've
got an egg then we don't want to dump
this egg into a hot pan with hot stuff
in it so I'm just gonna take a little
bit of this and add it to the egg and
stir it in because we kind of want to
gradually bring up the temperature of
the egg you can add that into the pan
now with some salt and baking soda we
add that in stir it up
and what's gonna give you instead of
flour in this recipe because obviously
most cookies have flour in them I'm
using crushed cereal so this is 100%
amaranth flakes you can buy this you
know at health food stores they usually
have like spelt flakes some different
kinds of cereals and I like the amaranth
because it's the lowest in carbs of the
options and so that's gonna give your
give like some meat to the cookie and
kind of replace the flour in it for a
lot less carbs so this is three cups
crushed up you don't want them fine just
kind of I don't know if you can see that
but just kind of smaller flakes you can
kind of just like crunch it with your
hand you don't need to get too fancy you
don't need to use a food processor just
get you know a freezer bag put the
cereal in it or even just kind of like
crunch it as you're adding it that's
totally fine too but you can see it's
just like kind of giving some shape to
your cookie dough and of course you know
that I'm gonna add chocolate nibs to
make sure everything is nice and uniform
fold it in there's coconut oil on the
bottom you want to get all of that in so
everything gets properly moistened and
then just use your spatula to spread it
out to cover the pan pie pan pie plate
whatever you're using if you don't have
cast iron and we're going to let it do
its thing in the oven now all right so
we've got our warm skillet cookie out of
the oven it smells amazing in here and
so this is the kind of dessert that
again you could probably work a spatula
around it take it out on a serving
platter you can totally do that if you
want to you can cut it into pieces scoop
it out put in bowls at our house we like
to take it right out of
skillett or take it read out of the oven
and put a big scoop of ice cream right
in the center this is red velvet
enlightened protein ice cream so it
doesn't count
everybody knows that and so just put
some of this right in the middle and
just let it melt over this cookie
[Music]
and then give everybody a spoon that's
how we do it at my house
[Music]