thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video okay welcome everyone to a
new episode of mythbusters' gonna be
looking at the idea that milk and other
dairy products are bad for your health
ah so first where did this idea come
from well I think the bulk of these
claims come from one of two main
arguments the first in in my opinion
weakest argument is that there's just
something unnatural about adults
drinking milk especially since humans
are reportedly the only animal that
drinks the milk of another animal um
first of all that premise is actually
not correct for example feral cats and
Western goals have been shown to steal
milk from elephant seals in nature but
even if it were true
even if we were the only species to
drink the milk of another animal whether
or not regular milk consumption occurs
elsewhere in nature has nothing to do
with its effect on our health I mean I
think basing our diets on what other
animals are eating could lead to some
pretty unhealthy or strange nutritional
recommendations and of course just
because something is natural doesn't
mean it's good cyanide and apple seeds
will kill you if you eat enough of them
despite being natural and man-made
antibiotics will save your life if you
need them despite being unnatural so
needless to say this isn't a good
argument against dairy consumption I'm
another thing anti dairy advocates make
a big deal out of his milks supposed
acidic as opposed to alkalizing effect
on the body um however this also doesn't
stand up against the scientific evidence
since as pointed out by Alan Aragon in a
very well cited NSCA presentation
milk and dairy products don't produce
acid upon metabolism and besides
systemic pH isn't influenced by diet to
begin with and dairies bone protective
effect is supported by the majority of
all research and how many people will
correctly point out that 65 to 75
percent of people do have some sort of
lactose intolerance um you'll experience
bloating or diarrhea if you drink milk
and the prevalence of this is actually
highly dependent on your ancestry so
it's most common amongst Asians and
least common amongst Europeans but as I
see it this is less of a strike against
dairy per se and more of just another
example of why it's important to monitor
your individual response to different
foods and if you consistently find that
dairy gives you digestive issues and
be smart to consider doing some sort of
elimination diet to figure out if it is
in fact the dairy that's causing the
problem and then you'll want to consider
limiting its consumption according to
your own tolerance so what does the
actual scientific research have to say
about dairy and its effect on health
well let's start with a brand new
meta-analysis published just last year
looking at 29 studies totaling over
700,000 participants I would found no
associations between dairy and milk
consumption and all cause mortality or
total deaths coronary heart disease or
cardiovascular disease which is in
agreement with several other meta
analyses I think a perfectly reasonable
critique of this study is that it is
funded by the global dairy platform and
the Dairy Council and I think that
funding bias is a serious problem in the
scientific community especially in the
case of pharmaceutical funding now we
could just take the authors published
word and the nod of the peer reviewers
that the funders had no role in the
study design or data collection but
while funding bias can't discredit a
otherwise well-designed study on its own
I think it should give us pause and
encourage us to look at other data
especially independently funded research
to see if the same results are
replicated and as it turns out these
same basic findings have been replicated
elsewhere including in a 2015
meta-analysis which had no funding
conflicts of interest and as further
adds to the pool of evidence showing no
association between milk consumption and
mortality now when it comes to cancer
the data is a little bit more mixed
according to one excellent 2016 review
you can see here in the figure that they
looked at pretty much every health
outcome related to dairy and the
labeling is a bit confusing but
basically the down arrows actually
indicate a favorable health effect from
drinking milk now the sideways arrow
means a neutral effect and the up arrow
means a bad effect and importantly for
different cancers were all positively
impacted from dairy intake and then a
bunch of stuff showed a neutral effect
so as we said mortality than these three
other cancers over here and in fact the
only bad outcome was for prostate cancer
risk and even this was actually neutral
to adverse depending on the data set
that you're looking at I'm so this led
the authors to conclude that the benefit
of the protective effect of milk and
dairy on the common and serious
colorectal cancer is judged to outweigh
a potentially increased risk in prostate
cancer and that of course isn't to
mention
there's six cancers that dairy had a
positive or neutral impact on I think
it's important to recognize that all the
data we've looked at so far has been
correlational i'm so it is possible that
confounding variables are skewing the
results so for example it's possible
that the people who tend to drink more
milk also just tend to have more
nutritious diets overall and well I
think future research can help discern
these issues according to the weight of
the current evidence I think milk should
still be considered a nutritious
beverage that you can include in your
diet especially considering just how
rich it is in protein minerals like
calcium and potassium vitamins like
vitamin A and b12 and that's not to
mention its other benefits like
increasing muscle mass and improving
satiety so just before we wrap this one
up I want to quickly comment on the link
between dairy and acne there's not much
data on this but one two thousand
seventeen systematic report concluded
that milk and foods with a high glycemic
burden are the best candidates for food
triggered influence however it's not
currently possible to set out
evidence-based nutritional
recommendations for preventing acne a
later paper published this year also
found a positive relationship between
dairy consumption and acne occurrence
but this didn't apply to yogurt or
cheese um so I'd say that when it comes
to skin health the data is extremely
limited but again similar to individual
instances of lactose intolerance you'll
have to assess your response on an
individual basis and just consider doing
an elimination diet to see if it is in
fact the milk or something else that's
worsening your skin condition so to wrap
this up I would say that the idea that
milk is bad for your health is busted
I'm considering that the research shows
almost entirely neutral or beneficial
effects from drinking milk with of
course individual exceptions in the case
of lactose intolerance or acne and the
argument that otherwise healthy
individuals should avoid milk is not
supported by the scientific evidence and
that's gonna be it for this one guys I
really hope that you enjoyed the video
before we go I want to give a huge thank
you to Squarespace for again sponsoring
another myth busted a video many of you
guys will know that I just launched my
new fundamentals hypertrophy program on
my website and this was all done through
squarespace's website and online store
platform which I found to be extremely
helpful in setting up and launching this
program as well as tracking the
analytics so as you can see if you visit
my website I think they have really nice
custom templates an amazing 24-hour
customer support which I'll always use
if I run into any issues so if you want
to get started with your own website or
running your own online store
I can go to squarespace.com forward
slash Nippert and that'll save you 10%
off your first purchase
thank you Squarespace so much for
supporting the channel in the video
thank you guys so much for watching I
don't forget to hit up the link to
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll have another video over here of my
last myth busted Oh
covering how much water you really need
to drink in a day if you'd like to check
that out and I will see you guys all
here next Monday