hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's topic is a very
interesting one
it is the diet reset which is an
emergency action to try to eliminate
high diet fatigue let's get into it if
you were doing chronic attempts at fat
loss dieting which a lot of us have been
down that road that means repeated fat
loss diets too short or no maintenance
phases whatsoever always chasing the
scale always trying to get leaner and
smaller that can lead to some really
really bad stuff it can lead to a crazy
high amount of diet fatigue you're
miserable all the time we'll actually
get into what specific symptoms we're
looking for
it can leave you with a very very poor
diet psychology where you do not relate
to your diet in a way that is either two
things enjoyable to yourself or remotely
even tolerable nor is it productive
because if something is not enjoyable or
tolerable like contest prep for getting
lean at the very least it's productive
you actually get shredded
hopefully your contest prep is less than
intolerable or borderline tolerable but
ideally you get one for the other right
so
if both of those things are true you're
in a really really bad way
and some of these symptoms can sort of
border on disordered eating what are the
symptoms if you are chronically over
dieted how do you know well first
you have constant cravings if you're
honest with yourself all the time you
see cookies on a commercial and just
like oh my god i could eat an infinite
number of those
if pretty much all tasty foods you
theoretically look at them on
commercials and stuff or other people
eating them and you think to yourself i
don't have a fill point on that food
that can be okay at the end of a diet
but if it's something that's with you
for months and months and months bad
deal
next you get really guilty feelings
about eating any foods
or foods that are off plan especially
foods that are tasty or cheap foods and
generally just any time you eat foods
you're like man if i could just not eat
this i would get skinnier and so you
feel guilty about eating food that deal
you are really tempted to binge
relatively often you go into your fridge
and you take out your clean meals that
you have and you know maybe like your
girlfriend's jar of peanut butter is
there because she's not dieting and you
look at it and you're like
i could just fucking eat this whole
thing right now and no one would have to
know i would just replace it
and that would be it right
and
some
of these are just temptations sometimes
they turn into behaviors so if you're
binging
bad deal if you do eat the peanut butter
bad deal not because you're oh no you're
off your diet shit happens you know we
live live a long time dieting is only
for a short term no big deal you don't
have to be perfect but if you're binging
and it's causing you a ton of emotional
distress that's really the problem
there
with these things over time can be a
growing desire to just give it all up
you've had so much control over your
diet and so much hardship from trying to
get skinnier and skinnier
that you are just sort of
on any bad time of the day if i catch
you at your worst
you're ready to just say fuck it like
it's like 3 p.m and you have to eat your
clean meal and you're starving and you
look and there's some food that you
really want to eat or someone's eating
french fries in front of you and you're
like this close just being like i don't
care i don't care anymore i just want to
eat and relax i'm tired of controlling
my food behaviors
a lot of this comes with a high negative
body image as a matter of fact if you
don't have a negative image of yourself
as far as what your body looks like at
least to you
would be really curious that you would
do any of this at all you know if
someone's like hey dr mike are you
studying computer programming i'm like
no
like well aren't you don't you feel bad
about how little computer programming
you know i'd be like
no
aren't you upset that you're such a bad
computer programmer
no i don't give a fuck like that's not
my job i don't care doesn't it doesn't
bother me at all i'm really bad at
astrology i don't know anything about
that either
but if someone says hey like you're
dieting all the time to try to lose fat
and get skinny right
someone's like yes
do you like your body
sometimes people say yes and then they
don't qualify for chronic fat loss
dieting problem because they're actually
in a really good space a lot of the
times they're really trying to change
something that means they don't like the
way it is and they might say oh i like
my body plenty fine but inside their
heart of hearts they don't feel like
that and if you don't feel like that if
you have a really high negative body
image along with a few of these other
things
you could just be really not having a
good time and the answer to that
reversing that good time is not
continuing to try to lose body fat
in addition of course you get the
classic symptoms of our dieting which is
super low energy super low cognitive
function
strength loss
right now i'm recording this
one day out of my carb up for my
bodybuilding show masters usas
and uh as you can tell i'm
pretty fluid
right i'm tired
i'm cravy i'm fatigued my brain doesn't
work as great uh as it usually does when
i'm properly fed but like uh you know
nothing to write home about
this chronic fat loss dieting is like
people can tell you can tell you're
really really off your game
and if that's the case it's a bad deal
now here's the thing
we have a really solid weapon against
chronic diet fatigue
at the end of a fat loss diet unless you
do a massing phase which really heals
almost all that fatigue you may plan to
lose more weight later and so you would
do a fat loss diet get really fatigued
at this tail end and you do a
maintenance phase to erase the fatigue
and it can usually solve most diet
fatigue problems but not all
for some extreme cases of diet fatigue
the very simple act of counting and
tracking on a maintenance phase because
a maintenance phase means you get more
food sometimes a lot more food and over
time weeks and weeks your diet fatigue
really really reduces you just don't go
off the rails and not going off the
rails means you still have to count you
still have to track
if that tracking accounting is such a
psychological burden to you it's almost
like ptsd
it stands for and literally is
restriction and if you just can't stand
that boot on your face anymore
then the maintenance phase is unlikely
to solve that so if you go through
multiple weeks of maintenance you feel a
little bit better but the very act of
logging and tracking you just want to be
like i just want to eat what the fuck i
want i can't do this anymore
you may be a candidate for something
like a diet reset which is one step
above in seriousness and an effect from
a maintenance phase
another thing as to why the maintenance
phase might not work if you're really in
a bad way like this psychologically the
very idea that the maintenance phase is
going to end and it's just prep for your
next diet can be really really
psychologically taxing here's an analogy
if you're unreal burnt out from school
like burnt out burnt down
how much does summer vacation help in
alleviating that well it can help some
but
the very time limited nature of it may
not fundamentally at the core eliminate
all of the burnout from school because
it's june and then it's july and then
it's august and you're at the what do
regular people do in summer breaks from
school let's see i just spent them
studying mostly uh you know you go to
like the gorge or whatever where the
fuck in people are in bikinis and they
dive into the fucking deep blue water
and they have their flirtation blah blah
blah you know 80s movies type shit and
you're there and it's august 5th and
you're having a great time and then
someone like mentions school like oh
yeah i won't go back to school and
you're like fuck that's right there's
only 20 days till school starts god damn
it and then tomorrow it's 19 then 18 and
17. it's like a countdown
the fact that there is this
hard deadline as to when the fun stops
may itself be poisoning your ability to
heal and really like school again in
just the same way
if the maintenance phase is three months
long
month one you may be doing okay but
there's a shitload of fatigue to bring
down so your diet fatigue is doing this
and then month two your diet fatigue
really gets at it month three your diet
fatigue might start to rise a little bit
psychologically because you know it's
just x number of days x number of cheat
meals x number of minutes and seconds
until you have to be back into the suck
because you know you're going back into
the suck so true healing may not be
possible if you're in that bad of a
state
at this point
it is my recommendation and all of us at
rp that write the books
that you try a theme diet reset or a
diet research rp style which we'll
describe to you what it is if you want
more information on this we have uh
descriptions in the renaissance diet 2.0
and the book renaissance woman that we
wrote some time back still super super
pert
the diet reset is a four step
fundamentally you can count four or five
steps depending how you count it four
step process and it is designed to heal
pretty much all diet fatigue it doesn't
always work but it works way better than
a maintenance phase and it works way
better than continuing to try to do fat
loss diets when you're so much
psychological pain it is not for
everyone not everyone will be able to
pull it off not everybody needs it
and it should really only be used in the
most dire situations
because if you're interested in
short-term results it won't get you them
it actually reverses some of your
progress some definitely not all
but if you're in such a bad way that you
can't even stand the idea of dieting
anymore but you theoretically know that
eventually you want to care about how
your body looks the diet reset may be
the thing that really saves you now if
it doesn't work
it is very likely that you're on that
disordered eating spectrum really close
to being diagnosed with a formal eating
disorder
or past that threshold and then our
recommendation is you speak with a
psychological professional
as soon as possible as soon as you find
out that this is the case and that's
totally okay we all need a bit of help
sometimes some of us more than others
i've certainly been to the psychologist
not for diet stuff but for other stuff i
had attention death disorder as a kid i
had to go to a child psychologist blah
blah it's no big deal it's 20 21 or
whatever 2022
we need help we get it right but
if you're not quite sure if it's that
serious yet but you're really really
over the dining process let's chat about
what the diet reset looks like give you
some tips see if maybe you can try it
maybe help yourself out
all right
so four phases
first phase
is what we call and you can turn this
anything you want we call it unattached
eating this is a trippy phase this is
the phase of the diet reset that when
you tell someone about it brings the
most
psychological discordance in them
they're like wait what you want me to do
what the other phases make a bit more
sense to someone who's dieted for a long
time
but this face is also the most necessary
it is the most critical you cannot skip
this phase
because it does much of the resetting
and the rest of the phases just onboard
you back into normal diet relationship
so it's a big reset and then back to
normal
so unattached eating the goal here in
this phase is to eat freely with zero
concern over food choices whatsoever
you heard me correctly
the purpose of this phase which you
could begin tomorrow if you so choose
and rationally decide is you literally
just eat whatever the fuck you want
whenever you want how much ever of it
you want
it sounds crazy and it sounds like a
recipe for hyper obesity but the
interesting here
interesting thing here is this most
people that become obese they don't
actually have disordered eating they
just fucking like eating food and they
don't give a fuck which is totally cool
no value judge
people that are struggling with diet a
lot of times what they're struggling
with isn't the technical hardship of the
diet it's not the low calories that
they're struggling with
it's the psychological burden of
restriction for a lot of these people as
soon as the restriction is lifted they
go ham and for days and maybe even weeks
they eat a ton
but after a while
the fact that there's no restriction and
there's no restriction coming there's
nothing on the horizon saying well
you're gonna have to stop this sooner or
later
a lot of people that are really burdened
by dieting
they kind of not really interested in
eating as much as possible anymore that
hunger is normal and they're like i
don't know
someone's like hey do you want taco bell
again for the fifth time today and
they're like not really they're like oh
you're just saying that because you
don't want to put on weight like no i
actually don't fucking want it believe
it or not not wanting taco bell it's
this crazy thing i can't relate to
because i'm one day away from my car but
for the show i'm starving but it's a
thing like once you get your fill you
just me you just don't kind of want it
anymore if you've ever been on a
hardcore diet or really been diet
fatigued
you watch like movies and like the
actors are eating food and they're like
chew like one bite of a slice of pizza
and then they'll talk to someone for 15
minutes and they'll eat another bite
you're like what the fuck is wrong with
you there's 10 piece of pizza on the
table eat the fucking shit as fast as
you can
and it's hard to relate but in reality
when you're not psychologically really
fucked up from dieting like pizza's cool
and all but like it's fucking pizza and
sometimes when you're not hungry you
have a piece and you're like i don't
know i really want any pizza right
people people deny pizza for all sorts
of reasons mostly because they don't
want it not just oh i shouldn't be
having this amount of diet and if you
can't relate to that
you may be a candidate for having a lot
of diet fatigue
so the purpose of this phase so the
thing we're doing is just saying no more
rules just fucking go
the purpose is to ease the psychological
burden of dieting and restriction
and greatly reduce the negative
relationships and habits that you
associate with food
the typical duration of this phase as we
have seen in folks we've worked with is
like two to four months but here's the
thing
the phase is complete when you not
theoretical you you actually who's
trying this
can honestly look forward to cleaning up
your diet again you guys have been there
before i know you have where like you
know you finish your diet
and you go or even you we're not gonna
die and you go with friends like you
hang out over the course of like
christmas or new year's you hang out
with friends you party it's just junk
food the entire time and like january
2nd you guys are sitting there and
there's like cheetos everywhere and
you're like you guys want to go get a
fucking salad and everyone's like yes
fuck yes vegetables please
like at some point your body doesn't
feel like eating shit anymore you
actually really don't feel like it not
like oh well i should i should eat a
salad it's not it's not a notion like
should doesn't come from the you know
the executive part of your brain it
comes from deep down within of
instinctual like you just don't you just
don't want to eat a bunch of shit
anymore
and you can honestly look forward to
cleaning up your diet again because
clean eating not from the perspective
this is what you should be doing this is
going to get you in shape but from
perspective of like when i eat a meal of
like salmon and brown rice and veggies
and a few fruit i feel fucking good like
actually feel not morally feel
physiologically feel it fucking feels
good to eat clean and healthy like you
guys ever seen people like hang out with
people like you maybe not in a diet
fatigue state you're eating healthy all
the time and you love it you ever see
people who just eat like random shit all
the time you hang out with them for a
few days and you're like how the fuck
does your body work like i would just
like you guys ever like eat one too many
cheat meals and like you feel the oil
coming out of like fucking sweating out
of your armpits you're like
here's a great way to do this go
re-watch old sopranos episodes and
figure out like just just track what
tony's eating
at some point after episode number five
if you're like on a mass phase or
something he's like oh gobble ghoul and
he eats like another like thing of ice
cream and you're like fuck tony
how can you feel good about this if you
actually start feeling like that then
you're ready for the next phase until
and unless your don't feel like that eat
whatever you want
the downside you're probably going to
gain some weight and some fat the upside
is for most people eventually this will
set you on a plan to heal your diet
fatigue within a few months of dieting
you lose all that fat and extra weight i
mean how much weight can you really gain
the answer is for most people not nearly
as much as they think we all think at
the end of a diet like bro i'm gonna put
on 50 fucking pounds i'm gonna eat
everything two weeks later you're like i
don't know man
i don't really feel like eating shit
anymore maybe a little bit of shit but i
just want to clean it up two to four
months later most people they're
interested in starting to eat healthy
again because that's where you came from
originally right so maybe you'll come
back so when you can honestly look
forward to cleaning up your diet again
phase two can begin can begin if it's up
to you
phase two we titled it nutritious
choices
here
you begin to eat with no calorie or
nutrient requirements you don't give a
fuck about protein portion sizes meals
nothing
but you generally build most of your
meals around a basis of healthy food
like this is this thing where like
you're not on a diet plan and you walk
into a gas station because you're on a
road trip let's say
when you're in this phase you would be
like all right let's see if they have
any like fruits and some protein bars
and some beef jerky and some diet coke
like shit that gets in my body and
fucking makes me feel good maybe a
handful of nuts or something like that
versus you get into a fucking
you know some
just raggedy gas station somewhere and
you see like the mystery meat turning on
the fucking
lamp heater thing and you're like that i
want that like if you really want that
hey go for it right but at some point
you don't really want that shit most of
the time not all the time most of the
time so you eat minimally processed
foods that are high in protein and fiber
and vitamins and minerals
the purpose of this phase is now that
you really have all that bullshit junk
eating out of your system like the thing
you wanted you got and you got full
you're done with super stuffing yourself
and now you just want to re-establish
healthy habits without the pressures of
counting and tracking because it can be
a lot to do that diet reset phase one of
just like eating whatever and then go
right back into a hardcore diet do not
do that
ease in and the easing in is you still
don't care how much food you eat you're
just making like healthy choices and not
all of them like most of the choices are
healthy
and that is going to actually drop a
whole bunch of body fat for you right
away because as you guys know when you
start eating healthier you cannot
maintain an unreal number of calories on
healthy food it's just not possible
and this phase typically lasts for two
or three months and it is only over and
you only move on to the next phase
when you no longer have any fears or
doubts about gently controlling your
food intake right because you kind of
missed the times when you used to have
like meals and knew how much food you
were gonna have and you have some goals
and if someone's like hey what do you
think about like like having like four
to six meals structured per day and
you're like please fucking please i need
structure i'm tired of just eating like
a fucking goat like eat whatever the
fuck at all times right so when you
really feel like hey no fears or doubts
you can get into phase number three
which we call rough macros
in this phase you're still eating
nutritious foods you're still having a
little bullshit when you want it no big
deal
and you add in the goal of getting very
rough via like eyeballing or fistfuls or
handfuls or finger portions
you just eyeball intakes of protein
veggies and healthy carbs with each meal
you have like a certain number of meals
three to five meals per day can be
flexible and look out every time i eat
i'm going to have some
fistful of protein and some veggies and
some either fruits or grains and a bit
of healthy fats and like if i don't meet
that exactly no big deal but like i'm
kind of trying a little bit
what that does
is it gets you back into the habit of
eating well-rounded meals in some
semblance of structure notice where this
is trending to
right it's trending to a point where
it's starting to look
less and less different from the formal
dieting that you were so running away
from before and with good reason right
so now not only have we gotten our fill
of bullshit and we still eat some
bullshit every now and again not only or
did we switch to mostly healthy foods
but now our healthy foods are kind of a
little bit more not regimented but like
pre-planned and programmed and we're
saying okay we're trying to make a plate
every time we eat trying to make a plate
that looks reasonable that looks like
something you would eat on a controlled
diet
typically last one to three months and
if it's more no big deal and if it's
less don't lie to yourself
it should actually be less you should
really feel like this before you
transition feel like what
the phase is complete and you can go on
to the last phase phase four
when you're making sure
to get the roughly amount of correct
protein veggies and healthy carbs in
each meal with no stress out of your
habit like if you show up to chipotle
and you go okay i want boom boom this
this that and someone's like what about
like queso and double guac and dip the
fucking burrito and oil twice and refry
it just ask him to do a custom for you
you're like oh that didn't occur to me
they're like wait
so you're doing this just because you're
doing it you're like yeah this is how i
eat right
a lot of times like if bodybuilders
especially and folks that are in control
their fitness when they go out to eat
they'll just order like healthy shit
just kind of by default perfect example
chipotle wasn't a great example because
you only order so much subway okay if
you go to subway and get like the
fucking new
fucking meatball sub with a bunch of
black and shit poured on it and it looks
like a pizza but it's really a sub
you can get that and it's totally cool
if you do but if in this phase you walk
in and you're like yeah double turkey a
bunch of veggies some of the cheese and
a little bit of ranch dressing and i'm
good
and someone next to you standing there
they don't know you and they see maybe
you're like jacked or whatever and
they're like man like you're a pretty
strict diet like if i were you i'd get
this other thing and you're like oh huh
yeah it just didn't even occur to me you
know like how many people go to subway
and like the first notion is to get
cookies like i don't know subways are
fine but like if your first idea is like
yeah i just want like my food and
someone's like well that's pretty clean
you're like they think it's clean it's
just like what i do and they're like
well you seem to have you asked for a
double turkey so you're interested in
protein you're like yeah it's just habit
to me
and if you think about it like oh i have
to order this i'd love a cookie but i
shouldn't have one you're not ready
you're not ready for the next phase keep
doing this one
or go back a phase that's totally fine
too
but if you're legit 100 like man this is
just what i want hey then you're almost
there and what is almost there mean well
the last phase is counting and measuring
okay and the goal here is to begin
counting macronutrients
either daily or in each meal
and
that's when you start counting so you're
like okay i'm going to subway and i've
got my nutrient tracker out of rp diet
app and i type it in and boom there it
goes right
the purpose of this phase
is a really really big deal
notice this phase is not an intentional
fat loss phase it's maintenance
it's just counting it's not even like
you're not even trying to maintain
you're not even looking at the scale yet
you're just counting macros of the
healthy meals you're already eating of
the mostly healthier mostly healthy
foods you already learned to eat in
phase two
and
after you got over all your bullshit i
want to eat pizza every meal of the day
in phase one
so the purpose of this phase is to get
used to the idea of processing
or sorry used to the idea of and process
of counting your intake without yet
having a goal number to hit it's a very
different thing to count macros and like
literally not give a shit what they come
out to versus count macros to try to
align it into a restrictive diet and
burn yourself the fuck out
typically one to three months later
people are really used to this and then
to them counting macros and looking at
food again is like second nature again
and someone's like man aren't you really
burned out from dieting and you're like
i was like a year ago but honestly i
could fucking do with a diet right now
they're like oh my god dieting
restriction you're like
doesn't feel like restriction to me it
feels like i'm just a goal-oriented plan
i'm gonna do a three-month diet and it's
going to get a little tough at the end
i'll be fine i'll just go back to
maintenance and if you can honestly tell
yourself and feel like that about it hey
you're pretty fucking recovered and this
shit works in real life right again if
it doesn't work you need professional
help it doesn't work for everyone but it
works for most
when are you done with this phase
when you're in the painless habit
of counting macros and or calories
either per day or per meal with most of
your food not all being nutritious and
balanced and when counting macros is
really that easy
the next thing you can do if you want a
diet is just give yourself a macro goal
or a me per meal macro goal use the rp
diet app or something like that and then
you go and execute your first diet and
here's the thing if it works you'll be
able to do your next diet and do it
normally without crazy crazy diet
fatigue and psychosis but you may choose
not to you may be fucking training this
whole time would highly recommend you
train this entire time unless you're
burnt out of training too but very few
people get burned out of training
and
you know if you're just training all the
time and you're in great shape
you don't have to fucking die
interesting you actually never have to
diet it's always a choice
and another cool insight tidbit
especially for younger folks tuning this
channel nobody gives a flying fuck about
how you look except for you at the end
of the day people just care about
themselves so if you think oh my god
people judge me yes sure some insane
people judge you most people just don't
care so if you want to do a diet hey
great do it away and you may be very
well ready but if you don't like the
purpose of of this isn't like a launch
sequence for a rocket like a little
rocket has to go the diet has to start
after the purpose is to get rid of your
nasty relationship with food at the end
of which you can just maintain or live
in a healthy balance the rest of your
life but if you want to do a diet you
can and you'll be able to and if you
don't no big deal
for many people at the end of this
four-step process your diet fatigue will
be very low or basically zero to where
someone's like you diet fatigued you're
like what i mean you could actually have
negative diet fatigue so were you
actually in your heart of hearts fucking
pray to god the diet starts soon because
you can't stand eating fucking pizza
anymore i know it sounds crazy uh dr
james hoffman uh who we do the the
bi-weekly questions with i've seen him
do a mass phase where like i watched him
do i physically went to him went with
him i was dying at the time so i was
like oh my god it's gonna be amazing he
went to little caesars to get the five
dollar hot and ready he made it like 90
through the pizza and he just looked at
the last two slices and he's like
i can't do this like oil coming out of
his body he's negative diet fatigue like
when he started his fat loss diet for
the first eight weeks he was like this
is incredible i feel better
actually want to do this right so very
low diet fatigue as a result sometimes
negative or or uh often times zero and
especially psychologically through this
process physiologically you'll probably
be very well reset no big deal the fizz
stuff though
it's not a huge deal because a lot of
times you can just lower the calories up
the activity and it overrides the fizz
stuff the psychology is really the big
problem this is what this is designed to
address
two big tips before i let you guys go
well you can go anytime i'm used to
fucking being a professor and saying all
right get the fuck out of here sorry
first if you think if you highly suspect
you need the diet reset you probably do
give it a shot number two
do not rush the phases
everyone who charged the diet reset 90
of the people have started
they're like okay i'm gonna go off plan
but only for two weeks you are violating
the spirit and letter of the diet reset
the first phase like all the phases is
unlimited the reason i gave you those
timelines is just averages so you don't
think you're a crazy person when it
takes you four months to get through
this shit
that's the deal
so
if you want to rush the phases
you might as well not do the shit
because it's not going to work
you transition phases only when you meet
the criteria you only start eating
healthy foods when you actually feel
like eating healthy food
and if you never feel like eating
healthy foods and you just eat junk the
rest of your life at least you're not
psychologically burdened through fucking
just terror all the time and thinking
you need to be skinny or need to
restrict yourself because living in a
chronic state of guilt and fear of food
man fuck that fuck that
no way to live i'd rather eat fucking
junk food and end up my 600 pound life
and by the way unless you're genetically
unbelievably predisposed to weight gain
you're never going to gain a shitload of
weight everybody every 140 pound girl
thinks like oh my god if i just ate
whatever i wanted i'd be fucking
enormous bitch no you wouldn't you'd
weigh 155 in three months and you'd be
like i can't eat any more than i can't
have that right we all think we're gonna
be a sumo wrestler that shit takes
dedication
back in my nanny days i got up to 270
with like 30 body fat drug free super
strong lots of muscle 270 pounds tons of
fat
she was fucking miserable i mean it took
i remember eating pop-tarts on purpose
to boost my calories with like whole
milk and i was like somebody fucking
kill me
it's not fun you're not almost certainly
not going to balloon up to some crazy
amount
and and here's the thing there's a small
chance you will but if that was going to
be you you need to go speak to a medical
professional psychologist and get
advanced obesity drugs because you don't
want to go down that road anyway and if
you can't help yourself psychologically
you need more help than that
folks
take care of yourselves out there
self-care is super important whole
fucking sports whole channel is about
self-care and if you're watching this
you probably give a shit about yourself
not just take care of yourself out there
take care of yourself in here because
that's where it's really important
peace
you