amazing Advanced technique would be to
take the dumbbells and bring them to
outside of the chest taking the inner
part of the dumbbell and trying to touch
it to the upper part of your bicep which
is all the way back here when you're
pressing so it's super tough also going
slower on the Ecentric on The Descent
and pausing for one or two seconds at
the bottom that's advanced advanced
Ultra Ultra but as a basic template for
technique this is really really awesome
stuff if I was training Mr John Cena
what I would do is I would tell him like
two or three Corrections and because he
has this fundamental base of amazing
technique he'd be like oh yeah that
makes sense within one set he'd be doing
it flawlessly guaranteed whereas if you
start with someone with total dog
technique you got to teach him good
fundamental movement first like weird to
position their body and the dumbbells
and then all that Tempo and the
touching down and and pausing that that
can take a session or week or some
people don't learn that ever so
this is just awesome stuff