Kanye West in the interview said that
the CIA in combination with Disney as a
corporation decided to kill Bambi's mom
to leave you with psychological pain so
that you so hold up so that you uh deal
with that Pain by
um consuming corporate products for
profit and then my brain cells died in
any case
our topic today is our hypertrophy myth
this myth goes out to one of our
favorite no joke
YouTube subscribers Mr Matt C you know
who you are we love you the Smith
machine is a waste of time
I predicted Scott the video guy would
laugh at that but apparently my delivery
sucked
one of the Kanye West shoot at the
beginning took all his laughter away as
Kanye tends to do
by the way you can't ever see Scott the
video guy but uh he's always wearing
Yeezys did I say that right is that what
she was called
or as he's now known
[Music]
why uh rant time this will be included
in the video hopefully why the fuck
do rapper idiots always progressively
shorten their names to their career
Sean Puffy Combs
Puff Daddy
P Diddy
Diddy
what is he now Scott irrelevant
dude
fuck fuck
ow my head anyway all right hypertrophy
myths we're gonna talk about the myth
The Good the Bad and the real talk so
Smith machine
a lot of things are said about it but in
the context if I perch a few people say
a lot of things and I'll try to do a
different voice for every one of these
so bro guy will be like
Smith machine won't get you jacked dude
and uh same guy will be like free
weights only bro and you're like yeah
man I feel hardcore am I Viking yet
and uh some nerd would be like the Smith
machine degrades your Technique
technically speaking and throw Jacques
or biomechanics foreign
all interesting claims people do say
them
they do have some point here is the good
of the Smith the true stuff
the Smith machine is a bad place to
learn compound movements for the first
time like squats and benches and rows
and things like that because it does a
lot of the tracking for you possibly
most of it and then you don't really
learn how to move your body in free
space by yourself and for anything
related to becoming competent physical
mover in any kind of sport or even just
in everyday life not ideal to learn your
compound heavy freeway Basics on a Smith
machine which is why they're called free
weights you should absolutely learn them
free with barbells and dumbbells and
kettlebells or whatever like to use to
move around so definitely that's a good
point and the Smith machine can get you
hurt not acutely usually but in a
chronic wear and tear kind of fashion if
you use it improperly and it does this
by hearing forces to joints so for
example if you do something like an
upright row and normally the barbell
naturally moves backward a little as you
go a Smith machine it just moves in a
line and then at some point shoulders
feel like shit but you keep going and
you're like ah this sure is grinding and
shearing my shoulders to a fucking pulp
but I can't do anything about it because
the barbell is fixed that's definitely a
thing but you can ameliorate that by
doing the exercise correctly or moving
your body to adjust for it so you can
hurt yourself on the Smith machine
chronically by doing the shit wrong and
it is absolutely a risk and not all of
us know what right and wrong is when we
start lifting and by not all of us I
mean almost all of us don't know what
the hell's going on so Smith machine is
something you like to keep beginners
generally away from and it is a specific
tool to use for specific jobs
no
here's where the stuff gets mythical it
turns out that the Smith machine is a
very robust tool for hypertrophy
Works to get you jacked in some cases
because it is extra stabilizing
it actually results in a better mind
muscle connection and an ability to
focus on specific muscles
and I do in the Macarena by accident
all right so I grew up I was a kid slash
teenager in the sort of late 90s mid 90s
and the Macarena was everywhere and um
uh fuck it I'll blame my whole race for
this because I was Jewish I was never
sufficiently talented by movement wise
to learn the Macarena now I know that's
a cop-out because the dance has like
three moves but I guess I'm just not
athletic enough
or never got to dance with friends and
do the Macarena enough
if you guys don't know what the Macarena
is I'm sorry I've just aged myself if
you do know what it is comment below
with how good you were at it back in the
day and I guarantee you that shit that
video probably has like 10 billion views
anyway a lot of times bodybuilders can
get much better mind muscle connection
or at least somewhat better for the
Smith machine they can really not have
to worry about balance and stability and
really focus on getting their practice
or triceps or shoulders or whatever
they're doing hit their back and thus it
can actually be in some instances a
little bit better than free weights in
some context for some short period of
time
and even if it's not hypertrophic in any
special way the Smith machine offers A
variation you do lots of barbell squats
they get stale you switch to Smith
machine squats where you can actually
move your feet a little bit more forward
stay more upright it's more quad focused
less focused on your back another quick
benefit but even if it's not better that
way it's just different which is cool
because it's a variation you can do it
for a while and it's effective and then
you can go back to barbell squatting
free squatting and that feels great too
because you've essentially desensitized
the movement so all good things and they
really are good
so real talk at the end of the story
here's the following most of the
resistance to using the smith machine is
just based on ego and some weird fantasy
membership to some weird fantasy
hardcore Club
having said that I'll meant in my head
like bro hardcore but when I say
membership to a fantasy hardcore Club
whole sorts of different things seem to
be coming up like people who go to the
club wearing angel wings and devil horns
a lot of s m going on a place I'd like
to be if I had friends I was capable of
sexual relations
next
this anti-smith machine hatred is
bolstered by sport coaches strength and
conditioning coaches at the Collegiate
level for example poo-pooing it for
athletes and they're 100 right that
athletes have very little use for the
Smith machine right they're totally
correct and it does not replace
barbell's fractural athletes
but this is a hypertrophy myth series
for dedicated hypertrophy training the
Smith machine is great for athletes that
move in free space and need to be
athletic it's not great but that's not
the same thing it's two different
approaches
as long as you don't Shear your joints
on it or learn your compounds with it
from it as a beginner and as long as
you're not using it for sport
performance the Smith is one of many
great tools for bodybuilders and
recreational muscle Builders alike so
feel free to use it do it right do it in
a way that doesn't hurt your joints and
you're good to go and if anyone gives
you smack about it you just say hey one
day I'll get so hypertrophied you'll be
scared to give me smack
see if that works I've been Dr Mike I'll
see you guys next time