hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization breaking through strength
plateaus video number seven
improving and recalibrating your
technique a real big ego check this
video
so
there are two technique problems that
are very related that are able to cause
plateaus and strength gain
the first one is like your technique
just sucks to begin with you never
learned it properly
you
you know let's say you kind of round
back everything you round back all your
deadlifts you never learn how to arch
retract in a bench you never learned how
to brace in a squat
and that you just like no one ever told
you and that's just that's the deal
right
problem number two is that you used to
have way better technique but over time
your technique has degraded often it's
because you're going heavier and heavier
which is a good thing but you're
starting to number chase and you're
doing kind of whatever it takes during
the lift to get the weight up and
sometimes your technique slips up and
you're like ah whatever i'll just i just
have to get this doing
and
at some point you keep doing that and
you keep practicing with this technique
but now the technique is off so you're
actually learning and relearning and
relearning worse and worse and worse
technique and months or years later your
technique has big fundamental errors
that your body really
likes to do habitually does and is
actually kind of good at milking as much
as it can strength flies out of that
really crappy technique which is to say
not the most strength it can have if you
had good technique so both are problems
right
and
your technique is now so bad because you
have a plateau from potentially poor
technique that it's actually limiting
your progress there's a few ways in
which this can express itself just as
examples so
first nobody remotely close to your
individual muscular strength for let's
say your chest your front delts and your
triceps can actually protract at the top
of the bench like in order to be able to
take the 315 you want to bench and do
this with it you have to have a max
bench of like 365. you have a max bench
of like potentially 315 so when you get
315 you try to press it you're trying to
do this shit with it because you always
do it just doesn't work and you're not
getting lifts if you knew how to arch
and retract you could actually lock it
out and get it but you're not doing that
you say well i just bench with a
different style but they're objectively
better and worse styles there's a reason
almost every power lifter as much as
they can try stars from retractor
produces the distance it turns the
sternal packs in it allows you to do the
lift probably more safely and exert more
force with the right
uh a pattern there's less degrees of
freedom for your shoulders moving around
etc etc etc so
because
you continue to protract you may really
be limiting how much more you're able to
press unless you get wildly stronger
individual muscles which could take a
long time
before you get hurt of course because
protracting all the time at the top of
benches is generally not a good idea
example number two
nobody with your leg strength or almost
no one
with your actual quad strength can squat
the weights you're trying to squat
without a proper squatting brace making
sure to bear down and really get
everything around your core nice and
braced big air and stuff like that
because you're not doing that either
properly or at all
even if your legs get much stronger i
mean they would have to like get one and
a half times stronger for you to squat
you're supposed to be able to squat
without a brace
you could easily just learn how to brace
and get much better at it and then the
smasher squat numbers but because you're
not doing that
you're really pulling yourself away from
what your potential could be and
it could be stalling out for long
periods of time doing that
third example is unless you widen your
sumo stance
you're just kind of pulling essentially
conventional just with your hands
nominally inside your knees your
leverages aren't much better sumo is a
huge advantage because it leverages you
better it gets you lower to the ground
you used to pull with a wider setup but
you kind of reverted to a narrower one
and you comparing your old pr's like i
used to hit more sumo how come these
weights are hard i think i got stronger
but i guess it didn't well your
techniques started to suck so if you
could go back to your older wider
stances and express that strength
potential fully you could actually hit
pr's but because your technique as your
muscles have gotten stronger over time
your technique has degraded over time
just out of like sheer just not paying
attention to it your lifts can be rather
stagnant and thus you have a plateau bad
deal nobody wants
now
fundamentally we have to do don't worry
you have a multiple step process of how
to do this in a sec
is your body's used to dog shit
technique
and we have to realign it to do good
technique
same nervous system same muscle same
bone same you
but expressing that strength differently
which is to say more efficiently
the problem is the transition from doing
it this way to the way you're supposed
to do it
means there is a difference there
and your body has gotten really good
used to your shitty technique
which means it occupies a local maximum
if you move and make your technique even
shittier you get weaker
if you move and make your technique
better
more in the direction of where you're
going you temporarily get weaker why
because your body's really used to doing
in this one shitty way
even if your shittiness is reduced in
many cases that reduction alone causes a
difference and your nervous system your
muscle architecture is all aligned after
weeks and weeks and weeks of doing it
this specific way and even though it's
not the objectively best way because
your body is used to it any deviation
will cause a dip
to kind of a local minimum where you
fucking suck for a while now as you
continue to teach your body the better
and better and better technique it
floats back up to the local maximum and
global maximum of this sort of
topography here to where you're actually
as strong as you could be but this
little journey which is displayed on the
graph takes you into a dip which almost
no one ever voluntarily goes into some
guy at the gym says hey man your bench
is looking good but you got to do this
more not this you're like alright sweet
he's big he benches more than you do it
next time you fucking blow at it and you
bench less because you're not used to it
you're just going to be like there's an
idiot like i give him the wrong advice
i'm just going back to what works for me
and if you ever see this on a youtube
comment reddit forum anything guys
saying like yeah i tried xyz but it
didn't work i'm just going back to what
works for me there's a good chance that
they just didn't work and their advice
sucked or whatever it wasn't good for
them this is a good chance they just
didn't give it enough time to actually
express its full abilities right there's
people that are like yeah i tried
calorie balance but didn't work for me
like oh sweet you're the only person
that violates laws of thermodynamics
right shit like that so
ironically your brain and body is
optimized to do shit technique and in
order to have to get better you'll have
to get worse first
bad news there's no way around that
good news there's a trick to where you
don't have to see yourself as weaker and
here it is
here's the fix
point number one
your technique sucks
accept that fact swallow your pride
commit yourself to doing what it takes
to get it better right
you could be watching shitload of
powerlifting videos i mean like everyone
bench is different than me
fuck them they're all idiots well
they're stronger than you so maybe you
suck
also it's not just how everyone does it
you could just read an article by like
greg knuckles on stronger by science and
analyzes the biomechanics of how to
bench properly and you're like huh
i do like three of those four things
wrong or
maybe
greg's just not that smart he is that
smart and there's not really
disagreement there's a couple of
fundamentals in benching that pretty
much everyone has to do and you're
clearly not doing them look when i first
started lifting fucking god my technique
was just broken it was wrong in every
possible level and i actually had to do
this specific thing with my bench and
squat and deadlift at one point in my uh
late teens early 20s for sure so you're
not the first person to have to do this
and remember pat yourself on the back
because you're smart and you're patient
and you're hungry and you want to do the
right thing in the long term so you can
be super strong so don't worry about
your numbers now accept it you suck now
let's do something to change
point number two
what you do
is put good solid overloading compound
accessory lifts first into your plan
into the first thing you do every
session that you show up so for example
now you should be technically good at
them okay ones in which your technique
doesn't suck hopefully or sucks less
right and a lot of times a lot of people
are actually really good at the
accessories because they're not
eco-driven uh and they're really
bad technique at their prime lifts
because they're like ah jeff dude it
takes their technique goes to hell so
push those lifts instead of remember
shifting the strength of core strength
lifts you want to improve the ones you
have shitty technique on we'll put them
aside for now you're going to do these
assistance lifts first and you are going
to attach your ego to them and with good
technique and never letting it degrade
you're going to get them stronger over
multiple months for example instead of
competitive benching you're going to do
close grip benches good technique
progressively getting stronger high bar
squatting instead of low bar competitive
squat stiff leg a deadlift instead of a
regular deadlift so on and so forth
right
if your overhead pressing and your
technique suck standing barbell press go
to see to press go to see the dumbbell
press something like that right
now you have an outlet for your ego by
which it with good technique on these
other lifts which aren't the problem for
you can still plug away and you can
still feel like you're fucking hitting
hard and heavy you're making some kind
of progress damn it so someone's like
hey you hit a bench pro and while you're
like no i'm not focusing on that right
now but i hit crazy close group bench pr
last week and remember before blah blah
all good all very good right because
let's be honest i couldn't tell you just
look and swallow your ego and do
technique only sessions for two months
nobody's gonna do that shit i probably
wouldn't do that shit so now that you're
doing that that's great now in each of
these
sessions take your shitty technique lift
that you're trying to work on and do it
later in each session and for
weeks at least
you're going to only do technique work
which means
sets of three to six reps
but at a three to six rpe
oh my god easy as fuck like it just
barely feels a little heavy like grandma
couldn't lift it but maybe on a good day
and then you work with stellar technique
remember technique practice you don't
just get through it every time you set
up
boom and all the way up and down exactly
like it's supposed to be done and if you
need help figuring out how it's supposed
to be done
watch videos
chat with other people who are good at
powerlifting or weightlifting or
strength sport anything you want
work on your technique and those
technique sessions are for you to maybe
experiment with some different
techniques
really work it in until you have a real
stable new good technique with really
easy loads not challenging after some
number of weeks it could take months but
it'll probably take like weeks like i
don't know like
three to six weeks usually and you feel
pretty goddamn solid but you're not
challenging yourself yet you're only
challenging yourself with the assistance
lifts now
point number four
once this happens and your technique
looks much better on these very late
lifts
you deload etc and your next message
cycle you still do these lifts later you
still put in your close grip benches and
stuff first but right after you do your
core lifts which you're really bad at
technique-wise it doesn't have to be all
of them if your squat deadlift or good
technique just benches the problem you
should do this on bench workouts now
you're doing
that lift let's say bench press your
core lift second after close grip work
or whatever you're doing first
but now you start to do them for sets of
three to six at a seven to nine rp so
it's conventional hard training
with the good technique that you learned
earlier
it's just second exercise so it's not
going to be super crazy pr's which is
good because you offload dpr demons in
the first exercise in a second you go
hard and get a good training response
and your technique starts to calibrate
into actually being something you
practice with heavy loads it's a very
very different proposition to do good
technique with light loads some of you
guys that have shitty technique right
now
i said that all wrong i didn't mean to
insult you guys
if you have shitty technique with a
certain lift heavy some people if you
take 100 pounds off the bar they have
stellar techniques they fucking know
what they're doing but they're either
not used to exerting that technique at
heavy loads or they just give up and
just grind ego shit so what you need to
do for like a meza cycle
is have that compound accessory lift
first have the core lift heavy now
second but heavy with good technique to
get you really refined in practicing and
then after a room that's a cycle of that
one to two months of training deload etc
switch to using those old movements
first those core movements first
and then continue to drive up loads with
your new good technique
seven to nine rp the usual and voila
you're very likely to start hitting pr's
again if your platf if your plateau was
actually from a technical error
holy shit we just solved that problem
now
here's shit not to do before i let you
guys go i hate saying that i used to be
a professor i still am a professor good
god uh i'll let you guys go think it's
like when students are itching to leave
class you're like before i let you go i
gotta say this you guys can click off of
the fucking stupid video anytime you
want so
uh
things not to do which are super fucking
tempting which many many many people do
and you'll see them do it around you
when you're training
don't just like do some technique work
for a few sessions the guys will
literally do this they'll hit their
heavy lifts as dog shit as ever then
they'll reduce like 100 pounds off the
fucking bar and they'll do like
technique work and it looks pretty good
it may be even getting better and you're
like
so i see your technique works going good
they're like yeah it's pretty sweet
right like huh isn't the purpose of
technique work to actually make it so
that your
heaviest lifts have that good technique
and they're like uh-huh
do you have a plan for when this is
gonna happen or you just like practicing
something properly now
uh and to never have to implement it in
real life it's like
we have a shitty gymnastics routine
you're doing everything wrong your
coaches like you suck and then you're
off to the side practicing another
routine which is flawless and they're
like why don't you do that for your
competition you're like that's not that
i really like this other routine i'm
doing
all right so you know just adding
technique or
doesn't address the problem that you're
continuing to practice the heavy lifts
with shitty technique it's like learning
the proper way to speak a language while
you're still you know with your friends
talking in all kinds of crazy ass and
then teaching you the wrong shit because
you're not even native to that language
you gotta stop practicing wrong you have
to stop practicing wrong adding in the
right shit doesn't fix the problem like
the worst analogy i've ever made maybe
there's a stretch
you know if you have a problem or you're
physically eating too much shit
it's not a matter of solution to simply
eat ice cream with the shit you're like
it's not all bad now isn't that right
ladies and they're like oh my god are
you eating shit with ice cream in it
stop eating shit
and just eat the ice cream i'll make a
deal you don't even have to eat ice
cream just stop eating shit for the love
of god stop doing bad technique
if you try to smash prs again even if in
that technical training you're feeling
your swag your body will often almost
always revert back to its shitty
technique because you never excise that
from your repertoire your brain
continually does
what it continually does you will revert
back unless you clean the slate and get
the fuck away from heavy lifting so you
can purge those essentially those
memories those motor patterns from your
system for
weeks if not months
right
or or
just keep using shit technique
keep looking for quick fixes make a lot
of excuses keep sucking and you'll have
tons of friends and maybe even a
girlfriend folks
see you next time
your mission until i see you
is to get a girlfriend
you