I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
and we are back for the webinar this
week folks welcome back dr. James
Hoffman with me as always dr. Mike is
Raquel Welch hello James also alone
hello
I've got my don't you guys maecenas
Qdoba although it's good well it's
really good you'd open the shit I would
use as much room as possible except
barely have enough yeah um yeah I
pronounced it Qdoba as well is there an
alternative is there a better way to
pronounce that I think some people who
are painfully white sync we don't yeah I
think I don't shit it's a fuckin word as
far as I'm concerned yeah I always there
weren't always baffles may I look at it
like yes
all right so let's get into it yeah yeah
we got a ton of questions tonight all
right
the ground running uh Maria Billy says
hi Dobson YouTube the insults just oh
that's this opens up folks oh yeah but
on YouTube you're in silence okay if you
haven't figured out by now that is the
tone of these webinars for for your new
YouTube viewers that basically sets sets
it right off yep all right so every time
I press escape doesn't really let me get
by the click on that press escape okay
so it just says a quick question today
following last week's theme on ripped
with formatting exercises on palms do
you find a difference in a her trophy
when treating or shoulder extension like
with cross good let's go over vs
shoulder adduction like with a wide grip
pull down well in tight movement for
rows it's more straightforward the
higher the elbows the more the upper
back has worked so in this case closed
elbows pinned to the body you should be
working on a lower less how would you
spread it out the differences spread up
a different focus groups and split okay
I guess sometimes a different question
um
I've never noticed a difference
personally and hypertrophy between
fuck-all and dick why just I do two
things
barbra arose in which you wrote
relatively high amount of weight with
your elbows at least 45 degrees anywhere
down to here and with any variation of
pulldown I honestly haven't noticed a
big difference and hypothetically if
you'll explain different spots but the
vast majority of motor units are
activated sort of no matter how you pull
so when I really necessary I don't know
I was gonna say it strains wait for
optimality thematic but I don't think it
does too much honestly for back just
pick movements that you're really comfy
with it you really like there buddy hate
your fucking back hard and that don't
irritate your joints and that you can
progress on just do them for a while and
then switch to smoothness they're novel
and just keep doing that
fucking back I James - up thank you
you know I actually was gonna play into
this a little bit because I haven't
understood I have noticed that problem
we're not not problem but have noticed
that I don't want to call it but yes
difference so for me like wide grip I
don't really feel it very much in my
lats very much at all but like close
grip underhand is like complete night
and day difference like lat explosion
and that might just be like an intimate
thing like I have really long arms maybe
it's thank you the tune of that but I
have noticed if underhand particularly
and if I go under hand close grip like
my last just really get a much better
feel to the point where like if I'm if
I'm on the high frequency phase I can do
underhand variations hard one day and I
can do light overhand variations the
next day almost without any penalty
which is weird Wow so I've noticed that
- I can't really speak but I think I
would say that's more of an individual
difference than like a an optimality for
exercise type thing in terms of if you
wanted to do like a biomechanical like
is this makes sense I think for some
people that differences of you know
these big is just for knowledge
yeah exactly it's more of an individual
difference and a lot of people this is
actually a good theoretical to discuss
right here right now a lot of people
will try to do it in James I must be off
if people like the special snowflake
themselves where you tell them hey look
guys on average if you get a closer grip
more inside more elbows in and you've
got a few more lads you're gonna feel
more you know God you know Tara's major
and stuff like that and our other lads
if you do my credit etc and then some
special flow makes stuff like an evident
comes along it's like actually from you
if you'll feel the way around Nick
public service announcement if you feel
a certain movement a certain muscle
that's probably what works man
shit's not fucking rocket science so you
fundamentally at the end of the day can
take general Tigers to do and how to do
it and if you notice and consistencies
and you notice different patterns with
yourself just fucking to those perhaps
or a love of God like how much they make
some people come in and there's no
special stuff like themselves as if it's
a golf like they were just gonna cancel
all training theory to figure out what's
wrong with you like people will say like
well closer stands works your quads more
like process the gas up for most people
that's the case you know like for me I
feel it more lighter well congrats
you're fucking lations do your name like
I don't know what to tell you yeah
totally agree except what look at the
stupid stuff like if you want to feel it
in here
your last you've got a bench press relax
bro get that junk not me
um all right how would you spread out
different focus groups from a sweat
which would go through one day with my
group movements pull-ups rows one day
but the clothes scripts will be like
reports on Apple and clothes for one day
and vice versa on the other see upper
back day
lightgrip rose for delts rugs for traps
no vertical pulling on Monday Latin a
biker pull-ups plus triple bonds flat
focus closer bro in the other name
indeed vertical pull indeed horizontal
Poland day so I'll take a shot at this
jeans and I'll see how you like to do
things I usually like to split into
vertical and horizontal because the
difference is so thinner they affected
areas it really allows stuff for a
higher degree of specificity a higher
degree fatigue management to emerge from
something like that sig if you go from
this roof of lower labs and other labs
sometimes it irritates stimulates and
irritates so many the same structures
you know and
insufficient amount of variation and
whenever you use a relatively high
frequency training it can be like well
more of the same or of a same or the
same in your super fucked up so I
definitely still like to start with a
vertical pulling emphasis and
horizontally emphasis but I always you
have never just solve do you know mostly
horizontal poles I'm one day a little
bit of Erica poles so in the end I'm
gonna vice-versa on the other days and
then I think it's also potentially the
midea to mix in another one of the
variations Mir show that you talk about
so like if I do all of my rows sort of
wide-grip that maybe I'll that day I'll
do my pull-ups or pull downs I'll do
Close Grip elbows in you know so
basically I try to have as much of a
difference between a day as possible so
that each day is focused on a specific
primary and also that there's more
specificity and more fatigue management
by that I mean you're not irritating the
same structures Dean a day to day to day
and that's you can have hard workouts in
slightly different areas multiple times
a week James what do you think I think
that's really great the thing that I
would add on top of that is it's maybe
not an issue of like should I be wide
grip here or never appear so much as
pick the movements where you get a
really good SFR and then as Mike already
described have emphases type days right
it doesn't matter if you get a wide grip
pull down and then you want to do a two
arm dumbbell row or because of the grip
difference that's really not the issue
right click the movements that have
really good SF RS for you and then go
from there you know you also might find
that your vertical pulling might have
different frequency tolerances than your
horizontal pulling too so you might
actually find like you might do some you
might do vertical pulling three or four
times per week and maybe horizontal
pulling maybe once or twice depending on
how you tolerate it so you don't
necessarily have to clump them together
like that either in fact most of my
female clients they'll do vertical
pulling four times a week if not five
sometimes as they can
brilliant find a really fucking good
point sometimes you just put a
horizontal wind uh yes by definition
axial fatigue so sometimes you just
can't have it yeah Mike your uh the gym
you your your video your video cut out
when we having a connection issue maybe
we can I got your audio so that's good
enough for now but your video kicked out
might come back alright well let's just
keep going
[Music]
mmm and I think your audio might have
kicked out too Mike would you do me a
favor and maybe try logging logging out
and back in again
well there's your face there we go look
[Music]
I'll get dr. Mike a minute
[Music]
hey there we go got both back in
business
okay sorry no it's not your fault okay
so move along mm-hmm I liked his ending
oh that was funny yeah yeah yeah okay
Martin look you do some mess
I think it's McHugh I like to think of
Magoo I don't know why yeah because yeah
there you go look up that's a good one
too all right
marnik you says ed talks
hey guys our help with training around a
hamster intended tendinopathy was very
useful that's right awesome I'm never
going okay with a few setbacks who's in
the variation mean less for entropy now
I want to have more of a strength focus
to try and meet a goal I've always had
which is from spawn spawn 50-kilogram
four five Oh fright Bertrand V have been
pretty high volume 25,000 from sponsors
proposals each week oh my god squats
holy rats Watson and pause sponsors I
mean if that's just a lot of squatting I
would say even four quads that's a lot
but squat in hell is shit yeah that's
insane both of you keep stuff some ghr
it's the same not another 26 of
accessory kind of work okay nose knees
so straight does more than goal in the
5rm range how much volume should I drop
I thought maybe around 20 sets of front
squats oh man I unless you're like a
cross-country runner I have a hard time
thinking about 20 sets for strength
something seems a bit funky there I know
I know he's talking about per week so
that could be like 10 and 10 or you know
five five five five five but that's
still a lot yeah okay so just that face
value I would say like a good starting
point for yours just to change your
squat vault on paper would be take
two-thirds of what you were doing on a
Tuesday for your normal mesocycle you
know kind of in the middle of the road
what your normal sets would be go
two-thirds right but even then which
probably would put you right around
looks like right around 20 anyway I'd be
I'd be curious to see if you saw more
strength gains around the 10 to 15 mark
per week now something I would be
curious about not to see the second half
I might be totally wrong but yeah I
think Mike's right cut it in half cuz
that's a lot of volume for strength in
particular like strength is gonna be
really really sensitive to all that
volume mm-hmm yeah I think I don't have
don't see see how it goes from there you
know if you're maybe next time if you
want to clarify what your frequency of
your squad training looks like just that
might shed a little bit of light on this
but if it's like two and two like two
two sessions of that much squatting whoo
mama yeah he actually says we have a
darker accessory work scrapple interest
to rustle Sarah that's good
he says PS here's today's workout was
just an example of a value for day but
nothing is oh you know and this is maybe
a good PSA for people when you post
things in the forum some and this is
true of like smiley faces emojis or
images sometimes they don't transfer out
of the forum very well and to be very
blunt I copy paste whatever is in the
form into the document so a lot of the
times it won't show up in the forum and
then if you try and copy paste it just
nothing shows up or just an error shows
up so apologies in advance if you did
put a picture in there probably just
didn't copy over yeah yeah so if you
want to do just text next time they'll
be like oh yeah and so if any of you are
wondering why your emojis and stuff
aren't usually listed it's because the
image images typically don't copy over
very well
yeah all right mark village route Villar
tell killer no Mark Millar no hi doctors
why some people have problems little
beat up mood disturbances etc to get to
ten percent body fat for example I was
overweight my entire childhood into my
teens not every time he gets a 12% body
fat problems I will set start to arise I
didn't like us physically so it's not
rushing it any work routes I'm gonna get
that I wasn't with a belt physical
six-pack not a full one thanks or
advance and excuse me if I misspelled
something learning English solo you did
a great job
ah yeah hyouta grows best from spain
aspyn yeah yeah it is
alright oh I just a cat this one then
you tell you finish a phase a cut of any
kind that's outside of your normal
settling point you're gonna experience
some combination of these tangles um I
think the real ticket is to not get
nearly as fat on the next mass phase so
for example if you've gotten from 25% to
17% of sweet okay then maybe go up to
20% I go for 20% of 13% sui maybe go up
to 16% 16 percent to 10 percent you're
gonna feel like shit maybe just go up to
13 or 14 percent and the next time you
go down to 2% I almost guarantee you're
not going to feel as bad but eventually
if you're down to 10 to 12 at your high
points you're down at 12%
you're probably gonna feel pretty fuckin
good now there are some genetics some
people Lakers and some people literally
just kick ass that 6% body fat you walk
around at 6 or 7 o'clock there and it
all pink them but some people who move
habaneros who try to get to 10 or 12
percent but I think that if you stay
around that area that you can get a good
to go I bet like fat berries what's my
life when I first got to like each at
10% it was terrible all I got all this
stuff my second cut to that was not
nearly as bad nowadays I walk around 10
to 12 percent near like I have a pains
currently and I have everything's
fucking working just great so
time and it takes multiple cuts and not
getting super fat on masters no that's a
huge second part if you do multiple cuts
to get to 10% but you always mess up to
the same that piece of shit knows were
it's not gonna be just as hard every
single time you pretty much he gets a
little easier over time but not much
easier James yeah those are all really
good suggestions that's you know that is
kind of a part of really really hard
dieting another thing that you might
contentiously modulate is your fat
intake it may or may not work some
people respond a little bit better
having a little more fat so you might
choose to maybe not drop your fats as
low as they historically have then maybe
bump them up a little bit and take a
little away from carbs instead not what
we would usually recommend but if the
mood disturbances and you know lack of
Drive and things are really disruptive
to your lifestyle it might be worth
exploring it might not do anything it is
something worth trying if you want to
see if it helps but usually like Mike
said not cutting so hard for so long is
the bigger issue yeah all right let me
see if I could screen brightness on here
I got a man if you like a 55 year old
right less bright screen the Malik
computer will stay alive from okay
Daniel Dekker I'm actually sitting in my
brother-in-law's office currently at my
sister-in-law's house are you in I'm in
Detroit yeah he's actually a
professional hackers no oh Battle of the
hacks doors here
yeah gala is also excellent at karaoke
for those of you who don't know easily
obscene just makes she basically
professed on singer so anytime you sings
a song it's like it's so funny we went
to karaoke my wife and I went to curate
with my sister and her husband and ef4
sing a song and it was just unbelievable
and everyone claps and then Sonya
everytime goes to do karaoke she knows
she's terrible but she doesn't care so
she basically just yells she did an
entire antennal song where she's just
yelled like two beats off-key the entire
time and yeah he says a fuckin thing
because she just puts it out there it's
amazing
that's kind of what a dildos are
feelings we got it for sure you can
actually like her go on a
psychotherapist oh here we go
diagnosed you with the fields who
wronged you yeah well I want her songs
Hey wrong dude yeah I'm actually I
listened to all your music so I can give
you an exact diagnosis all right Daniel
hacker says all these questions are
about a very similar topic actually his
selection for well-rounded back training
in a program only actually sort of
answer that question if someone has
already do deficit Ellis is some kind of
pull up slash pulled out of some kind
and it over him the high elbow type of a
macro of some kind it's very interesting
in terms of specific are they missing
anything I would say they they're not
missing anything big for sure but I
think a regular row not necessarily a
high elbow row is remember hi Ella Rose
yeah they turned into rear delts really
well they target the upper traps really
well the rhomboids perhaps the teres
major as well but they don't hit the
middle let's as much definitely on the
lower legs so they're using something on
there but I think if you do it vertical
poles make you're totally fine so I mean
just regular rowing also can offer a lot
of overload to all those muscle at the
same time whereas before specific high
elbow Ronan is more of a specificity
isolation type movement so the really is
yeah if I had to pick anything that
would be like I think you benefit just
remove regular rows in fact the whole
split let me think as it stands nothing
that could critique you know another
potential critique is isolation work in
the form of full reverse
machine full of us are one of those
movements is probably better that good
freely but really one is a really hard
one to get right yeah you know your
triceps are sort of active holding the
thing whereas a Michigan one or not you
know just work with us you know the with
the
don't know where you don't really get a
chest anyway are the she wants what she
knows
but anyway all overs are a good thing to
add but I would say you're really
missing anything I think that they're
cutting the kind of way that you could
be missing a pullover is if you're
fucking jack in your body over at stage
for the fifth show the judges are like
listen your back thickness is really
sweet and just like to see a little bit
more with particularly just right under
your arm goes like there you go yeah I'm
sorry you know did you know you're not
gonna bet row your way no more that shit
while at the same time not minimizing
the thickness so I like this question
Daniel because it presents an
interesting problem and it's a problem I
think a lot of us have gone through
where it's kind of like the the muscle
development the magazine approach to
body building which is really heavy on
hitting a lot of different angles for
all different muscles really and the
reality is is that's not a bad idea
because you're gonna cover just in terms
of like surface area right you're gonna
come most of it which is great I think a
better way to think about it is really
kind of what are the better SFR
movements for your vertical and
horizontal pulling type stuff so what
movements do we feel it in the traps and
the rhomboids what movements do you
really feel in the last it doesn't
necessarily matter if you're doing it
from this angle or that angle a lot of
the times like Mike said a bent row can
hit a lot of those muscles and use a lot
of tension a lot of weight and it just
ends up being really really good all
around although you might get a slightly
better activation of your traps may or
ASCAP's doing like a cable face pull or
something you're just not gonna get a
lot out of that movement comparatively
so I think it's not necessarily a
biomechanical issue it is to a small
degree but then it becomes an SFR issue
like the biomechanical part is very
checkmark kind of thing where it's like
okay do I have something that's like
this and do I have something that's like
this yeah that's it then it becomes an
SFR issue right and then you can go from
there and I think that's probably it
sounds like it sounds like you're like
you're you're making it too simple I
don't know if the word for that is um
making it more easier than it needs to
be but that's the reality it's like you
don't have to do like this why over
simplifying you don't have to like you
know like that different like oh my god
you know like if you go to like a hammer
strength gym and they have a hammer
strength throw from like ten different
angles where it's more Omid ro like
parallel Jairo you don't need it
pick the one that you feel the most go
done yeah it's funny to this perfect
example because like um they hammer
strange low row I hate because I can
feel it ever ever neither I just bought
me this super awkward and I'm just like
okay we'll fuck that and you know
there's nothing that rows aren't gonna
do for me in that area that I need no
totally it's an interesting question
though and it's like what a lot of like
2000s late 90s bodybuilding magazines
would have you believe in German
certainly I was in that boat as well
okay he says similar topic to photos
already doing heavy hitters like deficit
beds are tiel's and jams as well as just
supported rowing as what I was doing
okay so my topic was already doing you
have the hit videos like this desert
eels and GM's so I'll show supporter on
your vertical pulling their ever slash
why would there be any kind of that row
would you go so far as a mental roads
she like to be reserved for those who
can't you tell us or I'll back
development no I would never say that
for me I think James's answer of a so
far but it comes down to it is fr-from
been rowing for last actual my last
blows everything out of the water except
like pull-ups and pull-downs maybe just
all ups so bent over rows are give you a
special ability to quote a ton of
tension through everything and hit your
directors probably in a way that may
mean they're not even hit deadlifts and
it a little bit more of a dynamic way
because what you end up doing is
rounding your back over at the bottom
and arching your back over at the top
and while they're still tense to keep
you upright the lower I find that lower
lap pump from bedros to be incredible so
I think I'll put a Thea this point if
you're doing all those things that you
said and you never get a lot out of that
rose you know nothing to it absolutely
that if you really love bet rose and you
like looked at this and mathematically
they're just essentially like no longer
have a place don't stop doing them so
then your last point there I don't agree
with but everything else is totally good
like a few RSF are wise if you get a ton
out of all those things like I've had
people say you're do
lifting my rector's are growing all the
time machine rows from you know just a
godsend and then that rose I fucking
heat I can't do that I try them a
trillion times and just don't get any
mind muscle connection I don't get mom
do I have to do that rose to be there no
fuck no you don't but like I'm actually
more the other way or I have real
trouble of act machines like I just I
can get them to work with high reps and
with intentional pauses at the top and
stuff like that but it's it's real
struggle like you just give me one bar
bone and a slight deficit to stand on
that I can fucking move my back with
that rose and I'm not gonna stop doing
that because they work James yeah and
yeah I agree with everything Mike said
and I think there you couldn't have like
a training age kind of perspective here
whereas like in the bit as a beginner
bodybuilder or hyper tree athlete you
could get a lot out of doing things just
like deadlifts and good morning so you
get a lot of back development from that
but at some point the SFR for your
deadlift becomes so shitty that it
almost is an assist it's almost
necessitates that it gets replaced by
something else like a bent row because
it just starts up wiping you out from
other things and that's when like the
heavy rows really stimulates a lot of
that erector and that mid-back area it's
a very good alternative now it's not
necessary you don't have to do it
especially if you're continuing to get
good gains from the other things that
you're doing but more than likely is
there's going to be a transitional
period where the SFR for a lot of those
compound hip hinge movements just goes
in the tank in terms of systemic fatigue
and you probably want to explore other
options
yeah yeah um next one please explain to
me the utility of doing roids for
quote-unquote laughs thickness Close
Grip machine rowing variants where I'm
gonna bellerose etc and body Muller for
longest but I really don't get it unless
for very specific circumstances they're
too strong or too lazy to deadlift and
do have you call ups well that's a lot
of people on the too strong to the left
again
James has answered it's the SFR
situation if one is doing deadlifts just
supported or upper back thickness and
vertical pulling don't they have their
bases covered
well I think just supported rowing
builds into the last leg mistake I love
just lowing is supposed to be yeah it's
great you so like um the lat thickness
thing is basically like I think when a
lot of people say lack thickness what
they really mean is your
leaving right front so a lot lot of
odd-even reviews a lot of people
actually use lats and back synonymously
so we'll say like people say you know
Manahan someone's thinks that the metro
is a terrible exercise for the back and
I said no he doesn't you know circles
does he really thinks us no he says it's
bad it's a it's not the greatest
exercise for the latissimus dorsi muscle
which it's not it gets a final exercise
but it's limits there's a limited range
of motion because you don't get a
stretch under tension and vertical
pulling is just better for your lats but
the thing is your lats are actually a
relatively small part of your whole back
the erector sir
a sieve look up Johnny Jackson's back
Johnny sections is not his big lads but
his backs fucking unbelievable because
his rector's are so goddamn famous traps
are got anything his rhomboids are so
goddamn good but it doesn't fucking
matter how small the flats are and
they're not small but they're not been
singing so that's one of the situations
where I think a lot of people get a
little mixed up and you're not getting
your living stuff is responding the room
the organs than the men stop so I think
nothing replaces rows and deadlift etc
for directors or fitness for Rocco into
the traps and stuff like that that's
what makes your back really think I
think it can add a lot of thickness as
well but just stimulating lats
any particularly makes them thicker the
vertical pulling is better for the lats
proper but I think a combination of all
those Mike I'm just gonna pin yourself
you see what you think how how often do
you really find for for bodybuilding or
aspiring bodybuilders or
intermediates to advant bodybuilders
where their erector thickness is is a
limiting factor in that they need to
spend a lot of time doing more and more
deadlifts to bring up their physique
humble opinion I find that once you once
you've been training for like 10 years
like you get so much indirect work from
just all the other stuff that you're
doing here you've got a pretty good base
on the back thickness for the most part
and there could be instances where
somebody could do a little bit better
but I have a hard time thinking of
examples of you have somebody who is
like an advanced / somebody who's
competing regularly and they get knocked
down on their judging they're like dude
you're erectors are so bad you need to
more - it looks like does that happen I
don't know yeah very rarely house is a
very perfect example and this is a
division which electors don't matter
much but in class bodybuilding critics
bump Steve the current classic move mr.
Olympia has incredibly wide lats which
gives him an unbelievable shape but he
has been pretty much dick for a retro
thickness which means ears are really
pleasing physique that's really classic
cuz connectors are not a classic
directors are a modern muscle like
branch Warren slash everybody brooms
tank is difficult to tell the two apart
perfectly that is what directors are for
so you know if if Chris bumps - for some
reason which overall certainly never
happened switch to open bodybuilding he
would have to put some fucking work in
deadlifting Rowan notice back isn't just
not up to par his lactic rates the super
wide and they're super you know thick
enough and they're super wide it's just
his back and just traps in his reactors
that hold gnarly like bullshit that you
know the snake of your back shit
that's just as your sort of I'll be
missing but yeah James knew all that
it's it's very rare because most of the
guys in the open do so much time looking
growing everything else that they have
erectus and our traps or mid traps
they're big enough I will say there if
you're chasing a gnarly back you can't
have directors that are too big so if
you're if you have the genetics to have
a like a retarded looking back you need
to make your retro specific as possible
and the people with the most retarded
backs have directors still getting
goddamn sense a Ronnie Coleman comes to
mind we're gonna kill some shit going on
up move those back just you looked at it
you're like what fuck is that look at
that you know vanity Chargers not mind
it so yeah it can be a thing but it's
almost never an issue and he's a great
example - I mean like you can you can
poke fun and laugh at his old videos all
you want but he spent a lot of time
still doing really heavy squatting and
really heavy dead lifting almost most
the way through his career so yeah
unfortunately that came at his detriment
later
yeah maybe the price to be the best
alright lastly for data hacker and
physique what do you do when you
prematurely overreach on a movement
I was accumulating from five nuts every
elevation before my mother a wrench a
flat bench two times in a 6-10 or a
journey : when clay Morrow mention
football bar bench because he split over
three sessions I need to get chest
volume in tomorrow just not there
I dropped away by a ten to 15% and just
get the volume do I just do light sets
and do better next time what do I do if
I drop the weight by 10 to 50 percent
I'd still be roughly 66 fraction of
murder em do you never sets of seven
sets of six to ten it's always gotta be
summative right I mean yes it would be
seven senses the set target and special
reach with so actually what I would do
is I would do a recovery Catholic where
for an entire half of a week whatever
that means to you would be two workouts
could be one more all chest movements
and probably all pushing movements I
would do on a volume and intensity D
mode so 50% of your normal weights for
fifty percent or less of your normal
volumes ten rir or more incredibly easy
you do half a week like that you come
back and take a follow you between your
MeV and MRV and you'll have some resets
it ization during that time and you
start on it again with the weights you
would have progressed to anyway so for
example last Monday you bench 245 four
sets of five months maybe four sets of
eight next Monday you're supposed to
bench 250 percent of thing but this
Monday you like sort of overreached
early and you're like fuck fuck fuck
what do I do well this Thursday instead
of doing dips and dumbbell presses heavy
you do like assisted dips for three by
five fifteen on our AR and you do your
dumbbells for the same it just we barely
get a warm-up
you're gonna have spend the rest of it
half week healing a ton and then you're
gonna come back next Monday instead of
doing like five sets of eight or
whatever with 250 you do three or four
sets of eight most 250 there completely
recovered you still progress in
intensity because you're gonna be super
milder and you're gonna feel great but
you're not going to do this much
because they just get fucking mega
overlapping sore and that would just
shoot it out because you would have you
know your time away from heart training
would have basically order to enhance
your repeat a matter of fact or that
sort of reduce the effect that's my
answer and justify it by saying that if
your bench is going to hell there's a
good chance of your pecs in general or
essentially over reach even if they're
not done it's a movement specific over a
tree shows rare but it does happen
um it's such a good thing for you to
really take the pedal to everything else
really really relaxed and heal
everything come back and be sure that
you're gonna get a good thing I think
like if one of the wheels falls off of
your car pull over and put the fucking
wheel back on and check all the others
don't be like okay like I can still lean
over this way and finish the messenger
that's my place James I think that was
really really solid advice I would
prospectively I would say you might want
to think about maybe not doing heavy
pressing twice per week what might be a
good alternative is to take one of those
sessions and do some like higher rep
flies or even like a higher rep dumbbell
press or something like that I think
I've run into that same problem where I
was just hitting the wall with heavy
pressing all the time and then as I
started experimenting with SFR and
frequency a little bit I actually found
I could do one heavy bench press per
week without fucking other things up but
if I split things up I could also do
another fly per week and then I could
actually do something lighter like a
deficit push-up or a dumbbell bench
press for higher reps so I actually
increased my frequency by taking out the
second heavy pressing day which is kind
of a weird conundrum so it might be one
of those things that might be worth
exploring to you have one of those heavy
presses leave it in and then on the
other day maybe think about using a
higher rep range or a less intense
exercise like a dumbbell incline bench
or a fly or something like that yeah
yeah I think that's rated yeah that's
where movement diversity comes in handy
is we've got like three chest days
don't just bench all of them yeah you
can do heavy barbell press I find but I
hit the shit I'm at so many times
painted myself
yeah and it's easy easy to do if you're
using this especially so that's like
that's the benefit in the drawback of
using the same movement throughout the
week is that you gain efficiency in that
movement rapidly so you make huge
progress on it but then you also run the
problem of like either burning out on it
or just having too much wear and tear on
it and it happens so it might be good to
split up instead of having that flat
bench twice do it once and then have a
different movement yeah all right Besson
he is back he says I have one last
question for this week which was I think
this was from this was from last week
last could you guys should test my
analogy on why one should include
Paradise hypertrophy blocks into their
strength training here it goes basically
you have just built a decently sized
engine you want to be able to form
better you could simply rewind the
incense to become oh so the internal
machinery so you get the most force out
of it then you can even wire it up to
the vehicle more efficiently so less
power is lost there is however only so
much wrong so much why are you do the
engine so if you want to be able to do
any better job you think he'd actually
be adding new parts onto the engine if
not completely replacement parts of
bigger ones when you've done that method
or they're inefficient for bigger engine
ready to be rewired again this nearly
Jennison turn the new foundation before
will perform even better the previous
version engine how's that should I add
rephrase some things I think that is
flawless I'm actually lost in the
analogy what is the rewiring symbolic of
so remaining a symbolic of architectural
neural adaptations in the engine size
and symbolic of how much how much muscle
mass to carry so like basically at some
point you can only do so much for the e6
oh he's talking about transitioning to
strength I see no that's all it's all
strength related genes like ah okay I
was like huh I said huh and then to
tuned out for a second I guess so sorry
my bad hey it's Wallace that's exactly
I've used that exact value numbers times
even though I know nothing about cars
all right next question from masam says
hello fellow lower class of YouTube
comments
and pain tacos
hola go but a dog oh fuck you know you
know what forget it yeah we will forget
a smells awful
[Laughter]
how are your guys Halloween Mike was
really testing me with his admirable
luscious hair he smiles of Instagram
photos James you better put more photos
oh I missed that chunker boy he's a big
chunk boy for sure he says my Halloween
was fun I ran out of the gym I worked at
scared kids
I yelled very scary intimidating things
at them like progressive overload for a
motion for emotion scares more people
than you know yeah that's true it's the
real for real scary thing I committed to
a program okay
the most scary part was when I took off
my mask
I was actually dragged out by the staff
they kept young violated my parole
conditions no Azzam people always tell
me that I just think it's a figure of
speech he's ripping on himself here this
is good yeah I don't know what they were
on about roles and if it's a Western
social construct anyway I want to I
lasted measurement metabolites and then
going to do a month of maintenance Fogg
Baker old con tomate looking for that
cells within sounds good I was sitting
in the living room studying when my mom
sent down stair to me she hasn't seen me
in a few weeks then college that I'm
hired to come could overlay rounds
answer means to be honest for the fuck
needs taxes and bought pods when I have
a little subjective and reliable even if
not valid to old potty assessment
because my mom
Joey tells me when me jealous
lets me know when I'm too soft when I'm
a star in skinny
shout out to her she's always making
sure Jen all right even though she Nina
understand why I do this you know what
my grandma used to tell me that I was
fat she would say that dole state which
is just literally your fats and it's not
a sure way of saying fat as for
defenseless Sonia my sister I have to
describe to her that I was also muscular
but she never bought is that like is
that like fat fuck or something like fat
Jamie like that yeah mostly is like yeah
tons of fun it's like it's like coming
up to someone in the street be like
you're fat they're like holy shit damn
dude alright alright as Kayla example of
it she's elated once wisely said here's
the deal folks
preacher also you guys better buckle up
and lean back and probably answer many
questions in seconds because about easy
there oh boy
so first question could you guys test my
analogy of oh we already did that
oh I think he said I think he copy and
pasted because it didn't get it I
thought I deleted that damn it James I
made a point to like delete some of this
stuff because I oh well wouldn't it
probably a dynamite call Tina Tina you
fat Oh fat cow or something
shit like that you missing a real piece
of shit that movie is so
underappreciated I've seen it look like
a hundred times but alone but the
cinematography alone some kind of Oscar
because like just like the stable video
of luck just at the middle of nowhere
hi-de-ho doe and a color contrast I'm
just like holy shit the most amazing
thing I've ever seen in my life
mm-hmm I got re-watch that yeah second
question regarding Bane aliens roles
metabolite buffering metabolites phases
metal prophesied not really taking
pre-workout supplements of him like
creatine and early caffeine but I hear a
lot of people talk about the use of beta
alanine so I thought it could be
relevant to me as I have often as I
often have to explain to friends the
clients like a nerd so for one
understand beta and even works as a
proton buffer which delays on several
tablets is it mad to take them to hell
it faces punch answer there's a couple
of times in his historically I have my
positive because the presence of
metabolites a muscle they can be it can
be a hypertrophic stimulus signal itself
delay the onset of any simply cause more
fatigue or you know stimulus I'm
inclined to potentially agree with NASA
I'll see what once I answer this will
see your dreams names okay are you doing
against that by saying that delay
metabolites loves wanted to do more but
Kent tension up the muscle hence giving
more growth however I'm not sure which
one release out work spinnaker trophy is
a mechanical tension or tab lights also
one also has to factor and was probably
harder to adhere to doing even more reps
yes even more reps thing is tough I say
it's pretty much mostly lost in the wash
what I will say confidently is that
it is not with the problem of reducing
the tablet load or any given unit of
stimulus for any given unit of a number
of reps it's not any apparent to me why
you would take a lien or anything like
it in expected or hypertrophy so you
know James Oh people ask us a question
like does Main Avenue cause muscle
growth and shoot me expect it to
theoretically I don't think we should
expect it to theoretically does it
increase performance absolutely what I
recommended to people like 480 runners
intervener honest wrestlers oh my god 1%
um what for muscle I'm not so sure
it could even theoretically help a whole
lot James yeah I'm totally with you on
there I keep forgetting to switch the
screen back and forth sorry folks
i am i understanding a bit early and
granted I haven't looked at it for a
little while but it's more about
repeated high-intensity intermittent
exercise performance than it would be
for you know useful for hypertrophy so I
think like Mike said like really
anaerobic athletes or intermittent
athletes might benefit from it for a
very short period of time but we're
talking like it's very similar to
creatine monohydrate level effects where
like it helps you a little bit but it's
probably not going to like a long-term
accretion of more fitness adaptations in
a tangible sense it's one of those like
little boost here and there like if
you're doing intermittent sprinting or
something like that
yeah it might give you a little little
edge but not much yeah my friend uh
sometimes welcome to in a long time
which is really a tragedy Tony Rodriguez
Larkin though did a master's program
with me he was on I think a 400 800
runner or 400 heard loudly um he took
you more to seasons he was competing and
it's one of those things that actually
sums up over a long time he takes months
to somehow look even later on my
sculpture but he's then he just got
better every single racer that's just
light a little bit and and it's like
that's a tee for performance when you
need that extra benefit like towards the
end of a long season can you still hear
me James I can hear you but it's kind of
doing like robot sound so it'll be like
blah blah blah doo-doo-doo-doo down hey
mayor
and Kyle I see that you guys are on if
you could just can you confirm whether
or not Mike's sound is breaking up so I
can know if it's on my under his end if
you guys are listening Maryana stable
okay just let me know if you guys are
hearing that same goo goo goo goo goo on
the on the chat if you just put up the
chat okay so they said yeah here and
okay so I think it might just be a
connectivity of thing so we'll just do
let's do our best
yeah sucks cuz I have all the bars and
everything but anyway um yeah I think
that's how he's been a lean best I would
use a fiber trophy in my work hard for
trophy but we just don't know that yet
theoretically there's no reason to help
yeah I think it's probably a wash like
you'll have better training sessions but
it won't necessarily translate into
bigger better performances in
bodybuilding yeah number three question
about that working book so when is it
coming out just kidding we all know the
answer is 1st of January
no I'll nip this in the bud the reason
why I hasn't come out yes cuz my ass has
taken too long to to work on it the the
problem is is me it's Mike already wrote
a ton of really great stuff and I'm the
I'm the one slowing up the show so
that's that's the real issue
well half truth cuz I'm taking forever
to get through your heads and also after
nikohl degraaf's so anyway he goes
natural question is can you hear me okay
James yeah you're good well the
scientific principles of hypertrophy
book burn up how to program frequency if
one doesn't hear about following the
brain count a week and trades once every
day could you guys explain through the
workouts on a program basis where add
the arbitrary X for seven days is more
optimal in a perfect world ah and how it
could be done and unregulated Christ
need to learn to formulate sentences
better hope you guys understood that
haha thank you for leaders sons exactly
fine um I think that yeah the seven days
is very interesting um I think that
at the end of the day the differences
would be very small so for example I
think if we had an 18-week it can
function pretty symmetrically but then
again perfect symmetry for reasons we
will get into the book from all these in
that great oh you mean want to make a
slightly asymmetrical split um they
might convinced that you know for
example legs should either be trained
once or twice of me can you maybe
instead of training them once a week or
twice a week to go from training them
every three days to every four days
would that be better yeah that might
actually have some bonus but I think
those benefits are very small and I
think you can do almost as good of a job
99.97% training on 70 gregoriancalendar
than you can on off off calendar split
which I've done for a long time I used
two people a five-day split or did push
legs pull rest rest repeat and then at
some point I added in like some shoulder
work myself work on the fourth day and
also to to did a to a day and one of the
other days so I can do shoulders biceps
on twice in a five-day period I think
that work really well but then again it
runs into its own problems because
sometimes you're like traveling on the
weekends or like too soon we can
predictably like difficult to go get
training and could you make travelling
friends on pinnacle today's leg day
that's some day like that sucks you know
I mean so sometimes the week is actually
better because the rest of the world
runs on the week and you can get more
predictability that way James
yeah that's it's a really interesting
question and we've we have two
colleagues ericom's and menno have both
actually talked about this when we've
been tooling around doing seminars and
Meno is actually really big on a very
similar idea but like Otto regulating
your d loads and light sessions and
fatigue management stuff nonlinearly
like taking it on a muscle group basis
and just doing it that way which is
basically kind of the same idea
and Eric talks about auto regulating on
a meets a daily basis all the time so I
don't think there's anything wrong with
it but I think the major in like Mike
already said the major limitation to
doing it that way is that it just fucks
your schedule up so bad that it ends up
being
huge pain in the ass so like if you are
somebody like Mike and myself where we
run our own businesses and we work we
work from home that's a very feasible
option for you but if you're somebody
who has a normal job and has to support
yourself and your family or your spouse
or whatever it's ended its gonna end up
catching up to you at some point cuz
somebody's gonna be like hey you want to
go see a movie today you're gonna be
like oh I gotta do this other thing or
we're going to hike today or you want to
go on vacation you want to go it just
ends up being a huge pain in the ass so
there's just a major practicality
limitation and so what the reason why we
put such a big emphasis on that is
because if it's practically limited then
your ability to be consistent is limited
and consistency is probably one of the
most important things
number four last question somewhat have
any question the obvious attempt was a
Usry subsidization I saw for neatness
between gaining fat loss right yeah you
can I noticed the Meza was only two
weeks ago when we have D mode so after
maintain for four weeks give simply add
more weeks to be sensitisation s1 Omega
3 to 1 or 1 absolutely you can knowing
to have a lower as high intensity equals
however fatigued often oh yeah I mean
you should be just fine with that
instead of the tiny to one totally we
did a to one because it's the smallest
amount of time we think it's necessary
for results of ization here welcome to
product design for the general public
massively an old insight if you did it
3-1 we would have any number of
questions like I say we need a 5 to 1
all right
you'd have an order of questions like do
I have to do the whole 5 if they answer
no I think that's why they give me 2 5
the containers right so we didn't small
impossible because most people like to
rush every sensitization and some people
that like to do it longer can't always
do it longer and you're doing it exactly
correctly actually our colleague Jacob
Reed texted me today with this exact
question like what's the men and kind of
max on the recent citizen and stuff and
I gave him the same answer with two two
three four men and then indefinitely for
max you know it's one of them you can do
it as long as you need to as long as
you're training @nv
so that's like Mike said it's hard to to
tailor a simple one size fits all for
everybody approach on that
[Music]
if for Table Tennis my questions are you
guys are evening it's all next week
suckers oh they asked another question
what a dick oh yeah he's an asshole
yeah if I would tablet Phase IV F of Z
templates templates really Besant and
templates should I strive for every
exercise in idea have twenty or thirty
herbs percent or should only the first
or last couple of exercises have that
also if I have two quad exercises back
to back for instance like press and then
have our spots she both have a first set
me get most for you Mike Ross real quick
and like you're saying something usual
inside here there we go sorry I didn't
mean to cut you off I'm sorry I felt
like you were saying something useful
but it was getting cut off so I wanted
that's perfectly fine can you hear me
now yeah now you're good and this is
just like sense my internet connection
is randomly unstable just like sweet
sorry dude that sucks
um oh my god now yeah you're good thank
you for being picky yeah you bet man
thanks for letting me know
Bassem you are too advanced in your
thinking about hypertrophy to be maximum
benefiting from the male physique
chuckles Desmond James would you agree
of that oh we definitely agree yeah
definitely agree you should I mean
you're like the ideal person to take the
templates and then modify to your
individual needs that's that's you yeah
and so given that that advices tailored
to you I would say absolutely you do not
have to do every exercise until 20 or 30
rep range um and you can do a bunch of
them follow very few in the five to ten
rep range good deal of them in the 10 to
20 breath range but more than you
usually would have in the 20 and 30 rep
range and or with other metabolites
entities that's the real answer and the
reason we don't do that was because it
would introduce a layer of complexity
that floats that would baffle the
average person who just wants to get
more jacked for CrossFit and that's
really our target interaction with the
templates and honestly like it's a
fucking huge number of people that just
fucking basic I've heard reprogram we're
not gonna do all kinds of weird
what the fuck is this Jesus Christ that
dude what how many wraps that's that if
we keep a relative stability within a
vessel cycle they get used to get good
at it and then it's enough duration for
them so another insight and product
design there and then Bassam I would
also just add if you're going to do
those twenty to thirty maybe put them
towards the end of the session unless
it's a day that's dedicated to
metabolite work then it would be fine to
have those in like a primary slot
because that's your main activity for
the day but more often than not you're
probably gonna have some like 10 to 20
rep before you get to the 2013 why just
as you probably already know once you do
the twenty to thirty you're gonna be
fucking tired there's no you're really
not gonna be having that much productive
stuff downstream from that point on so
it's usually better to put them towards
the end yeah good stuff I've been using
the RP diet to fill my weightlifting
performance for years and our peace
simple science-based approach has been
instrumental to my success with the new
RP diet app following our P's principles
is as easy as entering my goals and
schedule in choosing my favorite foods
the app builds a diet to my exact needs
reminds me to eat my meals and adapts to
my body's changes every single day and
week the RP diet app is a huge help in
my quest to become the best athlete I
can be and if your goal is to be your
best it will help you
Ragini says I know you've said that Mike
if you wouldn't mind pausing again seems
like there's not much missing the idea
that mr. sorry you don't happen to have
a landline over there handy do you a
landline yeah you like an Ethernet cable
that you could plug in no unfortunately
don't okay that's fine
sooo good now you know I good it sucks
because it shows full bars yeah
no well alright uh says I know that you
said it seems like there's not much
compared to building a strength base for
hypertrophy but would you say they D
that building strengthen the lower ups
is important to be able to progress on
your volume work that you run into
frequent stalls without it this is taupe
yes
fives take care of that theory is
claiming uh I think that I resent it
ization conveys of taken care of that
you don't necessarily have to train for
strength during that phase it just has
to be low volume and probably low around
you James yeah I think I think you can
also still build a significant amount of
hypertrophy and work capacity doing sets
of five I think that's still very
feasible option the problem is it's like
how much can you do in terms of like if
you want to build a lot of muscle or a
lot of work capacity to potentiate
further training down the road doing it
with fives is you're just going to run
into wear and tear before you get the
maximum outcome that you want whereas
using lower reps just works better for
that so I think you could do it it's
just maybe not the best bang for your
buck that's kind of the problem
next question what would you say about
letting your scapula protractor and kilo
flies the packs technically do get into
shorter position doing this and muscle
guys suggest crossing your hands over
which I can't actually do it most
capable of fully retracted well not
having a more attractive result unless
activation I don't think so I don't see
no reason that have attracting them
we're making more active I think as long
as you're working like a peak
contraction and squeeze on the pecs
whether or not you do at a particular
like protracted portion of the movement
is probably
consequential so much as if you are
really like squeezing those pecs getting
a good mind muscle and by pulling them
together so you feel the movement I
think that's probably gonna be more
important to you then actually really
distinctly going from like a neutral
scapula until like a fully protracted
scapula yes my opinion but if you choose
to either protracted scapular I think is
totally fine and does there's a novel
type of contraction that you don't
really get to see most of your other
training there's nothing wrong with it
you get the shit on YouTube all the time
or on Instagram where all the do flies
so they can protect us capital at the
top people do a little bit for shoulders
like show me how it's bad for show to
throw me a fucking diagram fucking your
body's designed addition I'm not bench
pressing idiots yeah and I think like
doing the extra protraction could have
like really good indirect benefits for
other muscles like your Surat I and here
that'll cut the help train those a
little bit more you just don't want to
do it it's it's it's um it's akin to
like putting an overemphasis on mind
muscle connection and I know that sounds
like maybe I just contradicted myself
but my point being if you're trying so
hard to do the extra protraction in the
movement that it's causing you to lose
reps or a reasonable amount of weight
lifted that's probably a net negative
return in terms of your technique next
question what it makes sense to start a
workout with hip thrusts if the goes to
maximize good hypertrophy absolutely
sure yeah also would want to be missing
out on into true gains might not include
squats in the program assuming they
found nothing in the glutes and doing
them yeah not much will the answer
change for a female who just didn't care
about anything else
squats brought to the table and would
prefer to just do more homework as
possible expensive development in fine
you might want to just like revisit that
idea of trade-offs because the other
thing that you get from squats and
deadlifts and the like is a lot of
indirect work from like your core
muscles meaning like your erectors your
trunk muscles let obviously a doctor's I
mean it's a good it's a good for
beginners it's a good SFR thing just as
we've mentioned over the last several
years you know once you cross that
intermediate line if maybe isn't anymore
so just revisit that idea and say yeah
you might be like concerned about
getting that nice Brazilian Carnivale
booty but you also might want to have a
nice well
about physique at some point as well
next far as questioners with boxplots
or dental variations pair of hip thrusts
be better glute oh no think other
variations may be like deficit we're
gonna get deficit or sorry some more
squats are really good for the glutes
there's nobody's gonna think that box
philosophy different losers matter of
fact there's not a big stretch of the
model anyway so much fossil just goddamn
dog should exercise I don't like black
sports either
yeah just designed for a quick power
looking for which they work very well
don't work just about anything else you
know what kills me too is like the the
way that people do the box squat where
they they literally will sit back and
answer your pelvic tilt and then poop
dog their way while they're still loaded
on the box
yeah right their pelvis is loaded and
flexing like on the box it drives me
nuts like what are you doing what do you
think about the idea or kept a sense of
20 and any dumbbell work before next
week
it doesn't really make sense to me to be
doing it hasit san a ton level work
because it seems like you don't know
where to go from there
any a ninth rent would be a decently
significant step I'm probably really
hard to do it moving up to the next
weight would be monumental
but someone doing sets of 12 would be
able to add reps easier and because it
would a small procession of work you're
doing already and once you get to 20 and
go next weight drop back down or
probably something about 12 to 15 rep
range um I don't think that's a terrible
idea
I think that especially early phase of
neural learning you can and reps with
low reps and I'm out so you can go from
sets of five just it's a face two sets
of sixes and fives or Saturday just as a
you know sevens and sixes two sets of
eight seven six it's a sense of eights
and sevens on and so forth it just takes
a longer time sometimes so just take a
page out of Brian minors book you can
repeat the same identical workout and
just go for a slightly better my muscle
connection maybe a set instead of any
rest the next workout maybe a little bit
had around here there so you don't have
to add a ton of shit every fucking time
a lot of times things are you know
overloading once they're all running
again as well even with small keeps
sometimes the peak smell but I do think
that there is definitely merit in what
you're saying
and in general I think lighter
workers were a good idea because heavier
double work tends to be so unstable that
a force production Falls and then you're
just doing a real shit job at an
exercise which could be really benefit
of higher ups I don't like unstable
movements for repetitions because I
think you know what you wanted to do is
something it cannot do for you and it
gets worse at doing it too close to
being pushed into it yeah and I think
that's a really nice way of putting a
hard line on when you progress in the
load throughout a mesocycle right where
if you have a goal rep range if it's 10
to 20 and you're like I'm been getting
like 15 then I got 16 17 18 reps on my
first set you know like should I go up
well like it's not a bad idea to say
like if you get 21 reps on your first
set when your goal rep range was 10 to
20 like that might be a good time to
actually increase the load for the next
time and that's a really good way of
monitoring those things now there's
other nuances that you you might find
beneficial to increase the load before
you get to that point potentially but
it's definitely a good like top-end like
okay I've actually exceeded my goal rep
range how do I correct that I increase
the load and get it to where I want and
now I've actually gotten stronger over
time cool
also just a particular theme jeans
introduced earlier you know sometimes
you don't notice or a brain injury stay
away for another rep range because of
SFR concerns okay
might be like dumbbell curls up two sets
of 15 reps you might come up great a so
far yeah sense of up to 50 and 15 to 20
reps you might just have like your
forearms are start hurting and your eyes
are kind of turn off you know so at that
point you just make sure that that's a
far this is something we will cover and
do cover the book it's currently not
published or that's telling that
verrano's is myself are specific to a
bunch of different conditions and one of
them is sfr for any extra percentage can
be rep range specific like there's a bar
for squats in the 5 to 10 rep range is
fun great with the 10 to 20 in the 20 to
30 vessel my response it's fucking pure
dog shit so make sure that you know I
have this rule okay all done Bell
movements are gonna be in the 10 to 20
range some can be in an 8 so I'm gonna
be in the 5 to 10 range got one hour
dumbbell rows right some could be in the
20 in the 20 to 30 range like you know
lekha pinkies up bent over rear delt
flies like even four sets of feet too
heavy
James sorry my cats yelling at me
no I yes I definitely agree in like a
great example to is like people who try
to do like heavy dumbbell branch four
sets of five it's like what are you
doing at that broccoli you spend like
half you're spending half the time just
trying to get them shits up you know and
stable before you even start the set it
looks like shit it feels like shit and
just use a barbell at that point if you
want you know same idea in the opposite
direction powder Center all right Magnus
Magnus says hey das which is rape still
cracks me up sorry
yeah very ancient would not do incessant
eyes to it for example doing bench press
and double inclined bench press yak we
could we take that phone from the top
I'm sorry to make you do that again
that's okay I think popped up and told
me I had low connectivity am i good now
you're good now so regarding variation
will not doing an exercise for a mess
like a little about six to eight weeks
long would be long enough for the body
were sensitized to it for example
tomorrow my present devil incline bench
press for meso that doing marble incline
press battle bench another mezzo and
repeat that structure definitely with
different degrees of focus on incline
versus for zombozo Tamez o or would be
more beneficial to you'd like something
more powerful like a machine
so actually have a really good sort of
she answered in a paper it is possible
that is long enough you will find out if
it's long enough if you actually get
resent sometimes to do it many times you
will but sometimes you won't because
he'll the way to find out is to try you
might come back after six to eight weeks
and the new move it feels fucking super
new look good again you might come back
you had no fuck that still still sucks
anyway I'd have to spend three to four
vessel cycles away from it
James yeah I totally agree with that and
so so from from a variation a novelty
standpoint that is ok I think that the
needs as Mike already described is
probably the bigger determining factor
from a performance
point however that might actually be a
bad strategy because you really just
don't get enough time to really build up
a lot of momentum in terms of neural
efficiency or just movement pattern
familiarity with some of those movements
and that might be a really big component
of generating large overloads in the
latter mesocycle so just at the time
where you really get into a good groove
on the movement you switch it out for
another one you have to start from
scratch I don't know that might not be a
good choice whereas if you just deal ode
and repeat that same movement or
movements again and increasing your mev
at MRV over time that might be a really
good strategy in terms of making muscle
and/or strength gains so I think from a
variation perspective it's not a bad
idea from a performance perspective you
might want to kind of funnel those
things for longer use them for longer
periods of time and switch it out for
novelties sake as needed
yeah alright from outer space and inner
space both come on Radhakrishna so he
says hey doc so people doing well some
of your favorite people in the industry
in his first name arises smile Lane
Orton level has been pretty outspoken as
of late a lot of natural trainees
shouldn't expect any growth after five
years of consistent power training maybe
a bit more if some of these initial
years are suboptimal case almost always
the initial years may be suboptimal so
just pick that one right about but it
seemed like he even thought that five
years was charitably long and I don't
know this is seem like it's true
obviously gains diminish rapidly but I
find it really hard to believe the evil
95 to 100% of all the muslim' naturally
your first five years of training though
I admit that maybe my intuition for the
sorts of things is pretty bad I've heard
you guys toss around the number of ten
years similar natural muscle asked
before so a couple of things I'm not
sure how I was getting this information
to my knowledge levels training buddy
there's nobody sane would let him train
them I don't know if he himself lifts
weights is certainly not clear for Miss
physique mostly kidding I think he does
love weights but I'm not sure how harder
trains ever trained
and it was kind of like a little paradox
there if he does actually train weights
or train hard when he has to
unbelievably terrible genetics so that
five years if it's based on him Rowley
couldn't he just revised a related
genetics I think it's completely wrong
with a five years mark I think give it a
couple of candidates one if you don't
try to gain as much weight as possible
that's the case if you don't overeat if
you over so if you start out at about a
hundred and fifty pounds and you sort of
just eat normally ish and gain lots of
muscle by trading I think after five
years you've gained just about as much
muscle close to it within five pounds
that you're going to gain will being
around 150
like just from natural eating could be
like 165 buy them right that you're
probably not gonna get much greater than
that at that point you have to do
essentially force-feeding will fold on
purpose whole increases in body weight
than if you fatter than you want to be
did they feel comfortable and then
cycling that with faces of cutting and
going back and forth back and forth back
and forth I think it's with that method
you can definitely get really really
great actual gains for most people I
think for ten years but I will say that
a lot of us have a bit of a point there
and it's after five years there are no
more easy games okay so here's what I
think is really correct about what he
said I think if you've been training
consistently pretty hard for five years
anyway like 116 you sort of start
training or 50 and you're like looking
for tricks and tips to put on slabs of
beef which are not really need yourself
to two hundred pounds it's not gonna
happen to muscle right what are some of
this for trade for two years anyway
let's instead round 150
do they have to gain a ton of weight to
get much more jack no they could do a
lot of basic the recombinant even just
eating a little bit more than
maintenance they can still add quite a
bit of muscle but you really have to do
the force-feeding after I think five
years of is to start trading to see much
more training than that I was five-years
need to consistent hard training
I weighed 200 pounds in probably 20 to
25 percent body fat and my natural peak
I probably weighed about two fifteen and
fifteen percent body fat so it's a big
difference
big difference and you know that was
what was meant Danny pink was like
twelve years into training so there's
differences there for sure so I think
that 95 to 100 is not correct I think
it's more like 90 to 95% if you don't
willfully gain weight if you willfully
gain weight I think eight to ten years
you can expect consistent heartbeats I
will put it this way if someone came up
to James and I was like man I'm a
trainee for five years I got pretty much
just because I'm gonna get right James I
would look at him
look back and especially she's like
really 20 years would be like look at
him look back and forth me like no he's
fucking crazy but if someone had been
consistently trained super well for ten
years and said like I think I'm pretty
much as muscular as I'm gonna get or
within you know five to ten pounds of it
and say yeah that's probably true unless
you start to do some very interesting
things genius yeah that was fantastic
you and I were on the exact same
wavelength I was thinking like as that
question came up like that's for people
who are doing like recapping games
that's not for people who are trying to
do like that style gaining yeah so I
think yeah there is definitely a modicum
of truth in there and that's for people
who really just add training but don't
really will do much on the dietary side
of things they mostly just keep doing
what they've been doing maybe eat a
little bit more but not much more
yeah you're probably going to peter out
your games at some point but it doesn't
mean that it's the end of the road
there's plenty right when you think
there's a threshold there of gains
there's all sorts of weird shift you can
do to yourself to push and break on
through to the other side as the door
yeah yeah and I will say this to
anticipate some man not blow back but to
just make some counter points here as
people say well make it James
especially Mike you know untested drugs
idiot mr. drug Dean's yes fly low but
are we good it was a little choppy but
yeah we're good now if you guys want an
alternate perspective on how long you
can expect to gain four and from very
very natty people the 90s people just
look at what three dmj guys say about
that a scare comes that question these
guys are very adamant and I don't think
the wrong that you can grow for 15 to 20
years naturally even though the last
five years of that is slow but I think
that if you said hey Erica I've trained
for five years of my dumb girl and he
would be like what the fuck is wrong
with you right Alberto the Godfather and
all those guys would be like you're an
idiot like so it's not just that there's
Nattie and not Matty confusion here I
just think that the five years a super
EXTREME the most extreme you ever heard
about that was written on Facebook I
confirmed it with the author gia was
named Lenny key Jeremy lenok he's
seventeen ninety seven percent of all
the mastery over game within six months
of training and that was one of those
things that it's one of his several
things to be this new he's not a serious
contributor to do you know write a lot
about trainings I just don't give a shit
what he says cuz it's a fucking patently
insane yeah not a fan not a fan he's uh
he's he's a provocateur in a lot like
he's like he's like Tim Noakes without
subs without any substance and for sure
yeah jokes has something interesting to
talk about any she likes it in an
inflammatory way this is just feels like
hypertrophy has nothing to do with
strange so that's nice that's like chalk
and drop a hundred pounds it's still be
just a strong all right my daddy roll
another spread leaving runs the biggest
gold Empire definitely so I think yoga
says hello dr. Mike and dr. James I want
to ask you a simple question
these are always the complex ones and
I'm recently finished my mess face and
now I'm working on my maintenance phase
with an M that's cute I like it fuzzy by
the phase of the development of strength
working with very low volume too low
Rachel hypertrophy five to ten what you
think is the best approach for the
maintenance phase I think five to ten is
fine rep range which should go even
lower James can you talk about how you
do a straight phase during the mainland
space just for shits and giggles oh yeah
so normally like when people are
transitioning out of their hypertrophy
phase one of the good places to start is
that 5 to 10 range because it's not too
far away from all the things that you
have been doing now another option you
can explore is to go into more of a what
we would call more of a general or
transition strength phase which would be
more like four to eight reps which
starts to get pretty heavy pretty quick
the only downside of that is you
probably don't want to do that when
you're coming off of a really really
high rep focus phase such as like a ten
to twenty or twenty to thirty if the
book with the bulk of the things that
you were doing were in those who have
ranges going to four to eight is such a
huge Delta in intensity that you're just
gonna be making technique adjustments
the first like several weeks and really
not getting a ton out of your training
it's just got enough being awfully
stressful to so it really kind of
defeats the whole purpose so you can't
alternatively use a strengths face the
same desensitization but I would only do
that and the more I thought about this I
think that probably the best approach
would be to do one mezzo of five to ten
and if you were to continue on with your
training then you could potentially
entertain a strength phase of around
four to eight reps probably don't want
to dip into the one two three rep range
just too far outside of your hypertrophy
goals at that point too much risks to
reward no good yeah all right
Luciano Bruno pushing says hey docks I
hope the both of you are doing well
hopefully you guys miss me forcing him
of course and not just because you hate
my friends cry it's like I saw it's like
the fraternity and you're my paint
friends yeah
yeah is that's what faster like for your
friends just kidding frat boys stay calm
or don't sorority girls yeah anyway
number one what does the physiology of
any increase muscle soreness with a
hyper caloric diet versus behavioral or
kind is that even a thing didn't have
salute me a thing yes as coming out from
a cut in mid weight to a mass mezzo I
found that my sources radically
skyrockets and exercises less total
sense of amira subpoenas cut so that I
have to decrease my training frequency
for some muscles
um so here's the deal
what is the physiology of having
increased muscle soreness or the hyper
ghor guide versus hyper caloric diet I
have two competing hypotheses one is
that well a couple convenient offices
three one is that an increased diet of
fats during the mass phase fats have
been shown to be relatively
pro-inflammatory in some cases
specifically some kinds of saturated
fats when they might actually cause you
to be more sore and that might not be so
that's option number one
not my favorite hypothesis and also not
my best guess but possible another
hypothesis is that soreness
fundamentally occurs really hard
training and being able to push your
muscles locally to their limits versus
have being centrally fatigued when you
are massing you are so goddamn jazzed up
on tons of food that you can fuck a
train really really hard percent and
really take your muscles to the limit
and probably make them more sore which
is probably reflective of an underlying
good thing but also an underlying
pathway because if you get some kind of
damaged for me so sore that you might
not even grow much because you're
recovering from damage so if you notice
the real key here is if you know as
you're getting super fucking sore don't
just be like that doesn't mean anything
lower your training volume so that
you're not simplify Katsura moderately
sore you confess results and lastly
delayed onset muscle soreness may be
part of the Cascade of hypertrophy at
least certain types of hypertrophy and
the nutraceutical environment or the
neutral hormonal environment so it's not
the calorie ISM increases a testosterone
and all these other hormones and Auto
compare for factors that occur with
either coal or diet might simply make
those pathways work better and thus
growing more muscle so one of the ways
in which I became very skeptical of
vania that either soreness means nothing
or the no soreness is automatically a
good thing is that people actually
reported or that soreness is directly is
evidence of direct damage versus
secondary immune system damage is when I
noticed that almost all of my clients
were very very not sore on a cot and
we're very very fucking sore in a mass
and that doesn't make any fuckin sense
if you see someone this is just the bad
thing to try to pump
so if that's thought James yeah and I
tend to be more on the the latter the
latter argument though I still think the
other the other two are viable but it's
something that we've also seen parallel
with other weird phenomenon and one that
most people can relate to you to is if
you have a hard training session and for
some reason don't get a good not get a
sore until the next day when you get a
full night's sleep and then all of a
sudden you get fucking sore from what
you did a couple days ago and you're
like where did that come from
right oh it seems that some things and
sleep is just an example but nutrition
we suspect very much has the same thing
if the conditions in the cell are
adequate to stimulate more growth or
more strength things like that they will
turn on right and so in nutrition in the
case a lot of it can be energy
conditions if the energy conditions in
terms of total calories glycogen content
things like that are in a good spot it
really flips the anabolic switch and you
get more sort like just like when you
get an appropriate dose of sleep you get
really sore so same idea there you can't
fully explain it but I tend to agree
with Mike especially on the that ladder
that last point I've got a guy to
avoiding soreness and don't sleep much
training very easy if not at all never
do not electro senses that reason alone
never load stretch with tension never
increase your volume and make sure you
use as many NSAIDs and ice and heat as
much as possible
are we Jack yet you're not sore oh good
man I saw some okay this is like this is
so not even interesting but on a
Facebook something was some guy some
jacked some doctor doctor so-and-so to
posted a picture of himself it was
looked looking really jacking it was
like no weights lifted no cardiac I know
that guy
yeah yeah one meal per day like huh hit
me up a few want results now just like
oh my god yeah he turns out he uses
resistance bands like motherfucker you
work out yeah yeah no weights lifted
come on that's like oh yeah that's like
a you're very legalistic way of saying
no force applied weren't actually forces
I yeah exactly
yeah alright number two in a recent
podcast right Merkel's mentioned that
higher training frequencies
unless hypertrophic that percent will
compare to a lower frequency that's
actually true for volumes as well so for
example if you do five sets total in the
week the totally percent stimulus is
Ronson behind with the more sets you add
on top of that there's a diminishing
return aspect that occurs so another way
to say that is this a diminishing return
with higher frequencies but the same
thing also occurs with higher volumes
for a given size yeah it a says so the
higher frequency
oh sorry go ahead you know it's only
gonna add when you when you start
flirting with higher than normal
frequency higher than the one to two
days per week
Daniel hacker mute yourself please get
out of here what are you doing thank you
I know now I lost my train of thought oh
yeah that when you're when you're
flirting with higher frequencies
typically they're trained I don't want
to say at mev but closer to MeV values
maybe not quite pushing up to like your
session and our V type values which of
course would mean you get a little bit
less out of it each time but the I goal
being to accrue more growth throughout
the week and they said so the higher
training frequency it allows the higher
training volume for muscle groups but
also necessitates a higher training
volume dude it being less hypertrophic
on a set % basis I don't think it
assesses the higher training volume I
think it allows you to do way higher
training volume but the additive
benefits of that training all use it
which you would expect it's lower than
you expect it's still a benefit but it's
lower actually curves for variety
physiological things that the more of
something he pushed the less
incrementally beneficial it is so the
same exact concept applies to per
session per session for volume if you do
like three sets a session god you get a
lot relatively speaking out of those
three cents the hypertrophy percent is
pretty awesome you do ten cents per
session you might get like
double-wide hurt Rafi we need to take
three cents per session and that fucking
sucks oh you did like three plus times
more work immediately get done right so
that bad absolutely is a case I think
there is an interesting thing to be said
here but this is
they mentioned in a book the stimulus to
fatigue ratio for falling is maximized
at one set per body part of the week
right so the more you add from that
whether it's through cassettes per
session or sessions or both your SF ours
on average % continue to drop until
they're the bottom zero
where are you training as much as you
possibly can but the raw stimulus
magnitude continues to climb that entire
time so that the real kicker is if you
can handle the fatigue and if you're
fully committed under Trevor tricky you
want to Train it with relatively high
frequency in a relatively high volume at
least push there at some point it's not
going to be quota cooled not worth your
time at all but it is worth your time
because you don't give a fuck how deep
how deep you have to dig or that extra
gram of muscle however someone says hey
I just need like a reasonable training
plan I want to get a little bit more
jacked what do I do
do not put them on a fucking 60 split
with a train a whole body every fucking
time you know training twice a week with
bare essentials and they're gonna get a
ton more out of that than even expected
and then he adds it says the reasoning
behind that higher frequencies imply a
form of full body training per session
it has been hinted that training the
whole mono single session might hamper
the protein synthetic response what's
your take on this I think training whole
body signals I sure can hamper the
proteins at the neck response in at
least two ways one your body might just
only be able to drive so much protein
synthesis is that a crime
yeah they're totally it's like the key
idea is just every not again or it's a
she Callisto she just decides the talk
it's great I give you mom I'm the only
person that likes the cat by the way I
come over just you keep jerky do you
want me to let you out do you have you
might want to take a shit hold on it's
like James when you unplug
just for one split second let the cat
you guys get here two guys here Mike
talking in the background was like no
you wanna come sit to you want to join
the party yeah all of our cats are going
wild
yo-yo back ok so it is possible that's
whole body function since dynamic
response will be limited just on sheer
at all theory
it's a strange the imagination is how
that would happen if you enough you have
a high enough rise in blood amino acid
levels carbohydrate levels and other
nutrients and I think your blood can
more than amply supply all of your
muscles to grow at the same time
remember the amount of muscle growth a
fraction of protein synthesis that
occurs in the muscles after heart
training even to heal them not just
growth is some tiny fraction of what
your skin and hair go through every
fucking hour right and your intestinal
lining cells okay so like if you have
trouble growing all your muscles at once
I'm a nutritional basis but I was
brought out of nutrient supply basis I
have no idea how the fuck you keep your
skin on your body okay so on the one
hand there's that so unlikely to be that
I think the way it's likely is that if
you really train full body everytime at
some point over the last three exercises
you are total garbage because your
neural fatigue is so fucking high that
your ability to recruit fast twitch
motor units is just gone right you're
limited from a central systemic
perspective so much that the last shit
you do is just not gonna work in the in
its in that workers from any kind of
volume addition not just for session but
over the week if you six sessions per
week you know thoughts smash those
sessions you need 12 sessions per week
you will grow more but each one of those
sessions is not an amazing session
anymore because you're so fucking tired
from all the elements totally agree yeah
and Jemaine Conrad says hello beloved
friends wow it's quite an impressive in
a situation where someone is training
primarily for strength but is unable or
won't or amassing special cutting knife
ISM this and that's that means a more
common definitely how will this affect
perhaps takers will capacity on
diversity alternated watch the fire
times a story training study
poor boy that was a shitstorm
so it was like robot noises and then it
tried to catch up at fast speed
afterwards it was like go go go go
thanks a lot the rhythm that tries to
catch you up am I good now yeah you're
good in a situation or someone a
stranger I'm really for strength but as
unable or willing to run amassing a
slash cutting diet phases and instead
wants to maintain or recombinase if I'm
trading approaches what monetization
with blocks of higher volume training
perhaps to increase work capacity rather
never trophy alternate blocks of higher
intensity strength training still the
optimal to Smith lack of dying fees to
map them to just advantageous conditions
for muscle gain fat loss
so I my answer to that is the
fundamental approach still works but you
would do less for capacity and
hypertrophy phases and more strength
phases and then the next part is chute
won't still Pierce blocks with a ratio
of more heavily favoring strength
training themself as one might do for
advanced trainees probably a different
reasons or is it better to opt for a
concurrent approach with a range of
intensities rep numbers and moderate
volumes yeah I concur departure sucks so
I would definitely do a block approach
but instead of every other block on
average being a dirty block or every
third block I would say every fourth or
fifth block and advert Rafi and you
could do three or four muscle cycles in
a row of strength training which case
you're really fucking strong and it's
really great but there's just no reason
to do any more blocks of any other kind
and in some sense the work capacity
blocks seek to be good just as a way to
move away from just pushing straight all
the time it's kind of a break for your
joints more than some other things that
would happen if you were using it to cut
fat or games yeah and like just to pay
some lip service to some some of our
colleagues like Meno like it is feasible
if you are training really really hard
doing hypertrophy stuff on a maintenance
diet that you will recom very very
slowly over time it is very feasible
that that could happen it's just not a
good bang for your buck in terms of
people who want to be on the most
efficacious path to being jacked right
so it's one of those things like yeah
you'll if you have ever tried to do a
hypertrophy training on maintenance you
know that the training you get from that
is out of this world it's amazing it
feels good you
good recovery good train like you get a
little bit out of that but it's just not
as good as if you were trying to gain
weight so like Mike said at that point
you do use it to build more capacity so
you can have gnarly strength phases
later and you're more heavily favored
those strength phases but you will still
be making some very very minor gains in
muscle over time which is still pretty
cool yeah
Timothy shell says to use sometimes
recommend squat wages for people of our
time connecting with their quads and
squat variations or our shoes of race
heels or nearly enough and not a big fan
of the squat ones you do you don't like
it I think you can move I've seen it
move before oh if you use it properly it
doesn't move but that's a you know your
shoes not gonna fucking move um also
think it's cool to do things like
essentially sissy squats but I think
that you could amusing the squat wedge
and do a real gnarly kind of overly wide
squat which just fucks your knees in the
ass um I'm a big fan of carrying your
squat wages with you in your shoes so I
think squat shoes are fucking open I
will go so far as to say the following
this is going to sound insulting and
suppose I'm not going out of way we do
not make it insulting and comedy
purposes and I can phrase it better
professional bodybuilders that do not
use squat shoes are behind the curve a
giant way and every time I see
professional out it goes until you squat
shoes I think my god if we just taught
them to use washes also taught them to
train properly how much fucking do we
can get with half the injuries love Mike
that's really good
I'm gonna actually take it a moment to
insult myself I actually like the wedge
but here's the thing
I think the wedge in combination with
the pointe shoes is a really really
crazy elevated heel and a really really
good quad activation but I think it's
good for a relatively weak Oh
myself included nobody like Mike who is
squatting over four hundred four sets of
ten or more probably not a good bang for
your buck in terms of injury management
but if you're like myself and you maybe
you are anywhere between two and 315 for
your hypertrophy sets like it might be
an OK option but I think it's just gonna
be too much wear and tear Inc like the
combination of the wedge and the shoe at
much higher level so I think if you're a
strong person you avoid that and if
you're kind of
right or you know weaker it's probably a
good idea we think about that oh yeah I
think that's fine yeah yeah just cool
it's just I whenever I see the wedge my
first question is like have you ever
heard of squashes and usually the answer
is no and then when you see people who
wears watches all the time like all the
weight lifters you show them a wedge in
there like is that what issues for I
know yeah so it's like the wedge now
built into a shoe you know who would
benefit from from potentially both is
somebody like our friend alex has a big
foot and is tall right so at that point
like because of the size of his foot the
actual elevation in the heel if it's a
stance it's not enough to really get a
huge benefit from it so he might
actually benefit from having like it
either and I've actually seen people
modify their shoes with the bigger
bigger wedge or at that point you could
double up and you could do the Squatch
shoe and the wedge and somebody like him
might benefit from that quite a bit
because it might be a struggle bus for
him to get a lot of good quad activation
on the squat so might be an
anthropometric thing as well and for
those of you who don't know he's like a
very tall lanky long-legged big-footed
individual was flattered just trying to
paint a picture yeah
ernõ toivonen says hi mr. doctor
additionally I have the problems
recovering for my workouts and I'm also
no cry myself to sleep every night it
turns out it's because I have had a
break of some weeks from your community
webinars doing all kinds of things so
here I am again missed it seems we have
another user a cold day now living in
Finland that's right
that cold a toe in Finland username at
least isn't finished so let's put up the
rt+ finishing pad should talk about how
to survive among other things that it's
leave Finland for the winter then for
the questions one a about exercise
resistance kilos repetition duration
stops we know that full ROM as full as
possible our team is always recommended
I know you guys recommend doing all reps
with good control as far as you know the
studies don't see any hypertrophic
differences on two versus four seconds
metrics
what about one second versus two second
Centrex or half second versus two second
I'm guessing no differences I certainly
don't nobody studies notion of this or
that for beginners intermediates you
recommended focusing on break bringing
the strength up a big lifts so some
stops and slowly Center just lower the
weight on the bar the more weight on the
bar generates more strength development
sure beginners and at least early
intermediates forget about stops slow
eccentrics maybe even biased or shorter
sets and forget about metabolites
training I don't think we've recommended
that beginners need to get bring up
their strength on the big lifts need to
focus on the big lifts because they have
really good as far as for a whole Lobby
and they can survive the fatigue and I
think the big lifts are just more
conducive to training low rep ranges and
again we've recommended that too not for
the pursuit of strength but because it's
easy to track strength and progress on
those things as a proxy for you know
making improvements yeah both what
beginners do really high reps there's
technique just go straight to hell so I
think that should they forget about
metabolic training yeah mostly because
that's just an advanced actor keeping
names later it works better bigger
people in any way try to summit a place
where your muscles really small are
really good at clearing that miss
fucking arm and it just ends up being
highly efficient totally totally I think
probably with that with a technique
consideration there I think what's more
important is consistency whether you
choose to use the stops or slowly
Centrex or not yeah doesn't really
matter it's probably not a huge deal
across training age and that's something
that as you become an intermediate to
advanced you have to make tactical
decisions about how you use those
technique modifications but when you're
a beginner just get them going on one of
those versions and then use it
consistently over time that's the idea
there so if you want to use pauses keep
doing pauses if you don't want to use
pause this that's fine just keep doing
it the same way for a while yeah uh 1pg
have any applications for slow eccentric
Stefan of ala training or a workaround
not to forget torturing people of course
so I actually have two that I can think
of off the top of my head one
application
he is pure variation like sometimes just
being different in the milking means it
took more
will cause more muscle growth yeah the
second one is actually a really
interesting one which we will delve into
more in the book but we don't tell the
ton of it but it's really great to think
about it such a very very useful thing
is to use slowest entrance not an
exercise in which or a muscle group for
which you have trouble finding in mind
muscle connection right sometimes you
look man I have trouble with my muscle
on my rows let me see you do the road
there I think Jesus Christ each friend
was taking like I don't know it or not
in any way so sometimes slower the
eccentric especially can really help you
get in touch with what you're pushing
the bar down are you better I just I
just grab the bar and then I don't
really know anything for 15 seconds then
I wake up again wow that's really that
bamboo bars for see so yeah so events I
think of a really good application of
solar structure so sometimes like
someone's not feeling their quads on
squats you have them slowly some trickin
really fold into their quads and tell
them I want you to feel the quads on the
squat I want you to follow your body's
clues are your weight angle your
momentum in such a way that pushes into
your quads after a couple sets back for
a couple weeks they're like holy shit I
know exactly how to squash my quads the
thing you could speed back up to global
cadence and usually people keep a lot
about my muscle connection James and
then one more to just add on top of
Mike's is when you are deliberately
trying to reduce the absolute load of an
exercise whether it causes pain or
something along those lines or even if
you're just trying to conserve systemic
fatigue on some of those harder
exercises maybe like you in a cut phase
we've just kind of keep the load down
that's also a really good way of kind of
getting the same stimulus from slightly
look like lighter load once he is using
stops in a lift only beneficial for
improving mind muscle connection nervous
system adaptation was whether they were
meant or to use with injury work around
about visiting four straight training or
just hypertrophy so I got to reread the
question it stops
oh it's definitely something you can use
for an injury workaround however I don't
find that stops specifically are
something that's necessarily going to
take the pain out of a movement that
already causes pain right yeah in a
sense if it causes you to reduce the
load and the loading is what's causing
the pain yes absolutely but if like if
it hurts your hip to squat doing us
pause squat is still gonna hurt so
that's not really a workaround you know
what I mean so I would say in that
regard probably not but we do use like
slow eccentric sand pauses and as
techniques to potentially work around
stuff sometimes absolutely yeah yeah
so I guess not a big injury workaround
this would change the number - why the
hell do my quads and sometimes glutes or
hams always get sort of lactic acid kind
of sore after some hours from leg
workout even when sometimes they don't
almost get any comps the following day
no other muscle does that
oh no I'm not sure master I have I have
that same thing with my hamstrings where
my hamstrings if I do like some higher
up so it's back to back to back like
there's no comfortable position and I
have to lay down like me at least sort
of half on my side to get lactic acid to
get out of them and then later they
don't get sore I think one of those
sister they're very fast twitch muscle
fast twitch muscles are terrible at
getting a little lactic acid but there's
some reason to believe that metabolites
and don't grow the fast which muscles as
much as they grow slower twitch muscles
so it's kind of like if fuck's your hand
turns up a key veamos but it doesn't
make you sore because just average the
muscle around it's a good thought I have
really I really am Not sure
it's a weird conundrum though highly
highly guess number three in the early
days before our pianist to Graham and
mrb concepts we used to say that dips
are pushing exercises for chests or fun
belts impending on the rim you guys
considered our tricep exercise can I
have permission to consider Close Grip
dips as of pushing exercises from both
front outs and triceps Close Grip like
close grip bench press we're going to
call it a triceps compound movement
I've already did dips instead of front
presses described by VT
I'm a bad person well nothing you can do
will make you a good person or about
your case unfortunately but listen
there's going to say something games and
I have been saying a lot lately
where do you feel it where do you think
the stimulus is if that's where you get
it that's what it does man no one is
ever gonna tell you that you know your
discs are a chance movement when you
have a fucking Dom's
soreness from dips in your chest like a
huge bump it's just somebody's lining
right since so many anatomical
differences so many different ways of
doing things so many different neural
wiring differences that some people get
something out of exercises that other
people tend not to and that's totally
cool so you use them for whatever you
need to do conversely if an exercise is
supposed to train your triceps but you
do triceps at all they're fucking don't
don't don't count it as a try something
she knows James yeah totally and that
might even vary on how you execute the
technique like if you eat these you
might be able to lean into the dips and
get a lot of chest out of it and lean
back up and just get all triceps so then
you could treat it the same exercise
differently depending on how the
technique is executed and the SFR as you
get from modifying the technique so
could it's I think it's um I think kind
of what mics get hinting at to hear to
is like it's the label itself is less
important to how you categorize it so
much as how you use it like what are you
what are you using it for what do you
get out of it doesn't really matter what
you call it at that point I says thanks
again oh yeah did it come out naturally
or did you need a vessel for deciding
who is Jasmine man couple goals are
simple we were thinking - okay so this
is terrible the story must be told
jaren and we'll Jarek feather and we'll
Starks will start just the black guy by
the way Oh God
just yeah this is great
I don't know about yeah I know about
will was probably cool but Jared so we
are the original costume contest was
built the Ghostbusters we just wanted to
go as ghostbusters right and the modern
ghostbusters really act exactly as women
right
like I think we lost you
mmm mics caught in a really funny
picture on my screen I don't know if you
guys can see what I'm seeing but Mike's
got a very unfortunate screen pause
there we go
am I good now you're good you had like
and it paused you and you were like yeah
that's that's man that's going straight
to YouTube so we were like Ghostbusters
and Jared was like that's fucking stupid
Ghostbusters and old people movie it's
old it's dumb I've never seen it I hate
it I'm not going as far as Foster
why he's never seen Ghostbusters
cheiron's meets shit anything made after
late 2008 he considers only historical
film and we'll watch yeah
what there's real piece of work so
here's have watched like 80s action
movies or anything like that oh no he
hates him he hates them I think him
watching amazing those stupid is fucking
like your house what is not what a snob
yeah but so he'd need took that so then
somebody I forgot who came up with the
idea of Disney Princesses and
immediately as soon as I heard that I
was a jazz man a lot of Jasmine because
she hasn't my favorite suspect by a long
shot
and that was it and then Charlie was
like oh sweet of you Latin and because
Charlie and I have only do Ana we sing
was it called to hold the world we
didn't sing hey because I definitely was
not a psychedelic mushrooms when I was
in a castor common no harm no foul you
don't sing when your own stuff but
anyway that was great and then we had a
bunch of other buddies join us and go as
other Disney Princesses and Jared again
is if he's shit goes as fucking John
Smith it was vanilla of the entire
Disney like job you went as a white man
the most flag bearing guy could have
been
[Laughter]
I lost again Mike sorry yeah but anyway
it was fun for what it was all right
sorry yeah I lost you there for a minute
your face is paused again okay sounds
like you guys you guys had a good time
what so if I would have been there I
would have been Jabba as jasmine like
job lemon or jasmine
oh damn it I think I lost him again
right when I could hey James
yeah first of all I heard everything you
said second well do you want to do the
you two questions and I'll just sit back
and chime in if I need to because I suck
yeah did you want to send him to me
oh um yeah okay how do I send through
this portal you can share just do the
screen share my hole up YouTube you
could just like pull up the screen and I
can look at it or okay so we had a
little chat activity from Mariana and
Kyle said Kyle had a question for you
guys but he's working tonight so told
him to save it for the Philly seminar
this weekend I told him to ask James in
person or during QA see you guys soon
awesome can't wait to see you guys boom
there we go um so I'm sorry okay alright
folks so from YouTube
NIC Cup stupid question incoming first I
love you guys that was a statement
really i watch everything of yours I've
learned so much anyways the question how
does being mildly cold affect
hypertrophy I realize extreme cold would
just kill you since losing weight my
limbs are often cold as I work at my
desk I assume just letting your legs
arms whatever be cold reduces blood flow
which would hurt the recovery processes
but
effect might be extremely minor is it
something with which to concern myself
thanks I'll just tackle this one no I
don't think you get any significant
effect from just being like just feeling
cold really you start to notice the
effects of what cold and heat at
clinical values and those are so cold at
which the the cold being applied to the
skin is actually penetrating deep into
the muscles right so this is when you
shiver and stuff you usually your core
temperature maybe has gone down a very
very small amount which is causing you
to feel cold but I don't think that
there's any significant effect from the
cold on hypertrophy in that instance now
what you might have is like a neat
effect going on just from shivering more
right you just burning more energy from
shivering which could be good for a
weight loss could be bad for a weight
gain
depending on how you spin it but again
this is like really splitting hairs so I
don't think that you have to be
concerned if you're feeling a little
cold on your on your gains unless I'm
missing something Mike you got something
there
no I okay all right Jess
Nelson hello my question is as females
usually lift less absolute load adding
weight as small as 2 point 5 kgs would
usually decrease the reps performed or
drastically lower the RIR in some cases
for example a bench press or barbell row
yeah absolutely wouldn't that mean
excuse me wouldn't that mean that is
more beneficial for females to ad reps
instead of weight as long as they stay
in their rep range up I would say yes
more often than not because a lot of the
weight increments don't allow you to
actually stay in your goal rep range
which as Mike already uh talks about in
the hypertrophy book which I was looking
at earlier today presents a couple of
different problems the first one is you
start benefiting less from rep diversity
you move out of your actual repetition
goal range that you are trying to
stimulate and it could actually decrease
your total volume that you could achieve
or even potentially shorten your mental
Sonico length in a number of ways from
fatigue so yeah that's in some cases if
you are not able to add a small weight
increment it's definitely in your best
interest to just add reps until your and
this actually was kind of a question we
had earlier tonight to once your reps
are starting to create
above the top end of your goal rep range
then you can explore adding weight and
it's of course going to bring it back
down right the reps back down but at
that point it's probably a good
calculated move excellent cool
GJ s fabulous contents folks question
leg extensions are a tremendous quad
builder for me I feel like we we talked
about this almost every single time I
feel like yeah how much of that muscle
accrued through leg extensions can
ultimately be recruited for squats and
deadlifts if the end goal is
powerlifting strength with a chap be
better off
prioritizing say leg presses and hack
squats movements which for him are less
effective for growth which presumably
have a reliably high carryover - squats
and deadlifts so I would be inclined to
push you towards the ladder the
squatting and leg pressing type
movements simply because if the goal is
powerlifting they do tend to carry over
slightly better that's not to say that
you won't have any carryover from leg
extensions like just building meet in
the quads certainly will help you squat
and potentially maybe to a lesser extent
deadlift more however I just don't I
can't make a good case that it would be
more beneficial than getting a
comparable amount of muscle growth even
if it's slightly less if it's done in a
similar movement pattern Mike what do
you think on that I totally agree I
think that it's definitely possible to
benefit from in his case to do more leg
sanctions that someone would normally
when they do when he does his high
volume hypertrophy phases away from this
meet and I would never do any leg
extensions but I think he can do a lot
but as that gets closer to needle as you
get your transitional phases from my
particular straight I think getting leg
extensions going down or out and
starting to get those transitional
exercises later front squats
pause squats leg presses hack squats is
definitely good idea totally alright so
I think that's it so just a few
housekeeping things Mike you want to
close out that screen share for me
yes thank you sir beautiful yeah stop
chips sherry Oh BAM so for those of you
who may not be aware we have a this
weekend in Philadelphia we have our
first ever RP summit normally when we do
seminars it's usually a gym or a host
who brings us out this is the first one
I first I know that we're kind of doing
as an in-house RP event so it's gonna be
myself
Mike Gabrielle and ro dr. Davis aka dr.
wife Lori is looking Lori Shaw is gonna
be there and of course I think I'm
assuming Nick's gonna be there I don't
think he's talking but he's gonna be
there I'm sure so yeah it's gonna be
there sure yeah and so it's gonna be a
real fun event in Philadelphia if you
guys want to come hang out and you you
know might be if you've heard us talk
before it might be a little same song
and dance and something but if you want
to come and ask us questions and hang
out we would love to have you there and
participating in the event as much as
possible Yahoo all right eye on for next
week you guys are so you don't go to
India until like Thanksgiving right so
you're gonna be right back yeah okay so
nothing hopefully nothing going on for
me too so we should be on for next week
folks
great actually we had a lot of really
good questions it's very good questions
very impressed so everybody did a great
job
thanks for the YouTube questions and we
will see you next time peace