in this video I'll be ranking 21
controversial Fitness topics as either
overrated or underrated I'm having my
friend and past coach Dr Lee Norton join
me for some credibility points since he
has a PHD in nutritional sciences and is
a pro-natural bodybuilder and
powerlifter himself now I'm giving us 15
seconds each to explain why we ranked
each item the way we did and we'll be
covering four categories training
nutrition supplementation and hot
fitness topics here we go the first
category is training
training to failure
bodybuilders tend to over emphasize how
important going to failure is when in
reality you just have to be reasonably
close to failure usually within a couple
reps of it I think it's useful to go to
failure from time to time so you know
what it feels like but you can get
pretty much the same benefits of
training to failure by stopping a few
reps shy Sumo deadlifts
I think underrated
we might be a little biased here fair
enough for me the reason I do it is
because it spares my lower back a little
bit because I have such long legs that a
conventional really hunches me over and
puts quite a bit of fatigue on my lower
back with as much as I squat it's pretty
difficult from a muscle activation
standpoint there is very very little
difference between Sumo and conventional
so it's just individual full range of
motion oh
I think
so I'm going to say underrated because I
think there's a lot of people who train
with partial range of motion because
they feel uncomfortable getting into
that kind of oh crap range of motion
like say on a squat where you're about
halfway down and your body goes oh crap
we have shown that full range of motion
or at least training in the in the
stretched position appears to be
critical for maximizing hypertrophy so I
say underrated but I say overrated at
least within I think this more Savvy
Fitness crowd because I think they put
it on a pedestal when in reality what's
most important is getting to this
stretched aspect of the lift and through
the hardest part of the lift at least
from a hypertrophic standpoint but
without that extra Nuance I would say
yeah just doing half reps is not optimal
power lifting for bodybuilding
I'm going to say underrated and only
from the perspective of low reps can
still build muscle and there's no real
research to indicate this but when you
get stronger and you're able to use more
weight in a higher rep range that's more
Progressive overload and I think just
varying up your reps in general is a
great idea I would say the same thing in
Reverse from powerlifting to do some
higher up trading from time to time as
well yeah I completely agree I don't
think it's like necessary for
bodybuilders but I think it can be
helpful for me I've found powerlifting
helpful as an objective Outlet because
as a natural bodybuilder you're not
going to see physique progress from you
know month to month or even year to year
in some cases and so focusing on a
strength outcome in the form of the
power lifts can be really helpful for
motivation as well I agree lifting
straps
I'm going to say underrated because if
you're not competing in powerlifting or
strong man specifically where you worry
about grip strength grip strength can be
a limiter especially on rows and
pull-ups and those sorts of things and
you may actually end up using
sub-optimal technique totally agree also
from a bodybuilding standpoint I get a
much better mind muscle connection with
my back when I use straps on back
exercises and when I want to train my
forearms I can train my forearms
separately I agree the second category
is nutrition the post-workout anabolic
window
yeah I think people think it's really
important like you won't make gains if
you skip your post-workout meal in
reality it's the tip of the iceberg the
total daily protein intake is is far
more important yeah I mean if you look
at the research it's probably a good
idea to get some high quality protein
and carbohydrate post training but this
idea that you have to get it down within
the first 30 seconds of finishing your
training there's just no research to
support that if you have a pre-workout
meal an hour or two before you work out
and you work out for an hour or two then
just have your next meal an hour or two
after that and it kind of fits your meal
spacing and that's perfectly fine liver
slash organ Meats
it is a nutritious food it has a lot of
vitamins and minerals but so do fruits
and vegetables again I wouldn't put it
on a pedestal you know it's a source of
high quality protein and has vitamins
and minerals also you could just take
away shake and take vitamins and
minerals so rather than having to eat
you know liver at the end of the day you
can get the same nutrients from from
somewhere else yeah do you detoxing
easy this one's easy what are we
detoxing so whenever people make claims
to detox I'm always like so what
specific compounds are we detoxing how
are we detoxing them and how does this
not already done by the liver and
kidneys people don't usually have a
response to that yeah that's exactly it
delivering kidneys already do the
detoxing it's not going to help you lose
weight if you think it's going to do
that either well most detoxes are like
here take this thing which is actually
some kind of laxative they lose 10
pounds from crapping and not eating and
they're like oh wow I lost weight yeah
well kiwi fruit
it's fruit so it's got vitamins and
minerals and no great source of fiber
and whatnot and some sweet taste very
nutritious but I'm going to say this for
most individual Foods I just don't think
there's any like one necessary food so a
lot of times for individual Foods I'll
just say overrated that's fair I mean I
mostly agree I think it does have some
good sleep enhancing properties there
are a few studies that have shown
improved sleep from kiwis more vitamin C
than almost any other fruit you could
name per calorie tastes good different
options you got the sun gold you've got
the original Green Green kiwi I think
underrated relative to more popular
fruits like apples oranges bananas and
so on but I agree no no food should be
put on a pedestal I do agree with that a
man's a big fan of kiwis eating clean
easy first off what's the objective
definition of clean if you talk to a
vegan they're going to tell you meat is
not clean if you talk to a carnivore
they're going to tell you vegetables
aren't clean there's no objective
definition and even when you get into
things that seem like obvious like a
high sugar diet compared to a low sugar
diet when you're equating calories
there's actually no difference in body
composition at least so I would say it's
very overrated and actually I've seen a
lot of people kind of develop weird food
relationships because of this idea of
eating clean yeah I completely agree I
have nothing to add the third category
is supplements turkesterone
overrated it is almost entirely popular
because of social media hype which I
think it got because it sounds like
testosterone if it had a more boring
name it would not be nearly as popular
and also it has serious quality control
issues oh yeah which is a big problem
you don't really know what you're taking
yeah it doesn't increase mtor it doesn't
increase muscle protein synthesis
there's no receptor and the muscle cell
for it and it doesn't appear to impact
muscle protein breakdown I don't think
it does anything Branch chain amino
acids
so this is something I've changed my
mind on I used to promote Branch amino
acid products I used to have Branch
amino acids in my former supplement line
now I don't have many more because Circa
2017-2018 I changed my thoughts on this
because I just saw enough overwhelming
evidence that if you get enough high
quality protein that adding BCAAs on top
of that just doesn't do anything yeah I
agree do you think that the pendulum has
swung the opposite way where it's like
in the science-based community that are
like BCAAs are never ever ever worth
taking I think there's certain
situations where they can be useful like
if you're a vegan and you can't get
enough protein in BCAAs can enhance the
protein quality you're having and even
there is some evidence that they
decrease the late onset muscle soreness
whether or not that's independent of
total protein intake we don't know but
there could be some applications fair
enough overall overrated though
essential amino acids
I say I say like properly rated I think
they're better than BCAAs you you need
all nine essential amino acids to build
muscle tissue so like almost by
definition they are better I kind of go
back like if you're training fasted
which is not really fast if you take EAS
but if you're training fasted or you
don't do well with law in your stomach
when you go on a train you train in the
mornings maybe something like that gets
you out of catabolism without putting
too much on your stomach but overall I
would say I would say overrated too for
the cost yeah yeah creatine monohydrate
hey
barely underrated I'm going to say it's
underrated because it's not very sexy to
most folks because a boring oil creatine
monohydrate and there's so many people
now these days who all get comments like
oh yeah I never use creatine I didn't
know it was that good and it's like I
think because it's so ubiquitous it's
become kind of boring and that's why I
think it's underrated and it is the most
effective safe supplement that we have
on the market we have over three decades
of research to show that yeah I would
say it's properly rated I feel like
people think creatine works and it does
work on the other hand I think it's not
that special like you do get a
relatively small Boost from it correct
right people take creatine and be like
Oh I'm gonna blow up now like
everything's and it's like no you're
looking at very very small changes
however it does it is one of the very
few that does work the basic form of it
the most mainstream form of it is the
one that is most effective so in that
sense it is underrated I would say don't
waste your money on any other time you
know testosterone boosters
for two reasons one most don't work and
two there are some that cause very
modest increases in testosterone very
small increased testosterone small
increases in testosterone in the
physiological range are not going to
actually lead to better gains you really
need a massive change in testosterone to
have changes in muscle mass if you look
at like anabolic steroids I mean these
are raising testosterone levels like
multiple fold higher than your natural
level yeah I say if you're buying your
testosterone booster over the counter
it's probably not doing much for you
sorry guys ashwagandha
so I'm going to say underrated only
because I haven't seen that many people
talk about it and there's some pretty
compelling research that it acts through
multiple different mechanisms to improve
recovery strength a little bit of
testosterone who cares and possibly even
muscle mass so I do think it's
underrated right now I do too and also
it seems to have a pretty profound
effect on anxiety I mean not in
comparison to like anxiety lowering
medication but like as a herb it seems
to be pretty powerful reducing stress
adaptogen yeah it seems to have multiple
different Pathways that it helps the
fourth and final category is hot fitness
topics ice baths
I am convinced that this is mostly just
to look cool remember how like doing
cardio on a step mill with a dark hoodie
and the hoodie pulled up somehow it's
gonna make you burn more fat this is
that version of that now it does
decrease the light on top muscle
soreness it may help improve recovery a
little bit but it also attenuates
hypertrophy IT attenuates muscle protein
synthesis and hypertrophy over the long
term it is bad for it is objectively bad
for muscle growth so it's not a good
idea to do it if you want are trying to
build maximum muscle I think
bodybuilders are just masochists they
like pain and this is another way to
induce that it just looks cool sauna
I will say there is some evidence that
suggests that sauna can actually reduce
the risk of cardiovascular disease so
that might be a possible benefit but for
building muscle for body composition
it's not going to do anything is there
something to the heat shock proteins
this is the buzzword that I hear so
again this is where you focus on
mechanisms you don't look at the human
outcome data so yes heat shock proteins
if you activate them can lead to more
muscle protein synthesis but if that was
actually making the tangible impact you
would see it in increases in lean body
mass and there are randomized control
trials now looking at sauna showing no
increases in muscle mass gotcha okay if
you want to do it though you can it
doesn't seem to be harmful like the ice
bass it's just over rate like the height
doesn't match the evidence yeah and it
may actually help a little bit with
recovery and whatnot right fasted cardio
so again people will say well increases
fat oxidation you burn you burn more fat
yeah and it doesn't actually lead to
more fat loss so what do you care do you
care about fat burning or do you care
about loss of actual body fat because
those are two different things we have
several randomized control trials now
with equal calories equating work and
showing fasted or fed doesn't make a
difference and I think that's the key if
you like to get out of bed and faster
cardio wakes you up yeah it's fun it
creates a better workout for you it's
perfectly fine but it isn't it doesn't
seem to be special in any way and in
fact there's research also showing that
if you burn more fat or oxidize more fat
during the cardio session you oxidize
less throughout the course of the day so
it all basically the 24 hour net is no
difference body fat spot reduction
I've never seen compelling evidence that
you can spot reduce body fat you'll find
some isolated studies that are sponsored
by supplement companies that show
something but in terms of independent
stuff I've never seen anything
compelling if it's a troubled spot
that's the last place it's going to come
from that's it you just have to continue
to get leaner continue to lose weight
and continue to lose fat overall and
doing crunches isn't going to Target the
body fat on your belly what about toning
a muscle can do two things it can get
bigger it can get smaller it does not
get more tote the appearance of toned is
having enough muscular development to
actually see the muscle and low enough
body fat to see the muscle and if ladies
you're worried about getting two
hypertrophied just once you reach the
level of muscle mass you like don't lift
any harder the appearance of toning that
people go for is generally losing body
fat and or building muscle and you just
do that by basic means like you don't
need to use the body wraps or the creams
or all these other things that tend to
be associated with that all right that
it that's all you got that's all I've
got for now thank you guys so much for
watching make you go subscribe to Lane's
Channel he does a lot of this like
mythbust style stuff you do a really
good job with that so if you guys like
that type of content definitely check
out his channel leave the video a thumbs
up if you enjoyed it subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
all here in the next one
Jeff there was one I forgot to ask