hey folks Dr Mike here for onance
periodization and I would like for you
to stop front squatting what Dr Mike way
to turn the shit up to 100 real fast
back up I thought this was a lifting
Channel at L compound full range of
motion hardcore lifts in fact we do so
this sounds a lot like blasphemy and it
definitely does but hold on I swear to
God I can explain I have three ways of
saying what I'm going to say here's way
number one front squatting is an
excellent exercise for the sport of
weightlifting which is a sport that they
do in the Olympics which consists of the
snatch and the cleaning jerk the
cleaning jerk has the position of the
front rack in the clean which is when
you catch the bar into a front squat and
you squat it up for that reason alone if
you are a competitive weightlifter or a
recreational weightlifter and you're
trying to do the sport of Olympic
weightlifting whereas it's otherwise
called weightlifting in that's it's
actually called my uh my old ETSU
weightlifting Training Center buddies
would kill me if I just called it oie or
something like that for people training
for the sport of weightlifting the front
squat is not uh wrong it is the opposite
of wrong it is indispensable it is a
part of your sports
skills 100% so you have to train it and
you just kind of don't have a choice you
can train weightlifting without ever
front squatting but you would be doing
your substantially regressed from where
it could be sport specificity is
King however if you are a strongman
competitor powerlifter bodybuilder
physique athlete of any kind and
especially recreational person just
trying to get bigger and stronger the
front squat suffers this is point number
two from some pretty substantial
downsides not the end of the world type
of stuff and tldr you can front Squad if
you like but consider consider this
first first the front squat is not as
stable as What's called the back squat
to weightlifters which is the high bar
squat to everybody else bar back here
not front squat rack position or cross
position there's lower stability you can
get pretty good stability front
squatting if you do a weightlifting rack
position that for many people especially
more hypertrophied people are those not
built anthropometrically for
weightlifting very well is very
difficult or impossible to do they have
to do the cross position the cross
position is definitely lower stability
because your elbows will tell to fall
down you'll tend to slip and not be able
to hold the bar if you push the bar too
far back you start to choke yourself
which is fun in the bedroom but
absolutely no fun especially in the
weight room that lower stability is a
problem because stability is the
foundation of good technique and force
production ESP especially as you get
with reps closer to failure the thing is
weightlifters don't typically do a lot
of reps close to failure they either do
some reps further from failure or
singles or doubles that are pretty close
to failure but they also can do a front
rack they practice this position all the
time typically when I see people doing
front squats in a recreational setting
their stability looks pretty compromised
such that if they push really hard into
the bar it'll fall off of them thus they
don't push really hard into the bar
because they're doing that they're
reducing how much nurve Drive is being
sent to the muscles of the legs the
potential for hypertrophy and strength
increase of the muscles of the legs
declines relative to a high bar back
squat for example so that's problem one
problem two is more chance for shoulder
discomfort whether you're racking a
front squat or with a weightlifting
style rack or you're doing the cross
rack which bodybuilders do the
probability that your shoulders get
loaded in not fun ways with 300 lbs of
barbell force is rather High many people
can get through tons of front squats
without ever having shoulder
discomfort but most of those people are
properly coached with the rack position
and do all kinds of transitional
exercises where they start with holding
straps they lower their hands on the
straps for a while they get one or two
fingers in and then eventually in their
coaches help them with elbow position
and everything and for those folks even
still front squats can needlessly stress
the shoulder joint now if you have to
front squat there's no way around that
and over time your shoulders are going
to get Hardy as fuck but that time time
is a Time measured in months and the
transition is often painful literally
and figuratively because your joints are
kind of like your shoulders and you're
just trying to train your legs hard so
the buyin is very high the buyin is so
high that many of the world's best
strength and conditioning coaches that
absolutely use the second pole
derivatives uh mid thigh poles of
various kinds power cleans Etc and they
will have a rack position there many of
those people don't put a huge emphasis
on front squatting because because they
know that their athletes need their
shoulders of volleyball players or not
front squatting with them you can 100%
front squat safely and effective with
volb players but you have to ask
yourself the question if we just do back
squats are we avoiding this even low
probability mess of shoulder stuff that
we get into if you're a recreational
lifter your shoulders are beat up as it
is again the front squat can be totally
safe and fine for your shoulders but
there's a chance it won't be and all I'm
saying is that chance is higher than in
a high bar squat if someone says Hey
listen I used used to front squat a lot
but stopped doing it because it was
bothering my shoulders you could be at
least be like well you're probably doing
it wrong but I hear you that happens if
someone's like hey my shoulders are
killing me with high bar back squats you
got be like what the fuck are you doing
with your squats are you like shoulder
pressing it and keeping it in midair you
know you can put it down on your neck so
it's just a matter of trade-offs and
that more shoulder discomfort is
absolutely a feature of front squatting
next the rack position tends to slip
down and forward and out no matter how
you hold it and the cross rack is even
harder to hold which means that you
spend a lot of bandwidth trying to
maintain the rack position when I cue
people for front squats for hypertrophy
training if they so ask me to most of my
cues aren't even about depth or pushing
the knees out or pushing through the
quads or keeping the chest position
right most of my cues end up being like
elbows up elbows up elbows up because as
you push out hard from the bottom of the
front squat your elbows tend to come
down which ends up rolling the bar
forward completely disrupting back to
point one your stability you have to
catch it elbows back up and even if you
catch it and stand up that's just
bandwidth both physical and mental that
you're spending thinking about the
technique when you're squatting with a
high bar as long as you keep your chest
up that kind of the movement fixes
itself at least you're not fucking with
this part of the movement where your
hands interact with the barbell with
front squats that's a big part of it
unless you've got your Technique really
grooved in in that case sweet most
people who were like ask like hey can I
sub out leg presses for front squats
when they try to front squat they're
going to find out like oh man like
keeping the position I and the elbows
and hands in the right place it's like
half the battle that is bandwidth
physical and mental it goes into that
and is taken away from training your
quads hard which is the whole point of
the exercise lastly especially for
higher reps especially in the front
squat as you get strong you tend to
experience lung compression where the
bar hits and it just caves your ribs in
it takes a lot to stay on top of it with
a high bar squat it's natural just to
lean back with a front squat it l you
down and it can make it difficult for
you to take in big breaths especially if
you have a belt on higher reps with the
front squats that's a five six even you
know reps as high as 10 to 12 you get
into this capacity where you're trying
to breathe in a lot but the shit is
physically compressing you and you're
like God damn it this isn't good for
reps because it fucking compresses my
breathing it's not good for max weight
because it's not sufficiently stable for
me and I end up just worrying about my
rack position and if it's really heavy
my shoulder discomfort is like pretty
painful and pretty annoying that's a lot
of downsides so just consider these
downsides all of these downsides in my
view on average make front squatting
relatively inferior to high bar
squatting for both General strength
development and general muscle growth
and hypertrophy
development there is no avoiding hard
training if you want to grow but if you
want to grow the most your training
needs to be hard and smart RP
hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
results so you can absolutely do front
squads but understand that they have
some serious limitations you may or may
not run into just know that they're
there and if you really want to do front
squads and you have three or four other
great quadriceps variants you want to
use front squats take a look at these
downsides that I've listed the four
downsides and think about is it still
worth it if it is try it and if the
downsides show up in the first month or
two of you doing it just be like man
fuck this and just cash out you don't
need to do front squat you don't need to
do any exercise really if you're just
developing General strength and
hypertrophy like most of you folks are
but if you do want to do it make sure
you're at least tending to these
problems recognizing that saying okay I
know it causes a little trouble for me
in my shoulders but it's worth it
because reasons and those reasons better
be good just like with everything else
on this channel damn near everything
else I say without doing penis jokes in
it for real for serious now anything you
do in lifting it in life has to have at
least some semblance of justification
and if you can justify it you can next
look into every justification and say
okay am I for real for real is this a
good reason or is something else else a
better idea to do and if you've honestly
and dispassionately analyzed a course of
action you're like okay clearly this is
a better
idea begs the question as to why you're
doing it flipping to more intelligent
ideas versus less intelligent is almost
the quintessential Baseline of wisdom
and'll get you much more success than if
you're just like run squats they're
going in and someone's like aren't they
and you're like shut up pussy and you
just front Squad away anyway let me know
what you guys think about that please uh
shoot some questions in the comments
can't wait for the front squat Defender
but hurt committee to arrive no doubt
not having watched this video full of
nuance and uh speaking of things that
are full I'm so full of myself we me
complimenting my own videos I'm full of
nuance shut up Mike see you next
time