[Music]
foreign
to the house of hypertrophy how
effective is stretching for inducing
muscle hypertrophy and strength research
conducted on animals finds that
stretching produces substantial gains
with increases in muscle cross-sectional
area up to 141 and maximal strength
increases up to 95 percent in fact I
recall back in the day stumbling across
this article suggesting stretching had
the potential to cause a 318 increase in
muscle mass however a crucial limitation
of these studies are not only are they
conducted on animals but the stretching
protocols were extreme with stretches
being held for up to 24 hours in humans
the literature tends to largely indicate
their stretching for durations up to two
minutes fails to produce any real
hypertrophy or strength gains but this
begs the question could more intense
stretching in humans produce hypertrophy
and strength a new study by warnicki and
colleagues aim to find this out
[Music]
69 individuals with some degree of
resistance training experience were
recruited and assigned into either a
stretching hypertrophy training or
control group we don't need to worry
about the control group they did no
training and expectedly saw no gains the
hypertrophy training group performed
calf presses for five sets of 10 to 12
full range motion repetitions to failure
three days per week the stretch and
groups stretched their calves for one
hour every single day with a device such
as this at a pay level of seven to eight
on a 10 scale after six weeks of the
intervention it was found that isometric
straight leg and bent knee calf strength
increased in both the stretching and
hypertrophy groups with non-significant
differences between them interestingly
the percentages for the straight leg
strength favor the stretching group
if we look at how each individual
adapted for the groups we can see that
many individuals in both groups saw
comparable straight leg strength gains
but some of the data points pulled it
towards the stretching group no it's
unclear if this could be due to error
but the idea the stretching produced a
better isometric straight leg strength
gains might be quite logical since the
stretching training which was done with
a straight leg it's more specific to an
isometric straight leg strength test
opposed to these isometric strength
tests if Dynamic strength tests were
used the results would probably favor
the hypertrophy group due to the
hypertrophy training being more specific
to Dynamic strength as for hypertrophy
lateral and medial gastrocnemius
thickness increased in both the
stretching and hypertrophy groups and
the differences between the groups were
again non-significant for the lateral
gastrocnemius the percentages seem to
favor the hypertrophy training group
if we look at how each individual grew
their lateral gastrocnemius for both
groups there certainly were many
individuals in both groups seeing
similar gains but some of the data
points leaned towards slightly better
growth in the hypertrophy group it's not
clear if this is due to error either but
it's of course logical more standard
hypertrophy training better builds
muscle than stretching but still
remember medial gastrocnemius gains were
a lot more comparable between the groups
so despite some of the limitations and
considerations these results nonetheless
demonstrate intense stretching one hour
daily produce significant hypertrophy
and strength gains with some
similarities to three days a week of
typical hypertrophy training this is the
first study to examine and establish
this and so it's a pretty cool addition
to the muscle I poetry and strength
literature practically speaking I'm sure
most people have no desire to stretch
for one hour daily yet for injured or
recovering individuals who cannot train
normally intense stretch training could
be an option for them in any case the 5
pointing that one hour of stretching
daily can produce fairly comparable
hypertrophy and strength gains to
resistance training is pretty cool
for those interested in guidance or
ideas about programming for hypertrophy
you may be interested in our partner
Alpha progression a tremendous app that
includes a custom workout generator the
training variables deployed are grounded
in various meta-analyzes and systematic
reviews from the scientific literature
plus there's great flexibility you can
fact in what equipment you have so if
you only have dumbbells no problem how
long you want your workouts to be how
often you want to train furthermore the
workouts are still editable to your
liking allowing you to individualize
things as you see fit the app also has
other great features it provides neat
graphs that can display your long-term
progression and there's a database with
over 550 exercises with excellent video
and text tutorials behind each the link
in the comments and description gives
you everything on the app for two weeks
completely free and if you like it and
go beyond the link gives you 20 off a
subscription we don't just partner up
with anybody at the house of hypertrophy
so you can rest assured the app is
seriously quality
[Music]
I think another notable potential
takeaway from this study relates to the
mechanisms behind hypertrophy as
examined previously in the house of
hypertrophy it appears mechanical
tension may be their primary stimulus
behind muscle hypertrophy this study
might indirectly further support this
fundamentally mechanical tension are the
forces experienced by the fibers of a
muscle these forces can be active as is
the case when your muscle fibers are
Contracting or they can even be passive
as is the case when muscles are
stretched within and around muscle
fibers are proteins that have the
ability to detect these active and
passive forces generated by the muscle
fibers and then convert the forces into
a signal that produces muscle
hypertrophy off of this I would
hypothesize the reason the intense
stretching training produced significant
hypertrophy is since the passive tension
with the stretch was meaningful enough
to trigger hypertrophy in fact we've had
animal studies indicating when Peak
tension is equated between stretching
and eccentric muscle contractions
hypertrophy related signaling tends to
be similar
some of you may be wondering about
muscle damage could this not have
contributed to the hypertrophy scene
from stretching I believe we can't fully
rule out some level of damage
contributing to hypertrophy but the
problem is we simply have multiple areas
of the research at least suggesting
damage cannot be the primary stimulus
behind hypertrophy moreover thanks to
the repeated bow effect which we've
examined in depth previously at the
house of hypertrophy damage tends to
subside as you become more accustomed to
what you're training
[Music]
thank you