this is a Preposterous choice for this
movement only
ah this man is paid by Hollywood people
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Mike Israel I'm a
exercise and sports science professor at
Lehman College in the Bronx in New York
city in the United States on planet
Earth in the solar system in uh I forget
which arm of the Milky Way galaxy and
I'm also a competitive bodybuilder and
the creator of the RPI per trophy app
and today I'm going to look at Bradley
Cooper's training for his seminal role
in American Sniper a movie that I really
really like let's find out how much
science there is and spread the science
away from the not science there's a term
for that it's called BS
I'm Jason Walsh I'm a trainer in Los
Angeles and I get actors ready for me
Jason hello
quite handsome what am I saying I mean
it we literally have to sit down and
figure out what the characteristics are
of that role the variables involved
meaning like are they going to be in the
desert are they going to be yeah
you're going to train someone
differently because they're going to be
in the desert does that mean like more
unstable training for slipping on sand
ah my brain they're gonna be carrying
heavy weight you know next I'm gonna be
carrying heavyweight and exoskeleton you
mean like a fucking prop that isn't
actually heavy then how physical is the
role but I like how when they said it
was a physical role they zoomed in on a
woman in a Blue Dress just kind of just
jazzing
So Physical watch me move my hips
believe it or not what we're doing is
really helping these guys with character
building I want to enforce that
character I want them to feel so what
we're doing is really helping these guys
with character building when you were
training for a acting role there is
scarcely anything inside of a
well-air-conditioned Los Angeles private
training studio for celebrities that is
going to help you get into the role of
being like a superhero or a sniper in
combat anything remotely of that nature
your job sir is to just get people to
look a certain way and maybe be able to
physically perform stunts and other
things but generally awake competent
adult humans without any severe injuries
can do that second part the first part
is really just all about looks I want
them to feel super free of any type of
psychological like hindrances
psychological like hindrances are such a
bad thing
Bradley Cooper came to me through John
Krasinski he got this big role 225
pounds military guy highly respected and
decorated Bradley Cooper 185 pounds wet
novice never trained before so far I'm
sold yes he needs to gain weight the
first eight weeks that we were doing two
a days I mean we had a lot two a day
training to gain weight curious
uh very Advanced well I kind of want to
see what what he's doing here I decided
that this was the move the trap bar
deadlift that we were going to pretty
much make the foundation of everything
okay so the trap bar deadlift
at a
off of blocks is a movement that comes
close to being the worst possible
exercise you can do for putting on lots
of muscle safely why it trains so much
of the body at the same time that
there's no specific muscle it pushes to
its limits and thus elicits a lot of
muscle growth The Leverage position
you're in is to be able to lift the most
weight that you possibly can with your
body so in order to stimulate a lot of
your muscles so diffusely as to not
stimulate any of them really well you
need to impose the maximum amount of
spinal loading and that just seems like
a risk reward ratio that doesn't make
any fucking sense in addition to that
by doing only partial reps at the top
end of the movement you are avoiding
entirely the deep painful stretch at the
bottom of almost every exercise that
causes the most muscle growth this is a
Preposterous choice for this movement
holy
ah this man is paid by Hollywood people
there's two variables here that I can
play with and that is the range of
motion yes you're playing with it wrong
safe and we started at a high position
we started light starting at a low
position is not unsafe it just feels
icky because you're weak as I see him
progress and get better we can take
those down so we got Bradley really
strong this could have been worse he
could have just done partial deadlifts
the entire time although really he is
doing partials the entire time as I
still see that it's elevated Bradley did
do the partial deadlift in the movie I
do remember that NASA's character
thank you
and I've scoffed it then and I continue
to scoff at it now so it's good that he
lowered the range of motion but he would
be better off just starting him at a
very deep range of motion would have
provided more of a muscle growth
stimulus so that he could gained more
actual muscle and less other stuff that
we're not interested in getting we
actually ended up towards the end of it
lifting a little over 425 pounds 425
that's good from an elevated position I
don't know how elevated it was it's good
it's not amazing but the three cheers
for Bradley Cooper and trainer that's
very impressive you cannot fake the way
400 pounds feels when you lift it off
the ground good news he didn't lift it
off the ground in the movie or in the
scene who Who's Who Says shit like this
he would come in in the morning 6 a.m
we'd train for an hour hour and a half
would go home and recover he would come
back we'd do a lot of the volume
training in the afternoon the hell is
the first training for if the volume
training listen guys I could call myself
an expert on muscle growth and that
would be accurate that's me being cocky
volume training or training the muscles
with a sufficient stimulus in order to
get them to grow is the onlyest type of
training that you need to put on muscle
size for a Hollywood roll any other
training you're doing is interfering
with that he's going home and recovering
for the actual important workout later
he could have just started with the
important workout and recovered the rest
of the day and ate plenty of food and
gained all that weight he didn't need to
get ripped he needed to get big and
that's a big difference not a big
difference the training is almost
exactly the same the diet is the
difference there's no way in hell that
that guy was going to eat as many
calories as he needed to put that kind
of Mass on so we had to drink the
calories so I just progressed it week by
week daily calorie intake week one it
started at two thousand I think somebody
like Bradley Cooper size probably eats
more than 2 000 calories anyway so was a
deficit in week one
week two 2500 calories
probably more like maintenance for him
week 3 at 3000 is probably a slight
Surplus week 4 3500 is a very good
Surplus he should have just been doing
that the entire time and week five foot
four thousand is probably just putting
on a lot of fat and not much more muscle
than 3500 would that's my best guess
week six forty five hundred to just make
you feel like shit and get even fatter
amazing okay so we got a little bit of
insight on mostly just the partial
deadlift that was happening there with
the hex bar
terrible movement for hypertrophy maybe
one of the worst
did lower the range of motion in the end
and I was starting to feel it and he
said picking up 400 pounds off the
ground which never happened once
um I don't know much about the training
plan because the training plan was never
displayed just said volume work the diet
was funky
Hollywood people to know that there are
like infinitely more qualified people
and not to take anything away from the
gentleman that is the trainer I'm sure
he has great success and he's all in
Hollywood shit like that but uh folks go
to school and learn things
please watch our videos watch anyone's
videos learn stuff
foreign
out of the kindness of my heart for that
workout scene American Sniper was great
next time
[Music]