hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization today's video is about
growing your spinal erectors i'll wait
for you to say all the jokes
all right now that we've gotten those
jokes out if you don't have them all out
just put them in the comments i'm sure
there are some good ones
here's the thing tips for back growth
training are super common and later on
we've already had a bunch and we have
videos and later on we'll have way more
but usually those tips are focused on
the lats as a matter of fact a huge pet
peeve of mine is people using back and
lats reflexively those lats are maybe
like one-fourth of your back
uh maybe the mid-traps and rhomboids are
mentioned but rarely are spinal erectors
mentioned and the thing is they can be
huge and gnarly and they can be an
enormous part of your back and they are
the core of your all-around strength
uh it actually turns out that
there was at least one study back in the
day in which sort of upper spinal
erector thickness was the most
predictive variable for how strong
someone was in powerlifting believe it
or not which makes sense like a strong
back goes a long long way so let's look
at some tips on building them before
that i have some pictures to throw up
here one of them on the left is of me
with my
right spinal erector actually reaching
out from behind my left one kind of a
freaky picture uh you know big spinal
directors look cool and then to make me
look like i don't train is uh johnny
jackson there on the right with spinal
directors that don't make any goddamn
sense at all it's a neat look you know
it's a neat look yeah sure johnny's
traps and lats are cool too but without
spinal directors there's something
missing from that gnarly huge back look
now
training tips
i've got five of them and you can start
them tomorrow and be on your way to
bigger erect tours you thought i was
gonna say something else here we go tip
number one
in my experience not much replaces years
of deadlifts i've done tons and
literally like two decades of
deadlifting
a lot of sets of five to ten
conventional is ideal because it
taxes the spinal erectors more than sumo
and working up to be real strong for
sets of five to ten with very good
stable technique that will slap the meat
on your spinal directors like very few
things will
next do plenty of heavy rowing
stiff-legged deadlifts and good mornings
because they require your spinal rectors
to act as usually static stabilizers
supporting enormous loads and that
drives a lot of hypertrophy to those
muscles
and really
heavy rowing should be a part or at
least growing of some number of reps
it should be a part of your back
training anyway
and the core of your hamstring training
and posterior chain training should be
some variations of good mornings and
stuff like a deadlift anyway but it
really spills over vagina raptors you
show me someone who has grown impressive
hamstrings doing lots of good mornings
and stuff like a deadlift and i'll show
you someone who probably has awesome
spinal rectors in addition to that
versus if you just do a lot of leg curls
you can get really big hamstrings spinal
erectors could be left a little bit
lagging point number three
you want to bend over a lot in your rows
that doesn't mean you round over in your
rows that means you bend over to 90
degrees or close anywhere somewhere
between sort of four to five and 90. you
don't want to be up here
if you bend over a lot but you keep your
mid black mid back either arched or flat
that sheer amount of tension that has to
be exerted by the spinal erectors to
keep you in that position first of all
it's a great position for the rest of
your back huge range of motion big
stretch big stimulus for the lats and
all the other muscles but also enormous
stimulus for the spinal erectors just
from bending over real far
you can tell someone has weak erectors
if their preferred rowing angles like
right here you know the upright bent
over row and you're like hey bend over
further and just go absolutely nowhere
and collapse like okay this is a real
big problem point number four
at least on some of your machine back
training even if you have a chest
support
going into proactive flexion of your
spine and at the end extension so you
basically let your chest and shoulders
be rounded over and then at the top you
squeeze and arch and contract and lift
your chest as high as possible squeezing
your shoulder blades back so your back
your spine goes from looking like this
at the bottom of the row to like this at
the top of the row that is actually a
dynamic training of the spinal erectors
notice everything else here really is
kind of static training which is not as
optimal as dynamic training but because
the loads are so massive and all those
other things your spinal rectus will be
golden but just to add in that little
extra bit if you do some movement of the
spine four chest supported roses are
super super safe especially if you work
up it can fry your spinal erectors and
help make them that much bigger
lastly
taking all these tips together please
keep an eye on your fatigue
axial fatigue the fatigue of your what
you're essentially your spine is feeling
compression wise and all the other
forces is a huge big deal
it's very easy to do a lot of exercises
that tax your spinal erectors and get
crazy overreached in experience declines
in deadlift performance squad
performance just feeling like a human
being you just feel weak all the time
typically
your erectors are involved in almost
every movement you do kind of in all of
life so they have a high maximum
recoverable volume but a lot of that is
eaten up by just daily activities and
every other kind of training you do
so you have to make sure to find your
volume tolerance for spinal erectors
well and not just simply think more is
better find what works for you based on
rep strength if your rep strength and
all your movements that involve spinal
erectors are still going up or stable
you're good to go the answer is do that
volume or even try a little more if it
starts to go down on you and too much
fatigue you know you've hit your top end
volume or your top end number of micro
cycles of really serious erector
training and then you have to bring it
back down because high fatigue training
is good for nobody
folks
enjoy having a bigger back
and also
a big erection i said it see you next
time