[Music]
structure and flexibility the RP diet
app builds a structure of eating that
creates the results you're looking for
but has the flexibility to let you scan
your favorite foods and follow your
preferred diet philosophy the digital
diet coach in your pocket is more
powerful than ever so let's build a
better you with the RP diet app
folks welcome back weekly webinar it's
dr. James and dr. Mike we're here to
answer your questions like always let's
get it going all right you're down sign
up says hey Doc's two quick questions
for you number one I'm currently massing
and I have a certain weekly average body
weight percent of weight gain that I'm
after in a five plus one weeks Mezo so I
mean there's five accumulation won't be
much what will be better a slightly
overshoot the target at the end of week
five and let the weight naturally fall
off a bit during the day load lighter
training less carbs or mail the target
at the end of week five and keep it
there during addy load I honestly cannot
with all of my expertise tell you which
one is better I also think there's a
precision problem where you're not even
going to be able to figure out which one
of those it is because the water weight
fluctuation straight do you load are
going to be so wild but I think both are
very much
right there what I wouldn't want you to
do is under shoot it and then try to eat
up more during the D load that would not
be a great idea but I think that either
one of those is totally fine James can
you parse them yeah so I'm wondering if
he's talking about like the normal it's
normal for your weight to kind of drop
off a little bit when you're kind of
deep bloat and deep hump on D load so
that would be something I wouldn't
necessarily try to factor in I would
just to mitigate because it's just water
weight anyways yes exactly so you have
like the problem where if you're trying
to accommodate that then you could be
leaving gains on the table potentially
just because you're going unnecessarily
conservative cuz you're thinking like
you know so I would say just don't
bother worrying about that too much
purely theoretical question number two I
try to keep my rest period between sets
the same and follow the four questions
about recovery that RP suggests okay
well you can't catch Li keep both of
them the same and fall over for question
recovery because that's gonna
necessarily lead to different rest
periods between sides well we get
downside provided I have the time to
waste would it be beneficial to extend
rest periods as the training gets harder
with the progression of the Mezo in
order to hit their desired reps with a
prescribed or ER without the usual
fall-off
would this increased volume have the
same in that effect compared to the
usual lower but sort of harder volume
basically if something if it is
something like the more you're s the
more volume you need and everything else
equals
after all no not really I think that
when you are going super hard then you
know your central drive for every set is
gonna be really hard and your fatigue
systemic is gonna be harder and your
ability to recruit local muscles it's
gonna be tougher and tougher well we
definitely would never want is for you
to rest shorter and shorter between sets
as your mesocycle progresses because
then things get harder and you take less
rest ideally you just use the for
question paradigm and that will
naturally lead you to rest a little
longer if the sets are getting closer
and closer to zero RER but if you have
the time to rest I think James and I are
pretty unanimous them unless you're
taking five hours per workout airing on
the side of resting a little longer
between sets is almost always better
from a maximum hypertrophy standpoint
than resting a little shorter as long as
you're still going to the RR you want
yeah and I think in this case to like
consistency is is again my greater than
accuracy like whatever system you're
using whether you're using the RP
questionnaire or whether you're saying
for this exercise I wait till I catch my
breath or you just say okay for a
lateral raises it's one and a half
minutes that's it whatever you do just
keep doing it where you get into
problems is where you start switching
things up midway through or towards the
end of a mezzo cycle just because it's
getting harder and you say oh I want to
accommodate getting harder now I'm going
to change up my rest times that just
adds too much variability and too much
too many problems for tracking so I can
see my level yeah because I started
doing the evil I guess
that's an excellent so I'm just gonna
jump right at this webinar partners
James you and I shoot ideas off each
other so here's an example of exactly
what James is referring to going pretty
poorly if you start to expand your rest
times between sets as them as a cycle
progresses like James said basically
arbitrarily there's a problem for MRV
tracking MRV detection so like let's say
last week your sets were ten eight seven
this week it's up by a little bit of
weight and your sets are ten nine eight
or ten eight seven again which you
rested a minute longer between sets the
real question is what would it have been
if you rested the same amount of time
and the answer to that is like maybe
much less well then maybe your keek set
which is the most important thing for
MRV detection your
top set maybe would have been the scene
but like if your top set is barely 10
you just get it in but then you crash
right after that man I'm starting to
suspect you're real close to MRV if not
already exceeding him so I think it if
you really cut yourself more slack as
the program progresses you could
actually exceed MRV for maybe half a
week or a week longer than you would be
able to detect because you're cutting
yourself more slack now then the best
solution to this problem is the auto
regulated thing where you just go when
you feel like you're ready with the
four-step paradigm and that one's great
because the paradigm is the same every
time
MRV will hit you in the face sooner or
later especially in like this is
something we're writing into the book
caveated and this is I think this one of
these things are it's classified as
wisdom instead of knowledge like over
time James and I have tried to figure
out how to scientifically state this but
we end up stating very plain in the book
if you have to cut yourself so you use
the four question paradigm every single
time instead of like program or program
like one minute rest one minute rest one
to rest so sometimes it will float up
just because the sets get harder but how
do you know that you're not just
cheating yourself here's the wisdom cuz
you know you're resting longer just
because you're like okay in order to hit
eight reps
I gotta get another thirty seconds
there's no way I'm gonna be able to do
it you already eat your MRV and you know
it honestly just be like alright I'm
ready to go and then you hit it and it's
six instead of eight reps that's it
you're over I'm ready it's fine right
but if you're like if you look at the a
trap so you're like uh no I'm gonna
great extra rest an extra five minutes
in order to just get like you're already
lying to yourself and you know you're
doing it so don't do that so just
honestly follow the four question
paradigm and then let MRV come out of it
in but if you increase the time as this
lets get harder that's a possibility
just be careful that you're not cheating
your MRV mm very good
so doctor mark I can't help but notice
your do you have a wearable on what's
going on with that it looks like I
nearly about it the Marcos Arnold videos
just blew my mind
that was so good it also is completely
on the spot like and also it doesn't
matter what Arnold really said to those
donkeys it couldn't have been anything
less ridiculous than Marco's exactly hey
so what's it called it's actually
Charlie got it for me it's a heart rate
I don't remember what the fuck is this
step counter so I've started stopped
counting instead of because especially
with Kofi 19 or whatever I think go to
the gym to do cardio so I'm like well
that's out so I'm just accounting steps
because I was gonna do like a certain
amount of cardio per minute but I'm like
you know that really doesn't integrate
NEET whatsoever like step counting is
amazing because if Auto integrates your
meat and I was using my phone but like
the phone isn't always in my pocket I'm
gonna start worrying like I'm I should I
put my flour my hot pocket all the time
it's fucking stupid so I got this thing
and it like it's bad battery life is
like five days or something and it is
easy to recharge it just tell it every
day eight resets and just fucking tells
you how many steps you're so I have a
minimum goal step count for every day of
this fat loss phase and I just hit that
and then I'm super breathe and easy and
also it's one of these things where it's
like you know like if you really mind
fuck yourself on a cot you're like okay
I went shopping today I went for a walk
with my wife I did this and that but I
also have to do 30 minutes of cardio
because it says 30 minutes of cardio Li
but doesn't that somehow integrate or am
I being a pussy for trying to count
they're just being on scientific format
all that shit goes out the window this
counts everything so I like look at how
many I have at 6 p.m. and I'm like okay
I'm going for a 30-minute walk I do it
it hits that number or whatever 10,000
steps and that fucking golden I have to
worry about anymore it's like it tracks
everything so it's it's a real beautiful
thing it's the equivalent of like a
calorie counter for your food like right
on your hand you're like well I know
what's going on there's no miss at the
end of the day are you ever like oh I'm
like 20 steps short like like what do
you do anyway I get myself so the funny
thing is is they're really advanced they
actually they have a really complex
algorithm for which they they look at
here so basically if you do five steps
and you stop and you look at it it
doesn't say anything it takes a couple
of seconds to to analyze that ok just
insane right so what it actually looks
for is combination of thanks for what I
understand but a lot of the what it
looks for is you know like when you stop
you you have a contact ground contact
thing that's actually what it's looking
for so doing this doesn't have that
pulse contact it has the wave-like
contact so it doesn't actually register
in these advanced ones like I've been
doing this till 3 12 still 3 12 it
doesn't it doesn't believe you because
it used to be the algorithms and the
ones they put into phones like any
movement in America are walking and
Jared was like yeah I texted a long time
ago
for a while and just say that I've done
like an hour of cardio it's clearly not
the case but nowadays like I can't fuck
with this thing man it just doesn't
fucking believe me unless I'm actually
walking which is really sweet so then a
sweet I'm sure we're gonna get a whole
bunch of questions next time after you
know it sounds like it's really useful
for you so people will be interested
it's awesome all right
so Ashley Hartman says a question that
we're gonna try to help her with as much
as possible but we have to sort of
caveat that we have no idea what the
fuck we're talking about she says hello
dr. micha dr. James just wondering if
either of you have experienced any nerve
damage in the past you could offer any
insights on the topic specifically with
regards to loss of strength and muscle
atrophy out of 38 year old female trying
to recover from radial nerve damage I
have had pain here and there over the
past ten years of my neck trap and elbow
and tricep mac trap elbow and tricep but
it was always short lived and went away
within a few days I have lifted
bodybuilding style 20 years on and off
competed a beach game in the Maine and
overall very active so though was just
thought it was just wear and tear I had
no idea was a nerve issue but our
beginning you think it was month and a
half ago I woke up with severe pain
throughout my left arm and numbness in
my thumb and index finger I could not do
a single push-up now a month and a half
later I still have numbers on my index
finger as well as muscle atrophy and
weakness in my left PEC and tricep I let
it heal until the pain went away and
I've been training to gain back size and
strength I can now press 25 Hyundai
Motor tell Rob said about two RA arbor
reps and reserve is hard to tell because
it takes a serious amount of flying
muscle focus to do any reps at all if
I'm not completely focused my muscle
gives out the weight literally drops
question do you think training I'll rep
ranges will be beneficial would you
recommend targeting specific fibers Oh
any other thoughts is nice to be greatly
appreciated
we just don't look I'm gonna cut that
one off this has nothing to do with rep
ranges or fibers type or anything like
that this is one of those were like you
have a physical probably have some kind
of impingement in your neck which is
causing like a downstream nerve problem
to your arm and your chest that's my
guess I'm not a not fuckin PT but what I
would say it's like don't think of this
in terms of what should I be doing 20 to
30 or trying to like that no this is
that's completely just you need to go
see a physical therapist and they need
to identify because it sounds like you
have some sweet physically wrong with
you you know what I mean there's there's
literally probably some kind of
impingement going on which is not
allowing for the prop
conduction of your your central
activation of your muscles which is why
it's causing it to atrophy so I would
see it a neuroscientist PT any of those
as soon as possible because you might
have some pretty big underlying
conditions there best of luck to you I'm
sorry here about that I wish we could
could give you advice like that but it's
like it's just not that that bad advice
does not appropriate unfortunately yeah
Jackson brim says hi dr. James and Mike
I'm currently engaging in Concord
training for the myelin power lifting I
have listened to your previous advice
for another member where asked yeah fuck
yeah that's great third place is doing
this what didn't we talk about how it no
one else cares about the mile and now
someone else's geez I have a few
questions I couldn't really find
research about number one how should
weight gain slash loss be structure for
concurrent training I assume there's no
weight to speed paradigm so would make
sense oh sorry I assume there is a way
to speed paradigm so it makes sense to
mass far away from my testing dates and
then do a small cut if so how would you
handle the subsequent need to reduce
weight without affecting performance
during my strength slash higher
intensity running phase yeah so I would
I would treat this the same way that you
would treat the way that we would do any
kind of body composition alterations for
sports so basically you have kind of
your general preparatory phases your
specific preparatory phases and usually
what we say is you should be at or
within about two percent of your goal
competition but by the time your general
preparatory training has ended and as
you move into your specific preparatory
training meaning like you're more sports
specific stuff you should be basically
pretty close to your your ideal
competition body weight and you are no
longer doing body composition
alterations so for most people that will
mean somewhere around two to three
months out from whatever event or
competition that you're doing that you
are now in an isochoric state and no
longer doing any type of body
composition alteration either you know
with weight training or cardio or both
so at some point you would be doing a
cut or a mass and you'd be doing your
high-volume lifting and you would still
be doing some high-volume cardio stuff
as well and you'd be running your cut or
mass whatever it was and then you'd hit
a point where you say okay I got my comp
coming up maybe three months from now
and I need to switch to more sports
specific training for whatever that comp
is whether it's powerlifting or
you know doing a mile run test or
whatever that is and you'd make a
distinct which to training for your
sport and at that point you would stop
cutting because if you're trying to cut
or mass at that point it becomes
increasingly disruptive next question is
as someone who is likely a more type to
phenotype assume faster church fiber I
struggle in longer training 10 cities
that is required for building vo2 I
assume since this is partially fibration
if I really wanted to prove this I would
need to put my lifting on the back
burner potentially transitions fibrosis
I plumb this be a good idea if I'm
currently happening the collagen
performance so lifting transitions your
fibers to type 1 anyway yep but what was
really this another way to phrase this
to get actually the same answer you were
hinting at is you just probably need you
more running in less lifting because
lifting is already something you're
pretty satisfied with and running is not
remotely so you should pare down how
much lifting you're doing as far as
fraction of volume of your total
workouts per week and pair up the amount
of endurance work you're doing and run
that for several weeks several months
and see how it affects your lifting and
running and go from there to reevaluate
but yes for sure you need to do more
endurance and less lifting if this is
where what you want but it the fiber
transition issue is not really the issue
yeah and there's I mean you're gonna in
whatever genetic predisposition you have
is not going to change will change or
some of the intermediate fibers the ones
that are a little bit more fluid so
you're not gonna see like a really big
like physiological shift in your muscle
characteristics right just a like a
slight one from training this is a cool
question number three I'm not really
related but I'm current or we're not
gonna answer it okay I'm just kidding
not really related but I'm currently
working a muscle fence lab implanting
going to medical school after I graduate
that's really good would you like to see
better integration of physicians in the
health and wellness community how would
you work to bridge the gap so um you're
just came up last week to I think here's
my personal thought I just thought about
it for a few seconds here and here's
here's what I actually would like to see
caveat I think some people who really
like this huge integration between
fitness professionals and physicians are
really not overstepping their bounds but
like you know we have specialization in
trade
like yes or not as some health
professionals what I would like to see
is more of a humidity on like so when
physicians telling you you need to get a
certain drug and they write you a script
they understand that pharmacists are
also professionals and there's a roughly
unanimity of opinion and pharmacists and
they'll go and you get the right
prescription and you get it no problem
if if doctors say you need to go to a
podiatrist you need to go to get your
you know massage therapist they sort of
know how that works and know who to
refer you to I would like to see
something with diet and training where
the average person graduating medical
school knows that good correct dieting
looks like insert what we described in
the RP diet for health book okay like
calorie control but fundamentally
healthy foods what that means how do we
people in and potentially pointing
people to some resources not necessarily
our book but like some sort of like
sending people over to parents name a
competitor precision nutrition be like
hey look into this they know what
they're doing because mostly the doctors
feel like well you need to just eat less
or you need to control your calories no
idea what the fuck that means like it's
not like they don't they don't say like
well you need to be getting a massage
should be like like what kind of massage
they refer you to proper sports massage
if they need you to get a massage then
I'm just gonna be like just go guys I
don't know go get whatever go get
acupuncture like well it's not really
massage you like well it's not really my
problem right in the amount of training
side I think people who are becoming
doctors should know what's proper health
promoting training looks like
essentially high volume low rest
resistance training through a full range
of motion paired with as much a physical
activity you know the cardio as you can
do because right now people say like oh
like my doctor said I should exercise
more be more active they don't even know
if that's like should I walk the dog
should I do p90x there's there's never a
thing given so I want doctors to to two
things theoretically know what the right
answers are in a very general sense and
to have just outlets or sources to refer
people to yes to be like here's where
you go lately like like one for
supplements for example and this is the
third point very very unrelated
supplements or minor importance but I
would love it if like almost every
doctor in the United States or world
knew about examined calm and when
somebody be like hey should I take these
supplements the doctor be like you know
what that's not my or especially the eat
here's here's this website here's
examine calm there's gonna tell you
what's going on
I wish we had but doctors knew enough
because right now like this is something
James and I run into on this Q&A is a
lot we run into a lot
we coach clients is people say like
Weston white my doctor my mom has heart
disease and my doctor recommended she
start the Paleo diet as it's a fucking
love of God like you're recommending
some weird brand to Dyer like even worse
we remember teams last time was like the
doctor recommended essentially carnivore
diet it was kind of eating everything
but meat it's like your doctor shouldn't
be seeing shit like that man it's just
like you know when James and I suspect a
client of ours has high blood pressure
we don't say hey look here's the
medication you should start taking
that's equivalent of what the doctors
say we say hey meaty you might have
chronic high blood pressures go look to
make sure the doctor like confirms that
and then the doctor will tell you what
you should be taking but I know there's
this class of drugs that reduce blood
pressure I have no idea which one's the
best so so that's what that is James we
yeah I largely agree and I think that
people should stay in their Lane but
have resources to outsource these things
and that's kind of like the roles that
you know we play so we're fitness
professionals like can you imagine if
they were like all right you're gonna
try and get your PhD in Sport physiology
and get an MD at the same time what does
that mean that means Mike and I are
gonna be shit doctors and shit sport
physiologists right we would be
specialists in nothing we will have just
a bunch of very broad generalizable
knowledge that can't help anyone so what
I would like to see is very much what
dr. Mike described which is let doctors
stay in their Lane that they have a
basic understanding of like okay here's
like fundamental things that we need to
know of exercise but let's find some
reputable resources where we can send
people and say hey I don't know enough
about this but I can at least point you
in the right direction and it would be
nice if you know the healthcare system
would allow for those type of some kind
of integration there where it wasn't
just like okay go see this like dildo
Personal Training guy here's like a
reputable source here's like something
that you can integrate with your health
plan and it doesn't cost you like a
ridiculous amount of money that would be
cool I don't know if that will ever be
possible there's a obviously it's a very
idealized scenario but that that would
be what I would want to see is like stay
in your lane have specialists and have a
system to get the individual from one
specialist to the other specialist in a
fairly seamless way all right in runs on
hey Doc's hope you're doing well
wrapping up this cont legitimate lis
went super smoothly man that's really
great to you good pretty much lost 10%
body with no issues at all one calorie
adjustment total
way to guess it right that's very animal
hunger issues just like everything else
seems light practice makes perfect with
dieting yeah definitely helps to bring
up an earlier question I think we're
going to try out a peaking plan at the
end of this cut just to get some data
for later on I was thinking of following
the peaking guide on the mini cut manual
for the ti a many cuts temporarily
improved appearance if you talk about
for like a physique peaking per call
okay mmm-hmm don't want to go post a
plan here but basically seems like a
pretty simple car back load with very
little to no sodium slash water
manipulation do you guys have any other
simple things I should keep my mind um
I'm not trying to do anything super
complicated especially since I'm not
peeking for any specific event but if
there are any easier things that could
have gone down try them out I would just
say try to keep it as low stress as
possible and get plenty of sleep during
the whole process and you look way
better than if you freaked out about if
you're doing the right thing so just
trying to sheet like a pretty decent you
know like don't be like oh my god
weighing everything out and measuring
like the salted water or just you know
like just uh just do a decent jobs stay
super relaxed and then go get a good
pump when you're at your peak and make
sure here's another one I'm gonna take
some pictures and make sure there's some
decent lighting or and something you can
replicate later don't just like let it
go to waste
yeah that's really good advice and I
would say don't don't worry so much
about getting it right do focus on kind
of what we would call in sport like
gaining competitive experience right
like going through the motions
understanding how it feels understanding
how things change makes them some notes
but I guess the point being like don't
be hyper focused on like do I need to
get this exact amount of sodium or this
exact amount on this data that's fine
it's something you can work on over time
but get the experience get an
understanding of how this process feels
and just have an appreciation for that
that's something that's very underrated
all right Harrison Catan says dr. Micah
James based off of what he said about
finding him RV for each body part in the
hypertrophy training what I came away
with is that finding local MRV should
come from training as you normally would
train not something set up in a way that
wouldn't master all training yeah yes
and is that going to be found through
the tracking rather than by pre-planning
is that correct yeah through tracking
and auto regulating how much yeah but
pre-planning is there just kind of have
like a roadmap like an idea of like this
is where I'm gonna start and where I
think I'm gonna end but autoregulation
is really how you get
to the end place yeah those are just
like planning it's just having some
rough rough numbers to service like a
guideline at romance I have yet to read
the how much should I train a book yet
thankfully I just made my last payment
for college sure I should have some
extra money to spend by next month as
well as some more time that's going
great nice I recently did doing one of
the at home workouts over a video call
of my girlfriend I was able to coach
technique and get her to push harder
than what she was used to what I found
is that she's not very used to pushing
very close to 1 or 0 or our territory
but had been mostly doing workouts that
were very moderate and intensely session
re are in your experience what has
worked for you in teaching someone new
to lifting how to push harder go closer
to failure well so I will say we almost
never teach people new to lifting that
because technique is more important for
them than doing that and it's really a
moot point for people close to failure
yes but I can't we can't tell you how we
push other people closer to failure that
are more intermediate and then he says
for context she was doing 45 reps per
lift on the at home program by at least
10 pound dumbbells this included lower
body movements - when I did the video
call workout she had a lower body day
and so I told her to use the 25 that she
owned she was very much capable of doing
20 to 25 reps and every exercise are
probably gonna push further to his form
breakdown was negligible so actually
I'll tell you this man the easiest way
to teach could you yell at people all
you want but the best way to sort of
engineer and actually I just made a
video that'll be coming on YouTube at
some point next several weeks about this
it's a system that James and I a little
bit just described last time I've
actually noted it to myself and then
Scott Scott the video that I recorded
the video about it
it's it's the match or beat the rapid
weight system that we use and we've
never really formally talked about it
because it's something that you just
wanted people who get to organically and
not overthink but it's time to overthink
and it's really simple system here's the
deal you know like if you think she's
sad the slack slacking off and she gets
30 reps on her lifts with a 25 pound um
bells on week one you know she does the
25s again tell her that the expectation
is that she gets at least thirty reps
but it's really she should get like 31
or 32 and basically late you keep
telling someone's to do one or two more
ups a week or if you're the reps of
stable when you're back in a real
you can add load but five pounds on the
bar hurry can you say you know last week
you did Ted this week you have to do 10
next week he got into town also on the
first set
eventually they'll either drop off in
reps or hit failure like they have to
right unless you get stronger forever so
if you really said some because a lot of
people who don't understand about going
hard closer to failure there they really
don't know their own limits of how much
like will they can exert but when you
give them a distinct to goal they just
attained it and they don't even know
that how much willpower takes like do
ten and they're like okay cuz you tell
someone do as many as you can I mean
fuck that's a soft ass target if you say
do ten they could do ten easily or it
could be heaven and earth and then they
and they do nine but on their way to
nine they actually fail congratulations
you found failure so the best way I've
seen in chasing failures start with
something short of failure over the
weeks and weeks and weeks just do more
and more and more just by a little bit
every time whether it be waiter reps are
both and eventually by having the goals
liquidate today I will do 34 Epson
because I did 32 last time I know I can
do 34 and it might take everything to do
34 but then you'll be unable to do 35
and you'll be like wow well shit I
really got to failure but I thought
failure was 28 weeks ago when it turns
out it was 34 James yeah that's really
good when I was teaching a temple we had
the strength conditioning laboratory and
one of the things that we did was some
workouts and we would have the students
coach each other through these workouts
and one of the activities once was doing
reps and reserve and just kind of
identifying how to program with reps in
reserve and all the students would
always run into this problem where they
would it would be like you know it was
like dumbbell bench press to or IR
people would let them off soft like they
would have two people coaching them and
the one person lifting would you know
like go I did 10 reps and then they'd
rack it up and be like that was too IR
and then I'd have to go over there to be
like did you think that was too IR and
then the the the the two that we're
supposed to be coaching would be like so
then you kinda have to like walk them
through and say like this is how it
should look right this is should see him
struggling should see him you know
straining a little bit should slow down
and see a lot of shaking and so one of
the things that we would do with the the
students and the person who was lifting
we just kind of oversee them while they
did it and then say like you know and
just not yell at them I mean it's kind
of like cheesy
of a tional yelling and stuff but yeah
saying like okay I think you got like
three or four more and they'd be like no
way no way no way you'd be like keep
going keep going it's okay keep going
you know don't worry about it just
another one another one another one yeah
that's a great strategy and it's
hand-holding it's your hand holding them
a little bit and then another thing that
worked really well in the lab was I used
to have um an iPad and so what we would
do is I would just go around and record
people you know not like creepy Harvey
Weinstein style but I would have my iPad
and I would record them and they would
do a set and I would show it to him and
I'd be like I don't think you were at
2:00 to IR and they'd be like dude dr.
Hopp I was that was two hour and then I
would show them the video of them
lifting and it would be like squad hang
like and I'm done all right and then
you're like did that look like - are are
that wasn't seeing having that immediate
feedback where they could see their own
set and assess it and they go oh yeah I
guess I didn't even strain or struggle
at all just being able to visualize
seeing it after performing it really
helped a lot of people I found - so
sometimes having a means to play it back
to show them what their effort looked
like on the outside reaffirms that yeah
what on what I'm doing is probably not
the intensity that I think it is yeah
yeah great
lastly when it comes to exercise and
sports science US / coaching I feel like
I know very little when I'm listening to
you guys for people like Chad was to
Smitham accident yet when I talked to
the average trainer at my gym as I feel
like I know quite a lot when it comes to
growing in education what would you say
is a healthy mindset to have about
yourself particularly as I'm looking to
start personal training and market
myself to be hired well position on the
know nothing or know a lot side should I
take neither run you should say you know
I know some things that can help people
and I think I can help you and that's
the way you shouldn't advertise yourself
like never advertise yourself as I know
a ton of shit just say yeah like I know
I have a skill set that can help that's
it you're not saying like better than
everyone else or everyone else is dumb
or you're not gonna say I don't know
anything but I can maybe try to help you
just say like I have a skill set and I
would like to help and you know Liam
Neeson dipped on the phone that went to
come yeah I have a particular set of
skis yeah you don't have to like you
don't have to say like I'm like the top
smart guy in the field like fuck
Chadwick I don't say we don't
say that we just say like family we
might know some things tune in you know
and so let us know in the next webinar
when you if you want to reassess the
question of maybe what you met more
specifically but I feel like I'm answer
the question but maybe you met something
else
James yeah just to kind of just to
support Mike's point I think the idea is
like just be the best you regardless of
whoever else is in the field doing
whatever they're doing right like try
and be try and have like the the
knowledge that you think that you need
to be a good coach and then try to have
like the social skills coaching skills
you know to be a good coach and to be a
supportive person and a good friend at
times and so just go from there there's
a bunch of great coaching resources out
there there's more than I can count one
that comes off top of my head is I'm
conscious coaching that's one I'd
recommend it many times it's really good
book so you kind of have to strike the
right balance of personality
characteristics and knowledge and
ability in the field and find the right
balance for yourself and just be the
best you there's like uh just a really a
quick microcosm of illustrating what I
mean by this using myself as the example
of what not to do there's a lot of
speculation like oh like the super smart
guys have a feel that they know the
mostly cuz it Eric Helms isn't like as
returned Alisa Craig knuckles you know
there's like three or four other people
in that list that people like to you
know mentally jacked off with then they
go when you think of guys like Ben
carpenter and Mike Samuels you may have
never heard of them they have their very
big social-media followings and they're
fucking excellent coaches and they just
fucking help people all the fucking time
they do great work you know like I don't
barely know these guys but I know
they're fucking awesome like being one
of those guys is way better than like
you know sort of like you know cock
jostling for like who's the smartest in
the room but he gets a fuck like you
know what are you making how are you
helping people there's there's people
there's regular in sells online that are
smarter than Gregg knuckles and I I'm
sure they can grass us every now and
again for the fucking in sells we don't
help anybody they're like don't even
train so good luck don't be loud
McDonald that's what I'm trying to say
yes also to your point though it's like
how smart do you have to be to help the
overwhelming majority of people not very
smart right the majority of people that
need help with fitness don't need a
fucking expert they just need someone
who can do a very reasonable job in very
reasonable conditions so like I think
what you said is very
very good right there because we don't
you don't need to be the biggest brain
you just need to be willing to put
yourself out there and help people and
do a reasonable job and they'll do if
they reciprocate a reasonable effort
then they will do fine yeah
just it just be clear if you guys just
weren't reading between the lines I do
think that la McDonald is way smarter
than correct knuckles and I coach my
shit there's like Einstein talk about
Einstein Darwin Lyle McDonald look up
that name cuz you've got to remember it
when it's plastered all over the walls
and a 2050 dystopian future where he is
the equivalent of Vandal Savage in
charge
Vandal Savage he was that I want to live
in a Vandal Savage scope in future I
really do it was like I you there be
like three other people listening to
this like oh yeah got it
he's been sending not Vandal Savage Lyle
has been sending uh Mel messages cuz
he's like what yeah he's been beefing on
somebody and like Mel seems in line with
his hold on now that's true right Lyle
was like sending you're like tagging you
and some stuff Oh game changers people
okay hey look you know you're on my side
that means he's never gonna turn against
you wait now I said that wrong he's
gonna turn against you as soon as
possible you will be the next one that
he turns against basically
[Applause]
[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track and
offer suggestions for changes based on
my responses given me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
alright Paul de saddle here this is
awesome fucking yeah it is a good one
pretty sure he's not that uranium
dirigible also smoking rolled-up
hundred-dollar bills I can't help but
think his name means like the one who
saddles horses yeah and like Dodger some
shake hey docs number one how do you
suggest adjusting a training session mid
mezzo after a bad sleep is it kind of
productive to push for pr's after a
night of three to four hours of sleep do
you need to back off um I think I have
two ideas and I would like for James to
let me know which one of us wrong James
there's a recovery expert I didn't want
to just do your fucking best and and
don't really worry about what numbers
you get as far as tracking MRV the next
time you do that workout like just be
like oh okay like it's basically if you
underperform don't be like that's a
that's MRV like because you know you
have a sleep just do your best and you
might have rear ups are off you might
like you know sort of come closer to
failure actually get to failure when you
serve weren't supposed to but then you
recover and you just keep going and and
usually it'll be just fine and then the
other one is if you're really really
super tired and you really don't think
you can even make a very good effort
then I would say it's time for a
recovery session instead and then when
you get your shit together and get more
sleep then you can restart your program
James I think I think both of those are
great I think more often than not in
these cases you stay the course
like just do what you were gonna do
anyway and if it happens to fall on a
day where you were setting yourself up
for like a really big peak week lift
like four squats or you were maybe
you're lifting for strength or for like
weight lifting and you work trying to
hit like a really big PR this was like
your today to do heavy singles then if
you know that that's just not gonna
happen you can just push back a day or
two or like Mike suggested to take a
light session or a recovery session
those are perfectly fine but I would say
more often than not stay the course
unless something presents you a reason
not to so you might actually get three
or four hours of sleep and can come in
and basically do a repeat of last week's
workout just fine maybe you don't hit
any PRS but maybe you'll get the same
lifts that you did last time and that's
fine might not be the best session of
your life but it's still yes exactly
it's still stimulus so stay the course
unless you have a good reason not to
number two how to incorporate Road
Cycling one to two rides per week while
minimizing negative impact on
hypertrophy 97% focus on body building
better to ride hard for thirty minutes
really she rides for one to two hours
I'll tell you right now it's the Lasser
is leisurely ride for one to two hours
where to place rides relative to like
hypertrophy sessions James I would like
for you to answer that you know it
depends on kind of how your thing is set
up so like if you're just taking like
one to two rides per week and they're
leisurely rides goddamn dude like the
only the only thing that would be bad
was doing them right after you trained
legs like immediately after that like
right yeah right before or interfere so
I would say actually my best answer
there is if you train legs twice a week
um then you do the rides twice a week
but like in the in the midpoint so let's
say you train legs Monday and Thursday I
think like Wednesday morning Wednesday
midday would be good so that you still
you're not training your shit right
after you've trained legs or like
Tuesday evening to Wednesday morning
would be best you've had multiple hours
and hours and hours to recover and put
anabolic processes and emotion and then
after the ride you have multiple hours
and hours and hours to recover on the
fatigue side in including under that the
glycogen side and then that way it's not
fucking you one way or the other
I think stacking them up on this the
same day as your leg day is actually a
good idea so long as like Mike said you
have time to rest maybe have some meals
and just have a significant amount of
time in between the lifting and the
cardio session because that way your
legs actually get a distinct break
whereas like if you do it on different
days then you're actually training your
legs to some degree you know almost
every day which becomes a bit of a
problem so you know what though but if
you're just doing a casually my man
I wouldn't cost too much I think just
like whatever fits your schedule if
you're just doing a couple rides per
week and they're not terribly intense
I would say as long as it's not
immediately after your leg training
session like immediately after within
like an hour after your training session
any other times probably yep he says
when to ride train to meso avoid riding
during the final overreaching weeks
certainly before so you can't ride
during the final overreaching knee but I
would ride before the workouts I would
write after them it's like if you have
two big leg workouts Monday and Thursday
and overreaching week I would not train
Monday through Thursday on your bike I
would ride I'm like a Saturday or
something like that like after that
whole thing is over and then it says
when derived during macro blocks I avoid
riding during gaining phases definitely
I mean like if you're doing so little
riding is so little my first sure it's
not a huge deal I would ride Lester and
gaining phases you could ride plenty
during maintenance that's a good time to
ride a lot and then during cutting
actually riding is great cardio so I
wouldn't sweat it too much just don't
expect to make a ton of games and a lot
of this is kind of a wash if you are
consistent and you auto regulate on a
needs basis so let you couldn't what my
appointment be like you can make like
within mezzo assessments but you also
probably don't have to you can just keep
you always ride on the same days your
training will be adjusted accordingly
you ought to regulate from there good to
go yeah especially if it's like so the
real big factor here is if you're not
progressing the riding like if it's just
an hour or two leisurely ride right
exactly yes it is - no problem there's
something you could call like they
called it like you stress training where
it's like it's not progressive stress
but if it's like you're trying to period
ice getting better at cycling that's a
wholly different ballgame
yes good point Karl VG says hi doctor is
telling dr. Hoffman number one would
using 100 to 200 milligrams of caffeine
regularly post-workout to drive glycogen
replenishment actually out.we I'll
potentially outweigh the detrimental
effects caused by caffeine being a
stimulant I don't think it would
outweigh them I think post-workout
caffeine is not a wise idea in almost
any case completely agree I really don't
see any any real benefit in doing that
number two if a smaller muscles such as
biceps is trained Monday a.m. Tuesday
p.m. Thursday a.m. and friday p.m. would
would cardio Monday p.m. Monday p.m.
Tuesday a.m. Thursday p.m. or Friday ham
the impact recovery session to session
in any meaningful way would it be better
for my symmetry to your cardio at a
separate time and so on what you're
doing for cardio if it's like walking it
might be completely unimpacted
you know what I mean it might have no
impact at all if you're doing like
battling ropes then yeah there's
something to talk about there you know
what I mean this is strange but because
he asks would it be better for bicep
approach for you to cardio to suffer
time but all of these are separate times
as far as I can tell yes so I'm not sure
maybe next time if you want to clarify
that question buddy we can we can tackle
it again what I will tell you though is
a lot of the interference effects are
there not systemic effects they're local
effects right so if you are training
your bison if your goal is to make the
bicep bigger and you do cardio
modalities that are heavily reliant on
the biceps then you're gonna have some
interference effects if you're just
doing like walking running cycling you
might have none outside of just being
like a little more systemically fatigued
other than that there's not much to talk
about so maybe next time and if you want
to Clair find that that number to for us
that meant that might help because not
quite understanding number three from us
didn't list a fatigue racial perspective
what intensely search heart rate for
brisk walking and possibly jogging we
best to maximize fitness in terms of
cardiovascular health while minimizing
systemic fatigue and length this is a
tough question because you can't
maximize cardiovascular health you know
just doing icing yeah I'm currently
doing two sessions 45 minutes the 90
minutes per week depending on intensity
anywhere from 130 to 160 so so actually
130 to 160 beats per minutes a very very
good zone closer to the 120 to 150 120
to 140 was a great fat burning cardio
and it gets you a little bit of
cardiovascular stuff but it's a very low
fatigue I would say there's a big jump
in fatigue from jogging from walking to
jogging anytime I switch to jogging in
fatigue skyrockets because it's an
impact movement now so I would stay away
from jogging if it really wanted a key
keen on fatigue also I would recommend
something that the elliptical
which is very low fatigue because it's
not impactful but you can actually crank
away at a pretty good and it distributes
the work over your entire musculature of
your body which means it's locally not
as fatiguing sometimes even as walking
is to your legs so I would consider that
as the best modality with a really good
eye so far I would say 120 160 or
started 120 to 140 anything north of 140
is gonna get you much healthier
cardiovascularly but also cause you
quite a bit of systemic fatigue so the
raw stimulus magnitude for health there
is gonna be hired by a long shot
if the fatigue will also be much higher
so if you really really really just
don't want to stay in the systemic
fatigue I think anything under 120 beats
per minute I mean it does very very low
fatigue it's great body building cardio
but it's not gonna do a ton for
cardiovascular health so I would say one
120 to 140 James yeah those are good
recommendations and I or the point was
already made so I'm not gonna beat the
dead horse but just just to frame the
question and your mind a little bit
better next time you know you can't
maximize cardiovascular or fitness well
like minimising systemic fatigue or leg
fatigue you know it's just one of those
like diverging paths at some point yeah
it's very diverging and generally
speaking there things that maximize
fitness the most also maximize fatigue
so in a way to conceptualize it as the
SFR scaled to intensity it's like pretty
much a straight line sorry I'm sorry
yeah so far yeah it's a straight line
with zero slope so like a stimulus goes
up fatigue also goes up linearly which
means the ask so far is zero slope
straight line it's not exactly zero cuz
towards the end they're like if you can
repeat sprints yeah cardiovascular
system is not doing the best workout and
fatigue is really high but anything up
to like a very very fast jog essentially
ramps up your cardiovascular health the
ton and fatigues your tongue so unless
anything that can is an endurance form
of running like anything you can do for
longer than six minutes and all the way
shorter to anything to do for three
hours has a roughly equivalent stimulus
to fatigue paradigm as far as far as I
know on cardiovascular fitness there's
another way to say that was but James
says is you know if you're asking what's
got the
SFR is it brisk walking or is it you
know endurance jogging they have the
same SFR right but just one of them
gives you way more fitness and fatigue
and one gives you way less of it was
adverting yeah number four he says edit
I understand that supplements with now
before I understand stuff loves
anti-inflammatory properties such as
fish no multivitamin certain mineral
should be avoided peer work on it if you
are supposed to work over the goal
hypertrophy what about cardiovascular
training can these supplements affect
adaptation to cardio yes they can and
they have been demonstrated to do that I
will say it's an incredibly high doses
so it's nothing I would worry about my
short-term unless you're taking like if
you wake up and take your your morning
supplements or whatever I would sort of
do that maybe 30 minutes or 40 minutes
before cardio or not right after but
even still like you have to eat a ton a
lot of the stuff comes with no practical
insight whatsoever I actually had my own
coach Broderick Chavez look up the data
on this because I was eating
post-workout sugary cereal and all that
sugar cereal kids here is fortified with
vitamins minerals and I was like dude
product meaning basically a box of that
shit after my workout am I like in in
trouble for like shutting down a dog
pathless he looked into the
dose-response literature and he's like
dude you're like an order of magnitude
off sleek you'd have to eat like ten
boxes of cereal to get enough vitamins
and minerals I think is there's a
shitload of vitamins remote little Ciro
so unless you're doing multiple pills of
some shit or your mega dosing fish oil I
would really not worry about that kind
of stuff the way they do them there are
training studies is they take some kind
of vitamin or mineral they give you a
mega dose of it after it before training
so yeah and even even just like the
timing issue it's such a such a minor
thing if it think that all I'm saying is
like if you if you're like tiptoeing
around your your vitamin cabinet after
your workout like it's you could just
take it whenever you want it's whatever
is easier for you to maintain a good
schedule and consistency is completely
fine don't probably the best single
point of actual real-world advice from
that whole vitamins and minerals and and
maybe maladaptive training is like you
know one like Fitness people like to me
like here's my great post workout or
energy booster post cardio pre cardio
shake and they're like loaded up with as
many fruits as possible because they
have
antioxidants and then I could yeah sure
but don't do that and is that is a good
way to get a ton of vitamins and
minerals that actually do affect
hypertrophy is you smash like eight
Kiwis into a fucking blender then all of
a sudden that's like an inordinate
amount of vitamin C or whatever some
shit right it's so like that that's the
way to do it that's wrong so I think the
biggest thing about that research is not
that you should stay away from vitamins
and minerals when you get freaked out
about muscle growth it's to not think
that there's some kind of rabid
potentiate or results which if you push
them if you really push the issue
they're an anti potentially results but
if you just leave it alone it's no big
deal but at that point you're abandoning
all common sense and like general good
practice right to do that so you like if
you were doing the fruit one for example
you probably stopped doing that because
your butthole was like like I can't take
this much fucking fruit at this point
like you need to cool it on the fruit
you know what I mean like you would have
to select it elicit the effect that
you're worried about would require you
to do dumb things is what I'm trying to
say so I think Mike and I both agree
don't don't worry about it too much
again all right Aaron Amy says hey Doc's
okay so what rally from north RP here
individual work so I wanted to say thank
you a question about gaining entry into
the field of strength conditioning /or
science I didn't graduate from undergrad
with any exercise science classes or
even Anatomy or biology just allows you
physics and math degree that's I see
both of your accolades in your career
paths you have chosen and I really want
something similar for myself you guys
are probably the coolest thing to role
models for me even like in his Crocs I
don't know the money on grad school is
worth it so I would like to hear your
opinions I see two options in front of
me
number one bite the bullet and go to
grad school for an MS and exercise
science and make up some prerequisite
classes once I am matriculated okay that
may may not have they may might not
accept you they may tell you to go fuck
yourself until you have the
prerequisites but that's adoption with
the goal of possibly eventually pursuing
a PhD after that and seeing where things
take number two applies I would say you
can probably with jobs across the PhD
100 for it right off right away like if
you're not sure about it don't it the
answer is no yeah number to apply for
strength decommissioning intern jobs and
hope they make a really good impression
do you see any avenues for entering this
field I don't I
do and I'm gonna share one with you
obviously the big hurdle is that I have
no prior experience academic and
recognized courses I've no idea how
you're gonna do anything auditioning
internship without some kind of
experience but maybe there's
opportunities I am just systemically
systemically going through every video
and book on RP my dream is to do
something like you guys an eventually
work for a company like our P or be a
strength conditioning coach for
collegiate protein by the way that's two
very different jobs any tips or insights
will be appreciated thanks actually I
have a real cool and say for you I think
you should do some prerequisite courses
it's gonna take you like maybe just a
year at a class and you could do many of
these online maybe perhaps all of them
and then I would apply to a master's
degree in biomechanics because you
already have physics and math and you're
gonna breeze through that shit like
fucking crazy and biomechanics does a
great field tons of opportunities and if
you get into the right master's program
and biomechanics some of those folks
work with athletes and then you're well
on your way to doing whatever you want I
just think you shouldn't really you feel
a lot of the physics of math degree I
mean for the love of God biomechanics is
right up your alley I would hunt a
percent look into that shit because most
people are just not smart enough or
educated in math physics enough to to do
biomechanics they get really intimidated
but you seem to be capable about it at a
very high level I would just look into
that I think that's a really good
suggestion and actually biomechanics you
you might actually find have an easier
time getting into a biomechanics program
than you would an exercise physiology
program because they're gonna see you
background they can be like oh yeah fuck
yeah I just need an atom II in a couple
other things yeah that you might be
exactly that might be like okay you need
a year of it and maybe X phys class
where it's like if you try to do X phys
they're gonna be like okay you need
motor learning you need X for this maybe
a second level of extras and maybe it's
you know whole bunch of stuff so I think
that's a really good suggestion and
there's a lot of cool biomechanics
opportunities now especially with like
how crazy things have gotten with 3d
printing like there's really cool
ergonomics options that people are
pursuing they're making fucking you know
like prosthetic limbs individually made
for people you know you get your leg
blown off you can make somebody a
customized or you know orthotic or got
or organ Amish thing you know these are
things about mechanist are doing it
directly both by the way was like okay
yeah more or less
I hate what periodic orthotic organ
Amargosa there we go
I say dumb shit all the time
people love to point out on YouTube like
I will say something completely stupid
just idiotic on a lot of our videos and
somebody will be like this is great but
at this point you know if 1402 you said
this I'm like yeah don't listen to me
I'm an idiot but anyways there's tons of
really cool opportunities worth biomech
and technologies basically what I'm
trying to get to so I would think about
like using your strengths as Mike said
using something like biomechanics and
seeing what you can do in the field
there because I think trying to get into
strength conditioning at this point is
gonna be a really tough strength the
conditionings one of those ones where
it's that catch 22 where they're like
you need experience for this job for
like an entry-level job and gets an
entry-level job this is how I gain
experience they're like you still need
experience for this what do I do
so that's a tough one in terms of
exercise science and stuff yeah so I
think we beat that one to death but
James you said biomech and I immediately
thought of mechs and then I immediately
thought of the Instagram advertised game
called war robots yeah I was thinking
man like how scary would it be if you
like looked out of your living room and
there was like like max were fighting in
the streets like they're like the size
of a six-story house and they're just
like it's just no longer a human scale
combat you know it'd just be like freely
what are you gonna do against when I was
nothing but then I thought another thing
that bipedal elevated war machines are
highly inefficient and ridiculously easy
to shoot at so so then I rememba see him
dude there's so many mech animes it's
not even funny that's like yeah it's but
you could see it's such a like
anthropomorphize ation thing like it's
like of course like you can't relate to
a swarm of nanobots so of course that's
really where Worf is going you know what
I mean like yes like you're not gonna
have mech helicopters like if it was
that avatar was set in the year like
2040 years or to 2400 like in 2400 they
would drop like a sphere this big of an
engineered virus yes the fucking planet
everyone would be dead three seconds
later be like see yeah yeah yeah Marco I
almost got into it because I think
either on the sports night one of the
sports scientists Evangelion came up and
it's like one of those Mac an you think
you start watching you know this is a
mecha anime and then you realize like
very distinctly like five episodes and
you're like this is not a mac anime
anymore they just
happens to be Mex like warring around
but has nothing to really to do with the
actual plot yeah it's crazy to think
about yeah I still want next to be real
but I know they won't yeah that video
the Boston Dynamics fake video where
there was like the fake humanoid robot
do you see that one James I don't think
so
it's like a they made like a really good
Matt spoof video it's like a fake video
of like you know the big Boston Dynamics
big dog that roll yeah yeah they made
like one that looks like a human and
they made like fake testing footage with
it this like Instagram account
boss town dynamics or whatever and
people were like oh my god the futures
here they're making terminators and like
a few experts had to publish like you
know like official articles be like that
videos fake here's why
also you're never gonna see human mechs
because this human being platform is the
stupidest thing ever to fight war like
it's not miniaturised it can be knocked
off its base just that's not gonna
happen so there's thing they're not even
working on that yeah yeah though they do
have all sorts of cool stuff every time
I see a video from them I'm always like
what the fuck is just not humanoids it's
like quadrupedal stuff yeah all right
mark Conway says re from Newcastle Mike
and James Oh in an Arnold voice thanks
again for your advices last week our
pleasure I'm running my modified version
of a five-day male physique template to
train at home things are going well
getting great pumps of my performance is
increasing along with volume week to
week I'm currently in caloric surplus
and as such I'm gaining weight
consistently each week too however I
have a few questions about my exercises
are moving for in general number one do
you think using a weighted backpack is
sensible when performing goblet squats I
forgot those costs weighted wearing a
backpack both front waist and back ways
and found they felt quite different
certainly more fatiguing there without a
backpack the backpacks generally limits
the number of reps I can do however I
feel like I'm reaching failure due to
general fatigue rather than feeling in
my legs I would use two dumbbells in a
front rack position as you advise in
your home training video however
unfortunately I have spin locked on
those which aren't flat at either end
I like the backpack idea I had prefer
back back to the front to leverage your
quads norm
I also think you should be trying heel
highly elevated almost sissy squats and
I would try to do my reps and then you
wheel
ile them limited by their quads but if
you just put on a backpack on your back
and just squat with body lean and a flat
flat flat eat then you may never really
hit your quads and you have to get the
backpack set up so it's really pulled
tightly across your body and it's not
just like dumping around all over the
place especially if you're putting stuff
in it cuz then it's gonna want to fall
forward right so you got to like tie it
up and get it as securely as you can
otherwise you're just gonna be spending
needless amounts of energy just trying
to stabilize the backpack
understand are there any wrist
strengthening / warm-up exercises you
guys would recommend to help with
push-ups you have some masturbation
right wrist gets erect
when performing push-ups even in the
pristine form outlet in your video so I
use perfect pushup handles to perform
deficit push-ups instead while this
eliminates almost all paying ice to feel
this still feel a bit of wrist
discomfort me to the end of my chest a
zero-zero so you can strengthen your
forearm flexors and extensors by doing
various wrist curls I'm not just not
sure that's been in there the root of
your pain yeah there's no shame in doing
their perfect pushup handles they're
great and what I would also say is a
real good idea is for you to buy a pair
of wrist wraps and put those on for when
you need them like Charlie and I use
rest wraps all the time because power
lifting trash both of our physiques so
for heavy overhead pressing heavy
incline and all this other stuff we use
wrist wraps and that's no big deal
because it's not like you're gonna yeah
and there's no shame in having exercises
that just don't fit your body type but
if push-ups cause you wrist pain like
it's perfectly okay that that's just not
a good movement for you and you can move
on to other modified versions or
dumbbell bench be asleep edge presses so
yeah it's just one of those movements
that doesn't agree with you and that's
fine just like some people like upright
rows a perfect example of that like some
people shoulder with upright row is
great a lot of people shoulder with
causes incredible pain and like the
shoulder or the elbow right you move the
grip in like a couple inches and now
it's like four steep whereas like the
other person a couple inches in causes
them pain like you know I mean so it's
just one of those individualization
things alright
last one following on a mobile
second-to-last following on for my last
question is there a significant
difference between using a neutral
versus pronated grip when performing
push-ups and dumbbell shoulder press I
find a grip somewhere between pronated
in neutral around 45 degrees okay
feels best I see what you're saying
feels best on my wrists and shoulders
and performing push-ups and the neutral
grip feels best on my shoulders I'm
performing a shoulder press two
significant change the activation of
chest and Altoids no it does so but it
does a very small extent and comfort and
ability to get close to actual failure
is everything so if you're not
comfortable and that's preventing you
from getting close to actual failure
there is no magic grip that's better
than what works really well for you so
toss all that out the window press how
it's comfortable now if you find more
than a few positions that are
comfortable it's great to rotate them
every now and again to have variation
but never think you have to do something
that's wildly uncomfortable even if
you're trying for several week and hate
it hate it there is no magic grip as a
matter of fact we're making a whole lot
more thumb the rpe a single exercise
mistakes and corrections guides and they
seem to be like basically have a
template for like there's like six or
seven of them that apply to every
exercise like control the eccentric full
range of motion and one of them is like
literally called it like magic grips or
magic positions like there is no magic
foot position and giving good quads on
the leg press there is no magic grip on
the bench for us to keep it packs it all
comes down to stimulus to fatigue ratio
stimulus is are you feeling the fish it
in the muscle you're supposed to it as a
getting fucked up and fatigue is mostly
are your connective tissues and joints
okay with it and you just has to be an
individual thing James
yeah totally agreed cool finally this
will be my third massing now cycle in a
row and I'm not sure whether it'd be
best to go from any cut or additional
cut once I'm back at the gym I wonder if
we have a little book about how to
decide that I have accumulated we're
just talking with you I have it a cute
we do actually have a mini cut manual if
you've looked into it I have accumulated
a Visa amount of weight and although I'm
unable to measure my body fat percentage
or estimated me in the 20% region I was
father of 50% before started through
passing outside historically I found an
easy burg fat challenging to gain muscle
in fact I've had to eat around 3500
calories per day at hundred seventy
pounds Chester could
around a pound per week hashtag thank
you metabolism I'm like - tag that
because other people will search for it
on this document and you will see a
sense of community
glad that James does means beer don't
have to get that joke mom dude there's a
guy who go nameless who comments on a
lot of my Instagram posts after he
comments anything he hashtags like five
things rephrasing his comments as clever
hashtag is legitimately if I read that
that man died in a fire I'd be like ha
there was good in this world like oh I
feel bad for his family but not for him
not really I plan to eat at maintenance
for the first month back in the gym
esprit recommendations however would you
guys recommend to cut wise after this I
think if you're close to 20% I would
just take a nice eight-week long cut and
get nice and lean and then repeat them
because you seem to have figured out how
to mass no problem I would if your 20%
to keep looking good and being optimally
healthy I would just do like a neatly
cut after this James I'm I would agree I
was gonna say just do a block of cut and
don't worry about the mini cut yeah
you'd be different if you were like I'm
struggling gained weight I've barely
gained any name still a 13% I'd be like
okay keep massing right but a 20% and
you seem to successfully be able to do
it even though stuff onus question what
are your favorite nighttime snacks James
all the shitty like alternative diet
forms of pizza I love them I can't get
enough oh they're so like awesomely bad
or yeah yeah awesomely bad like they
they taste shitty but they're satisfying
you're like yeah Pizza kinda for sure I
would have to say that like if I was
really doing broad strokes so this is
something I have like three times a year
but chocolate-covered almonds oh yeah
those are here to be around them because
I will eat whatever container they're in
I'll just eat the whole container it's
like positive feedback you want you mean
like the actual like chocolate-covered
ones are just like the powder like the
powder topping both honey says thank you
in advance for answering my multitude of
questions hope both you and the family
or at least the members you care about
are healthy and thriving all the best
Marquette's it's really that last part
is really key yeah thanks buddy okay sir
alright I think we have one question in
YouTube because
our apologies the seminar was supposed
to or whether know last week was
supposed to very late but we will make
some room for more YouTube questions
next time so this question is a doozy oh
boy I will share my screen
attitude lean gains this is the part my
favorite part we get to creep on dr.
Mike's like YouTube suggestions dr.
Hoffman there it is
Jaco willing I wasn't like one of his
things and now I get like spans with
John : oh I know it's terrible he's such
a man he's like oh my god yeah he's like
kind of psychotic I actually I got his
book what's it the discipline equals
freedom but up fuck you it's awesome
it's like the the presentation is really
nice it's in like all black and like the
lettering us white and it's it's
basically like it's like the same as 12
he's like they're like marine version of
Jordan Peterson basically it's the same
book it's essentially the same book all
right potay toes says hey docs I'm
patiently waiting for the revised chest
guide and wondering if you have anything
you could say about chest hypertrophy
yes it will be in the revised chest gosh
yeah there's plenty of things we could
say also the original chest that's
pretty good I follow your programming
volume landmarks and all that so I
learned a lot of implementation by
watching feathers journey to pro Jarrod
says hey really great they also thank
you everything on me has grown
considerably except my chest I pretty
much have the body I want except chest
and some more legs yeah you know I used
to think that when I was 180 pounds and
I'm 240 and I still hate how I look I'm
just kidding so so does it just come
down to time spent lifting I am late to
the game 4 years old and only 3 years of
dedicated lifting so cuz you're 3 years
dedicated lifting have way more growth
ahead of right now I feel like my time
for growth is pretty limited
so just asking if you guys have any
advice for old fuck yeah
lifter I trained six days a week all
body parts twice thanks doctor yeah easy
easy recommendation lower your volume
per session on chest to half of what it
is now switch to training chest three
times a week and then slowly try to rate
your volume up to make sure you're
recovering and adapting that increased
frequency alone there's almost certainly
get a result in some gains and when the
new chest bag comes out you will be able
to integrate much more of that stuff
another one is make sure the exercises
you're doing up a good stimulus to
fatigue ratio when you're training chest
you should feel the tension in your
chest you should feel the burn on higher
reps you should be getting a good pump
you should be getting a little bit of
chest soreness if you're not getting any
chest dobbs you're probably under
stimulating it a little bit as a good
also you shouldn't be training just
super super hard all the time just takes
a while to recover sometimes you should
train it hard a few sessions a week then
you should have in your tricep training
a little bit of chest work that sort of
lets it recover a little bit but doesn't
get over stimulated and James what else
you got a couple tips for chest
um though I think those are the really
good fundamental ones like if you're
truly like having if you're seeing
really great gains across the board and
you're not really seeing good gains in
your chest you can always consider doing
like a chest specialization phase if
it's something that you really
interested in that's a really good way
to actually accrue more like tangible
gains on an area that you're not seeing
as many Gaines's and you'd like but that
also would mean that everything else is
kind of put on the back burner and with
like three years of training under your
belt you can still probably benefit from
doing a bit more all-around training I
would say at this point so there's a
cost benefit you have to weigh there
it's like how much how much does my
chest really important to me versus like
well I could just be probably making
all-around gains right now if I just
train everything and deal with the chest
later so yeah very good advice folks
that's it that's all we have James
that's it so yeah apologies the last
webinar didn't get we just didn't get
posted in time but we have it posted now
and then this one should hopefully be on
time on YouTube I'm gonna do more of
James doe sports videos soon I got some
good little feedback and questions from
last time and other than that not much I
think that's it awesome all right folks
thank you so much and we'll see you next
week see