a lot of people say that if you train
heavy sets of five to ten instead of
sets of 10 to 30 repetitions per set
that you will become more dense you will
get a denser look or feel to your
muscles and that's probably not true
spoiler alert oh I said it too soon
common claim that going heavier will
give you a denser look to your muscles
some people see like power lifters look
real dense
so I have a few questions for that line
of reasoning first what does a dense
look actually mean
I actually don't know what that means
you could say like well it's to look
like Branch Warren has Google if you
don't know who that is and the first
image come up you're going to be like
holy tank
but Branch trained with all kinds of
repetition ranges and a lot of sets of
20 to 30 reps in burnouts and drop sets
finishers and he just kept looking more
and more tank-like
so that's interesting so maybe there's
not a Dependable relationship but the
relationship to what I don't know what
that means so yes maybe it means you
look like Branch Warren but maybe it
means you look like someone else and no
one's really been able to just point
like now it's this look right here I
don't know what a dense look means if
you think about the concept of density
it's just a relationship of weight and
volume
so how can you even infer that from
looking at something like Wolverine
without his adamantium skeleton looks
exactly the same visually as with the
adamantium skeleton and he's like 10
times more dense with it so how can you
tell the muscle is more dense is it
bobblier is it grainier I mean you can
actually only see the surface of a
muscle is it rounder are the muscles
bunched together more but isn't that
just more muscle mass like are we really
so sure that every training does that we
know for a fact that research confirms
that anywhere between sets of five
repetitions per set going close to
failure and sets of 30 to even 40 reps
per set cause roughly the same amount of
total hypertrophy so you could get
super enormous looking at other person
to Google is Dennis James Google Dennis
James bodybuilder the first picture you
see of him like one of his most
musculars you're gonna be like how the
fuck is that a real person there is no
more room to add muslim's body Dennis
James didn't necessarily go hard and
heavy he did a ton of different rep
ranges
it's true for most bodybuilders that
look the most anything you can think is
a dense look
maybe people mean the muscles are
physically harder to the touch does that
really look though anymore that's a feel
if you have a job feeling up
bodybuilders you'll be pleasantly
surprised wait is there a job like that
can I put in my application it's like
experience like um I have a lot of
desire and I think that's more than
enough
how do we know that this is true though
let's say the claim is now keeping the
muscles are physically harder uh do we
know this uh well good news I'm a
professor of sports science we don't
so I don't know how people found this
out no it could be a hypothesis the
people who generated from exclusively
clinical setting of training uh the
actual experiential training and they're
saying look I've seen this in training I
feel that maybe it's true I've I used to
be a competitive powerlifter it wasn't
very good don't worry back in my drug
free days those Halcyon Days so many so
many moons ago and I train mostly for
sets of geez three to eight reps and
then it wasn't any harder or anything
like that as a matter of fact I had
significant problems with hardness
especially when nerves and stuff like
that
not all performers folks
don't worry I got it resolved I just
began to be settlement so
to me I never observed that relationship
I've trained hundreds and hundreds of
people I've never observed the
relationship that there's some kind of
density relationship or hardness
relationship with heavy training maybe
there's a mechanistic thing though
because we know there's some one of you
is going to already have posted this so
you go ahead and delete your comment now
JK leave it in there for all of us to
ridicule also kidding stay calm
myofibular versus sarcoplasmic
hypertrophy myofibrils are the actual
tissue inside the muscle the organelles
inside the muscle
that uh how's the contraction Machinery
accident and niacin and shit like that
those are myofibrils but then there's
other parts of the muscle cell which all
look like muscle on the outside that
have you know there's more so what's
called sarcoplasm and it's just like
there's some other organelles floating
around in there your nucleus technically
sits in it there's ribosomes and
vesicles and stuff and it's kind of the
more poofier liquidier version right
that's at a microscopic scale though so
it all just looks like muscle up at the
top end so is are people saying you get
more myofibrilla hypertrophy and less
sarcoplasmic hypertrophy
that's possible but we also know for
many studies that there is a distinct
myofibrillar and Hyper and sarcoplasmic
hypertrophy but typically sarcoplasmic
hypertrophy occurs first like when you
first start resistance training your
muscle glycogen the ability to store
goes up much faster initially than the
myofibrils are constructed Anew because
they just take longer to construct
but at the end of three or six months of
training
it doesn't matter what rep range you
train in you roughly have the same ratio
of myofibril to sarcoplasm that anyone
who trained in any other rep range has
so it's kind of this temporary thing
that if you have first train very heavy
and low volume you don't get a big
sarcoplasmic expansion but then your
myofibrils grow over time if you do
train with higher reps you get a big
initial expansion but then it sort of
floats away and the myofibles underneath
grow any way to fill in the space so
if that's the case and long term it kind
of doesn't fucking matter so maybe this
doesn't add up and if there is research
in the future which there hasn't been
yet that shows that doing a wide range
of rep ranges all the sets of 5 to 10
and 10 to 20 and 20 to 30 have bring in
their own special kind of growth why
wouldn't you do all three of them in
some part of your training periodization
you wouldn't want to miss out so that
really seems to be the case and you
basically for now the way to research is
you at least want to use every rep range
you get high stimulus to fatigue ratio
so if sets of 20 really light up your
biceps but they're great on your joints
and sets of five are amazing for your
back but sets of 20 just Tire your back
out yeah do lots of sets of five for
your back and sets of 20 for your biceps
wherever that stimulus is high pump burn
soreness all that other stuff and the
fatigue is low you feel okay you're not
super systemically drained it doesn't
break your joints down or anything like
that that's kind of the right answer so
training on purpose with lots of five to
ten to build density even though the
quality of your training sucks like hey
how's your chest training going I don't
know man just like my shoulders hurt my
elbows hurt my pecs don't get very sore
very pumped apparently so that's a five
to ten are supposed to get me dense or
something that is not a Dependable thing
at all what is much more dependable is
choosing a repetition range for your
pecs let's say it sets 12 to 15. really
light your packs up in the best possible
way and it's weight just light enough
that your joints feel good that's not
the wrong answer you will get bigger
muscles because we also know that there
may be no such thing as the muscles get
denser and if they're denser there may
be no identifying it externally the look
is the look is the look and then some
people just look more tank-like than
others and it probably has nothing to do
with the composition of the muscles
themselves
so the verdict here as far as I see it
tentatively for now is we're trying to
think like scientists is at best this
muscle density idea is something we
don't care about it's myofibular versus
sarcoplasmic hypertrophy but like who
cares it's all hypertrophy get me jacked
and eventually it fills out to the same
thing anyway and at worst it's just not
a real thing AKA it's just total
bullshit
you know I don't even I don't even want
to bring an Arnold to say bullshit
just regular this time guys
all right go out there train Ultra heavy
get dense get hurt and talk about the
good old days see you guys next time
foreign