morning guys so I haven't had breakfast
yet haven't eaten anything yet but I'm
going to have some coffee with eggnog
and this is the light eggnog so in half
a cup we've got two and a half grams of
fat for protein 12-car sweetened with
aspartame and sugar
50 percent less fat than regular this is
light orange juice no I'm not I'm not
cutting or anything it's just Robin
usually happens to have the lower
calorie varieties of foods here so it
actually makes it doubly difficult for
me to get all the calories in but this
orange juice is just delicious anyway so
guys I'm just editing my podcast with a
Josh Vogel can check that out on iTunes
or on my YouTube and I'm going to mix
myself a shake what I've been doing
lately for protein shakes is been mixing
orange juice with vanilla whey and it
actually just tastes like kind of like
an orange creamsicle and it's actually
really really a good change so if you
guys haven't tried that I was strongly
recommended it's about 35 grams of
protein so this is my first protein
bolus of the day
all right so I'll show you guys my first
meal hashbrown here with some sauce
style ketchup and it's just really
low-calorie it's like five calories per
tablespoon so this stuff is great while
dieting now it's just like the taste of
it better turkey bacon half of an
ambrosia Apple a full Clementine two
whole eggs over-medium hopefully yeah so
two whole eggs a pork sausage these are
actually pretty pretty low calorie first
as far as hostages go and then I've got
a tall glass of Diet cranberry drink so
yeah this would actually be a pretty
good breakfast when dieting but I'm not
so I'll probably get my calories in a
little later in the day and then I've
got my two fish oils and three thousand
I use of vitamin D because we don't get
any Sun here it's actually not too too
bad of today it's cold though so this is
basically the weather is like
really a nice day
 snack on a few of these while I get
back to my emails and then I plan on
having a solid whole food meal stay
tuned for that we've got 200 grams of
chicken this is chicken off the bone so
not boneless chicken breast I'm going to
add to that this whole grain brown rice
from PC blue menu you can see I'm like a
lot of the other prepackaged rice
stuff isn't too salty or anything's just
15 milligrams of sodium so just tastes
like regular brown rice except you don't
have to go through the hassle of cooking
it so just microwave it for two minutes
and that is good to go this butter
chicken cooking sauce yes this is like
an Indian style sauce and yet super
delicious and the macros aren't
fantastic but you know they're also not
not too bad 500 calories and a half a
cup so I'll add some of this on top
microwave it Oh
my next meal so guys this is what it
looks like after it's all mashed
together and heat it up 50 grams of
protein or so in there because you know
200 grams of chicken 48 and then a
couple grams and the rice this meal so
Robin made this one and we've got some
potatoes with a little bit of ketchup
and some green beans and this chicken
breast is it's a ancient brains chicken
breast
just hold 270 tails 11 fat 24 carbs 18
protein good food Vulcan macros hey guys
so I'm going to finish this meal and
while I do that I'm going to show you
guys some clips from my last chest and
shoulder workout so I hope you enjoy
guys Robyn and I made cookies
mostly Robyn and yeah so we're gonna go
for an iron workout now well I'm gonna
train arms Robyn's going to Train
probably back and then when we get back
we have these to spike our insulin with
and in the meantime I'm going to be
eating this milk so 1% milk a little bit
of fat and whey protein so I ran out of
sedation way so now I'm stuck with
either this strawberry stuff which
actually isn't too bad the my
approaching strawberries pretty good or
the Kaizen Costco poverty way which is
actually really good when it comes to
macros in and it doesn't taste too bad
either so probably with that typically I
will go through one of these gallon
containers of milk in probably a day or
two but we haven't had milk for the last
couple of days so that's why you haven't
seen me drink a lot of it but this is
how I get a lot of my calories is
through milk hey Rob
creepy cookies are gone so now we're
here the restaurants of preemies
and get some food here with my man
and what about your woman this is my
average driver
my
okay so bacon cheese chicken on a Kaiser
bun and poutine so if you guys don't
know what poutine is I don't know if
anyone doesn't touch fries and cheese
curds and gravy and it's really good I'm
really really full too all right that's
gonna finish it that's going to finish
up this way of eating
many times am I too late if not too much