hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome to video number
12. in the building your hypertrophy
mesocycle series the last video in our
series and we've been building all of
the hypertrophy mesocycles through the
series with the RP hypertrophy app it's
new it's great it's amazing it'll be
your friend if you want a little
distance you just need acquaintance
it'll do that too Link in the
description to buy it give that some
thought
today's video is about how to make your
next muscle cycle after you've made your
first one and successfully completed
your first hypertrophy program what do
you do
into the next one
first
consider what training block you are in
for how to design your next one so for
example
you could be in a muscle gain phase you
could be in a fat loss phase a
maintenance phase or an active rest
phase you can be in all those phases and
you'll have to design mesocycles for
them specifically
if you were building a muscle gain
muscle cycle you just did a muscle gain
one and the next one's muscle gain you
just build a normal cycle on the app you
don't have to specify anything because
this app is optimized for muscle you
if you're building a fat loss muscle
cycle you don't have to tell the app you
earn fat loss mode one of the
interesting things that people have been
requesting and eventually we're going to
get this done anyway but they're like
hey this do your diet app and training
app talk to each other
the answer right now is no in the future
it'll be yes for some other reasons but
the training app doesn't actually need
to know what Diet phase you're in
because it's Auto regulation it's
algorithms for how pumped you are how
sore you are your volume perception
fatigue Etc
it handles automatically the transition
from muscle gain to Fat Loss so it's
already going to be the best fat loss
muscle cycle Builder that you can have
so you don't need to tell the app extra
anything
now you if you're doing maintenance in
the app you're going to want to keep it
to one to three sets per exercise and if
you're getting very sore or very pumped
you're going to want to manually reduce
the volume every single week that you do
your maintenance phase you're going to
want to click push my limits on your
workload questionnaire portion because
the app is just going to not add sense
anymore you don't want the app adding
sets
so for maintenance the shortcut is just
hit push my limits start with a low
volume keep the low volume the entire
time
for active rest I would just say do a
deload week at the end of your mouse
cycle and then take the next one week
entirely off of training that counts as
two weeks of active rest so no problem
there
now when you're building your new
mesocycle you go and you have this as an
example we did legs in Toronto together
and if the dildo meso we just did last
time that's green box here means we're
still in the meso but I'm trying to show
you guys how this works really quick so
what you would do is you either go here
to the new or you go all the way to the
left and say plan a new measure they
take you to the exact same screen
and then you just start building your
mesocycle and of course you picked your
sex
you pick which day of the week you want
to begin your meso for Simplicity you
can choose a preset which means you've
got all these options in here good God
oh
it won't let me choose a preset because
I haven't chosen a sex yet oh come on
Mike we'll say I'm female today I feel
female choose a preset you've got all
these options
six workouts per week five workouts per
week four two all this stuff these are
all pre-loaded plans as a matter of fact
let's say lower body three times a week
we can just do that now you can also
create a custom meso where you build it
out yourself but if you do lower body a
few times a week hit continue
Monday Wednesday Friday it's already
picked all of your muscle groups that
you want to train
and all you have to do is select the
exercises
if you get real lazy and we're going to
make this feature better and better over
time
you can go here to the option and just
say autofill
and it'll just autofill the exercises
with suggestions it thinks are a good
idea and then you can go down and say
okay that's good that's good and I don't
want to do bodyweight squat I'm going to
do something else and I'm going to say
front squat you can change it no problem
blah blah blah blah and then when you
fill in everything you could even delete
some of these or say I don't want to do
quads today but I'm going to add and say
I'm going to do more biceps work because
I'm trying to be a bro I'm going to do
biceps I'm going to do barbell curl
narrow grip and then you create the
mezzle and it creates the whole thing
for you so making mesos in the app I
mean Qi whiz you can make a mezzo in a
minute if you want
this is a big deal
eventually
we will allow the app
to be a portal or it trains other people
for you
you can DM them in the app and train all
of your online clients that is coming
the engineers will kill me for saying
this I will not put a date on when it's
coming we are working on it but right
now if you are a personal trainer
you can build as many mesocycles as you
want for all of your clients it takes a
very little time and they're just all
going to be here on uh the screen so
when you go for mesocycles as you build
more and more mesos you just they just
fill up and you have your client's name
you have the description anything else
you want to do with it
so
when
you can already use it as a personal
trainer to train as many clients as you
want you just have it there you know
exactly what they're doing every single
time
soon as soon as we can we're going to
allow this to do online training as well
and that'll be a really big thing but to
that end when you're making the
mesocycles and you're trying to choose
exercises I would say consider reusing
exercises that you most enjoyed and are
making the best progress for you in the
last message
over time we're going to make the app
smarter so that it begins to suggest
which exercises you should keep and
which ones you should replace we
absolutely will get to doing that
there's lots of stuff to do before then
it will get there but for now you just
pick the stuff that you like that you
are progressing on and then you can vary
anything else that you want at the end
of the day I would probably say just
pick exercises that you really enjoy you
get a good kick out of and they're
working well for you they don't hurt
your joints they give you good pumps
you're making progress on them there's
you can always do that manually and
it'll work every single time
now when it comes time to doing
exercises that you've never done before
you warm up you pick your loads you go
but if you're doing the same exercise
over last muscle you did marble event
Rose you got to 15 reps of 150 pounds at
the end what do you choose this time
the recommendation is you go back to
week one of Barbara exercise in your
last mesocycle you see that you did 130
pounds then
I would increase that load by roughly
five percent
probably no more
put that in as the load that you want
and then go from there and then you'll
get five percent stronger again over the
next month so that's not always going to
work if you're more advanced it might be
more like two two and a half percent
something that will Target the same rep
range that you want if the same rep
range is your target so if you're doing
sets of 15 to 20 in above event rows
pick a weight that you can progress with
starting out that's at least five pounds
heavier than the weight you started in
your last meso pick it next and then go
from there
if you're feeling great if you're really
blowing it out of the water make it 10
pounds or even 15 pounds everywhere my
recommendation is be conservative if you
discover that it's way too easy you
could always go up and increase load and
you haven't even gotten too much fatigue
if something's way too hard and way too
heavy it can beat you up and you're
lesson learned of when in the next week
or right in the next session to decrease
the load
then it's a problem if you miss the load
in the your first working set it sucks
you can just take that workset weight
people say I'm just going to start this
over and pick a new weight or you can
make duplicate exercises and if you make
those two different exercises you make
it with lower weight the next week you
just delete that first exercise the
duplicates are the new exercise and you
go from there so this is something that
is so tempting to get wrong because
you're like well look if I just assign
myself more weight I'll have to get
stronger that's not how it works
you want a weight that you can handle
for the rep range you want with good
technique and if it's only ever five
pounds more than last time
you can do like six mesocycles a year no
problem more like eight
40 pounds of increase in strength five
times eight or whatever that's huge for
reps you're gonna get way way bigger
if your body is growing and you're
getting stronger faster you will know
air on the side of a little bit
conservative and then go from there
do not Chase progression at the expense
of technique mind muscle connection
or your stimulus to fatigue ratio don't
be like I have to get 155 pounds for 15
of Barbara butt rolls or I haven't grown
well if you have or haven't grown that's
already done that's not up to you to
decide that's all biochemical so just do
your best with the best technique and if
you're not progressing you can look at
why maybe it's because your Technique
has gotten so much better
that it's more challenging and you
really have gotten more muscular but
your Technique is the thing that was
like Hey look it's so much better now
you're using less weight I've had years
where my technique improves and I don't
get stronger in the exercises
so my chest and my quads and my delts
are just growing growing growing and if
I go back to my old technique I can
double the Reps I'm like oh yeah I can't
believe I used to do the technique that
was a shitty I used to think I had great
squat technique and I watched videos
from 10 years ago where I was squatting
to depth and all that stuff and I was
like man I'm bouncing out of the hole
I'm using a crapload of glutes in lower
back this isn't like a super upright
modern type of squat that I do so don't
get too addicted to the weight
progressions they should handle
themselves challenge yourself just a
little bit more every mesocycle and if
look you're growing a ton then your reps
are going to start skyrocketing and in
the middle of the muscle you'll have to
add more weight than the program
predicts which is totally great
all right folks that is it for our
series thank you so much for tuning in
the RP hypertrophy app is live it is for
sale it is awesome people are using it
some people even love it they say some
people are in love with it Link in the
description give that a look and I'll
see you guys next time