there's this thing that's now kind of uh
going wild on the internet i've never
tried it but it's called turcosterone
yeah they call it turk this plant
compound is a cr equivalent to deca
essentially wow where do you get this
stuff uh people buy it on the internet
how do you spell it so i don't think a
day has gone by over the last few months
someone hasn't asked me about my opinion
on tercestro now if you haven't heard of
it yet it's the spicy new supplement on
the block and there are a lot of people
on the internet who are very excited
about its potential as a muscle builder
so in this video i want to have a look
at what the science actually has to say
well before we can understand what
trichostrone does or doesn't do i think
it's important that we first understand
what it actually is so trochestrone is
one of many types of ecti steroids which
are basically the plant and insect
equivalent of hormones like testosterone
so humans produce testosterone plants
and insects produce terkestrone and
other ectisteroids and since
trochestrone and testosterone are
actually fairly similar in terms of
chemical structure perhaps since human
testosterone is anabolic maybe the plant
and insect version is as well well this
idea first caught the attention of
researchers way back in the 1970s when a
team of scientists from russia took some
mice liver administered terocestrone and
according to this abstract on this
non-secure russian database it was
effective at stimulating liver protein
synthesis which i just quickly note
isn't the same thing as muscle protein
synthesis now i track down the full text
for this paper and it turns out it's 145
pages of broken russian text about
rodent liver metabolism so there isn't
much else that i can say about this one
through the 1970s 80s and 90s a few
other papers looked at protein synthesis
in different animals and insects but
once again these studies were all
published in obscure journals with
substandard acute study designs and
whatever they found it couldn't have
been that exciting because no one
bothered to pursue any actual human
research on it that was up until 2006
when a group of researchers including my
friend dr bill campbell at the
university of florida got a spark of
curiosity after noticing a suspiciously
well-muscled insect crawling across one
of their old muscle physiology textbooks
so they took 45 weight trained men and
put them into one of four groups three
groups took different types of
potentially anabolic supplements
including an ecti steroid group now it
wasn't trochestrone exactly but it was
structurally similar and it belonged to
the same class of compounds one of the
groups just took a placebo meaning they
also took a pill but there was no active
supplement in it and this is really
important because it means that the
groups didn't know if they were taking
ect steroids or just a blank placebo
pill it's possible that if they knew
that they were taking actions that
knowledge alone might have gotten them
better gains simply because they were
expecting it to work so none of the
subjects knew what they were taking the
researchers put them on a four day per
week upper lower split and after eight
weeks of supplementation found no
difference in fat free mass or one rep
max strength for any of the groups there
were also no differences in free
testosterone total testosterone or
testosterone to cortisol ratio the acne
steroids didn't work any better than an
empty sugar pill so understandably not
much happened or was heard about
tercastron after this until just a few
years ago when in 2018 the international
society of sports nutrition published a
joint review of supplement
recommendations and made the firm
conclusion that ectisterones including
tercastrone are not recommended to
increase training adaptations or
performance but that isn't quite the end
of it because the very next year in 2019
the latest study that i'm aware of came
out and this is the one that everyone is
talking about because unlike the others
this one actually did find an effect and
it was in humans so let's have a look
they put 46 men with one year of
training experience on a 10-week
training program and gave them either a
placebo pill or a peak ectisone
supplement and this is the actual
supplement that they gave the subjects
which the author state was quote labeled
to contain 100 milligrams of ectisterone
and i think that's an interesting
phrasing that we'll come back to here in
a minute first as you can see from the
graph here this time the ectisterone
groups did experience significantly
better muscle gains than the placebo
group for the record the ec1 group took
two peak ectosome pills per day and the
ec2 group took eight peak ectosome pills
per day one other thing to notice here
is that the placebo group actually lost
muscle mass on average which can happen
but is pretty odd to see for beginner
lifters following a 10 week structured
training program now a possible
explanation for this is that the study
used single frequency bioelectrical
impedance to measure body composition
which is notoriously unreliable for
getting accurate measurements especially
in comparison to the dexa machine that
was used in that 2006 study but there's
another stronger reason that i do think
this study is bunk that peak ectisone
supplement that was labeled to contain
100 milligrams of ectisterone was run
through a lab analysis which found that
it only contained
six milligrams of ectisterone not a
hundred milligrams just six percent of
what was advertised on the label was
actually in the bottle now when i found
this out i tried to think of what could
have possibly happened here how did the
peak ectosome groups get better gains if
there was only a dusting of active
ingredient in the pills to begin with
well the first thing i thought of was
maybe there was something smuggled into
those peak ectosome pills that was
stronger than empty steroids we know
that it's common for supplement
companies to lace their products with
banned anabolic substances to boost
their products effectiveness and this
seems like a valid assumption here on
the surface however if you dig into the
study's supplemental materials you'll
see that they did in fact collect blood
and urine samples from their subjects to
test for co-administration of prohibited
substances and nothing showed up so as i
see it there are two most likely
explanations for why the study found an
effect either there was in fact
something in those pills that simply
wasn't tested for or the results were a
false positive i actually wasn't sure
how credible a false positive or type 1
error would be here so i called up my
friend and supplement expert dr eric
trexler and he reminded me that false
positives are not as weird as you might
think
it's not that rare to get a false
positive right so like let's say the
p-value is like you know 0.049 right a
five percent chance or a four and a half
percent chance of something happening is
not rare then you consider small sample
sizes and the fact that there is
sampling error you get groups of you
know 12 15 20 people they don't always
have the same characteristics even
though you would hope that they would
with random assignment to groups what if
there's four people with just insane
genetics in in one of those groups that
that's why we like to see so many
studies and so many replications from so
many independent groups is only when you
have all that data can you sort through
it and and figure out which findings
were atypical and which findings were
more typical now neither of us are
saying that the results of this study
were a false positive there's no way of
knowing that but rather just pointing
out that their findings simply don't add
up you then stack that with the fact
that they use bioelectrical impedance
and don't forget ectisterone isn't even
the same thing as trochestrone so if i
was trying to sell torquestrone i
personally wouldn't use this study to do
it so as of now i think it's safe to say
that this supplement is not science
based there's just no science to lean on
and instead it's relying on anecdotes
and marketing hype to stay relevant and
while there's nothing necessarily wrong
with considering anecdotes they simply
aren't controlled like scientific
studies and this can be a problem
especially when it comes to supplements
and that's because anytime anyone starts
taking a new supplement like
trochesterone it's nearly impossible to
control for all the other variables in
their regimen many times at the same
time someone starts taking a new
supplement they also crank up other
aspects of their diet and training so
unlike scientific trials they use
multiple subjects and control for
confounding variables as much as
possible with single anecdotes how are
we supposed to know if that person got
the results from the supplement itself
or from the fact that they're a newbie
lifter who would have gotten gains
anyway or maybe they just started
training harder because they felt more
motivated by the new stack or maybe they
just placebo themselves into getting
gains because they bought into the hype
now of course it's still possible that
new research will come out showing that
trochestrone works and if that new
evidence outweighs the current evidence
then i'll change my mind and assuming
there's no side effects i'll start
taking it but until then i won't be
opening up my wallet because i just
haven't seen any convincing evidence at
all and this seems to be the consensus
amongst well-qualified experts as well
now if you're interested i spoke with dr
eric trexler about trichesterone on my
podcast we discussed some issues with
people wanting to get ahead of the
science and some of the other specifics
that i couldn't get into in this video
so i'll go ahead and link that full
interview down below if you're
interested and before we go i do want to
thank skillshare for sponsoring this
video skillshare is a huge online
community that has thousands of classes
for creative people looking to learn new
skills like video production photography
productivity marketing business and more
over the years i've used skillshare to
help me with my own online career
whether that comes to taking a course on
photography or email marketing or
graphic design i think mastering these
skills is essential to running a
successful online business or brand and
even though you can outsource some of
this stuff i really think that it is
important to have a basic understanding
of these concepts for yourself so that
you ultimately have the power and
control to create what it is you want
one of the best things about skillshare
is that the classes are taught by people
who also do creative work themselves so
the content is always highly relatable
and relevant it also gives you access to
a huge knowledgeable community of people
who are also eager to learn i personally
just finished up this course on
productivity for creatives from thomas
frank and i found it really helpful as
someone who does sometimes struggle to
balance creativity with productivity
with skillshare there are thousands of
courses for every skill level from
beginner to advanced where you can learn
the basics and specifics about pretty
much any skill that you're looking to
master so the first 1 000 of my
subscribers to click the first link in
the description box down below will get
a free one month trial of skillshare so
you can start exploring your creativity
today skillshare's classes combine video
lessons class projects and hands-on
feedback with short lessons that are
easy to fit into a busy schedule so make
sure you're one of the first 1000 people
and get a head start on that skill that
you're looking to master thanks again to
skillshare for sponsoring the video i
really do appreciate it and thank you
guys so much for watching don't forget
to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed
the video subscribe if you haven't
already and i'll see you guys all here
in the next one