the truth about building bigger arms is
that it's actually pretty simple as in
probably one-third as complicated as a
lot of these fitness youtubers and
instagramers make it out to be with
their endless fancy exercise variations
and training techniques that are mostly
just put out for clicks and views and
not because you actually need them the
function of the biceps and triceps is
fairly straightforward and increasing
their size will mainly come down to
consistent long-term progressive
overload using reasonably basic
movements now that being said if your
goal is to achieve the very best results
in the most time efficient way then
there definitely are certain arm
exercises that are going to be more
effective than others not only in terms
of maximizing hypertrophy but also
minimizing joint wear and tear and there
are certain exercises that you should
ideally just flat out avoid so in this
video we're going to go over eight
commonly performed movements that are
just not ideal choices overall i'll
explain the downsides of each one and
what to do instead to improve on it and
i definitely recommend taking a few
minutes to watch this through because
that extra bit of optimization will make
a difference to your gains when you
extrapolate it out over the course of
your training and let me know in the
comments which of these exercises you've
personally been doing and if i've
successfully convinced you to swap them
out all right overrated arm exercise
number one starting with the triceps is
gonna be a two-handed overhead extension
using a single dumbbell also known as
powerbombs now this is by no means the
worst triceps exercise in the world i'm
sure there are already some people out
there
wiping the sweat from their forehead as
they furiously type away in the comments
since this is a very commonly performed
lift that a lot of lifters enjoy but the
fact is that there are just better ways
to perform it if you want to maximize
tricep stimulation and minimize joint
strain if you put your arms overhead
without any weight and go through this
movement you'll see that the natural
path for your triceps is to extend away
from the midline of your body in a
circular motion whereas if you're using
a single dumbbell with both hands the
resistance is going to be locked onto a
fixed vertical line which will limit
triceps output to a certain extent and
put more stress through the shoulder
elbow and wrist so to optimize this
exercise ideally do it one arm at a time
or perform it using a cable because
that'll properly line up the resistance
with the line of pull of the triceps
overrated arm exercise number two is the
waiter curl now i know this is going to
upset the
die hard fans of a certain fitness
youtuber who unfortunately made this
exercise really popular but just like
with the power bomb this movement
doesn't properly line up the resistance
with the curling path of the biceps
which would naturally want to curl
outward from this position versus being
stuck on a fixed vertical line the
reason why this exercise feels so
effective is not because the biceps are
being loaded more effectively by the
resistance it's actually because of that
unnatural curling motion along with the
super narrow supinated grip plus the
awkwardness of having to balance the
dumbbell on each rep and all of that
combined produces a form of negative
feedback from the instability at the
shoulder and elbow joint which is easy
to mistake for increased tension on the
biceps even though that's not what
you're actually feeling if you want to
maximize bicep stimulation and minimize
joint strain then ditch the weighter
curl and just perform a regular dumbbell
curl where the shoulder elbow and wrist
are all aligned overrated arm exercise
number three is the dumbbell triceps
kickback not only do these have an
awkward resistance curve where there's
little to no tension on the triceps in
the lower half of the movement where the
muscle's at its strongest followed by a
sharp increase at the top where it's at
its weakest but there's also the added
factor of rear delt fatigue from having
to hold the weight in place the whole
time now you can improve this exercise
quite a bit by using a cable which will
provide a smoother feel by shifting some
of the load into the lower portion of
the range but even better is to just do
a normal standing triceps push down if
you look at a cable kickback and you
rotate the image 90 degrees you'll see
that it's essentially the exact same
movement except that by doing it
standing you're gonna be in a stronger
and more stable position overrated arm
exercise number four basically the
opposite of the waiter curl but with the
same general downside and that's going
to be a wide grip straight bar curl
whether it's done with a barbell an easy
curl bar or as a straight bar cable curl
by locking your hands out wide onto a
straight bar the path of the resistance
won't be properly lined up with the line
of pull of the biceps which again not
only limits overall biceps output but
also creates more elbow and wrist strain
basic straight bar curls are one of the
best biceps exercises that you can do
and have unfortunately gotten lost over
the years in this online sea of a
million and one unique curling
variations but just stick to a basic
shoulder width grip where again the
wrist elbow and shoulder are all kept in
line if you're finding this information
helpful so far don't forget to hit the
like button and subscribe to the channel
to stay up to date on future videos and
overrated arm exercise number five is
going to be the reverse grip triceps
push down now for some reason people
tend to get really defensive about this
one i'm not sure why exactly but the
fact is that using a reverse grip
doesn't provide any unique advantage for
stimulating the triceps yet it does have
the disadvantage of turning the wrists
into a potential limiting factor during
the movement and if your wrists and
forearms are giving out before your
triceps have truly gotten close to
failure then you're eliminating the
entire point of the exercise now if
you're just going lighter and you're
staying a few reps away from failure
then it might not really matter but
ultimately there's just no good reason
to not go with a basic neutral grip
using a rope push down variation because
that's going to eliminate that weak link
and create the ideal arm path to
maximize triceps output which is with
the arms flared out slightly and then
pressing away from the midline of your
body this can be done using a single
rope even better is a dual rope if your
gym is well equipped or you can do it
one arm at a time like this or you can
also do a cross body push down like this
overrated arm exercise number six is
going to be free weight curls on a
standard preacher curl bench and more
specifically using heavier loads for
lower reps when you've got your arm
fully extended out in front of you with
the weight driving straight down on that
biceps tendon in the bottom position
where the weight's going to be
disproportionately heavier i mean unless
you're training to compete in the
preacher curl olympics there's just no
good reason to take the risk considering
how devastating a serious biceps injury
can be and this is easily the one
curling variation that most often
results in biceps tears i'm not trying
to create unnecessary fear here but if
you are gonna do free weight preacher
curls i'd highly recommend sticking to
moderate weight for slightly higher reps
and performing the movement under strict
control or even better is to use a
slightly higher bench angle like you see
here which will change the direction of
the resistance to make it safer or you
can also do a cable preacher curl as
well overrated arm exercise number seven
is the triceps bench dip not only is
this an inferior way to load the triceps
for hypertrophy but it's also going to
place more stress on the joints as well
from the scapula being in that elevated
position with the humerus driving
forward into the shoulder socket on each
rep and it can also start to strain the
wrist as well once you start loading the
movement more heavily now just like with
any exercise this doesn't mean that
you're guaranteed to get hurt but why
choose a movement that's more likely to
cause issues when you can just perform a
standard triceps dip instead that'll
train the triceps more effectively and
with less injury risk just make sure
that you're not going too low around 90
degrees of elbow flexion is gonna be
ideal for most people and keep your body
more upright to emphasize the triceps
rather than the chest and finally
overrated arm exercise number eight is
plate curls now fortunately this is
mostly a let's get fancy for social
media type of exercise and it's not
super common to actually see people
performing these in real life but this
is just another one of those what's the
point types of exercises there's no
advantage to curling with a plate when
it comes to stimulating your biceps for
growth all you're really doing is using
a tool that's more awkward to grip and
where the loading potential is limited
as well since you can only use a maximum
of 45 pounds which for a bilateral curl
is gonna be too light for a high
percentage of lifters unless they're
doing really high reps if you want some
more help getting your overall fitness
program onto the right track whether
your goal is to gain muscle lose fat or
do both make sure to visit shawnell.com
custom just fill out the short form on
that page and i'll send you back a free
step-by-step training program based on
your current condition and your goals
along with an easy to follow nutrition
plan as well the link for that is down
below in the description box when it
comes to effective supplementation you
can also visit realscienceathletics.com
to check out my own line of research
backed clinically dosed formulas that i
personally created from scratch to
maximize your results and you can use
code youtube15 to save 15 off your first
order here are two more videos i'd
recommend watching now don't forget to
subscribe to the channel and turn on
notifications thanks for watching guys
and i'll talk to you again soon