[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike is racquel here for
the last video in the series maybe we'll
add some more later
hypertrophy made simple video number 16
troubleshooting lack of progress for a
huge much longer discussion on that we
have other videos on our P plus we have
other videos on YouTube that attack this
very very thing in much more detail
let's give you the super quick guide to
troubleshooting lack of muscle growth
progress you want to grow a muscle
you're doing what you think is right but
it's just not happening and one of your
muscle groups or maybe all what do you
do we got eight quick troubleshooting
tips for you let's just get right to it
number one appropriate and consistent
training and diet if you are
inconsistent with your application don't
come to me and asking what you're doing
wrong you're not doing anything right
only consistency can lead you to judge
whether or not you're doing a good job
so first get consistent no negotiation
next you want to make sure that you're
going from your minimum effective volume
your maximum recoverable volume training
in that range at least somewhere in that
range preferably all the way through in
each muscle group that you're targeting
if you don't know what you need enm RvR
don't even start find out first you
might need out of that range completely
and there's totally makes sense where
you're not gaining because you're not
even doing enough or you're doing too
much
next fatigue management has to be in
line sleep has to be decent stress
management has to be decent physical and
emotional because if you're not doing
that but boy oh boy you know can you be
interfering with really really great
training and making no game so fix that
problem for sure next when you're doing
your exercises make sure they have high
stimulus to fatigue ratios they're
really good at causing muscle growth and
you know palms and burns and tension and
disruption and not to beating up your
joints or they're not you know causing a
crazy amount of systemic fatigue or
something like that now especially you
want to make sure you have high RAAS
stimulus magnitudes like if you say I
have trouble growing my back and I'm
like so like how did your back ever feel
like really toasted after workout you
tell me no we're gonna be picking
exercise as a toast the crap out of your
back if your back is being toasted and
you're recovering and you're eating well
you're almost certainly gonna get a
bigger back but if one of those things
is missing
the trainee really hard and feeling the
extra has mess up your back
it's not gonna be rather there's gonna
be a chance that's not working right and
then we have an obvious thing to solve
next make sure the stimulus to fatigue
ratio is high in the rep ranges that
you're doing if you're doing lots of
sets of six in the biceps and it just
always hurts your elbows and it never
feels you have a pump or tension in a
target muscle for your biceps and you do
that you're like I'm doing all this
training it's a lot of training I'm
doing it they also write in a mic okay
if you're tight sets of ten or twelve or
no not really
you try sets of twelve it just burns the
crap out of your bicep huge pump you
know holy crap well it looks like you
were just training at a rep range that
wasn't that good for the exercise for
the mus group so make sure the exercises
you do at them and the muscle groups
that you train you find those rep ranges
that are gonna get you good training
usually a diversity of them but
obviously you can buy some of your
training into the ones that make the
most stimulus and keep the fatigue the
lowest possible next up this is a huge
one the hyper caloric eat at a surplus
when you're trying to gain muscle okay
in your gaining phases and adding net
body weights to yourself over the long
term months or years if you say look I
can't get jacked and you said I asked
you how much you weigh you say yeah 125
pounds sweet I started my muscle
building journey weighing up 20 pounds
less than that and you say Emily 125
over the last year I've been training
super hard and eating and all the stuff
and I ask you like so how much did you
weigh when you starting you're like well
like 125 like so you've gained no way
like right well I can tell you exactly
why you're not more jacked because of
the laws of thermodynamics where the
hell's that muscles supposed to come
from you got a wormhole button you press
and all of a sudden you get more jacked
no way you have to eat it consistently
more than sometimes you want to get the
gains now look if you tell me I've
gained from 125 to 145 and I just got
fatter I put on no strength and no
muscle look we have a serious problem
but until you can show me you've been
gaining weight I don't believe that
you've been trying to grow muscle
because you've got to make sure the food
matches the training and the recovery
and so on and so forth on the other hand
especially for more advanced folks
training side fatigue management has to
be there d loads recovery sessions
active rest phases low volume phases if
you
never done a little hauling fees you
just grinding yourself into a pulp for
two years and you tell me you can't grow
I'm gonna tell you to take a little
break and take it easy and then after
that you're gonna come back and be like
holy crap I'm getting all these gains
well no duh so you gotta take care of
that if you don't deal it or do recovery
sessions don't consider yourself tough
just consider yourself not the smartest
decision maker of all time up to that
point but you can always change
lastly you got to make all these changes
or at least most of them for long enough
folks ability man I've been consistent
by having a burning muscle they like how
long has it been consistent for like
like two weeks man what the hell are you
talking about it's gotta take months not
weeks not days you do all the stuff for
months correctly especially training
hard having a hyper caloric diet getting
your volumes in and so on and so forth
and progressing and strength I can
almost guarantee you the chill grow
muscle and if you can't gain using all
these things for months on end
you're at our genetic ceiling and you've
done as well as you can and you could be
super proud of yourself folks thank you
so much thanks for tuning in to the
series best of luck on your own lifting
journey and listen if you want to know
more Renaissance period ization starting
with this youtube channel links in the
descriptions you can check out tons of
more info I promise we have way more
info see you next time for the next
videos in the next video series