but why would going overhead be better
for the the long head I don't know so
the long head is the only head that
crosses both the elbow joint and the
shoulder joint so it's the only one
that's really impacted by shoulder
position it's the part of the tricep
that will make you look a lot bigger
from the back because it pops out like
this yeah and in a front double bicep
pose it's one that drops down that drops
down the L head is not contracted at all
but if you bring your arm down you'll
feel it get way harder yeah even though
you didn't do anything different at your
elbow so if we want a stretch we're
going to achieve that by putting the arm
up overhead okay if we're trying to
achieve a contraction we're not going to
get Peak contraction with the arm up
overhead because you just saw that as
you moved your arm back behind your tors
to it got so that's where the kickback
would come in so that's why I like to
include an overhead and I like to
include a kickback you get the max
stretch with the overhead get the max
contraction with the kickback