one last thing we only count good reps
okay good couple more let's make it
fucking hurt keep your elbows up are you
[Music]
okay folks I'm Dr Mike Isel of
renissance peration for YouTube That's
Jared feather of Jared feather. net and
this is Craig Elias he's known for
having some of the biggest arms around
and he is an expert on out angling but
since he is such a man of many different
talents has a ton of stuff in the works
he doesn't have the time to get his arms
huge every single session so today we
are putting together a jam-packed Ultra
quick bicep workout for you so you can
learn how to have biceps that big and uh
damn that's huge I don't have anything
more to say you erased my brain with
that and on to the video all right folks
the first exercise here in our rapid
fire Ultra quick B seep smashing day is
going to be the free motion to arm
behind the back cable curl this puts the
biceps into a mega stretched position
which has been scientifically shown
literally to cause a more robust hyper
your response than if you were not to
curl from a stretch that does not mean
that curling not from a stretch is bad
or a waste of time but just by a small
margin getting a big stretch is a really
awesome idea and to save time we're
going to do the my rep match approach so
whatever Craig gets on the first set
with his working weight something like
between 15 and 20 reps we'll see we are
going to try to make him get just as
many reps for two other sets afterwards
but with as many my rep breaks rests of
5 to 10 seconds to catch your breath in
between as is required so if he gets 18
reps he's going to rest for about a
minute and then he's going to get back
in there maybe do like 10 reps or
something rest 5 or 10 seconds another
four four reps rest five or 10 and
another four for 18 again another minute
rest and then hit that 18 again if you
do enough of those sets pretty soon
almost all the reps are little cluster
reps Mya rep match reps very close to
failure it smashes a ton of volume and a
ton of stimulus in a very short time so
if you have to get big guns but you also
have to meet like that one bitch from
Twitter that got back to you in your DMs
then you have all that time in the world
to get it done all right enough of me
talking this supposed to be fast get
training nine at least three more big
chest chest up every tip I tell you will
make it harder not easier
10 Big
Stretch
11 good job holding that stretch right
back down right back down nice and slow
nice and slow hold that deep
stretch did you
fail fuck how many you think you had
left how many do you think you could
have done did you did 12 maybe three
more no that was it yeah I'm not used to
like more more used to like a heavier
blast you
know are you talking about Cycles or
weights
weights 10 slow all the way back 10
still you got to reach all the way back
all way back all back all back right
here right here keep going keep going
there it is Craig yeah
11 big chest deep deep deep you can rack
rack rack rack rack rack Rack oh you got
it there you go slow slow very
good all right so Craig isn't used to
this style of training and in that first
set he's not used to this exercise he
got so well acquainted with the exercise
through just a couple warm-ups and that
first set that he was able to hit 12 on
both sets ideally that's what you just
keep doing this hit the same rep number
and you don't have to do the my rep part
but in most cases especially after a few
sessions of training it's unbelievably
challenging to get as many reps in the
second and third set as you get in that
first set so if you get there amazing
super quick get out but in many cases
you have to come rack back rest a little
bit and then go again hopefully we'll
catch him this time I'll just make up a
number I'll say 15 just in case he was
sandbagging 15 this time it doesn't have
to be in one set why don't you do 10
rest then do five how does that
sound when you don't respond to me I
assume you didn't hear me yeah let's do
it let's do it man good stuff so
[Music]
far nine slow control deep
stretch come on let's
go up up up up up up up up slow slow
slow rack rest don't let go of the
handles don't let go to the handles get
the handles back
in two more big chest that doesn't count
too quick
slow do it right come on let's go come
on two more good slow reach back ni Big
Stretch there and then last one and is
if you're going to do another Big
Stretch slow slow slow slow control
control awesome awesome awesome awesome
that was fucking aw pump dude Jesus that
was really
good so last set push Craig a little
harder got to 15 reps with one my rep
match set Flawless sometimes you got to
twist things up a little bit now to our
last exercise second and last exercise
of the session remember quick session we
are going to do cable drop set cable
curl drop set let's go and see what
Jared has to say about the technique as
he demonstrates this you're trying to
keep your elbows as close as possible
and out in front of you so you're almost
trying to kiss the elbows together while
curling up pretty high and on the way
down you're letting that bar pull you
almost forward like arcing forward to
keep the elbows out in front of you so
you're not doing this shit like this is
fucking easy everybody can do it here
Arc forward stretch stretch stretch
you're emphasizing that stretch and this
even this is easier than this cuz these
actions work together to contract that
head of the bicep so you want to have
the elbows in and Up full extension that
was bullshit that wasn't rep Craig all
the way down all the way up all the way
down yes all the way NOP that wasn't it
all the way down all the way down like
this full straight arm yes and then all
the way up four drop sets 5 Seconds rest
between every single one as long as it
takes us to change the clip that's
it sound good yes so what am I doing
again
switch to this way stand here and look
that way no no mirror stuff no mirror
mirror's throwing you off just focus on
the te that was Zero all the way
stretched out yes but slow slow and then
up slow on the way down slow up that was
too quick slow slow it's supposed to
hurt better good okay elbows up elbows
up train before man let's go was that
failure yes well shit that was easy all
right
[Music]
slow good slower slow slow slow slow
slow no fast rebound come down and pause
pause and then go very good and again
slow good three more come on come on
come on come on come on pick pick that
weight up again pick that weight up
again you got let's go let's get three
good ones come on let's go one slow
doubles up slow up two one more
slow up there you go man three yes slow
as if you're going to do another slow
slow slow R gorgeous take a
break elbows up Ultra slow we only count
slow reps let's get five
minimum two slow up good one more bonus
round slow up yes again do it again do
it again let's go to failure slow up yes
and one more last one elbows up slow up
and then as if you're going to do
another slow slow slow slow R beautiful
one more set left on the whole fucking
day don't go
far come on Craig you got energy to flex
you got to train motherfucker it's the L
it's the last last girl the day come
posing out here ain't nobody posing
let's go let's go let's go let's go hit
it hit it hit it
it can I do can I go back to this side I
like it better here say what you just
trying to look at yourself in the mirror
to see my form just follow fine go go go
go go go go go it better be good
technique all right
slow yes Awesome every single one slow
on the way down and
paused yes wait a second at the bottom
slow wait and then go excellent
slow
up good couple more let's make it
fucking hurt keep your elbows up get get
back into it get back into it you're not
to failure yet this shit just get hard
there you go beautiful let's get four
more and you're done
slow up that's one it's okay
[Music]
slow that didn't count got to pause one
more slow pause at the bot the yeah yes
and then slow slow slow slow
W That's it man that's it now we getting
pumped well what' you
think it's something I've never done I'm
not going to
lie I've never I've never done anything
like this before you just like you mean
a threesome with two other dudes or a
workout are you pumped I'm super pumped
I can't even feel my arms do you like
the pump yeah so do you think you try to
implement shit like this absolutely yeah
I would definitely do this again I feel
like we've done two workouts so far and
I feel like I've done a whole workout
five five exercises at
least P's pretty good it's really
good
well I suppose that'll sign us off Craig
elas check him out he's on Instagram
he's really big he kind of invented the
out angle no no he didn't invent it he
perfected it Jared he's my son he's
great chip off the old block and uh
elevation Fitness in Las Vegas Nevada is
a great place to train friendly staff
excellent clean equipment and they even
let me in so well it's not that great of
a place if that happen do some
background checks folks see you next
[Music]
time