if we're going to try to determine what
the best chest exercises we first need
to know what we look for in a good
muscle growth
exercise first we want the exercise we
pick to have a reasonable degree of
stability to a point the more the better
past a certain point you probably don't
see an additional benefit the one thing
this criteria means is that exercises
like the bamboo bar bench and the like
likely aren't ideal for hypertrophy
they're just too unstable to be
maximally producing force in all
likelihood secondly and this is kind of
obvious but it Bears repeating you want
to Target the specific function that a
muscle has if you're not targeting the
function of a muscle you're not going to
be training it effectively next
whichever exercise you do pick should
have the pecs and the chest be the
limiting factor something like a front
raise with dumbbells might Target the
upper chest a little bit however it's
relatively unlikely to be the limiting
factor ideally you would want an
exercise to Target one of the primary
functions of a muscle and have that
muscle be the limiting factor if you're
ending a set because you're out of
breath for example that isn't going to
be ideal for muscle growth based on some
of the new Research In Sport Science
whatever exercise you do pick should
also be stretch friendly and there's a
few components to this first it should
place the target muscle in its
lengthened position secondly in that
lengthened position there should be a
decent amount of tension and finally
ideally this exercise would be
lengthened partial friendly and so you
could perform lengthen partials
something we've researched over quite a
few studies now and has been shown to be
beneficial when it comes to muscle
growth certain exercises like a Smith
machine press or a dumbbell press where
you can safely fail even a partial
repetition will be superior to something
like a barbell bench press where if you
don't have a spotter you couldn't safely
fail a length and partial repetition
indeed you would risk getting choked out
finally wherever possible we want to be
sitting or lying down versus standing up
or being bent over the more you're bent
over or standing up the more other
muscle groups are going to have to be
involved to stabilize your body and thus
it may just produce a little bit more
fatigue for not any the additional
stimulus for the toyot muscle which in
this case is the chest now I hear you
saying all right science man that's all
well and good you know what the chest
does but I don't I don't have one of
those fancy Anatomy charts in the
background so how about you tell me what
it actually does so that I know which
exercises to pick all right the pecs can
be subdivided into the pectoralis major
and the pectoralis minor muscle the PEC
major is far larger than the PEC minor
and can be further subdivided into upper
chest or clavicular chest and lower
chest or sternal chest importantly the
the clavicular and sternal HCS do have
different functions and here's what they
are the clavicular PEC is predominantly
responsible for bringing your arms
together AKA transfers adduction and
flexion it also contributes to shoulder
flexion to a lesser extent the upper
chest is also responsible for internal
rotation of the shoulders adduction and
Abduction of the shoulders when it comes
to the sternal head it's once again
responsible for bringing your arms
together AKA transverse adduction and
flexion to a lesser extent it is also
responsible for shorter extension
adduction and even some scapular
Movement Like scapular depression
finally the smaller Peck minor is
primarily responsible for scapular
Movement Like protraction of the
shoulder blades and depression of the
shoulder blades why is all this
important you ask well because the
exercises we pick to Target different
functions can meaningfully impact what
area of the PEC we target more indeed a
recent study actually found greater
upper chest growth when performing the
incline bench press as opposed to the
flat bench press and so we want to make
sure that we have a variety of exercises
Within your program to effectively
Target these different areas of the
chest fortunately while these muscle
groups do have a variety of functions
there are a few that they haven't common
the main one is transverse adduction and
flexion AKA bring the arms together if
we target this function there's a good
chance that we'll be imparting an
effective growth stimulus to both the
upper and lower chest importantly
because the lower chest is responsible
for protraction of the scapula if we
retract our shoulder blades during the
bench press or any other chest exercise
we may be further lengthening the lower
chest potentially causing it to grow a
little bit more however in certain cases
like the barbell bench press this may
not actually increase range of motion or
stretch all that much indeed by
retracting your scapula you're actually
reducing the range of motion by having
the bar touch your chest earlier before
you can get your arm out all the way
down now that we've discussed what makes
a good exercise for muscle growth and
what the functions of the chest actually
are let me break down what I think the
best chest exercises are without further
Ado I think the single best chest
exercise is the dumbbell fly first off
you're lying down and it's highly stable
compared to something like a cable fly
where you can often swing back and forth
to get the rep with a Dumba fly the only
thing you need to pay attention to to
get a rep successfully completed would
be to maintain the consistent elbow
angle that you set out with indeed the
more you bend your elbows the easier the
lift becomes so just make sure you keep
a consistent elbow angle and otherwise
there aren't really any moving Parts
because the dumbbell fly has you bring
your arms together in front of you the
dumbbell fly targets one of if not the
primary function of both the upper and
lower chest importantly the dumbbell fly
is hugely stretch friendly there's a few
components here number one the
resistance curve turns it into a
lengthen partial already by having the
most tension and maximum tension in the
lengthen position and having the tension
drop off as you perform each rep it is
already functionally a lengthened
partial secondly compared to an exercise
like the barbell bench press where you
may not be able to perform lengthened
partials to failure and safely fail
without a spotter on the dumbbell fly
for example if you fail anything partial
you could simply drop the dumbbells or
you could simply bring your elbows in
and press it up like you would during a
flat dumbbell press a cool component of
the dumbbell fly otherwise is that you
can also retract the scapula to further
lengthen the lower chest without
restricting range of motion if you were
to do this on a Barb bench for example
you wouldn't actually get much more of a
deep stretch on the lower chest because
the bar would still just touch your
chest at some point and you couldn't get
a full stretch with a dumbell fly you
can safely retract the scapula and get
an even deeper stretch on your lower
chest however besides this exercise
simply falling out of favor in the
fitness Circle for a few years now there
is a valid reason why some people
haven't been doing it it's that some
people genually do you get shoulder pain
when they do this in that case what
exercise should you be doing instead
instead of dbo fly you could consider
doing either a cable fly a machine fly
or a seated cable chest fly I think all
three of these are great options that
still provide some resistance in that
lengthen position usually you can get a
full stretch they may not provide the
same insane resistance curve that Dumbo
flies do but they are good options
especially when perform with lengthen
partials now that we've broken down with
the single best chest isolation
exercises let me break down what the
best compound exercises are for both the
upper and the lower chest because they
do have slightly Divergent functions the
best compound exercise is slightly
different the good news is for the lower
chest and the upper chest and compound
training you have a few roughly
equivalent options most of these
exercises have similar resistance curves
have a similar degree of stability and
all allow you to get a pretty deep
stretch on your chest for the lower
chest I think your three best options by
a NCH are the cambered bar bench press
the dip and the deficit push-up why are
these three options well compared to a
dumbbell exercise or a barbell exercise
or a Smith machine exercise they're all
pretty time efficient they safely allow
you to get a full stretch whereas even
with a dumbbell press you might find
that your range of motion is limited
with that being said the camber bar
bench press may be slightly less safe
for partials for the same reason why the
barbell bench press isn't that safe
either what about about the clavicular
or upper chest well the same reasoning
applies I think the three best exercises
are the deficit incline push-up where in
you elevate your feet the dip yet again
and finally the incline camber bar bench
press for the incline camber bar bench
press I would recommend an incline of
around 30 to 45Â° this is likely going to
be best for upper chest growth if you've
noticed that my exercise recommendations
are quite narrow when it comes to
compound pressing just like my shoulders
unfortunately that is for one reason for
a lot of people using these exercises
allows you to get a deeper stretch in
your pecs which is important for growth
however if you're someone who doesn't
have the equipment for this or who
genuinely finds that when you're
performing a Smith machine bench press
or a dumbbell bench press you actually
couldn't get a deeper stretch by using
different exercises then honestly those
exercises are going to be roughly as
effective as what I've recommended here
but the exercises I've recommended here
will likely be the best choice for
muscle growth for the chest give these
exercises a shot in your chest program
and let me know what you think guys I
pulled out all the stops to make this
happen upgraded the whole studio two
cameras you know better Studio better
lighting if you like the video please
comment like subscribe so I can keep
bringing you more content potentially
increase my upload frequency and I'll
see you guys my subscribers in that next
one
peace