keep it
rolling keep it going
go holy
[Music]
[ __ ] Dr pack here with my friend and
partner in crime Dr Milo wolf on the sky
scrapers of New York getting ready for a
gruelling leg workout we were challenged
to do this workout out for $1,000 for
those of you that don't know there was a
new study that came out that essentially
looked at whether adding sets every few
weeks uh is better than not adding sets
and in that study the people that worked
out essentially started with 22 sets of
quads so they did some squatting some
leg pressing and some leg extensions and
the highest volume Group by the end of
the study ended up doing 52 sets just
for their quads split in two sessions
now you may be thinking 52 two sets per
week for one muscle group that's kind of
a lot well they separated this volume
into two weekly sessions so in the last
two weeks of the study they performed
nine sets of squats nine sets of leg
press and eight sets of leg extensions
twice a week for 52 total sets today
we'll be attempting one of these
sessions now for some context Pac what's
your recent lower body training them
like so for the past year or so I
haven't done more than two to four sets
for quads now those sets came either
from leg press or some front squatting
but I've just been maintaining my quots
for the past year and focusing really on
my deadlift historically I've squatted
um near 600 lb and have been a
relatively strong squatter but at the
time my 1 RM Max for squat would say I'd
say is around 440 200 kilos so nothing
too crazy nice I've been doing a few
lower body sessions a week I would say
on average my quad volume has been about
10 sets per week 12 sets per week so
pretty low volume still most of those
sets being pretty close to failure but
nevertheless needless to say neither of
us has built up to this really high
volume in this study the participants
that ended up doing 52 sets quad a week
were gradually building up to it over
about 10 to 11 weeks so they gradually R
from 22 sets a week to 52 sets a week
over 10 weeks they have plenty of time
to get used to this stuff on the other
hand we didn't really have that but the
good McDonald posed a challenge to us
saying that if anyone could complete one
of these 26 set quad sessions he would
reward them with
$1,000 the only caveat being he needed a
full uncut video of us performing the
session and we need to do our best
perance so that's what we're doing today
exactly now in preparation for this
session we have done a sort of
acclamation session on a just one
session so we essentially went to the
gym and did two sets of squats each uh 6
to eight reps
at Zer to two reps in reserve closer to
two reps in reserve than zero so that's
all we've done we we did that a day ago
um as far as being prepared for the
sessions we're definitely not but at the
same time this uh is supposed to serve a
greater purpose than just $1,000 from ly
or is it or is it we are in Financial in
the financial district right now after
all going to make a buck yes but uh we
want to essentially argue you that doing
50 sets per week for a single muscle
group even if that muscle group is the
quads is not such a wild wild thing and
if two relatively strong individuals big
individuals were both weighing 230 plus
pounds at the moment near 240 um can do
it without any preparation and in a
relatively time efficient manner then
it's not really a big deal for sure
there's a few caveats with the study
number one is between sets they took 2
minutes minutes of rest or at least 2
minutes of rest now for me personally
set to set that means I'll be dropping
load probably like 5% or more and so by
set N9 you're really not squatting that
heavy anymore for example so that's
worth keeping in mind it's not the same
as if you did 26 sets of quads in a
session but you were resting 5 or 10
minutes s that would be a different
thing all together for sure the second
thing is not every set was taken to
failure so in law studies all sets are
at least they attempt to take every set
to failure in this study all sets were
taken to rp8 or true reputations in the
tank before failure except for the last
set on each exercise the did day we have
on training to failure versus not
training to failure does suggest that
training to failure is more fatiguing so
perhaps even though we're doing a lot of
sets here just by keeping a couple reps
in the tank it might not be as fatiguing
as you might expect and certainly if
participants had 10 weeks to build up to
this and it's only four total sessions
of 26 sets of qus personally I don't
find it that hard to believe same it was
just quads keep in mind they weren't
doing 50 sets for everything and at the
same time they started at 22 and
gradually built up sure they had that
one or those two crazy weeks at the end
but um again it's not really an
unimaginable training program
anecdotally at least we've seen Tom plat
workouts we've seen 10 x10s we've seen
small of as lifters I would argue that
if you think that this this workout
especially if you mimic the study
procedure and the length of the study
like to a te if you think that it's not
really doable then you're you probably
not really LIF it seriously you feel me
yes um on a real note part of the reason
we're doing this is because after
posting some memes about the study
online and seeing some of the
controversy around a lot of people
really didn't think it was possible like
some people straight up said oh the
stud's [ __ ] or didn't happen or [ __ ]
like that when in reality it's very
feasible and you were mentioning pump
plats even people like Ronnie Coran and
are not if you look the routines often
times per session they were doing 30 to
40 sets presumably pretty close to
failure per session though and that's
for everything and that's not in a lab
with research assistant over your head
guiding you loading the plates for you
that's also very important to consider
these people were not going to the gym
by themselves and carrying out the whole
session they were in a controlled
environment with assistance both
physical assistant as far as like
loading the bar adjusting the weight and
so on and so forth plus verbal
encouragement which makes yeah it's a
hard workout don't get me wrong but it's
not it's not an impossible sort of uh
feat of strength a common complaint
about studies is that the people take
part really didn't lift and so it
doesn't really generalize to how you
might be training right you dear viewer
of wolf coaching or Dr Pack's channel
for sure you squat seven playes per side
if you don't I'm not sure how you got
here you make eight figures minimum at
least yes exactly is what it is and so
if you're looking at a study of people
squatting one plate per side maybe you
just don't relate maybe the findings
from that study don't actually apply to
you cuz you're a freak in this case they
actually Squad three plates per side as
a win of Max to parallel that's actually
pretty respectable that's like early
intermediate level strength for sure and
they were around 80 kilos of body weight
sure so it's nearly a two times body
weight squat which means in all
likelihood it generalizes to the vast
majority of the gym population cuz most
people who' have been training have been
training for like a couple years you get
relatively few people who have been
training for like 10 plus years a so
relatively generalizable findings but
today let's see whether or not we can do
it for sure and something uh one last
thing is that because they had a 1rm of
130 kilos and they were squatting either
for 6 to8 reps or 10 to 12 reps the
weight that they were using was probably
two plates and Below especially as they
were getting towards going towards their
ladder sets so again this is not uh a
world champion powerlifter or a group of
world champion powerlifters squatting
eight plates uh for 52 sets and 7 hours
it's just a bunch of intermediates doing
a hard leg workout supervised and in a
controlled environment all right my
brother time to get rabo let's do it see
you in the gym yeah get the money ready
yeah so starting off the session we wmed
up with the barbell and gradually walked
up to about
150ish 160 kg I was purposely going
beltless cuz I figured the less effort I
could expend by putting on a belt and
taking it off after every set and by
having less constriction on being able
to breathe during these squats I thought
all of that would make it easier and
additionally the fact that I wasn't
woring about meant I could use a little
bit less weight so that was my first set
right there you could see the last repap
it was supposed to be about two reps in
reserve keep in mind so the last rep was
supposed to be reasonably hard but it
was supposed to have two more reps or so
in the tank now for packs first set even
though I'm standing in the frame again I
think it was about two reps Reserve
maybe slightly more than that um but
honestly first couple sets were
reasonably easy because rest times
weren't really impacting the stuff yet
it just felt like a regular Squad
session like I was about as strong as
usual things felt okay the second set
was a bit rougher obviously when you've
only wrested for two 2 and a half
minutes between squats you do feel a bit
messed up um can you see me but yeah the
squats initially were pretty
feasible however things gradually got
got worse and worse and in fact you'll
see that the weight drops on the squats
by between five all the way to 15%
towards the end per set so on set one I
was using around 160 kg or maybe around
330 to 350 lb by the last set I was down
to about 180 in fact here you can see
I'm using 315 already and I'm only on
set 3 and some people have criticized me
for using a more body wielding style
technique here AKA pausing at the bottom
not spending a ton of time with the lock
out Etc to be honest that's just how I
train I don't think it necessarily makes
it easier I think in fact it makes it
harder in some regards and easier in
other regards but some people have
criticized me for not using a more sort
of power building technique I don't
think it really matters within the study
there were no constraints posed on Tempo
or technique and therefore I don't think
it should have been cause for
disqualification in this case at least
in the good loud McDonald's eyes now I
think this is set number four here and
by this point it was starting to get
quite challenging the pump in my legs
was such that I couldn't really lock out
my legs and you can kind of see here
already like I'm struggling to walk it
back in um my quads are doing all sorts
of weird things at lock out which is
indicative of uh hey I've got a
substantial pump and disruption in the
quads I didn't really feel this lift
anywhere but my quads to be honest like
I did get some glute cramping Ador
cramping Etc but that was minimal rest
times were generally kept around 2 and
1/2 to 3 minutes here between sets um
the whole session took us about an hour
and 40 the cramping was starting to get
to me here uh you can see the load had
to drop substantially it's already down
to about 265 from the looks of it you
can see in my face that I am not having
the best of times but see here again
with the quads the lockout was
challenging um by set 5 or set four or
so is when it really started getting
challenging so once again as we
mentioned in the intro we weren't really
ready for this session a couple days
beforehand we done a couple sets of
squats to get an idea of what working
would be using I've been doing
exclusively linked partials in my
training pretty much for about a year
now and as such don't really have a good
gauge of what's my 4 range emotion
strength like and so I just need to make
sure I knew but beyond that we were both
very unprepared pack to a greater extent
but myself too but we thought hey let's
give it a shot it's for $1,000 and it's
to prove that even people who were not
particularly prepared for this session
could still accomplish it so here you
see me starting to really drop that
working weight down to 235 245 or
something like that really not a lot of
weight but to be honest the biggest
challenge here was just nausea and the
pump the soreness like even just walking
to the rack getting underneath the bar
was painful I think honestly during the
squats around set five or six is when I
was like am I actually going to make it
the difficulty was like eight out of 10
but we p persevered you know we kept
going here I'm down to 225 which if I
was fresh I'm not sure how many get reps
I'd get I'd get probably like 20 reps or
so maybe more um but at this point it
was so heavy and my legs were so messed
up that I actually failed 225 after I
believe five or six reps as you can see
here and I'm just about crawling out
from underneath the bar um shout out to
the research assistants though so these
are actually some of the students under
Brad shenfeld so this was all done in BR
feld's lab and Max Coleman Ryan Burke
all the other students awesome also
shout out to Rico for Rico friend of
ours for helping unload the bar and load
the bar between sets really helpful um
but again even within the context of the
study they did have someone looking over
them encouraging them just like we did
in this case but here you see me down to
under two plates for the squat and that
was you know it was rough and obviously
these squats are sped up so it doesn't
really give you appreciation of how
fatigued I was by here but here you can
kind of see like okay like the bar even
lowered here a little bit dropped back
down so that gives you an idea of how
fatigued I was by this point and
honestly the whole session was like a
difficulty of 8 out of 10 but the squats
were like uh 8 to n out of 10 like I
could have done a little bit more sets
or a little bit closer to failure or
what have you but this was a pretty damn
hard session to get through pack at this
point was also feeling the effects I
think pack was having it even worse than
me because he's really not used to
training legs that much he hasn't really
trained legs very much in a few years to
be honest um but he started squatting
recently again but he was not ready at
all for this even less so than I was and
he see me squatting like 155 or whatever
it is which not a lot of weight for me
if I was fresh but by set eight or n or
whatever this was it was a lot of weight
this might in fact be the last set uh it
looks like I might fail this one yeah
that's not going anywhere I really tried
to push through here and you can see it
by how the bar was gradually dropping as
opposed to just letting it go instantly
but that wasn't going anywhere and I
think this might be Pack's last set of
squats in this case um he was struggling
like you could tell he was very
nauseated as well he was very close to
throwing up and I think he did throw up
in the end just after squats so it was
rough uh I think if we'd had sufficient
rest it would have been a different
situation where maybe we would have been
able to get through it a little more
easily but the loads would have been
much greater so it's kind of a trade-off
there daddy but yeah his pack after his
last set of squats absolutely crushed
just like I was uh Max Coleman slightly
looking over
him but yeah that was essentially the
squats now after the squats we're
supposed to move on to like press
honestly the squats were by far the
hardest part going into like press I was
like okay how is this going to go cuz
like you can see me here I'm struggling
to even get into position my knees were
all over the place the leg press wasn't
great it's not a great machine but hey
it's what we had in the lab so that's
what we used and around this point is
when pack basically said look uh I'm
going to I'm going to bail ultimately
the prize money the $1,000 for
successfully completing the challenge
wasn't actually something that two of us
could get so as long as one of us
finished the session we're fine and Pac
moreo joined along for the experience of
it for the men memories um not
necessarily because he was intending on
finishing the whole session whereas for
me it was like look let me let me really
give us my all I think you know a I
could use the money straight up you know
hey got to support the YouTube channel
got to buy better video equipment got to
do all that entrepreneur # Sigma # rset
but equally I think it's a good way to
prove hey this session can be done even
if you're some of more trained the
participants even if you're not as
prepared as participants participants
had 10 weeks to build up to this and so
I just wanted to prove look this can be
done especially in the face of some more
vocal critics like L McDonald who to be
honest do often argue about faith and
therefore I wanted to go through it and
do a good job as I said though it wasn't
the hardest thing i' ever done it was
like an eight or n out of 10 so to think
it's unfeasible or impossible for the
average intermediate to do especially
having built up to it it's just
unreasonable and if you genuinely think
that either you're coming from a very
different place from mine in terms of
training experience and background maybe
you don't really lift or I don't really
know but it is very feasible um pack did
one set of like press I think it was a
warm up set or one actual set and then
was like yeah okay I'm going to throw up
this is not worth my time again the
prize money is only going out to one
person and therefore he C it quits there
and that's kind of what we had
discussion around but like press
honestly was substantially easier just
being able to sit down during the set
and not have my glutes and outters be I
don't know maybe it's Placebo but they
didn't feel quite as involved as they
did during the squad um but again even
with the lack I'm only really used to
lengthen partials and so maybe that
added to my difficulties at lockout
where my quads were just shaking all
over the place but it was a weird
feeling the pump was
Monumental as far as my preparation
going into the session went there were a
few things I did one I had some caffeine
when I woke up about 5 hours before this
and then I had one meal soon as I woke
up so about five or six hours before the
session but then I didn't eat on purpose
in the five or six hours before the
session I also purposely kept my fats
during that one meal very low fats do
slow down digestion and can cause nausea
during a session if they had too close
before a session and so I just made sure
that I didn't have many fats in my
stomach otherwise that honestly would
have thrown me off and I think that
might have been the differentiating
factor in part between Pack's
performance and mine is that I was
relatively careful with my nutrition
before a session the other thing I did
was by two 300 Mig of caffeine rain
drinks before energy drinks before the
session now 600 migs for me is high dose
and in fact if you look at the research
4 to 6 Mig per kilogram of body weight
seems to be the most ergogenic dose for
strength maximum strength and uh sort of
strength endurance AKA High rep work and
so 600 Mig for me was right in that
range given that I weigh around 110 kg
or about 242 lb at the time and I had
those half an hour to an hour before the
session the final thing we did and this
was in response to reading some of the
literature or case studies on Rapido
myolysis it seemed like most of the
people who ever got rapto really got it
as a result of a training pretty hard
with high volumes and B being dehydrated
and that involved often people going out
to drink in the evening or not
sufficiently hydrating during the day or
exercising in a very hot environment all
things that would promote hyperhydration
and so one thing I made a huge point of
and that we both purchased was to get
several Gatorade drinks with salt sugar
AK salt electrolytes um potassium and so
forth to maximize hydration and
rehydration specifically because one of
the big things otherwise with
hyperhydration one of the only real
known causes of cramping is
hyperhydration so if you're experiencing
a lot of cramps paying attention to your
hydration making sure you maximize that
as best you can is important now shout
out to Max Coleman as you can see in the
frame here for taking note of all the
sets being done I think this is around
set five um honestly the session was
kind of getting easier as it went on
because at this point those six to seven
reps on like press weren't really enough
to
cause much further pain and because of
how fatigued I was it kind of felt like
I was pushing but I couldn't really push
that much weight anymore so at this
point it was getting more and more
feasible and honestly it felt like the
leg extensions were going to be a bit of
a Victory lap what's worth keeping in
mind though is on the squats from set
one to set nine cuz again nine sets of
squats nine sets of like press and eight
sets of like extensions the weight did
drop off by about 50% so from about 350
to about 185 which is a substantial drop
so by the time I got to like press the
weight I was pushing was really not that
substantial so as far as how L McDonald
the person who opposed the challenge
responded afterwards to be honest in our
interactions to his credit he was pretty
s he was somewhat charitable although I
don't think there was there were any
grounds to not be charitable with this
video like for the most part everything
went according to plan and if anything I
think I train a little bit harder than
the participants in the study where some
sets I failed where they didn't fail
they were supposed to train TR in
reserve like here for example I'm
extremely close to failure actually fail
the rep whereas in the study they were
only supposed to fail the last
set so he was charitable and in fact he
did pay up a spoiler um but what I will
say is that since then he has been
anything but charitable and that kind of
goes hand in hand with his reputation
and what you hear about him from other
people is that he can be quite uh
aggressive and unnecessarily critical of
new studies and acting in bad faith and
that sort of stuff and to be honest
while Lyle isn't he isn't dumb right
like he has some knowledge in the sport
Science field he also isn't someone I
would particularly go to for information
or evidence I don't think he's that
knowledgeable so I would say if you can
stay away so then I moved on to leg
extensions you can see me sipping on
that Gatorade to remain hydrated avoid
cramping and delay fatigue as much as
possible um these did have sugar in them
as well which hopefully potentially
provided an enhancement to Performance
the data around corbo hydrates within
your session isn't actually that
compelling at least unless you're
performing super high workloads but as
it turns out this is one of those
sessions where workload is so high that
it might actually have helped out but
usually int out carbohydrate intake
isn't necessarily going to lead to
better performance or better hypertrophy
from that session now light extensions
honestly were Victory lap this machine
was part of my language an absolute
piece of [ __ ] it was by far the hardest
at lockout and there was essentially no
resistance at the top so if you're
looking at these reps and thinking wow
those look a bit odd or a bit too easy
honestly lockout was the only hard part
so you can see at the bottom it's
essentially just accelerating and at the
top it just takes a while to lock out
eventually which is the case with most
like extensions but this machine in
particular was even
worse um with regards to the soreness
after the session honestly it was a new
Benchmark if you look at the data on
soreness and swelling and so forth what
you see is that the main things that
will cause soreness the main one really
is novelty so anything you haven't
really done before mainly in terms of
exercise selection but also in terms of
contraction type and volume and so in
this case I haven't done liens in while
I haven't done range of motion squats in
while I haven't done like press with
four range of motion in well and I
certainly hadn't done 26 sets of quads
in the same session and so this was
super novel for both pack and I which
meant that the soreness was expected to
be large the second thing that causes a
lot of soreness typically is a large
degree
of um Ecentric contractions so the
protocol typically used by researchers
when they were trying to induce muscle
damage and to some extent soreness is
large volumes of unaccustomed to eent
contractions and this was kind of that
so I was expecting a lot of sess it was
unaccustomed to 26 sets is nowhere near
the ballpark of what I typically do and
then I was still able to go through it
but the soreness was honestly like if I
had a scale out of 10 with 10 being the
largest amount of soreness it would be a
10 and that was in spite of one of the
strategies we used after the session so
about maybe 3 hours 4 hours after the
session when we got home I did the
unthinkable and that is I we bought some
ice from the nearest 7-Eleven we're
staying somewhere in New York we went
home we put it in the bathtub we added
you know we let the water sink in and we
plunged into a cold water ice bath for
about 15 20 minutes now I wouldn't
recommend this usually if you know
you're trying to maximize hypertrophy
going into a cold water bath after a
session is a bad idea and I've got a
video about that on the channel but in
this case it was genuinely just how do
we reduce soreness and make the next few
days bearable I think we were actually
flying back from New York to London the
next day after a month of staying in New
York to help out with research and so we
didn't really want to have cripplingly
sore quads so I went for a a cold war
for ice bath and I think that helped I
think that did help um otherwise we just
done chilled out for the rest of the
night I felt super sleepy after the
session uh in spite of 600 Mig of
caffeine before the session and I think
that was just attributable to you know
the workload involved within the session
but yeah one thing I'll say is as you
saw in the intro we're both pretty
confident going into it and in hindsight
it was definitely feasible like past
four or five sets of squats there was
really no more doubt in my mind that I
was going to achieve the whole session
but it was hard I think I might have
been a bit overc confident going into it
and you know by the time I got to set
four or five squats I was like ah okay
this is going to be more challenging
than I thought but at some point point
there was no more doubt about my ability
to actually successfully finish the
session one other interesting component
of this is I was actually weighing about
240 here which is the heaviest I've been
in a few years
um hey I think that's the session done
hey we are done but yeah it wasn't my
heaviest to which might have played a
role as well that's the session done
getting congratul toour hugs shaking
hands and
yeah all right here we are done after
the session here at Leman call as you
can see in the VFX 3D animation rooms
that Leman college has for people to go
in and chat after they do grilling
sessions uh when they've been challenged
by certain individuals online how are
you my friend Milo I am good it seems
like just yesterday or just an hour ago
the the like session when in reality it
was eight days ago eight days ago just
just for full transparency we did record
um a debrief directly after the session
uh but for some reason the sound is uh
is poor so you know we all need like
rich rich things in in this the circle
unless the sound is making eight figures
we don't want that sort of sound we're
back with Rich house I mean look we
started the video on a rooftop in
Manhattan and now we're in some sort of
closet space in the UK so we really
downgraded what's on the wrist though
what's on the wrist though indeed um so
how was the session for you you quit
after squats correct yes I quit after
squats I joined the session for the
camaraderie and the EV uh but once I
once we finished with squats and I did a
set of leg press I was feeling really
nauseous cuz we were trying to really
keep to the two minutes or roughly two
minutes of rest that the participants
did the manuscript did say a minimum of
two minutes but given the fact that this
was a challenge for money we didn't want
to take the piss or risk being called
out for resting you know four to six
minutes which I would normally do um and
given the fact that I wasn't going to
get paid and that it was your show I
felt like you know what it's not worth
me puking or feeling horrible just to
finish the session nine sets of squads
was already like a th% increase as far
as training volume goes it was a very
hard session but um as you can see like
you did it impromptu and you are
unprepared as well and you're somebody
who's very strong very muscular who can
Squad you know a lot of weight uh so I
don't see how this is an impossible
session especially for participants that
started at 22 sets of quads and then
gradually build up over the course of
three months so yeah that's my feedback
I do agree with that although I will say
you mentioned not wanting to vomit but
off camera you did then go off and in
fact throw up a little bit right it was
the the fake vomit so it was like we
were drinking Gatorade during the
session just to to stay hydrated because
the the one sort of uh thing that we
were trying to be on top of is that you
know we're not used to the rest time so
we're sweating more than usual so yeah
we were spping on Gatorade and I went
off camera and had to like puke some the
Gatorade out but I can't claim I can't I
can't get the respect of uh the puking
crew like yeah yeah could it wasn't it
was it was that kind of puke
there a bit of fling essentially yes
indeed sure um yeah no I agree with you
I think it's interesting because both of
us usually take much longer rest times
than what was prescribed in the study
like on average between sets of lure
body compound whack typically honestly
I'll take between 5 and 12 minutes up to
12 minutes sometimes for like heart sets
what have you so going from that to
resting on average 2 or 3 minutes
between squats was I think the biggest
challenge it resulted in a bunch of
weight drop offs set to set um and
towards towards set four or five or
something is when I started being like
oh maybe I'm not going to make it
through here and that was the squats
were definitely the most challenging
part of the session I think the like
press and like extensions were a lot
easier 100% so you kind of quit after
the hor part so you can take pride in
that
um I will say again within the context
of the study I think it's certainly
achievable what about the sorness though
I think we did something afterwards that
we might want to mention to reduce
soreness and not be completely wrecked
the next day given how unprepared we
were right cuz both of us come from a
relatively low volume background super
low like I I was from a almost
non-existent volume and you were not
doing you were doing you know what 10
sets per week if that yeah at the most
uh and keep in mind 10 sets of various
IES uh you know at your own pace and
split into two different sessions um so
what we did was aside from eating like
kings uh so we went for sushi and
obviously slept well and stuff but we
also did uh an ice bath I mean a fake
ice bath because we only bought like a
one bag of ice each and it was more like
oh I'm I'm lying relatively cold water
like I had to move to feel the cold so
that's what we did yeah basically we
just immersed ourselves in cold water
like tap water which was about usually
tap water is about uh 60° fhe so if you
add in some ice depending on how much
ice you add it might be about 55 and
typically in the cold water emersion
data people use 50 to 60° fhe or 10 to
15° C for about 10 to 20 minutes and
that's kind of what we did so hopefully
it should have given us some of the
benefits for Recovery not for muscle
growth for muscle growth it's a no-o but
for Recovery might have helped with sort
of pain and anecdotally I kind of went
from being completely destroyed in my
quads glutes adaps to being still
destroyed but at least feeling like my
legs weren't so sore that I could barely
walk and just just for for the record we
still so on that day uh I did about
10,000 steps and then the next day we
hit because we were we were doing
everything uh together in New York we
hit about 177,000 steps um so even
though yeah we were pretty sore and yeah
it was a brutal workout it's not like we
did it and then had to be you know
bedridden for for three weeks life went
on as usual just super sore for sure for
sure so overall if you had to rate how
achievable that session was within the
context of the study how would you read
it um that's that's a weird uh rating
I'm what's make it up bro out of 10
eight out of 10 I don't so the study
happened 80% chance you heard it here
folks La McDonald wins again uh I just
wanted to say though because we're being
too scientific now and people will come
uh at you and at us with all the copes
is like one thing I want to highlight is
that look this workout was done
impromptu by an individual who was much
bigger and much stronger than the
individuals that took part in the study
because that's that's a c people usually
uh uh tend to make with uh resistance
training studies where they say oh yeah
they were trained but they weren't that
trained so in this case you get somebody
who has squatted 200 kilos for reps
multiple times as to grass with a pause
Etc uh that just randomly went in and
did did I don't know 300 400 500% more
volume than they usually do uh rested
much less than they usually do which you
know is is is is difficult especially
when you're not used to that sort of
fatigue and that sort of nauseous
feeling and did the study in less time
than the participants so if we want to
be you know bro about it um yeah totally
totally doable for sure so I guess a few
questions on the back of that number
one do you think that L McDon will give
us
money I don't see how he can't I mean
he's taking a long time analyzing the
video I am not sure exactly what's being
analyzed I'm not I was there and
obviously like I'm biased I can see how
one or two sets uh from my end may have
uh been further than two reps in reserve
and keep in mind the manuscript did say
approximately two reps in reserve and if
we factor in meta analytic data on the
ability of individuals to gauge
repetitions in reserve showing that they
may be imperfect by one repetition and
maybe that some participants were you
know at three or one rep in reserve or
whatever um but I was there and you can
clearly see on the video that all your
sets are definitely at 2 R if not less
than that with the lastet being actually
to failure with you failing and dumping
the bar or us helping you on the Lakers
or
whatever I I I he should give us the
money give you the money but I don't
know I can see maybe
some paralysis by analysis cope where he
then throws the ball back at you and
says do you really think this was as
hard as it should have been you know or
something I don't know um I will say the
one situation where I would actually
push to true to repon reserve and to
failure would be this session cuz I'm
being offered $1,000 to do so and for
context the way I prepared for this
session was a getting plenty of
hydration in drinking plent of fluids so
that we would get rabdo just in case
that was ever risk it's very unlikely uh
based on what we've sort of read but hey
rather safe than sorry and so we drank
plenty of fluids but the other thing I
did was have 600 mg of caffeine in about
the space of half an hour before the
session so if there was ever a time
where I was ready to go to war it was
that session so hopefully that won't be
a hiccup with successfully completing
the session yeah and there was uh quite
a few people there quite a few there was
at least like three people cheering you
on um we had music gone it was it was a
proper session we weren't messing about
um but again from the video if you if if
the video footage is the only source of
uh information that is used to judge
whether the workout happened as it
should have been or not I don't think
there's much doubt we saw some comments
in Lyle's group trying to make the claim
that you that you weren't being truthful
with your effort or that you were faking
it but I mean that's always going to be
a limitation right you can't really
prove that somebody's actually going to
failure one of the CL was also that my
technique was to bodybuilder style and
that's the bad thing it was like bro the
guidelines in the study were squat to it
least parallel and that was it like
besides that you could do whatever you
wanted and so it's it's a very weird
critique to me but hey and and for most
people when they hear bodybuilding style
they think of U potentially less strict
technique where you're doing like sort
of half reps whereas you were going as
to Grass pausing on most reps I think as
grass super low definitely below
powerlifting dep you if anything you
made it you made it harder but cool guys
look this was the highest volume one of
the highest volume workouts of the study
because they obviously they did the
highest the highest yeah yeah sorry but
it wasn't like the full week because
there was one more workout left guy went
did it un completely unprepared did
things completely uh against his usual
sort of training did it in last time of
the participants is a big guy super
strong guy I don't know what else we can
say there like obviously cool if we can
do it again we can uh we're not going to
do it we're not doing it again for sure
in closing give me a thousand bucks
thank you yeah thousand Buck faster big
shout out and uh just to close off this
video the way we should um we should be
doing it let's uh end it with it P it
is the big the big scien sickening sh
Milow Wolf the big science science the
big science even says he even
mispronounced scientist sh that's now on
screen you'll see whether or not I
actually got the money in the
[Music]
end if you like the video comment like
subscribe and I'll see you guys in our
next one peace
[Music]
peace
a