hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's video is about
how to use machines in the gym best to
grow muscle and get the most Optimum
training that you can here's the
deal machines can work super super great
for
training but while free weighs
automatically conform to your body
structure and
position if you're
5'1 versus if you're
6'6 the bench press the row the squat
they fit your body no matter what
because your body determines the
trajectory yes some taller people with
weird Lim ratios have trouble with some
lifts but a lot of times simple
Corrections can totally remediate that
machines are built for a specific range
of heights and often even not very well
and the Machine does not have sometimes
any degrees of freedom or very limited
ones so this is a big reason why
sometimes a a lot of machines are really
tough to get a good feel out of to get a
very good stimulus to fatigue ratio to
get a good tension pump burn while
minimizing joint and connective tissue
stress however we do have tips for you
here in this video how to get the most
out of your machines if you train
yourself amazing welcome this video will
be awesome for you but especially if
you're a personal trainer and you train
clients this can really help you
optimize your use of machines for
clients of all different shapes in
size remember the machine is still
limited and especially shitty machines
can only be optimized so much but
working with whatever machines you have
you can do better and you can do so with
at least five of the following
tips
first range of motion really is good for
muscle growth especially range of motion
at the stretch so you can can set up a
lot of machines to get better range of
motion out of them for example if you
have a chest press machine a lot of
times the backpad has a selectorized
moving Implement into which you can set
the backpad to be recessed back or
progressed forward if the implements
only come down so low you can push the
chest pad up and all of a sudden you can
go deeper if that pad does not exist
what you can do is take one of those
like purple yoga pads which if you don't
know what that is literally Google
purple yoga pad and Amazon will show you
all the options it's the purple yoga pad
when it comes up on Google image search
watch gpts do all this by the time the
video is out and people are like what's
Google image search goddamn young ass
ticktockers you take the yoga pad you
put it behind you and all of a sudden
that's two extra inches for your range
of motion which is something you can
probably benefit from in other areas of
your life
Bo I'm here all day
folks another idea is is many hamstring
curls specifically lying leg curls they
just don't have that stretch at the
bottom for your HS but courtesy of Mr
Trevor Fulbright who runs our team full
Ram forum for us you put a yoga pad
below your thighs right on top of the
machine lay down on it and all of a
sudden that's two extra inches that you
are moving in a very stretched highly
loaded position for your hamstrings it
can make that machine and many others a
ton
better of course leg press is the
quintessential one here for leg presses
pattern of the lower back prevents your
back from rounding and increases that
range of motion so if you lean the back
PAD as far as it goes put some yoga pads
or mats under your lower back that can
take a shitty leg press or a decent leg
press and make it into a good leg press
or even a great leg press next when you
are
training on
machines the machine is not going to be
conducive in most cases to Rapid
ballistic concentrics especially if
you're a powerlifter or someone from a
strength training background it's okay
to push the dumbbells up on a dumbbell
press really fast totally cool but on a
machine a lot of times you'll get more
out of the movement if you don't know so
much think about slowing down the
machine but being controlled with it
really having that control because the
machine already puts you into a specific
Arc controlling and really trying to
connect with your muscles may be a much
better use of your time than actually
trying to be ballistic with it number
three this this is huge if you get a
machine and you try it for a set and
you're like ah feels off don't just
leave experiment with different grip
positions with different foot positions
with different body positions to see how
you can maximize the use of that machine
you can even do the set to set to set as
you warm up you warm up with a wide grip
on this pull down machine thingy you're
like nah you warm up with an nrow grip
second set you're like me you w up with
a medium grip and you're like okay okay
okay H that feels best my joints feel
pretty good I can feel my lats
stretching now we're in business right
what you're going to be
doing as you're warming up and even as
you're using the machine over several
weeks is playing with your position of
your body and every all the limbs that
you're moving and even the settings in
the machine like moving the chest pad
and the butt pad and everything is
you're going to be looking for the
stimulus to fatigue ratio proxies things
like does one of the positions get you a
better pump than the others does it get
you a better tension does it get you a
better burn of the target muscles and is
one of the positions or some of the
positions better for your joints and
connective tissues maybe you set the
skull crusher weird tricep thingy
machine on a certain setting and every
time your elbows are creaking you're
like ow ow this is stupid if you raise
the seat all of a sudden you're in there
jamming and your elbows feel great
that's some stuff to look for instead of
just abandoning and being like this is a
terrible triceps machine maybe it is but
you haven't really given it due
diligence yet Point number four is to be
open-minded about set and rep range and
modality possibilities for a machine yes
if you lie down and do two sets on a
hamstring curl for sets of 10 you may
not get a whole lot of anything out of
it and be like this is a fucking stupid
waste of time I could do two sets in a
stiff leg a deadlifter a good morning
and my hamstrings Z be at for 5 days
true but hold on a sec that machine also
doesn't fatigue you much and it doesn't
take as long to do a set of leg curls as
it does to set up walk out do a set of
stiffle a deadlifts walk back in sure
shit you don't have to load weights on
the bars just select Riz so now the Le
try three or four or five sets try a
different
modality like a my rep match for example
sets of 10 but every time it's a set of
10 and if you get too tired to do sets
of 10 do as many reps as you can and
then finish up the set with as many reps
as are left over first set of 10 really
close to failure second set you get
eight rest for a few seconds then get
the other two that's 10 next time you do
six rest two rest two that's 10 total
that multiple times bringing close to
failure is nothing you'll ever need out
of most freee movements because they're
more stimulative but on a machine that's
not so stimulative you can really really
milk it out and the other thing is to be
open-minded about repetition ranges yeah
sets of 10 on a stia deadlift are
amazing but on a hamstring curl sets of
10 could be like nah I'm just not
Contracting the muscles for long enough
to do a whole lot of anything Tri sets
of 15 Tri sets of 20 all of a sudden
that provides great variation something
different than you do with your
stiff-legged deadlifts but at the same
time it zaps your shit and it
works lastly exercise order you may use
leg extensions for example as a first
exercise and it's like eh not a lot
going on here I don't I just get tired
and I'm tired for my squats but if you
try leg extensions after squats or leg
presses as a and I hate to use this term
this is a bullshit term finisher or just
a second or third exercise you can find
that okay wow now that I'm warmed up now
that I feel stronger now that my joints
are good I can really milk the last
little bit of burn out of my leg
extension so then you wouldn't use use
leg extensions as a prime mover sorry as
a first exercise really big movement but
you wouldn't write them off completely
either you would say hey they're great
but maybe as a third movement or as a
second movement in my quadriceps
routine at the very
end once you've done your due diligence
you've tried all these things some
machines you'll be able to get a lot out
of you're like oh my God thank God I did
these things cuz man this this leg press
now I can really get a ton out of it
other machines you be like this is a
fine machine to do for a metacycle or
two with all the alterations that I've
been doing but it's never going to be a
rockstar machine and then three is you
get just a totally dog shit machine that
you don't want you want to try at least
a few sessions usually a Mesa cycle with
a machine and it'll be able you'll be
able to tell which one of those
categories you can place that machine
and if it's really Category 3 it just
fucking still sucks fuck it abandon ship
go use all the other machines be like
yeah that machine just blows dick maybe
come back to it a year or two from now
your body will be different your
leverages your Technique you might be
able to figure something out about how
the Machine Works to make it better and
then you can try it again so don't
necessarily write it off for forever
forever but feel free to confidently
write it off for at least a while cuz
look some machines are just built by
people who don't seem to know
biomechanics the human body or basic
mechanical engineering principles crazy
how that works folks thank you so much
for tuning in if you want more nerdy
stuff we will see you in the members
section and if you want extra super
nerdy stuff including personal
interaction with me um you guys know how
people do feet picks on only fans I do
eye picks it's really close-ups of my
eyes it's like whoa how many veins are
in there a ton but I can't tell you
exactly because you'd have to pay see
you in the team full ROM Forum that link
is below plus you get crazy discounts on
RP products and well you also get diet
and training and follow along with the
rest of us thank you so much for tuning
in like subscribe swipe see you next
time