there's almost no way this diet cannot
work for you if you simply execute it as
written which is a huge deal here's how
big the deal is you can even take a
holiday a weekend or even a week-long
vacation and stick roughly to that chill
diet without losing crazy ground or
falling off the wagon so you saying okay
got a long weekend with the wife in
Chicago for 4 days at the end of May and
I'm going to grind for 2 weeks before
that I'm going to do chill diet every
day on that vacation it's going to be
awesome cuz it's plenty of food when I
come back I'll have gained a pound of
body water 2 days after grinding I'm
back to making the best gains I've ever
made hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength this is video number two in our
three-part series on the simplest diet
ever and today I'm going to be talking
about what the simplest diet ever is in
great detail explaining to you how to do
the diet all right so there are four
fundamentals of dieting for fat loss
that are really really critical the
first is choosing healthy foods the
second is controlling your portions the
third is meal number and timing and the
last is hydration and supplements and
the last is the least important of those
four let's talk about every single one
and give you some awesome
recommendations that are completely
reflected for you in the simple Science
Diet which if you don't want to wait the
rest of this video just click on the
link in the description and you can just
get the thing right now so choosing
healthy foods why does it matter well
when you're eating to get leaner or
healthier or more muscular or all three
and you especially want to weigh less
because being leaner means weighing Less
in almost all cases what foods you
choose can create an awesome Baseline
for your success you choose Good Foods
it's going to be easy or if you choose
not so great Foods it's going to be
tougher than it needs to be and it
sounds complicated because there are
tons of foods out there what are you
supposed to do go food by Foods 10,000
Foods you go well this one you can eat
this one no this one definitely no this
one yes for sure unfortunately or sorry
totally backwards fortunately science is
here to save the day and it's actually a
lot simpler if turns out that in order
to execute an awesome fat loss diet you
only need to be familiar with four food
groups four categories of foods to be
able to make excellent choices and build
every single meal with all four of these
categories these categories are
displayed for you in your simple Science
Diet they are lean proteins veggies
fruits and Grains and healthy fats in
that order of importance so for some
reason you can't access some food or
another for a meal here and there lean
proteins are the core most important
veggies are the second fruits and Grains
which is one category is third and
healthy fats are awesome to take in as
needed when you need them but the least
important of all four of those you can
build every single meal in your simple
Science Diet daily requirements just by
combining one of each of these food
groups seater food guide pyramid
although who the hell uses that thing
anymore anyway fun in the 1980s just to
give you guys an example of what foods
exist in each one and there's examples
in the diet itself lean proteins we're
not talking about rocket science here
folks we're talking about things and all
of these are options you can do one or
two or three of them you can eat this
all the time chicken breast turkey
breast egg whites tofu fish or seafood
of any kind all work for veggies well
really all veggies but things like
spinach broccoli bell pepper zucchini
carrots all totally valid if you're
asking about a veggie right now in your
head but what about that the answer is
also yes fruits and Grains typical
fruits and Grains like apples
blueberries whole grain bread brown rice
oats no wrong answers healthy fats
things like avocado olive oil almonds
flax seeds peanuts Etc and there's tons
more examples in the diet itself these
are the core foods that you're going to
be eating notice they're all super
nutritious and super healthy and very
filling so they reduce your hunger which
is a really really big deal as you can
see in the simple Science Diet which
we've displayed on the screen for you
you just need to pick one source for
each meal and you're good to go so you
pick a protein you pick a veggie you
pick a fruit grain you pick a healthy
fat boom that's meal next meal you can
pick the same exact things or mix and
match however much you like if you ever
get stuck and you need more examples of
healthy choices cuz she is getting old
just ask an AI tool like Bard or do they
still have Bard Gemini Claude of course
the everr and ever great chat GPT grock
if you have access to that sort of thing
you just say hey what are some healthy
options that are awesome for fat loss
dieting um that fall under the category
of lean proteins give me 10 options it's
just going to crap out 10 options and
you go give me 10 more options it's just
going to do that this is something AI
has solved completely as a problem
random ideas about foods to eat the fit
of diet is the easiest thing in the
world for it and because we don't do
magic diet and Magic food ingredients
here at RP anything the AI thinks is a
lean protein Source or a fruit grain
especially if you type healthy into the
prompt you're getting the right Foods
it's highly unlikely it's just going to
be like Twinkies oops very very unlikely
and yes I know that Science Diet is a
dog food brand that uh we applied for
partnership with them and they denied us
so we're like fuck it we're going to do
this for humans instead oo Scott video
guy wouldn't it be sweet if we made kind
of like kind of tough guy diet And the
tagline was for the dog and
you do you feel tough yet well hold on
keep listening maybe you'll feel tougher
still here are another few tips of how
to make your meals in the simple Science
Diet I have three good tips where you
first you can eat the same or similar
meals multiple times a day if you really
like chicken breast with broccoli with
brown rice and with avocado oil and
you're like I this meal is super
convenient for me to make I love it
let's do it let's eat it can I eat it
for breakfast and lunch and dinner and
my late night snack fuck yeah the answer
is yes batch cooking a bunch of food at
the same time or even take out going to
Chipotle and asking for like some cuts
of chicken and some rice and stuff like
that can facilitate this no problem the
flexibility is diet is immense because
the perfectionism is down to almost zero
you can make your diet as varied or as
uniform as you like two people with the
same identical success and fat loss and
health one person all their meals
basically 90% for 12 whole weeks of the
diet can look the same and another
person it's like every meal is like
trying to win the Instagram award for
best food selfy like what the hell how
many colors are in that motherfucker you
put a rainbow in that shit that's
impressive I don't even know what that
meat is but is that like duck meat with
chicken meat with ground beef and a f fo
grys
isn't that illegal to eat or some shit
like that Scott do you still eat
fogra it's not illegal but it's on ethal
unethical so he doesn't eat it as what
he's trying to
say so that can make your diet really
simple okay so we know how to choose
healthy foods what about portion sizes
you'll notice something interesting we
put the portion sizes in the diet
represented in fist sizes and finger
sizes two fingers worth of fats two
Fists Full of carbs so on and so forth
why did we do that what a curious
curious decision how much food you eat
matters how much calorie you're taking
in absolutely matters it's the most
important part of a diet for fat loss
and for getting leaner 100% but our
method of prox approximating calories is
using Fist and finger size measurements
kind of odd is that really going to work
the answer is it absolutely will for a
few reasons four reasons at least that I
can think of four four reason number one
weighing and measuring your food
precisely can be pretty important for
for bodybuilding contest prep but in
almost anything else including just
getting super lean and healthy and
losing a bunch of fat using the simple
Science Diet it's total Overkill does it
work you bet do you have to do it no if
you're in a competition in which you
have to throw a ball precisely at a
Target that's some number of feet away
does it matter for you to know how far
away the target is yes if you're just
tossing the ball around with your kids
or to your dog are you like o how far
away is the dog is it 9 ft or is it 10
some going to be like are you nuts just
do this dieting for fat loss is not
overly complicated and just a rough
understanding of how much food you're
eating based on fist amounts and finger
Amounts is totally good enough next
another really cool thing about using
Fist and finger Amounts is your fist and
finger sizes generally scale to your
body weight so the diet works for
everyone you think like how the hell can
a 100 pound person eat as much protein
as the size of their fist and a 300 lb
person eat as much protein as size of
their fist and both are getting enough
protein weight yeah okay 300lb people
have bigger fists than 100 lb people
unless you're like a pro boxer and
you're just built for the ship then
you're 100 pound and you have fist size
of 400 lb persons that's dope I would
get into fighting ASAP but unless you're
that person there is some genetic
variation generally smaller people have
smaller fingers and smaller fists and
the die fits right in point number three
we intentionally chose the portion sizes
displayed in the diet because it's going
to say every single time you're eating
it's going to be how many fists and
finger fulls of the lean proteins
veggies fruits SL grains and healthy
fats you get precise measurements for
all of them precise measurements Fist
and finger measurement we chose the
number of fists and fingers food amounts
you're going to eat per meal so that
almost everyone of every metabolism and
physical activity requirement is going
to lose weight and fat on the diet if
you have a fast metabolism and you have
a really high level of physical activity
you're going to lose more weight on the
diet on average than someone who has a
very low physical activity and a slow
metabolism but we made the diet kind of
n ly enough so that everyone loses so
the degree of precision doesn't much
matter anymore because the diet kind of
works for everyone right it's kind of
like if one person wants just a cup full
of water and one person wants a a tall
glass full of water and you're asking do
I have enough water for this if you have
a two gallon jug of water you're good
and it doesn't really matter how tall
the glass is or how short the cup is
you're going to be just fine now if it's
eight glasses of water maybe that's a
different story but here we made the
diet nice and restricted in its food
intake so that it's going to work for
almost everyone Point number four last
point of why the Fist and finger thing
works so well because remember Fist and
finger measurements are so goddamn
simple but do they really work they do
and here's Point number four as to why
they do there are actually two types of
diet included for you in the simple
Science Diet one is called The Grind
diet as labeled as you can see on the
screen one is called The Chill diet the
grind
diet is named aptly it is a big
reduction in calories for most people
it's going to have you being pretty
hungry and a little bit low on energy
and it's going to be really tough to do
for weeks on end or longer but good news
we put another diet in there another
mode of dieting the chill diet or the
chill mode and as aptly named it has
much more food in it and will either
have you losing at a much slower Pace or
have you maintaining and even filling
out a little bit so that you can recover
a ton to begin another run of the grind
diet and in the instructions that you'll
get with the simple Science Diet it
basically tells you to run the grind
diet for as long as you can until and
it's got specifics of how to measure
these things your hunger your energy
levels and your sleep are notably
disrupted so you basically run the grind
diet until you're like bro I this is
getting pretty gnarly then you run the
chill diet until you feel a lot better
and then you run the grind diet again so
you go in waves the point at which you
switch to the chill diet the chill diet
will either reduce the hunger energy
levels that you're experiencing
detrimental energy levels or sleep
levels back to sustainable ones
increasing them rather reducing hunger
increasing energy increasing sleep so
that you can sustainably lose weight if
you're a person with a faster metabolism
and you're very highly active you can do
a lot of chill diet days and really just
chill diet is still a fat loss diet for
you you're good to go or it'll just
completely eliminate these things after
a few days maybe a little longer and you
can go back to grinding again so you go
chill grind chill grind chill grind and
over the entire time you are losing fat
sustainably if we just threw the grind
diet in there a bunch of people would
burn out if we just threw the chill diet
in there a bunch of people would lose
fat and a bunch of people would just
like lose nothing at all and a few
people would actually gain weight but
because they're thrown in combination
and you do the grind diet for as long as
you're able and then you do the chill
diet until you feel refreshed it's a
self-solving problem for essentially
everybody this back and forth between
the diets is a really big deal it lets
you push at your own pace and
everybody's different for example if you
have a faster metabolism you may be able
to do 3 days on the grind diet you lost
a crapload of weight your body's like
bro this is way not enough calories and
then you have four days of the rest of
the week on The Chill diet still lose
some weight but feel a little better at
the end and then do three grind and four
chill three grind for chill just like
that in a little zigzag pattern if you
have a slow metabolism the amount of
food in the grind diet might actually be
pretty decent and you're losing weight
slowly and you might be able to do two
weeks of grind and then take a long
weekend of chill get all your energy
back and then do two weeks of grinding
again and everything conceivable in
between you might ask yourself how the
hell did they build one simple diet for
everyone Fist and finger measurements
account for a ton of it and the ratio of
chill to grind accounts for basically
the rest there's almost no way this diet
cannot work for you if you simply
execute it as written which is a huge
deal here's how big the deal is you can
even take a holiday a weekend or even a
weeklong vacation and stick roughly to
that chill Di it without losing crazy
ground or falling off the wagon so
you're saying okay got a long weekend
with the wife in Chicago for 4 days at
the end of May okay that's awesome or
whatever in July and I'm going to grind
for two weeks before that I'm going to
do chill diet every day on that vacation
it's going to be awesome because it's
plenty of food when I come back I'll
have gained a pound of body water two
days after grinding I'm back to making
the best gains I've ever made versus you
got a hardcore diet you use your tracker
you're on the diet you go on vacation
and it's like man fuck this diet and
then you eat God knows what everything
in sight balloon up like a gigantic
animal and then come back and you're
like time to restart the diet
from the same place I was three weeks
ago no bueno soon as you're done with
chilling for any good reason you back to
grinding no problem here's the big ask I
have of you if and when you're going to
try in this diet just be honest with
yourself and do not push too hard be
consistent on the grind diet do it for
as many days as you can but no more
don't try psychotically burn yourself to
the ground and when you're on the chill
diet stick to the chill diet don't need
any extra bullshit but if you stick to
both diets for as long as you need slash
can for each one you're going to get
really really good results 99 times out
of a 100 all right that's for portion
control problem solved number three
concern meal number and timing we put
four meals into the simple science St
because we're don't we don't fuck with
different meal numbers that's not one
day you eat two meals another day where
you eat six none of that every day is
the same four meals why four meals four
meals gives us three specific advantages
one is it allows you to eat consistently
throughout the day to support energy
levels if you haven't eaten in 16 hours
you ain't doing shit so if you spread
the meals roughly evenly you get energy
throughout the day which is really
awesome especially in a fat loss diet
when energy is not really at a premium
another thing is it lets you fuel hard
workouts eating regularly is amazing
fuel for hard workouts and we expect you
to be training hard in most cases to get
the most out diet whether or not use the
RP hypertrophy app where if you get the
simple Science Diet comes in the
beginner bundle and you get free access
to the RP gim free diet which just with
a pair of dumbbells at home you can have
great workouts or you do your own
workout doesn't matter this diet because
it has four really evenly spaced meals
per day it fuels you for workouts like
wo and it's been shown through the
direct collection of data and science
that about four roughly evenly spaced
high protein meals support muscle growth
and prevent muscle loss really well
pretty close to optimally three is
pretty good but not quite as good as
four five may not be any better than
four so four meals a day checks the
protein box regularly and then it's
really hooking you up and also a really
cool thing about four meals a day it's
not so many meals that it's annoying you
guys see people on diet like time to eat
meal number seven Christ full-time
eating and it's not some kind of
intermittent fasting shit which is
totally cool it works respect but like
man I'm not try to eat once a day bro
should starve me to death four meals a
day is is sustainable for almost every
everyone is super possible it means
breakfast it means lunch it means dinner
and it means evening snack easiest thing
in the world that being said nutrient
timing meal number and timing together
is a very small part of the effect for
the diet it matters but it matters very
little how do I mean that you might want
to try to eat on average all of the
meals in the simple Science Diet about 5
to six hours apart from each other
filling out the whole day that's cool
that's probably the best approach on
average on average but if you're not
really hungry in the morning and you
want to wait a few hours before you eat
your first meal do then all the meals
are clustered closer together and you're
less hungry in the later part of the day
when you tend to get hungrier you can
even combine the last two meals and have
a really big dinner if it's for a
special occasion or you just like big
dinners a awesome no problem it's all
good so yeah four meals a day is great
but even if you combine a few of them or
delay a few of them it's no big deal the
biggest deal is the overall food in
those four meals you eat every day
that's the biggest deal should you
spread them out a little bit yeah sure
should you get psychotic about it
absolutely not lastly the last concern
with meal timing is this what about
workouts and meals I have my workouts
when should I eat the only
recommendation I have here is twofold
one don't work out right after you've
eaten because it's going to make you
sick and two as soon as you're done
working out you should have a meal
within 30 minutes to an hour after so
that means if you have a meal at 6:00
a.m. and your next meal is planned for
11:00 a.m. 9 to 10 a.m workout sounds
really good something like
that guys that's it as far as the
structure of meal number and timing yes
the term simple in the simple Science
Diet is no joke we really did mean
simple if you want a complex diet for
Next Level results in Elite physique our
RP diet coach app which you can get on
the App Stores is absolutely designed
for that I use it every day I love the
app can we call it simple not nearly as
simple as this no way to lose weight
build muscle and become much healthier
and much leaner the simple Science Diet
or if you don't want to pay us any money
no big deal you can just build your own
version of this just from watching these
videos is going to work super well for
almost everyone and there's a link to it
in the description if you want to buy
stuff but lastly hold up don't click the
link yet I mean click it if you want
what about hydration and supplements
that was the thing we haven't talked
about yet hydration and supplements
there are lots of supplements that you
can take vitamin D magnesium zinc EPA
and DHA healthy fats essential fats
creatine protein
the list goes on if you're doing the RP
di coach app and you're more of an
advanced uh body composition alteration
athlete that was complex you probably
want to invest in a few of these if
you're doing the simple Science Diet you
don't need to take any supplements
period And if you do take them the
percent that your results will be
enhanced is Tiny and you may never
notice yeah we recommend probably taking
a multivitamin daily just to round out
and make sure the insurance policy
effect is handled but even that's not
necessary especially if you're eating
lots of different colors of fruits and
different kinds of whole grains you're
probably good to go and as far as
hydration is concern you can have any
kind of non-caloric drinks that you want
on this diet that's right you can have
coffee you can have tea you can have
diet sodas of any kind in an essentially
unlimited quality as long as you feel
energetic and you're peeing off yellow
or clear you're good to go don't try to
smash fluids into you people say like
hydration is critical for shut up
hydration is critical for keeping you
alive and if you're really dehydrated
you're bad at sports if you're normally
hydrated everything works totally fine
and you don't need to get super pernicky
like people can ask like how many cups
of water I do I need a day you thirsty
no don't worry about it you thirsty yeah
have a couple cups of water it's
literally that simple I will say make
sure you don't have caffeine really late
at night cuz that screws up your sleep
and sleep is super critical to results
but you're an adult you probably know
how that works by now and caffeine also
helps with Hunger which is something we
talk about in our next video coming up
next week about how to manage some Diet
difficulties so if you have caffeine in
the morning it's totally cool enjoy just
make sure it's not interfering with your
sleep in the meantime check out the
simple Science Diet in the link in the
description and I'll see you guys next
week for the last video in the series
[Music]