okay what is going on everyone welcome
to a new episode of the science applied
series so this video is going to cover
the second push workout for the week so
we'll be hitting the chest shoulders and
triceps for the second time I'm so
remember that with the push-pull leg
split we're gonna be hitting every body
part twice per week and in general I
wouldn't recommend doing the exact same
workout twice per week maybe in the case
of hardcore beginners but that's just
because the research that we do have on
daily undulating periodization or dup
points toward better gains when the reps
sets and exercises are varied from
session to session within the training
week that's unlike the last workout
which started with the horizontal bench
press we're gonna be kicking things off
with a vertical press to emphasize the
shoulders first and so we're doing four
sets of six to eight reps on the
overhead press you may remember that
activation patterns tend to be higher
with dumbbell shoulder press variations
however I prefer to use barbell presses
from a pure strength perspective they
allow for easy steady application of
progressive overload and I think a
classic movement like the overhead press
will have a large degree of strength and
power carry over to other exercises and
here I like to wear a belt to help
increase intra-abdominal pressure and
improve force transfer allowing for more
overall weight to be lifted putting more
tension on the shoulders and you'll also
want a solid lifting shoe for a nice
stable base of support as you initiate
the press you want to tuck your gluts in
sort of getting your hips underneath the
bar then you want to press up and
slightly back overhead so that when
viewing from the side the bar should be
moving up and down and a pretty much
perfectly straight line also up next is
the close grip bench press here we're
doing three sets of eight to ten reps
and unlike the previous session where we
were doing a heavy powerlifting style
bench press with a wide grip heavy
weights and a pretty big arch here we're
dropping the weight back and using a
more slow and controlled tempo we're
also using a more moderate arch here
allowing for a greater range of motion
which might be valuable from a
hypertrophy perspective research also
shows that using a Close Grip elicits
greater activity of the clavicular or
upper head of the pecs and a wide grip
so if your upper chest is lagging
consider bringing your grip width into
about shoulder width at least once a
week now if chest is a weak point for
you I'd recommend swapping the order of
the
first two exercises personally I like to
alternate priority between chest and
shoulders session to session since I
don't really have one lagging behind the
other but as always you want to
prioritize your weak points by hitting
them earlier in the workout when you're
fresher and stronger um so after that
we're moving on to an incline dumbbell
fly for three sets of ten to twelve reps
and I'm counting this as an optional
exercise just because I don't think you
necessarily need a fly here to grow the
pecks presses should do the trick on
their own for the most part but if your
chest is lagging it might be a good idea
to get some extra isolation volume in
and well if I had to pick just one fly
movement it'd be the cable fly because
of the more consistent resistance curve
I have recently rekindled my liking for
the dumbbell fly because I find that
unlike with the cables it's so much
easier to feel a weighted stretch here
it's like the dumbbells really stretch
the pecs out so much more at the bottom
end of the range so even though the
tension is more variable which might be
a drawback it also has a plus since
stretch is another potentially valuable
factor for hypertrophy and again this is
why combining different exercises with
different loading modalities within the
training week can be so valuable now
while I'd normally recommend a 45 degree
incline angle based off EMG data from
trebs ita√∫ which found the best upper
PEC activation had a forty four degree
bench angle I found it really
interesting that a new study published
last year found that for dumbbell flyes
specifically there was no difference in
clavicular or upper PEC activation
between flat and incline variations in
fact the flat fly actually had a slight
edge even for upper PEC activation and
this makes sense when you look at what
happened at the anterior delt as you
increased the bench angle as soon as
they jacked the incline up the anterior
delts really took over but for me
personally I still use the incline just
because I find that especially when I
point my thumbs toward one another and
really squeeze my upper pecs I can still
feel a much stronger mind muscle
connection with my upper pecs doing them
this way and as of this year the mind
muscle connection has finally started to
gain some solid support in the
peer-reviewed scientific literature in
terms of enhancing muscle hypertrophy
alright so up next is a superset between
the rope upright row and banded lateral
raises and we want to think of both of
these movements as side delt exercises
the main goal here is to just flood the
side delts with a bunch of volume in a
short period of time through two
different loading patterns so up first
is the upright row and I know a lot of
people are wary of this exercise because
of potential shoulder impingement issues
and this has been acknowledged in the
literature as a potential risk however
the literature also acknowledges that
the upright row is perhaps the only open
chain multi-joint movement that targets
the middle deltoid making it desirable
and you can mitigate impingement risk by
avoiding elevation of the elbows above
shoulder height
so basically try to keep your elbows
below your shoulders and you should be
fine
and just like any exercise if you start
to feel pain during or after the
movement you should stop doing it one
thing that I'd like to do here is think
about initiating the row by driving my
elbows out so I think about pulling the
rope apart instead of just pulling it up
and for me this really gets my side
delts firing and also helps me to think
about driving out so performing shoulder
abduction rather than pulling up which
is going to mostly hit the traps and the
biceps which isn't the goal here also
research from McAllister and colleagues
show that a wider two times shoulder
width grip led to more lateral deltoid
activation so while you can't really go
that wide with the rope I think that
initiating the movement by pushing out
serves to sort of mimic a wider grip and
gets you out as wide as you functionally
can so like I said we're super setting
here with a banded lateral raise mostly
for the sake of time and for generating
more metabolic stress and in my own
training and coaching experience I found
that swamp Allah side delts with a lot
of volume is a pretty reliable way to
get them to respond well and there's a
relatively smaller muscle they can take
quite a beating so I really don't think
you need to worry about overtraining
here and we're using the band here
because it gives a different resistance
curve than the cables from the last
workout where here you're getting more
and more tension as you reach the top
end of the range so you'll feel like
getting tougher and tougher and near the
top and I like to throw this in mostly
for the sake of variety I do think that
the Egyptian or lean away cable lateral
raises optimized from a biomechanical
point of view I also see merit and
combining different resistance curves
throughout the week for the best
development overall okay moving on to
the triceps we're doing only one
isolation movement here so make sure you
make it count
and it's
the one-arm tricep overhead extension
it's the last time we did a press down
with the arms down at the sides which is
gonna target the lateral or outer head
to a larger degree of it the lung or
inner head actually contributes more to
the overall mass and appearance of the
triceps muscle so I think you definitely
want to include an overhead movement as
well and again doing one arm at a time
will help prevent left-to-right
imbalances one thing I like to do here
is grip my shoulder with my opposite
hand to sort of walk everything in place
and prevent me from cheating too much
and really just focus on isolating and
squeezing the tricep and because the
triceps will be really active and all
the other pushing exercises we've done I
think that one isolation tricep exercise
per push day is enough but if your
triceps are really lagging or you're
highly advanced you may want to throw in
another movement of your choice for two
or three sets so to finish out the
workout we're doing an exercise that
hits all three the chest shoulders and
triceps I like to think of this as a
so-called
finisher exercise and so it's the
medicine ball push up and we're just
taking these two an RPE of eight so once
you get to the point where you think you
couldn't get another two reps call it
off now but week to week you should find
a number to aim for and try to keep
adding reps as the week's go by and most
of you guys I think should be getting at
least twenty to thirty quality
controlled reps here and apart from this
just being a fun and challenging
bodyweight exercise there is some
literature showing that using an
unstable base of support during the
pushup does increase tricep muscle
activity so there is some science-based
justification for including it I'm so
guys that's gonna conclude this workout
and the full week of push workouts I
just want to quickly tally up the volume
here for both of these workouts and I'll
actually put this up here on the screen
so you guys can pause and read for more
on volume but in short this should be I
think the sweet spot for volume for most
intermediate level lifters more elite
level trainees will likely want to add
maybe a few sets or even a few exercises
and beginners may want to slash one or
two sets per exercise especially in the
first few weeks when starting out with
these workouts but I think that for most
this should be just about right so
that's it for this one guys I hope that
you really liked it before we go I have
to thank him for supporting this video
I'm in case any of you guys aren't aware
I think
Kym's is one of the few truly
science-based companies out there
offering both prescription and
non-prescription hair and sexual health
products for men and they're going to be
rolling out new skincare products later
this year as well I'm so hair loss
affects 66 percent of men by age 35 so
hims is a place where you can get
affordable quality medical
recommendations and treatment from
actual licensed medical doctors without
the inconvenience or sometimes potential
discomfort of having to go into an
actual medical clinic for some of these
issues so hims is offering a virtual
visit with a licensed doctor and a month
trial of the complete hair kit for just
5 bucks to viewers of this channel so if
you go to for hims com forward slash
Nippert or click the first link in the
description you can get started with
your first complete hair kit today and
of course hims takes your privacy very
seriously
so all interactions will be kept
confidential and they do offer medical
grade solutions to these issues so their
treatments are well established within
the medical community and backed by
solid scientific evidence now so thank
you hims for supporting the channel and
sponsoring the video make sure you check
out that first link in the description
box if you are interested and thank you
guys so much for watching I really
appreciate it leave me a like if you
enjoyed the video or if you found it
informative please subscribe to the
channel if you happen to be new and I'll
see you guys all here in the next video