[Music]
welcome to the house of hypertrophy is
it true that lifting weights is a waste
of time for maximizing muscle growth and
that instead static holds in the
contracted position followed by slowly
lowering the weight is the secret no
doubt it's a bold claim and it's one
made by Mike Miner as well as indirectly
by Arthur Jones who was the founder of
the hit training system Mena States I
have come to discover that lifting
weight is is a waste of time the
positive portion of any exercise the
lifting of the weight is the least for
Ive in terms of stimulating and increase
author Jones States the negative part of
work Steve is by far the most productive
and the most important part of exercise
and when you leave the negative work out
of exercise you have little or nothing
of benefit left you may be wondering how
on Earth you would use this information
to help your training there are a few
ways Mike menes describes his approach
with my clients I have been putting a
heavier weight than normal on the leg
extension machine a weight considerably
heavier than they can handle for 6 to 10
reps to failure I help them into the
straight L contracted position and they
hold it there for as long as they can
literally and then I emphasize now start
to lower it very slowly under control
reset psychologically and let's do one
more besides leg extensions leg Coes lat
pull Downs pull-ups chinups lateral
raises and biceps Coes are exercises
where this method can be done this
method May sometimes require a partner
to assist you with lifting the load into
the static hold position but if we
forget about performing The static hold
all together there are some creative
ways you can challenge yourself more in
the lowering part of an exercise without
a partner before quickly describing
these some of you may be wondering about
just slowing down the lowering part of
normal training the thing is your
muscles are approximately 40% stronger
during the lowering phase so although
slowing down the lowering part of normal
training provides a greater challenge
throughout the lowering you're still
going to be held back by your lifting
strength so it's not quite optimally
challenging the lowering part even so we
will discuss if you should slow down the
lowering part with normal training later
on in this video nonetheless here are
the methods that more effectively
challenge the lowering parts starting
with lowering only many people are not
strong enough to perform the lifting
part of Nordic cods and reverse Nordic
CS so just training the lowering part is
highly challenging the same applies to
pull-ups and chin-ups if you're not
strong enough to lift yourself up yet
just training the lowering of the
movement can be challenging you can even
use weighted pull-ups or chin-ups with a
load you're not strong enough to lift so
that you're just challenging yourself on
the lowering portion we also have the
two1 method where you lift the load with
two limbs but then switch to lowering
with only one limb thereby providing a
greater challenge in the lowering pot
for that limb this can be done with a
range of exercises leg extensions leg HS
seated rows chest presses landmine rows
and landmine presses
finally there's the more risky cheat
method where you use momentum and cheat
to lift the load and then you control
the lowering portion there are also
special machines that provide a greater
challenge in the lowering part such as
flywheel devices but I'm assuming the
majority of people don't have access to
this but the information in this video
certainly applies to these special
machines too so should you be
implementing any of these methods into
your program can it unlock a new level
of gains and elevate your physique to
new heights well both Mena and Jones
provide their anecdotes I had one client
start up with Me 3 and 1/2 months ago he
couldn't do the whole stack on the leg
extension for even one rep but after two
months he was up to the whole stack for
14 reps then he hit a sticking point he
couldn't go beyond 14 Reps for three
workouts this was when I started working
with the idea of static contracted holes
and lowering for two or three workouts
in a row all he did was hold a very
heavy weight in the straight leg
position and lowered it doing it two
times in that fashion as I described the
next workout we went back to see if
there was a carry over to the positive
strength and his his leg extensions went
up to 20 reps that's a phenomenal
Improvement Mena goes on to say and I'm
I'm not exaggerating when I say that
this is literally one of the most
stunning discoveries in recent
bodybuilding science author Jones States
uh in We did an experiment at the
military academy at Westport in
1975 the Bengals a professional football
team from Cincinnati had
hired a football player uh they' signed
him up to a contract had given him an
$80,000 bonus the man weighed 286 lb and
one of his tests in order to be accepted
was he had to Chin himself a certain
number of times you know do a pull up on
a bar this man couldn't begin to Chin
himself 12 days prior to his reporting
for the training camp they sent him to
us in in desperation and said make this
man capable of chinning himself
otherwise we're going to blow our
880,000 we've given him the 80,000 he
spent it it's gone if he can't chin
himself we're going to have to drop him
so do something please you got 12 days
to do it well you know we take him to a
chinning bar he reaches up he grabs a
hold of the bar he tries to pull and
nothing happens so what do you do well
you can't train him in a positive manner
he's incapable of pulling himself up so
we put him on a bench
in the top position and then we removed
the bench and told him to lower himself
the first time we did it he went zaap to
the floor he just about yanked his arms
out by the roots he couldn't even do a
negative chin he couldn't lower
himself so we held him up we stood under
him held him by the Bucks and gave him
assistance so that he could do part of
the negative work 12 days later he was
tested he did 4 and 3/4 's chins in a
normal fashion pulling himself up and
lowering himself down pulling himself
back up he didn't quite get five but
that was more than enough to pass his
test although these anecdotes from Mena
and Jones are highly fascinating by no
means do they sincerely prove the
superiority of the methodology these are
just two individual anecdotes no
comparisons with other training were
made and muscle growth wasn't measured
fortunately the scientific research has
come a long way since Mena and Jones
made statements and the literature Can
Shed light onto whether Mena and Jones
were on to something sit back and relax
as we dissect the science on this
fascinating topic we'll get to the
bottom of how muscle growth Compares
between the lifting and lowering
portions if any of the methods outlined
are superior and we'll also learn about
some underrated facts about how muscles
generate force and adapt to
[Music]
training before deconstructing how
growth May compare between the lifting
and lowering portions I would like to
dissect the first part of men's
recommendation specifically which
involves a static hold at the most
contracted position in other words an
isometric at the contracted position
Mena believe this to be powerful
obviously the only place that you can
achieve a maximum contraction would be
in the fully contracted position that is
the only position of the exercise where
100% of the muscular bulk can be
activated we have research verifying
that static holds near the contracted
position indeed stimulate hypertrophy
however there is nothing Superior about
this in fact the same research finds
that holding static contractions at more
lengthened muscle positions generates
more muscle hypertrophy the research on
partial range of motions further
supports this notion that is partial
range of motions at lengthened muscle
positions tend to build more muscle than
partial range of motions at contracted
positions for example this 2014 paper
compared leg extensions with a partial
at lengthen positions to contracted
positions and vastest lateralis growth
was better with the lengthened partials
another 2021 Japanese paper compared
preach chos with a partial at lengthened
positions to contracted positions and
combined biceps and brachialis growth
was better with the lengthened partials
in fact regular viewers of the House of
hypertrophy will know that emerging
research specifically three Studies have
found that a partial range of motion at
lengthened muscle positions built more
muscle overall compared to a full range
of motion more research is required to
verify if partials at lengthened
positions are always more Superior to a
full range of motion regardless all of
this data would indicate that although
static holes at the contracted position
do evoke muscle hypertrophy there's
nothing special about it why could this
be after all Mensa said the contracted
position was the only position of the
exercise where 100% of the muscle bolt
can be activated well Mena wasn't quite
correct when the muscle is fully
contracted and you're squeezing it you
shouldn't confuse the feeling as an
indicator of the actual forces being
generated by the muscle fibers muscles
generate Force thanks to their sarom
which are the force generating units of
muscles here's how a sarom looks force
is generated when things called the me
heads extend from the me filament and
pull on the actin filament towards the
mline these forces are transmitted to
the tendon causing the muscle to pull on
the bone when the muscle is shortened
fully sometimes the sarcomas can be
excessively shortened to the point where
many M and heads cannot extend and
attach to the acting filaments to
generate Force another Factor we need to
consider is your central nervous system
that's the CNS which is your brain and
spinal cord remember muscles produce
force in the first place thanks to the
electrical signals they receive from the
CNS it may come as a surprise to some
but most people CNS cannot fully access
100% of a muscle Force produced reducing
potential there is some degree of
deficit for example this study found
subjects could only access 84.5% of the
quadriceps maximum Force producing
potential whereas it was 95% for the
elbow flexes and carves these are called
your voluntary activation levels quite
interestingly a couple of studies
indicate voluntary activation may be
higher at more lengthened positions in
other words your CNS has an easier time
accessing the force producing potential
of your muscle fibers at lengthened
positions a final Factor we need to
consider is passive forces besides the
myosin and active interactions that
generate force your muscles have
structures that can generate Force when
they are stretched such as Titan which
is within the sarcomere itself this is a
passive force and rubber bands can help
you conceptualize this when you stretch
a rubber band it produces passive Force
to resist the stretch and when you let
go of it that passive Force snaps it
back into its original shape Titan
operates in the same way generating
passive forces when stretched all these
three reasons tell us why the most
contracted position isn't necessarily
the position where the muscle produces
the most force or where 100% of the
muscle bulk is
activated now although all this research
outlined indicates that static holes in
the most contracted position aren't
special this doesn't discount men's
method yet because remember the static
hold is just one part the second part is
controlling the lowering parts of the
movement this raises the question are
Mena and Jones correct is the lowering
part the most productive with lifting
being a waste of time and providing
little
benefits a paper from Japan provides a
fascinating insight into how growth May
compare between the lifting and lowering
of an exercise 53 previously untrained
individuals were assigned to a lifting
only lowering only normal group or
control group The control group did
nothing and expectedly made no gains so
we'll ignore them all the other groups
train the preach Ur with a partial range
of motion at the lengthened position two
times per week for 5 weeks the lifting
only group just performed the lifting
motion with an investigator placing the
weight back to the
start the lowering only group just
performed the lowering motion with an
investigator placing the weight back at
the
top a normal group performed both the
lifting and lowering portions as you
normally would all three three groups
perform three sets of 10 repetitions
with the same dumbbell load the dumbbell
load was progressed from 30 to 100% of
their maximum isometric strength it was
found elbow flexor growth consisting of
the biceps and brachialis increased the
most in the normal and lowering only
groups with minimal gain seen from the
lifting group at face value these
results indicate the lowering part of
the exercises are overwhelmingly
responsible for the growth seen from
normal training with lifting adding very
little this exactly supports what Arthur
Jones stated when you leave the negative
work out of exercise you have little or
nothing of benefit left however there is
a potentially crucial limitation in the
Japanese paper we don't know how close
the failure subjects got all we know is
the groups use the same Dumbo load which
was progressed throughout the study but
based on the numbers I speculate it's
quite likely the subjects were trading
quite far from failure for a fair chunk
of the study why does this matter with
the lifting phase of an exercise taking
reps in close proximity to failure
ensures we achieve High muscle fiber
Recruitment and forces in this portion
which is essential for optimizing the
stimulus for growth you probably don't
have to go all the way to failure
getting three to two reps away from
failure could
suffice we have a range of studies that
have had subjects train harder with
lifting only repetitions and much better
hypertrophy is achieved in these studies
special machines were largely used that
unload Ed the lowering phase so that
only the lifting was resisted based on
this data if we return to the paper from
Japan it's likely if subjects went
sufficiently close to failure we'd see
lifting only to produce better
hypertrophy moreover perhaps the normal
group thanks to the addition of the
lifting phase getting closer to failure
would see even better growth surpassing
the lowering only group accordingly i'
speculate normal training is probably
Superior to lowering
only however we've just been talking
talking about lowering only training
with the same load that you'd use with
normal training as alluded to near the
start of the video when muscles are
producing force during the lowering of
an exercise you're a lot stronger
approximately 40% stronger before going
any further an interesting question is
why are muscles stronger while
lengthening Titan might be the answer
recall Titan is a structure found within
the sarcomas providing passive tension
when the sarom stretches there's
speculation that when your muscles
generate Force while lengthening Titan
Alters its structure such that it can
generate even greater passive forces
therefore the combination of these
greater passive forces from Titan with
the forces generated from myin and actin
attachments may be the main reason why
muscles are stronger while lengthening
during muscle shortening when lifting
it's only the mein and actin attachments
that are really contributing to force
production near the start of the video
we also mentioned a range of methods you
can use to more optimally challenge the
lowering part of exercises I would
describe these as overloaded lowering
training the key with these is you're
lowering away under control that you
can't lift or at least would struggle to
lift with the two1 method though you're
lifting the load with both limbs you're
then switching to only one limb to
perform the lowering and presumably this
one limb would struggle to lift the load
with some exercises like Nordic Coes
reverse Nordic Coes pull-ups and chinups
assuming you're not strong enough to
perform the lifting part yet just
performing controlled Low Reps means
you're overloading this part as for
men's method I would actually say this
is pretty close to qualifying as
lowering only overloaded training recall
he has subjects use quite heavy loads in
the first place on top of this a static
hold at the contracted position is held
until fatigue first this would
essentially pre fatigue the muscle and
make it very hard if not impossible to
lift the weight further thereby meaning
the upcoming controlled lowering
somewhat replicates the physiological
condition of overloaded lowering
training this raises the question how
effective are lowering only repetitions
when they are overloaded beyond what can
be lifted remember I showed you this
graph demonstrating that training harder
with lifting only can produce notable
growth all the studies also had other
groups that were performing lowering
only repetitions which were overloaded
special machines were used to achieve
this and these machines unloaded the
lifting part so that lowering only
overloaded reps was before performed
this did actually produce slightly more
hypertrophy versus the lifting only
training as a result all the methods we
mentioned that overloaded the lowering
portion including menor's method are
likely going to be quite effective for
building muscle but does this mean
they're Superior to normal training well
this data is just comparing lifting only
to lowering only normal training isn't
just lifting it's lifting plus the
underloaded lowering reps and we know as
per the Japanese study underloaded
lowering reps still produce respectable
hypertrophy as a result normal training
might end up producing similar
hypertrophy to lowering only overloaded
reps indeed this is exactly what this
paper established as far as I know it
seems to be the only paper comparing
normal training to lowering only
overloaded reps allbe it in untrained
older individuals muscle growth was
similar between both now some of you
might be quite surprised at this you may
be thinking wait a second considering
how much muscle those under loaded
lowering reps built in the Japanese
paper shouldn't normal training go
beyond and surpass lowering only
overloaded training or conversely
perhaps you've been thinking something
entirely different this whole time
you're thinking since men's method also
involves a pref fatiguing static hold at
the contracted position which we know
can stimulate hypertrophy shouldn't this
make it Superior to normal training well
I think both are probably incorrect I
think some kind of threshold to the
amount of growth that can be generated
from your reps exists and it may be
related to the interaction between
stimulus and fatigue this ultimately
means the growth produced by normal
training just ends up being similar to
lowering only overloaded training and
menor's Method research on accentuated
lowering training leads me to speculate
this what is accentuated lowering
training we've just been discussing
lowering only overloaded reps with the
machines in the studies resulting in no
real lifting reps performed but there
are even special machines out out there
that can challenge you well during the
lifting phase and then increase the load
to overload the lowering phase this is
accentuated lowering training in fact
the 21 method may be considered a form
of accentuated lowering training since
the lifting part is performed with two
limbs you would think that accentuated
lowering training should undeniably be
superior for building muscle since we're
challenging the muscle highly during
both the lifting and lowering Parts but
there have been 11 studies to my
knowledge comparing how accentuated
lowering training compares to normal
training and the majority of them find
similar hypertrophy between both perhaps
because there's only so much that can be
stimulated summarizing this section the
lowering part of normal training does
seem to contribute respectively to
muscle growth but provided you're
trading near to failure the lifting
portion will still contribute to muscle
growth lowering only overloaded training
and accentuated lowering training can be
effective for building muscle but the
over evidence would suggest they're no
more effective than normal
training so far we've just been focusing
on the overall magnitude of hypertrophy
but based on a couple of studies some
might suggest that despite the overall
magnitude of muscle hypertrophy being
comparable between normal training and
overloaded lowering training the type of
muscle growth they produce is slightly
different this is actually a highly
fascinating speculation let us explore
it more
we have some research indicating that
lifting only repetitions May
preferentially grow the middle regions
of a muscle more while lowering only
overloaded repetitions better grow the
lower regions of a muscle furthermore
the type of growth experienced at the
cellular level could differ between
lifting only and lowering only
overloaded training we know sarom are
the force generating units of muscles
one of the primary ways muscles increase
in size is by adding more sarom sarcomas
can be added on top of each other which
is called an increase in sarom in
parallel or sares can be added next to
each other which is called an increase
in sarcomas in series we have some
research alluding to the idea that
lifting only reps predominantly
increases sarom in parallel while
lowering only overloaded reps
predominantly increases sarom in series
as a result methods that overload the
lowering part may do well to grow the
lower regions of muscle and stimulate an
increase in sarcomas in
series as for normal training remember
it's lifting plus underloaded lowering
reps and likely thanks to the inclusion
of these underloaded lowering reps
normal training has actually been
documented to cause pretty impressive
growth at lower regions of a muscle as
well as likely an increase in sarcomas
in series this seems to be particularly
true when using a full range of motion
that achieves a lengthened muscle
position or even using a partial range
of motion at lengthened muscle positions
now lowering only overloaded training
may still produce slightly better lower
region growth and increases in Psycho
series versus normal training but I
don't know if these are practically
meaningful enough in the long term yet
therefore in the absence of other
research my current speculation is that
if you're just performing normal
training you're probably not leaving
much on the
[Music]
table one of the justifications from
mener ditching the lifting portion was
that he thought it was excessively
fatiguing and prolonged recovery the
that the the positive or the lifting of
the weight is a negative in that it is
the one portion of the exercise that
makes the deepest inroad in the recovery
ability meno wasn't correct we now have
solid data demonstrating that lowering
only overloaded training causes a lot
more damage sess and strength reductions
in the days after compared to lifting
only training we even have data
indicating that combining both lifting
and lowering only overloaded training
I.E accentuated lowering produced no
more fatigue than lowering only
overloaded training indicating the
addition of the lifting did not
exacerbate fatigue rather the
overwhelming amount of fatigue was
attributable to the lowering Parts this
is something to be mindful of if you'd
like to perform lowering only overloaded
training it's going to be quite
fatiguing at least initially but your
body does produce a range of adaptations
that reduce the amount of fatigue you
experience over time these adaptations
are called the repeated bow effect and
at the house of hypertrophy we've
previously dissected this study which
found after a training session of five
sets of 15 maximal lowering only
overloaded reps substantial fatigue
damage and soreness was present for at
least 5 days after the training but as
subjects kept training with these
lowering only overloaded reps across 10
weeks they experienced a lot less
fatigue damage and soreness in fact by
the 10th week there was very little to
no soreness damage and fatigue in the
days after training therefore if you are
including lowering only overloaded
training your recovery from it should
improve over time nonetheless the main
point of this section was to demonstrate
that contrary to men's thoughts at the
time the evidence certainly does not
support the idea that lifting is more
fatiguing than
lowering if you're searching for further
guidance on programming to obtain your
desired phys physique it can be tricky
and time consuming however our high
quality partner the alpha progression
app can help you generate an
evidence-based training program that's
100% custom to your needs in less than 3
minutes simply specify the equipment you
have how often and how long you want to
train for and if you want to focus or
neglect certain muscles there are even
Advanced options to periodize your
training and Implement D loads there are
over a quadrillion input combinations on
which your plan is based and with the
touch of a few buttons you can customize
things further through analyzing your
past performance the app provides
Progressive overload recommendations
during your workouts to help you
continue making gains the app
automatically generates graphs that
display your long-term progression
thereby saving you time from having to
manually track your progression the link
in the comments and description gives
you a 2E free trial of all the premium
features and if you like it and decide
to go beyond the link gives you 20% off
a subscription I truly believe the app
is awesome and the reviews speak to
[Music]
this before wrapping up I would like to
discuss the role of tempo during normal
training how far should you lift and
lower this 2015 meta analysis combined
the results of all the studies up to
that time and found that provided you
were performing repetitions to or very
close to failure individual rep tempos
between 0.5 and 8 seconds produced
similar muscle hypertrophy note these
durations combine both the lifting and
lowering phases more recent research
further supports the notion that both
faster and slower rep speeds can be
similarly effective for building muscle
it had subjects trained the leg
extension with reps to failure with one
leg using a 1second lifting and 1 second
lowering Tempo and the other leg using a
3-sec lifting and 3 second lowering
Tempo here were the time under tension
durations for each leg and despite the
difference is muscle growth was similar
between both as a result provided you're
performing your reps near enough to
failure you're free to train with
whatever repetition speed you prefer
however some people have suggested
combining a faster lifting Tempo with a
slower lowering Tempo could be the
recipe for Superior gains what does the
research say about this two Studies have
indeed found that when using a 1-second
lifting speed on the preacher curl using
a 4sec lowering speed tended to produce
better biceps gains versus using a
1second lowering speed however three
other Studies have more conflicting
results one paper out of Japan found
that when using a 2 second lifting Tempo
on the back squat thigh gains were
similar between using a two and 4 second
lowering Tempo another paper from Brazil
found when using a 1se second lifting
Tempo on the leg extension rectus for
morus and vastus lateralis growth were
similar between using a 2 and 4 second
lowering speed but vastest medialist
gains were greater for the 4 second
lowering speed finally a study out of
the USA found that when using a 1second
lifting Tempo on the leg extension gains
in anterior thigh at one region were
similar between using a 1second lowering
and 2C lowering Tempo but gains at
another region of the anterior thigh
were actually greater with the 1se
second lowering Tempo all in all it's
clear the research fails to currently
establish a unanimously Superior
lowering Tempo but it's also clear the
speed you lower with isn't the make or
break for your trading program you're
going to make gains either way so I'd
recommend using whatever lowering Tempo
you
prefer Mena and Jones were partly
correct in that the lowering part of
normal training contributes respectively
to muscle growth but there claims that
the lifting part was a waste of time and
provided little or no benefit isn't true
provided you're training near to failure
the lifting portion will still
contribute to muscle growth your muscles
are approximately 40% stronger during
the lowering and methods that get you to
challenge yourself more during the
lowering part can be effective for
building muscle including mentor's
method but the overall evidence would
imply they're no more effective than
normal training this should not be
mistaken for me saying no one should
ever perform these methods if it's
something you'd like to try and you can
do it safely with any of the methods
outlined then that's perfectly fine bear
in mind that contrary to men's claims
overloaded lowering training can be
quite damaging and fatiguing at least
initially but your body does produce
adaptations over time that decrease
damage so this isn't necessarily an
issue thank you for watching feel free
to check out the alpha progression app
or our recent video that dissects a
fascinating new study on set numbers for
building muscle