you cannot labor in perpetuity doing
what you want and be upset that you're
not getting what you need to
get hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today I'm
going to talk to you about a little
something a little bit more
philosophical but nonetheless a
philosophy that ends up being very very
applicable to muscle growth and to
getting you especially the results that
you want which is a big deal so
there
are potentially two points in an
intellectual
space which concern us and by us I mean
folks lifting weights and trying to eat
right to get certain
results the first point is what you want
to
do like I really love High bar squats
and barbell bent rows and I can do them
until I'm blue in the face if someone
wrote me a program that had just those
two lifts in it maybe standing barbell
shoulder presses I'd be happy as a clam
I'm doing what I want in the gym maybe
that even extends to eating what I want
which is Chipotle for every meal of the
day yes it comes out of my
backside largely the same with extra
blood of course my blood but it feels so
good to take
in that's point one things that you and
I want to do they're not the same things
but everyone has kind of an glomeration
of strategies and gym exercises rep
schemes proximities to failure
frequencies of training every single
variable on any single spectrum of
variables you have a place where at
least for the time being that you want
to be you want to do this you like
it then there is another intellectual
point in that same intellectual
landscape now this point is what is
theoretically at least close to IDE deal
to do to get the results that you
want because remember we don't simply go
to the gym to do what we want in most
cases mostly we're at the gym to try to
get results and we try to get the
results doing mostly what we want but
sometimes what gets best results and
what we want to do may not line up there
are entire other areas in your life
where only what you want is what matters
like if you're you know I'm saying let's
say you're in college and you got a
hookup buddy and you guys are doing
great no emotions just the nasty like
making sure that you get what you want
and that she or he gets what they want
is like the only thing you're not trying
to make a baby sure shit not unless you
planned it out and married and all that
stuff there is no purpose to the
activity other than the activity itself
when you're watching a movie that you
like it's like what do I like this movie
or not if you're on a plane you're
flying somewhere and you're trying to
scroll through their little system to
try to pick a movie you're not like what
what movie is going to be ideal for me
to watch based on a number of metrics
the fuck does that even mean what you
like is the answer the final answer so
that what you like and what is optimal
is really the same point but in training
we have uh something that might pull
those two apart and make them different
points the Quest for
results because what you want to do
maybe things you like to do I like to
squat but maybe what I need is more
rectus femoris that middle part of your
quad to show on stage when I compete in
bodybuilding and one of the exercises
that stimulates it the best far better
than H than any kind of squatting can do
is a leg extension so that I want to
squat but I need to leg extend in
addition to squatting of course in order
to get the results that I want so there
is what you want to do and what you must
do it is very important to realize that
sometimes those points don't line up
now there is nothing by itself wrong
with doing what you like you like to get
your Technique a little Jiggy little
fucking swinging put some more plates on
that motherfucker hey God bless you
you're in the gym For the Love of the
Game and that's awesome you want to eat
three meals a day you want to eat six
dope no wrong answers all that stuff is
some kind of effective it'll get you
some kind of results until of course it
doesn't but I'll get to that just a sec
there's nothing by itself that is wrong
with doing what you
want and thus this video is not an
attack on doing what you want and being
some kind of optimal bro and technically
speaking that's not a 30Â° bench press
incline angle un thus it does not
optimally simulate your pectoral L major
which is an impression I stole from Dr
James Hoffman RP Dr James on Instagram
give him a follow full full of awesome
stuff and one of the funniest P persons
one of the funniest people I've ever had
the pleasure of knowing so nerd voice
aside the idea of doing what you like so
long as it's getting you some good
results that you're happy with nothing
wrong with it we're just going to put it
away and leave it the fuck alone we're
not bullying that today but I'm trying
to bring your attention to the disparity
potentially between these two points
because what you like to do may be quite
different at some points from what you
have to do in order to get your best
results because what you like to do is
mostly an emotive experience you're just
feeling your way to it what you must do
is an evidence-based Auto regulatory
perceptive experience which is like you
apply the best practices as learned by
bodybuilders coaches and scientists and
delivered to you by me on this channel
or like 50 other channels that are
fucking amazing at this shit right
better than me and then that strategy is
what you apply if it's more mechanical
it's more machine-like it is a list of
to-dos which you some of them you may
like some of them you may not like some
of them you may downright hate but
here's the
difference if those points are
sufficiently
separated then you cannot labor in
perpetuity doing what you want and be
upset that you're not getting what you
need to get so you want to do some
things but you're not just in the gym
unlikely anyway which you're probably
not watching these videos if you just go
to the gym to have fun it's an odd place
to just go have fun it hurts they're
sweaty people it's gross the Disco Tech
as I called it back in my day aka the
club that's where you go to just
straight up have fun right you go to the
gym to get results too and if doing what
you want in the gym is no longer or has
never gotten you the results that you
need and by need I mean not need in some
Grand Universal sense nobody fucking
needs to be jacked I sure sure don't
need to look like some kind of weird
light-skinned Chewbacca or some shit
like that but you say you need these
things you say you want these things you
want 10% body fat you want bigger quads
you want your biceps to round out a
little bit nobody needs this but you and
the way your training may not get you
these results either at all or in a use
of time and energy that is something
you're okay with so yeah you'll
eventually get a big back training like
this in five years hold on a sec what if
I train more optimally yeah in two years
Years you'll notice really big
difference shit am I really willing to
pay three years time to do what a little
bit more of what I want than what I have
to do that is a decision that you have
to make I'm just here to bring your
attention to the fact that these could
be two different
things how did I get the idea to make
this
video uh talking to enough folks IRL
watching some videos on YouTube um
seeing some samsul look shit in the in
the metaverse
and reading uh the not occasional
comment especially on my Instagram posts
of people really emphasizing the fact
that in the gym you have to do what you
like and what you want to do and Jesus
Christ they're not wrong not even by a
mile the most important factor for
adherence for consistency which gives
you all the other gains is man really
liking what you do because it's the most
important because it's the most
predictive value if someone really is
passionate about something that's the
best predictor that they're going to
keep doing it versus almost any other
really any other
predictor so liking some shit is really
really awesome and people just really
emphasize that you they'll say you'll
critique I'll critique someone's
technique on a YouTube video on one of
the exercise scientist critique videos
people say yeah but I hear you but you
got to do what you like and and that's
totally true you do have to do what you
like if you want to keep doing it and
keep getting some kind of results but
some kind of results may not be the
results that you want to get so there
comes a a point
where you may have to do what you must
whether or not you like it approximately
or like it a lot or like it at
all
now ideally ideally and this is not
always possible what you can
do is kind of learn to love what must be
done maybe not all the time maybe not
every instance but if I have to save my
fatigue level by cutting my reps shy of
failure and I don't like that because I
like to grind and go all the way to
failure and throw
up I might be able to retool my thinking
to say you know what what is it that I
do what is it that I can like about this
and what you can like about it for
example is the idea that you know when
you're not pushing a super close to
failure you can really work on your
Technique a ton because that's the only
focus you can really work on your mind
muscle connection that's really awesome
and then all of a sudden you don't hate
going shy of failure you love it but
maybe for a slightly different reason so
that what you must do go shy of failure
to preserve your ability to continue to
overload let's say in a fat loss phase
comes ever so closer a little bit closer
maybe a lot closer maybe overlapping the
point of what you want to do so ideally
you take this whole universe of things
you have to do to get the results you
want and you transpose it it onto the
universe of what you like and want but
you can't just pretend that shit you
have to get a little thinking and feel
out how you can rearic what it is that
you need to do to make it fit into a box
that is labeled what I like it's not
always possible it's often possible on
the margins which means you can at least
learn not to totally fucking hate some
shit you have to do I mean I go to work
every day you guys think I like making
these videos every second of my time on
this channel I fucking hate I hate
public speaking I hate how I look hate
talking to a camera and don't let him
find out about it but I have a dart
board there's only Scot the video guy's
face at it every fucking day I don't
even throw darts at anymore I just throw
fucking Rotten Tomatoes at it I tear It
Off the Wall the butler put another one
up they know how much I want to fucking
hate JK but we all have stuff in our
life we don't like to do how many of you
guys love to brush your teeth I mean
just can't fucking wait to wake up you
wake up it's totally 4:00 a.m. you're
like shit shit shit uh going to go back
to sleep I try to fall asleep I hope
it's 7:30 soon so I can jump out of my
bed and brush my teeth what the fuck you
must be some if you like that don't tell
us in the comments because you're a
crazy person actually do so we can have
the um the FBI come over to your house
and discover corpses which is what no no
doubt you keep in your basement so we
all do stuff we don't love to do but we
at least try not to fucking hate it I
mean if you hate brushing your teeth and
really feel the emotion of hatred what
if two things are going to happen you to
stop brushing your teeth and then no
more dates uh or two you're just going
to hate a large fraction of your life
and why you could just rearchitecturing
your expectations so that the results
are now more and with what you want to
do so if you like to train a certain way
and it's not going to get you to look
just the way you want but it's going to
get you to look damn good you had better
become very familiar and very intimate
and really start to be okay with looking
damn good instead of the perfect version
of yourself because you're not willing
to do what it takes to get the perfect
version of yourself that is not a
reality that either a you're going to
get or B get anytime soon so it's all
about this whole talk is about aligning
your expectations and your practices
with reality one of those three things
has to shift at the very least possibly
all three in order to get the shits
aligned you guys know what happens
fucking it's like the moon the Venus and
the fucking stars line and open to hell
portal to Hell opens you know all shit
Breaks Loose was a Scott video guy you
ever seen the movie um Fifth
Element how much of that movie did you
watch on mute and rewind the lelu Dallas
multipass
scenes there's dialogue in that
movie that movie is not one minute 55
seconds long when she's like fighting
her way out of that shit with the
titties and the tape she's get yeah she
so honestly uh her getting made scene
even though it's pure science fiction I
can't watch without tearing up at the
beauty of science legit isn't that
fucking weird Scott the video
guy uh yeah the tears don't come out of
that part of your body that's not tears
in any case we
digress fucking
tears can we're getting cancelled that
she's of age I think well technically
she was like a day old no you're getting
cancelled for sure Scott that's real bad
news
so what you want to do what you expect
it will give you and what you have to do
to meet those expectations should be
aligned if one of those things is off
like as they say in South Park you're
going to have a bad time maybe not a bad
time but you could have had a better
time wrapping this up Sam suuk is the
new big
thing and that's fucking great there
among all of the other benefits of the
Sams phenomenon is the idea that a lot
of people are learning from him by proxy
or from his kind of uh stated claims
that you got to love what you're doing
in the gym and that's so so fucking
important I not detracting that at all
as a matter of fact I made up this whole
talk just to be able to use samsic in
the thumbnail so we get some fucking
likes and
Views you guys I don't want to have to
cut down to 250 Butlers these people
need jobs I don't know their names but
they need jobs keep clicking on things
and buying
stuff it's a great approach to Samsula
has pure
passion but on the other end and taking
nothing away from Sam
whatsoever there are folks who follow
Sam who look up to him and as well they
should that do not look like Sam never
will look like Sam and worse they're not
going to look like how they want in the
time frame in which they
want because they're leaning a little
too heavily into doing what they like
and feels good versus doing the Dirty
Work of doing what you
must so if you want
your best results if at any point you're
doing what you like in the gym you put
the barbell down and you look in the
mirror and you're like man fuck I lift
all the fucking time why don't I look as
much like I lift as I think I look and
you Avail yourself to the scientific
literature um you watch you know
channels like for example Jeff Nipper's
Channel and you realize like oh there's
science to this shit you check out Milo
wolf you check out Dr pack you check out
meno henman's YouTube channel which is
fucking amazing and you realiz like man
there's actually facts out there in the
world and some of the facts about how
you lift to get the best results or eat
to get the best results do cardio to get
the best results aren't exactly like
some shit I want to be doing and there
sure shit not stuff I'm doing now once
you become aware of this give it some
thought and
think there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
back monitoring and adjusting your
workout at all times so for all that
work you're doing you can be sure you're
getting the best
results what is more important to me
doing the stuff I like to do right
now and continue to get the results I'm
getting or maybe venturing out and doing
some discomforting things at least some
new things things that you might not
fall in love with right away or ever
shit I've been married for
long just kidding Crystal I swear to God
baby if you see this please don't
fucking hit me not again I make money
with this and actually Scot if I got hit
in the face I probably look
better back they supposed to be thanks
God in any
case consider that
sometimes I don't want to put too fine a
point on it but the thing that separates
children from adults as children do what
they want adults do what they have
to adults get res results oh hey I got a
fucking meme out of that Children Cry
mostly and also sore themselves
ostensibly they have some other purpose
I'm not really uh familiar
with all jokes aside if you're not
getting the results you want there's
this whole universe of evidence-based
practice that may forward you ideas
about what to do that you're not
currently doing better technique reps
and Reserve progression and
periodization some exercises that you're
like H this is like lame TI Tok shit I
want to fucking smash barbells I feel
you but there's feeling and then there's
thinking and if you think about it
sometimes doing the shit you don't
really want to do like your homework in
high school is going to get you the shit
you want long term man like a college
degree and and a a highly lucrative job
in a big city see or peaked biceps which
the latter of which is clearly the more
important in any case doing what you
love is awesome and if you can learn to
love what you have to to do holy shit
you've got it made but sometimes you
going have to grit your teeth a little
bit and do some shit you don't love some
Jocko willing type shit and then you're
going to get much closer or to the
results that you wanted and look back
and maybe just maybe say damn I'm really
glad I pushed myself to do some shit I
wasn't comfortable doing which is my
whole life fellas I don't even know what
the fuck I like it's been so
long my 450 PB dominatrix knows exactly
what I like however oh boy
anyway she'll be here real soon to put
the fucking punishment on me so I better
shut up see you guys next time