all right well hello everyone and
welcome back to another episode of the
ice cream for Pierre's podcast my name
is Jeff nipper and we've got a bit of a
different episode for you guys this week
I've got a lineup of special guests with
me here so we'll start with Josh Hancock
who's who's been on the show before way
back in episode 3 Jeff is on and shared
all of his knowledge about mental
imagery and his whole mental approach to
training with us so welcome back Josh
glad to be here man
so episode 3 sounds like Star Wars or
something exactly yeah the I think if I
remember we actually did that over a
phone call and just recorded it through
my speakers so a lot of stuff has
changed since then
yeah that's exactly what happened for me
and you both so the other guest we've
got is JP kalki JP was on just a couple
of episodes ago I'm talking about why he
loves to cut weight more than he should
him hey Jeff thinks that me again glad
to be here again for sure and then our
third guest is his first time on the
show his name is Brett Gibbs
welcome to show Brett thanks for having
me man glad to be here for sure so so
you're a Canadian now hey
yeah man living with a Shawshank oh he's
actually just in the room right there
over about five weeks ago now living in
Newfoundland how's that that's been good
man Twingo it's good now that he has a
girlfriend yeah having a good time and
live really nice people here yeah now
the way there's been a bit of a change
like well I where I'm from New Zealand
we gets cold but like nothing like
nothing right here like heaps of snow in
a snowstorm I'm not the second or third
we comes here which is actually really
cool to see it's my first first
Christmas where it's been cold so I'm
used to having like a barbecue and beers
and then on Christmas but this time was
a lot different still with the beers
though but it's Sam it's been awesome
man
yeah well congrats to you and Josh fair
just kind of branded your own coaching
brand and got lots of exciting stuff up
the pipe for the new year I'm sure so
maybe you can quickly tell us about what
you guys have planned for 2016 in terms
of yourself and if you want to talk
about your coaching and the brand and
all that stuff you can feel free to do
that as well we can plug it plug away by
the way sweet yeah 2016 Bret and I have
different goals but the end result is
probably the same in terms of world
championships in Texas because we're all
lifters that's where the world champs
are so for me to set myself up for that
I have to do cpu nationals which is in
the end of February so we're about eight
nine weeks out at the moment so those
are the two big meats for me and then at
the end of the year probably like
October November December I'll probably
do one more so it'll be my last comp as
a junior lifter so that's my athletic
goals for 2016
when is worlds this year June June okay
all right so you're gonna hit a meat and
a February CPU nationals then worlds in
June and Texas and then something and
yeah likely something at the end of the
year yep cool that's a nice schedule man
and that's that's exciting but your last
year as a junior I remember it was my
last year as a junior and you just
always kind of want to go it with
something special like JP but yes for
sure for sure it's gonna be a good year
that was that was your last meet just
just last weekend right JP or was it Oh
last week it was my last international
as a junior when I squeeze in one more
on the weekend so in two weeks
yeah two in a week and half rest
laughing at me already tell us tell us
about the wines but what's the two
different ways shear days burn pretty
much so this is actually it's
interesting Jeff because we spoke about
this obviously two weeks ago with the
the whole white cutting video which I
thought was really cool yeah
so two weeks ago of yeah 16th of
December I competed in Uzbekistan and
that's where I competed at 66 kilos so
145 pounds we had 65 0.95 and on Sunday
just going I just competed in a local
competition just back home bench only
and I weighed in at 75 point two so
that's I think 164 pounds or something
so I went up 10 kilos in like 10 days
eighty-three that's I can fit an 83 [ __ ]
off no way [ __ ] clarify what did you
benchpress at 83 quit it's my class what
were your other lifts like though cuz I
didn't get an update from you in that I
guess I just missed it or I just
completed bench only so okay yeah just
at my gym so I gym help posted a comp
and I was like I'll get involved so just
did bench only put a shirt on like I did
it equipped yeah and it was terrible I
wasn't I wasn't prepared for it all it
was just for fun yeah yeah and Brett
what about you what do you have planned
for the new year 2016 is gonna be a
pretty fun year for me go to the
Arnold's for the first time and uh in
Ohio so there's gonna be really fun
there's gonna be some big names there
like Kelley Branson and Blaine autumns
lifting in the same one I'm just gonna
be really exciting I'm sure this one had
some a PR tone well they hope they can
come away with the win on walks and then
I just want to go back and win my second
title in Texas so it's gonna be really
exciting but some big competition there
so I'm looking forward to getting that
getting that done nice man
yeah so I think I had a few people
wondering just acquaintances of my
acquaintances of mine whether or not
you'd be competing the cpu but I guess
not or you're not fair yet no so I'm a
member of the CPU and the New Zealand
powerlifting Federation so I saw just
need to be a member of CPU for the drug
testing role so off if I'm living here
need to be part of the of the Union so
that they they can come and drug testing
any time so there's no questions asked
no no anything like that
maybe maybe afterwards we'll see what
see what's going on but I really like to
come back and like say September October
can come back down to Australia or a
door to a meet dear catch up with other
guys down there so yeah I guess I guess
that covers everything not except for
you JP we didn't really talk about what
you what you got planned for the new
year I'm gonna lose some weight or all
right yeah 66 are you going up now what
do you mean stay in 66 I'm not in the
same are you gonna dehydrate yourself in
almost dieters
kill myself to do it I'm 93 I want to
stay out of that one
now nothing really planned for the year
except for obviously worlds in Texas
which is June 19 to 26 which we spoke
about so that's the next comp plan so
it's a little bit a little bit about it
later I think but um I've done like 15
comps in the last three years so I just
been competing and competing so I'm
gonna take mine stuff I'm not gonna
compete again until June so six months
the proper training and actually build
some strength so that's really all I got
planned at the moment and then I might
do right we've got our raw Nationals in
October and then I might at the end of
the year so a pretty similar kind of
idea to what I'm sure she's got there
three comes from the ear and trying get
myself a little more time to Train now
yeah that was something I was actually
gonna ask you guys a vote because that's
something I preach a lot for
bodybuilders is like making sure you
take enough time off to really allow
your body to recover and recuperate and
then mentally prepare for the upcoming
season or whatever you have planned
so it's wonder what you guys think about
that in terms of a powerlifting context
like you said you just said JP that
you're planning on taking six months off
just to kind of recover and make some
gains and stuff what do you guys think
people should do in terms of extended
off seasons or is it better to just keep
the experience going or whatever hey
we'll just kick this one off I'll start
in Roseburg
it depends I think obviously obviously
it depends it's kind of an easy answer
but what I kind of tend to say is that
especially when you become more
experienced and become you become
stronger calms can like really walk you
out it takes a lot of time and a lot of
effort to peak I mean Brett speaking to
Perth was like a 13 week peak of just
pure strength stuff it was like he's
sort of like high-intensity work and
that's like for three months just for
one comp and then you need time to
recover build a foundation you go up and
down up and down and if you're trying to
back up coms like straight after each
other you'll make no progress we might
get five kilos here or ten kilos there
but if you want to actually get stronger
I think it's really important to take
not time off but I'm not complaining
and just trying to like really build a
foundation I'm sure the other boys will
will probably agree or say something
similar what do you reckon Brett yeah
well I spoke to speaking from experience
so 2014 noted for competitions pretty
much the same structure one
like March June we was 1 in September
than at 1 in December so started off
through year really well it was 2 raw
comps I made good progression when I
went from 750 to 770 and then I did an
equipped competition and then coming
into the one in December was actually my
worst meat of the year for two reasons I
went like for 4 from 9 and it was the
lowest total of the year as well so it
just showed that I was getting a little
bit more burns out I don't really have
that any specific offseason training
block so I got really fatigued and not
only my body was like just breaking down
but mentally as well it's just really
hard to keep going in and doing the same
specific skills that we need for a
powerlifting calm and then thousand
fifteen was perfect like I mean my first
mate boat from that again and had a
little bit of an injury come into Worlds
but still felt really good for worlds
didn't quite go as well as planned and
then finished off strong and three
months later and now this give me
another three-month break before even
start to look at baking again so for me
as well as I'm a bit more skilled in a
lot of other people so just coming into
it two or three years into it I think
three months offers three competitions
years is really perfect yeah my take on
it is yeah just basically gonna
reiterate what you guys said but
basically more so I find that it's
really hard as time goes by just like as
soon as the meat is done because I put
so much like mental preparation into it
then I find after a meet I get like
these post meet like blues I just feel
like the personal in crafts yeah you
know what I mean and I'm like well I
just hit my goal now what like and I'm
just not in the mood to like even think
about it for a while so that normally
takes me about four weeks and then I'm
like ready to go again so you know
moving forward I would definitely like
to do like maybe two big meats a year
like Nationals worlds and then one other
one like in between somewhere that it
could still be a big meet in terms of
like it's an international event but
like you know the reward is not the same
as a low-priority comes to me
exactly yeah right I think one of the
hard things actually about about that
point though is it's funny that Bry
mentioned it is that in powerlifting
like I mean I know happened to Josh last
or this year where he had to compete at
his Nationals to qualify for work
and a lot of the times you're forced to
do comps when you don't want to yeah
Jeff for example Armen like with raw and
equipped like if you want to go to like
a quit world you might need to do
equipped nationals and a quick world and
a row Nationals and a row world
ourselves here there it's just you're
being forced to compete and I think the
good thing for well particularly I guess
Joshin and Brett is that to qualify for
worlds is like less challenging I think
like Josh went into his Nationals and
like won quite comfortably so you don't
need to blow yourself apart like you can
go in and take it a bit easier and you
don't need a peak as well whereas say
for example you're someone with who's a
little bit more average if you want to
give yourself a chance of making the
national team you have to like take as
hard as you can for your Nationals and
then shad back it up again like ten
weeks later for world which can be
really really hard so I guess like I
said it depends on the lifter but it
depends on what your goals are when you
doesn't compete when your events are
yeah like your Federation can play such
a big role like for me myself I've done
more more than twice as many more
championships as I've done Nationals of
them two national events I think I've
done five or six World Championships now
so I mean it just goes to show it like I
mean what your Federation is like and
when they actually timer
not everyone's calendars the same and so
yeah that plays a huge role as well and
what your presidents like yeah what are
you reckon about the timing of your
Nationals this year Josh in February
it's way better honestly the only thing
that you know kind of sucks is like I
was invited to do the Arnold it would
have been my third time I absolutely
loved the show I think America does a
great job at hosting that event so Brett
Brett's gonna love it merica yeah like I
mean so besides that I think that's
definitely smart so I think there's
about 14 weeks or could even be longer
then that's like we can stuff you know
what I mean it's so it's like three
weeks to just you know get mentally
prepared again before a huge peak for
worlds so I'm gonna come in to Nationals
and you know me and Brett organs us
discuss the numbers itself but I just
want to just do just literally do what I
have to do to win so like no no specific
game plan and then and then set out to
destroy it worlds yeah man let's go
so Josh I think I heard rumors somewhere
that you were thinking about going up to
83 is that still a thing or what's
you're playing there or is that a is
that a probably bet you I'm gonna be my
[ __ ] or the planner now I I was I was
genuinely considering it mainly because
of my height I'm 5 foot 9 in 74 division
it's very very tall I compete against
like little hobbits like 3 you guys when
I go to these events but um ya know like
right now you know I train about 77 and
as JP says big oz betta so I wouldn't
mind being you know a couple of kilos
heavier and still cut down but know for
2016 I'm deficit 74 but eventually I
will have to go up which is intimidating
seeing Brett totals you know 830 K kgs
like 200 kilos more than me so basically
what do you train at Brett's varied over
the years so Mike he used to always be
85 and then like coming into worlds this
year I was always at 83 because I was
getting my macros from like January all
the way to June and then when I worked
with JP I've gone up to I think I peaked
at 88 by a couple of weeks before before
the competition and the heaviest I
really mean is 90 but that's really only
for a couple of days at a time
it's like water blow to it or just being
having too many too many shots enough
shot but that's so good it's the best
beer in the planet the Goucher I'm that
I'm like right now I'm sitting around
anywhere from 86 to 88 so like really
exactly where I want to be right now
yeah that's that's crazy
yeah good stuff so I was hoping maybe
you guys could like go into a maybe just
a touch more detail on how it is that
that break of training would differ so
like do you ever just take like a full I
just don't go in the gym don't lift a
weight or anything like that or do you
just kind of like tone back on the
intensity tone back on the volume
like increase the exercise variation do
you know spotty building type stuff or
like what how exactly does that differ
maybe we can start with you njp well I
think the general kind of idea in terms
of an annual calendar is is it after
your biggest company year you do take
time off and not time off like lower
intensity low volume but genuine time
off I mean our three boys had the
pleasure of going traveling a little bit
after worlds this year but we didn't
really train all you hit the gym and
just did some silly stuff but for the
most part literally taking time away
from the gym literally not touching
weights for two or three weeks I don't
think it's a bad thing and and there's
been good research to support that idea
as well so I guess if you're looking at
your annual annual calendar after your
biggest company year so for us probably
the world's for two or three weeks after
yeah no training at all and then maybe
if you do it like Josh said before or
after he's nationals you might take two
or three weeks of like wider training
maybe not time off completely but
there's some wider training to come in
yeah exactly
yeah again the same thing with me my
family normally doesn't like an annual
family vacation you know so typically
speaking we go to Florida so if I go to
Florida and I'm there like on vacation
like I actually want to be on vacation I
don't yeah I don't want to train I might
go in and you know do some curls and
stuff before I hit the beach or
something but you know I'm not actually
there to train so you know maybe two
weeks of the year where I do absolutely
nothing and then besides that I might
have you know for four weeks spread out
a couple different times where I'm just
doing like conditioning stuff yes yeah
for me it's it's it's always been so
hard like the whenever I go away for
these competitions you know I'm living
in New Zealand obviously from all these
homeless going across the world it takes
a couple of days to get there so
generally I always want to go have a
couple of weeks they look around and I
can have time away from the gym
completely if I'm doing that but let's
say I was the local competition I needed
some time off and if I'm just sitting at
home somewhere I'm always always
constantly thinking about you know
getting better I always want to be in
the German it's so hard for me to like
if I'm sitting around home and what
you're like where I'm now in Canada it's
actually not be able to go to gym at all
so the best best times has always been
I'm traveling and I think the best
example that was probably December
13 I just took two four weeks off a
winter Bailey didn't go to the gym once
even though the group of guys that were
with I went to the gym a couple of times
I just said no I don't want to go at all
and came back really really refreshed
and it was something I sort of try to
mimic this year we were taking a good
ten days off and after I did a little
peak in the gym so yeah different need
some time off completely yeah and I
guess like you know the lifts aren't
that complicated kind of like riding a
bike like you take a couple weeks off
you're not gonna forget how to lift all
of a sudden I feel like a lot of guys
are scared to take time off from the gym
especially bodybuilders like they think
their muscles are just gonna go to waste
but it takes a lot of bed rest to see
that much atrophy and for you guys you
know with all the stuff you put your
body through it makes I think that makes
most sense to just take some time off
and just relax all together
yeah just for sure so when it comes to
like say you know you're more intense
training or whatever do you guys like
Brett I watch the video of you with your
max testing today which is absolutely
insane by the way I'm sure if you guys
you know if anyone's listening as I've
watched it you should go watch it
great filming Josh thank you it's
improving so like how often do you guys
do something like that where you just
kind of go all out and do like a max max
day or an AM rest faster how do you guys
start not very often men I'd like it was
just how it was something what to do at
the end of this year like you know I'd
had good three months of training like
after the common September my you know I
hit some time off after their car but I
wanted to come back and just sort of see
where I was outside you coming in 2016
where my strength was that but it's not
very often I'm absolutely maxed it out
and then singles in the gym I might do
like a teen RPE block on a 3 or a 4 but
it's very really doing a 1-room max yeah
TP well I mean like maxing out like
maybe like pushing one hour rims and
stuff yeah probably real same like I try
to avoid as much they can and and it's
interesting we said before about the
whole running of black analogy you know
you don't forget how to live like you
always need to work on your technique we
don't forget like I mean at the side of
this year I took eight weeks off sumer
dead looks like I didn't swim in four
weeks just in conventional and then I
still rode it once and then I competed
the week after and I like my strength
was the same as it was like I didn't
lose any string if anything
a really good foundation for the next
eight weeks oh yeah I think um it's uh
like you said you don't forget how to do
things about I don't really max out in
the gym very often I just kind of save
it for competitions and like we said
before competitions are so taxing I just
I'd rather not kind of blow myself up in
the gym for no reason yeah basically
when like years earlier I go back like
three years ago or two years ago even I
found that I I would max out more often
like almost like when I was like an
intermediate lifter and it was mainly
because I wasn't doing these larger
competitions so wasn't like I had
anything that like trained for so I'm
just like okay I'll see where I'm at
let's go for a spontaneous max day that
doesn't really happen anymore right so
uh I try and if I do it and it's like in
the gym I might do it like once a year
now besides that I try and save for the
platform so how do you guys assess kind
of where your your strength is that so
do you like Brett you said you do like
at NRP with like triples or fours or
something like that is that kind of like
then you just kind of plug those numbers
in and figure out about where your
masters are from there and then plug
those in going forward like how do I
know where I'm roughly yet yeah like how
do you know that you're actually that
you're actually improving from you know
if you're not testing your one rms like
did you just go by how stuff like that
you're sort of you've always got a like
a rough idea where you're at like you
know like in your last peaking cycle you
know your might have maxed with say 274
3 or something like that and you sort of
know how that felt what the floor was
the form like on that day you know how
were you feeling I remember all of these
small things from like you know a couple
years threatening of training and I
remember like last time I did two 72.5
for a triple it was absolutely maxed out
like it was only one set I was able to
do in the form was breaking down then I
remember coming around to this time I
was like 272 well for three I've got
another see I knew I was a lot stronger
so I knew my max was now going to be
well above what I previously done so
it's just those small things I always
think about the form the speed and how
fatigue was I up there can I do another
one can I do any more so just I'm sort
of a sister that way yeah what about you
JP
like do you ever do amrap tests
anything like that not under em rip so I
don't like em raps but kind of soon
that's what Brett said in that very
small things yeah I found em rap sort of
full of testing kind of like what I do
agree what Brett said about kind of
knowing where you're at and go the last
time I did this that was harder or was
easier or you know giving yourself up
he's on stats is really important as
well what I kind of have tend to do now
especially as progress kind of slows
down a little bit you know you get more
advanced and you don't kind of like see
those beginning gains anymore is you
just know that you're not going to add
30 kilos to a lift in year six weeks
like it just doesn't happen so for
example like like just for argument's
sake my best squats to 25 when I'm
leading into world I know that this yet
world
I'm not going to score 250 like even if
I wanted I'm not gonna squat like
poverty bands it's not gonna happen but
you can kind of like build yourself up
toward what you want to achieve and
that's kind of where I kind of approach
with a lot of my programming is going or
where am I at now what would be a
realistic goal in 12 to 16 to 20 weeks
and how can you go about getting there
and it's I don't need to know where I'm
at like midway through blocks
I'll genuinely be in the dark as to what
my max is or what my strength is but if
six weeks ago my max was 225 I guarantee
you it's not 200 now like I didn't lose
25 fields of string and I didn't gain 25
kilos in strength as well like I might
have gone up and down five kilos due to
fatigue or whatever but you mean it's
there's no sudden changes you know you
never need to test whereas when you're
beginner and you're adding so much
strength so quickly you kind of do need
a test every six to ten weeks to see
where you're at because you don't you
never know how beginners gonna respond
to their training but when you're more
advanced the progress is a lot slower so
you don't need to test very often at all
I'm curious I don't I don't think you do
anyways unless your secret of a better
breath but do you guys like do you JP
you have like a training lock like do
you actually break down the numbers you
hit on this date I did this um I used to
I used to be really meticulous
now I just write programs for myself
when I just follow him and they all kind
of spit in one page really and then yeah
just kind of changes but I'm not really
meticulous like that at all I kind of
just know and I just kind of remember
what I do but and I said really lazy but
I kind of do I'm sorry yeah I mean I
just
I used to do that like years ago but I
haven't done it since and I think that
just what happens with time is like it's
like three of us are like I'd say very
experienced lifters
you just get this like intuition of like
lifting like you just know where you're
at like so like as time goes by and
you're like peaking for an event like
you pretty much predict where your
numbers are gonna be you're not yeah I
don't landish about your predictions
like you are when you're maybe beginner
intermediate lifter right you lost your
question JP because you're um you're
trying to get of a city in like you know
you've got a lot of got a good group
there you even a lot of new lifters
coming through do you or do you always
see like them like after six weeks just
wanting to max out or you just see them
as gym maxing out and just make an
absolute fools themselves and you see a
lot of this sort of going on so for
those that don't know thanks for the
plug there so I'm trading at an obsidian
strength powerlifting club in Melbourne
the best pal I think of Melbourne
actually when I do I coach out of here
so there's a couple of coaches and all
the guys that come through all the
beginners they end up getting coaching
from the coaches so we don't really let
them do that it happens a lot yeah yeah
yeah I've got a kid who was like he's
ninety ninety three kilos he's like
eighteen first comp on the weekend and
the last six weeks man wooden bench one
forty one eventful if we can't do it and
like he'll be doing his training but can
I go heavy a couple five kilos on a
couple ten kilos on Mack nah nah man
trust the process
trust the process like you don't like
come down and like take a look like take
your board as you go but when you have
this it's like I feel so strong like
come on I definitely have yeah I'm like
no man you can't like you can't teach
that honestly you can't because I you
have to make the mistakes almost you
almost have to like realize all that was
a dumb idea and then don't do it again
exactly I mean I remember a time frame
where I used to back in 2013
like I had I didn't pull 500 pounds
before to 30 kgs but to 27 and a half
and I tried it honestly like 50 times
before I got it and I never actually put
in the work to actually go and do it I
was just yet been trying and trying and
trying and hoping one day that's that's
when people plateau so sounds like JP
with
300 but I will carry on what happened I
can try to fool us with those bumper
plates at least unless you get myself
300 gravity or deadlier for like the
last year half other two seven seven
half but I was I was forced to do that
for the wind sake yeah I probably had
another pound in me maybe respect others
good good salable in the gym but on
bumper plates and fake stuff so yeah so
I like how do you guys keep tabs on
yourselves like how do you just aim for
like an RP of like eight or nine
generally speaking or what because like
even myself like when I'm training
intuitively I tend to just want to push
it a little bit a little bit further or
like get a little bit closer to that
failure point so I guess like JP like
you said you have it all pre-written
ahead of time to just go by you're like
this is what I'm gonna do and you just
kind of go in there and do it but yet
you ever get tempted to just go all out
and push yourself probably everything
you should for sure so like personally
I'm not a big fan of like pre-planning
our P's and saying well today I want to
hit this at nine or this at eight you
know a lot of people kind of get carried
away with eight at nine thing because
it's always editing gnomes but really I
mean like like when I do my working sets
they're doing sets of five it's usually
with a weight that I could do for
honestly 10 or 15 but it's so hard like
I mean when I was doing I was doing an
offseason block I was dead lifting I
remember doing I went into the I went to
training doing five five like this is a
good example of what we're saying before
about getting tempted to kind of push
yourself because I guess if you want to
be competitive as you get competitive
with yourself so also in five sets of
five deadlift
with 225
five kilos or four not 495 pounds and I
remember doing I was gonna do five five
s do the first three sets and I said to
myself I want to see if I can do the
next two sets in one set so I've got ten
reps out
I don't wait that I was doing five is
that so really all those first three
sets were at five RP I guess you could
say but they felt hard like they still
felt difficult yeah but I guess that's
kind of where I couldn't push myself you
say what can I squeeze out another two
and a half here or can I do the next two
sets in one said or maybe I can squeeze
an extra rep like but I do try to avoid
that when I am in a very specifically
written comprar plike when I'm in an
offseason my programs are a little bit
more flexible I guess but you know in a
concrete but I don't do that really yeah
so you like to see what JP see the I use
a technique similar to that so I had
going on like I do a lot of a year
training so I sort of graph in you over
one of the hurt and this happy you know
to just if it wasn't feeling well that
day or whatever like I'll go in and have
a normal teen stay and then the other
day would be intense that means are
gonna really switch or means leave every
see it and then like the other days I'll
go on like a might be an eighth up yeah
and the difference between the northern
tensed and an intense squat day you're
talking like you know thirty forty kilos
at the same RPE just because of the way
you approach the bar yeah yeah just like
what he does he just he walks out to
what he just you know he doesn't see a
fire but he's not really overthinking
anything when it's moving relatively
well or it's in a fierce hear me but
then on those last that last said he
wants to reform estimate on yeah he's
like Switzer on it's not run a meeting
on eating tins and my head still in the
store and the first five moved to slice
boom and then he knows he can grind it
down so obviously she's programmed those
days in and they used to be really
really well cool
so are you or any of you guys a fan of
say top set so you'll work up to like a
heavy weight like say like 85 to 95
percent of your your 1rm and kind of hit
that set and then back off and do your
volume work Josh carry things oh yeah
Oh dome you got you guys know I I love
that stuff so but there's definitely a
time and a place for it still too so I
think it's a bit I think it's very yeah
I think it's very effective when you're
peaking for a contest because again it
gives you if you're doing like a five
five
by five or six by four well it's it's
kind of hard to predict where your
single is that so if you come in you do
like a double or or single that's
relatively smooth beforehand then drop
back then I thought it's way easier to
and it like boost your confidence you're
like okay next week I only got to do
five K's more and this was so easy so
next week I'm gonna smoke it and you can
almost see the linear progression coming
into the meet to set it up to do all
your not attempt yeah Josh so I just
have a question for you like do would
you would you aim to increase the load
that you're doing on those top singles
leading into the meet or would you just
kind of keep those steady throughout or
judge it just based on how you're
feeling that day now basically I would
well I always try and judge it based on
how I feel that day regardless my period
so like cuz you know other factors come
into play like whether you slept good or
you know got in an argument or whatever
so whatever the case may be I was trying
to adjust however if I'm feeling good I
don't try and put more weight on that
I'm supposed to I actually hold myself
back so I'd rather like almost be like I
guess under train instead of
overtraining and burning myself out
that's how I feel coming into a meet I
wanted my permission isn't a full day
expression each way exactly so as weeks
go by like if you if you're if you're
benching you're doing 350 and you're in
you're like third week in then I want to
go up maybe by like five pounds each
week to you know hit my goal yeah
what about you JP that's a good question
I kind of like to think of it depends
obviously the Tommy Tommy year and the
cycle so you know comp rep I do like the
top singles because it's real good at
like gettin athletes immensely said to
take on here have you seen was in the
comp so I know that's where kind of Josh
comes from as well there's like if
you're like because I I like to I tell
my guys I think I did this with Brett
actually is that when you take on those
top sets you need to think of it as your
third attempt in a complex you know
approach it as if it's 250 kilos squats
a 300 kilo squat so when you get to your
300 kilo squat
it feels like it's 250 kind of thing
whereas if I'm in a more of an offseason
block the way I like to think of it is
you it's just like I call it an over
warm-up like you warm up more than you
have to so for example if you're gonna
do say you're an offseason block in your
doing I'm gonna fire four to six at 70%
doing a single at 80
is just don't warm up like normally a
single at any extensive warmup if you're
going up to a max because I hated sent
for one yeah a deceptive for one isn't
fatiguing it's knocking interfere with
your volume it's just a really thorough
warmup you might do 50% 60% 70% 80% 4 1
then drop back down and do your working
sets so that's less about mental imagery
less about comp report just about
warming up really thoroughly whereas in
a calm cycle yeah it's more about that
that mental focus and saying and
learning how to approach heavy singles
and learning how to see your bar load of
heavy weights and say like this doesn't
intimidate me so I guess it's just a
different approach at different times of
year but the same I guess method yeah I
thought it was interesting with Josh
said it's like one of the criticisms of
that approach that you often hear is
like it takes away from what you're able
to put in in terms of your volume work
so like if you do the heavy single your
CNS gets more fatigued and then when you
actually get to the stuff that is
actually gonna be driving your progress
you're not able to push it as much there
but like what I found when I've used top
sets in my training and I'm a fan of
them as well
or when I have used them I found them to
be effective I actually found that when
I went to the volume work I was more
confident
like you said Josh yeah it's like you
just feel better like the weight feels
lighter and everything it's like when
you shoot shoot hoops it's like you use
the big medicine ball then when you pick
up the basketball feels super light so
bright it was the opposite to me I just
don't think that's a really good
criticism that one I mean it's cut it's
kind of a double-edged sword because if
you if you do a weight that just say
you're supposed to because it says it
says so on your progression on paper or
whatever and you're like okay I'm doing
it that you still have to auto regulate
right so like you have to know that it's
gonna be crisp rep whereas if it's is 10
out of 10 Roger of course you're working
sets are gonna feel like it is what
exactly right so that kind of takes a
little bit of a lift or intuition yeah
yeah I think it's like I think both
mentally and like so mentally makes
sense you know gives you confidence and
all that stuff but physiologically
there's a reason behind it as well I
mean in sports science it's called post
activation potentiation it's where your
nervous system gets switched on like I
said doing a be sent for one just a warm
up so it switches on your CNS so when
you go and do your lighter stuff it
feels lighter but like it genuinely does
because your nervous systems what we
wound up I mean I know a story I wrote a
story when I was in exercise that I'm I
forget who it was I think
in the Bulgarian track and field team or
like some Eastern Bloc track and field
team and at the Olympics in like the
1970s they were demand that at the
Olympic like Athletics track track and
field that they had a fool like wait set
in the war room so like they'd get high
jumpers squatting like 220 kilos and
then 20 minutes later I go outside and
like do the high jump
it's like they would warm up with heavy
stuff so right doing a little bit
heavier that's not not so heavy that
your forties you but lighter but heavy
enough that it warms you up I think is
almost always a good thing yeah yeah you
know I agree so let's let's move on from
the training stuff into some specific
meat stuff here now so JP you and I
talked at length about cut and wait for
meats but just maybe Josh and Brett can
bring us up to speed on their approaches
so Brett I think you said you're you've
been as late as 83 in your training but
I'm assuming you're planning on doing a
cut now maybe you can tell us a little
bit about your past with watercress and
that kind of thing well I mean water
cuts a vein that they're pretty
straightforward you know I always lose a
couple of kilos through then I lose a
bit of appetite so I count down my
calories slightly coming in to
competitions and the weight sort of just
naturally falls off of always monitoring
my body weight so like Sam doing a
three-month baking cycle and even right
now like every morning I'm waking up and
weighing myself sort of seeing where I'm
at I'm not counting my macros anything
like that I'm just just sort of seeing
you know where my body weight said and
what I need to do to adjust there and
I've got I've gone through phases like I
said that I've done I'm like full macro
counting I felt fine and I was I've got
a bit leaner but I think as far as just
being a bit bigger and it's really what
I wanted to achieve so I just I just
like with a bit of intuition you know if
you know if you know your body it's
actually pretty easy to do you know to
cut those four or five kilos yeah yeah I
mean I'm basically the same way I've
never tried macro counting anything like
that I've just always done a water cut
actually for the first probably four or
five meets I've done I was always like
74 kilos
there was one contest in 2013 where I
just didn't cut anything and still
weighed in at 74 point nine it cut
nothing it was like eating the night
before trying to gain weight but um yeah
I mean I
just always water cut as soon as I like
start training about 77 78 kgs I just
water cut and uh you know I find it
works well for me so I just stick with
that really yeah do you guys find
there's like a individual or like a
genetic component to people's ability to
cut water like I know JP you can get
away with a lot like I just noticed this
personally in just some of my athletes
like some people just seem to drop water
super easy and others have a really
tough time doing it and it almost seems
me like power lifters at the highest
level are also power lifters who are
able to drop water really easily that
may or may not be a coincidence but have
you guys is that something you guys have
noticed as well or I find it's
definitely easier for men to drop than
women
yeah I'm actually very impressed that JP
can cut so much because like that that
actually blows my mind so mainly for me
every time I've cut it like it's
genuinely easy like I don't want to
parent whatsoever right so I think that
I find if I actually did like a huge cut
I could probably get to like 68 kilos
and then I would end up you know
probably in the hospital or something
but yeah so I find it's easy I don't
know if it has anything to do with
genetics or not but the the mental
capacity that that JP has to cut cut
that much is is very very damn
impressive yeah I think that's the I
think that's the most amount of carries
through so Jeff you said that top-level
lifters tend to be really good at
cutting weight and I think it's because
top-level lifters if you want to get
good at any sport or anything really you
kind of have to have a very good mental
strength and the cutting weight is very
mentally challenging like if you're a
beginner who's who gets anxious very
easily who doesn't understand lifting
good who hasn't got much experience and
cutting weight will be like the worst
thing you can do because it's a very
stressful time and mentally 20
challenging I mean I mean I don't want
to I don't to sound like a broken record
but or I don't want to kind of ask for
sympathy but and when you're in a sauna
and you've been in the sauna for like
four hours and the sauna is like 110
degrees and you've like haven't eaten in
like 24 hours and you haven't had water
in 18 hours and you've lost literally
five kilos or 11 pounds and then you go
check your weight and you're still a
kilo over with an hour to go
before weigh-in start like that is a
very mentally yeah it's like you know I
almost want to well top because like
it's a very yeah stressful time I got so
exact but habit Weena's Becca Stein last
week I checked my weight in area and I
still a killer over and I'm like a part
of me just wanted to like break down and
just stress out but I think more
importantly athlete side of me that I
guess the the mental side of me was like
and I was I was really like actually cuz
I was cutting edge with a friend of mine
who was cutting a lot less than I was
but we were good friends we tryna we
often trying to get her back home and he
kind of like slap me on the back and he
said to me come on man you're the
champion this is why the best at this
and I'm just like it almost fired me up
and I was like [ __ ] yes I can do this I
can do this so yeah I think having that
mental strength is really important when
you're trying to cut weight cuz it's not
glamorous like I know I make a big deal
about and say are cutting weights really
good it's a most effective thing to do
but it's not glamorous at all it's
painful it's hard and I think it's just
it's not a coincidence that being
mentally strong helps you cut weight and
being mentally strong thank you for the
hey turn in right yeah yeah yeah we
don't look for why's that man we want to
get it done ways you get the job done we
know what it takes to do it so that's
that's what we're gonna do yeah so guys
when you're when you're called out to
lift and they say the bar is loaded is
there anything that goes through your
head or is it just white noise or what's
what's going on when that happens for
you guys there's so many mixed emotions
I guess over the years you know
sometimes I think about my family you
know where are they this at this point
you know and sometimes it's the music
like and then I've been listening to but
is always something going through my
head but that's never who's around me
like I don't look it under the crowd and
think like oh there's a mess of crab
that's getting me fired up it's always a
my head and generally that all that
stuff that I'm gonna be thinking about
yeah and internally like a fog about
that for days and days and days before
even stepping onto that stage like like
an example like I would look at the
stage like the pier this year in
September like I look at the stage and
before like anyone was even around
before like just after I'd weighed in I
can like envision myself walking up and
and probing the bar all those little
little things that are they just run
over repeat in my head
and and that's exactly what happens like
so it's just that visual imagery I guess
yeah yeah I forget there was there was a
lifter I think in the IPF I forget his
name now but he used to bring himself to
tears before he would he would lift I
don't know if you guys know who that is
but yeah he just tries to think of like
the most emotionally wrenching thing I
think you're thinking of we'll get on to
the topic of that after but yeah so like
yeah what about you Josh I mean it
depends on the individual
it always does you see some people come
out and they smack themselves and
they're shouting and going ballistic
other people walk out you know calm as
if they're gonna give a speech at you
know a presidential election or
something I like to try and be a little
bit of both you know I look calm when I
walk out but inside and I'm literally
ready to like kill everyone in the
stadium basically is what's going on
inside of me
I just basically try and think of things
that you know motivate me in my life
things that you know I like I like it
when people doubt me like I J I
genuinely like it when someone doubts me
and like when I get my mind put to
something so you know I like to you know
think about that but then at the same
time that's kind of a negative thought
if I'm always focused on that so I try
to think of you know here's all the
people who support me like let's go win
for them so those are the things I like
to think of and besides that while
you're wired that way you still have to
actually be there in the moment and walk
out the wait and be like okay let me
take my two steps in the squat make sure
my form is on point and stand up so
there's a lot of things that go on your
head but I've been to the point where
I've made myself try before I've listed
before to you know the emotions run
really high because generally when you
peak for meat it's it's it's not three
months like you know it's it's a life
it's a lifetime progress when no one
knows who you are
like literally no one knows who you are
you put in so much work and it's now
your time to show you know for you your
family your friends your country you
know
it's a very emotional thing and Alex
Todd looking in people just don't get
that they just don't understand it yeah
JP to devastate man that was real heavy
that's a good question it is change over
the years come like what Brett said I
don't think about all that kind of stuff
that the other two boys do I'm more in
the moment so I don't really think about
my family or friends or anything like
that or nothing to that effect it's more
in the moment I mean I used to I'm
really relaxed like I'm really relaxed
guy Mike I like to be I'm like I enjoy
being on the platform so like for
example at Junior Nationals this year I
kind of like tortured referees like I
mean I member setting up on her a squat
and I saw the chief referee with my
friends and now koala sitting up as I
cut hey Joel hey going Mike I'm really
relaxed at a smaller calms obviously
being home from a lot more switched on
so yeah well actually it's funny you
mention that because I think that's one
thing that I change with my bench in the
last six months is that I give it a bit
more respect I used to be like I suck in
this anyway who cares like give it no
focus no effort but really you watch JP
you watch JP compete and it's weird like
you know like every lifter has their own
style but like if I if I acted the way
that like he did like I just wouldn't I
just wouldn't be there it would just
like whatever works for him you know
what I mean like we're different like
and Brett's different again I think me
and him are a little bit more similar
more so than me and JP in terms of the
way we approach game day but like I walk
into into like the event with it with
headphones I like I don't want to talk
to anyone like I'm at Wayne's and people
are coming over to shake my hand I'm
like get the hell away from me like yeah
I don't want to I don't want to you talk
to me out there you know like and people
really got like I think Robin actually
mentioned it wants to at sea
you Nationals was the first time I've
ever met her and I was like super
intense
she mentioned that last time we're on
the podcast she was like oh wow like
you're way more laid-back and like chill
but like that day you know I give off
wrong impressions because like I'm I'm
there for a reason you know what I mean
so yeah I'm here to muck around exactly
I'm not that even like days before like
people come out to me we get there my
dude go away like just I want to talk to
me after man like you're like two or
three days out yeah yeah that's just me
what uh what kind of music do you guys
listen to before you go out like a metal
or hip hopera I put a better boss man
for the boss a bit about it it's not
Drake or Justin Bieber Bret ah big big
Drake yes like Justin Justin baby Fame
but uh that's that's my dance are you
right at home here in Canada then it's
like it's like we said before I'm real
relaxed I mean in between scored
attempts at world I was going out to the
crowd and like see my friends like hey
how was that like it was really good I'm
like yeah anyway talking [ __ ] I'm like
oh I gotta go I'm missing five minutes
so I can go back outside that's crazy
surprise you don't listen to like
Beethoven yeah I basically it always
depends like I really like Eminem when
I'm competing specifically but yeah I
mean you know the music I listen to is
just so diverse anyway so if you like
took took my phone and went through like
all my musics just like none of them
correspond whatsoever like basically
what you want to do is like what I like
to do anyways is just try and hit it try
and get a song that resonates with you
before you actually walk out so you
actually get like a emotional response
yet so they tiger or not P of me a song
they want yeah do it again yeah I I find
like if I can find a song that's like
kind of new that like I just found it
like say the last week or something like
that it like is fresh to me cuz when I
find like when I have a new gym playlist
in the gym I always have better sessions
for whatever I'm almost like noise like
give me some
fresh yeah exactly so I try to plan it
for my meat so that like I have some
fresh new music on my my iPod so so yeah
because I do find music pretty
motivating so Oh different he does it