hey guys dr. Marquez will here for
Renaissance position rp+ and Renaissance
pure is a shin University lecture number
five in the training principles lecture
series stimulus recovery adaptation
principle otherwise known shortened much
easier to say version of SR a basically
telling us when to push it hard and
trainee and when to back off so let's
see what we have to cover today
just like with many of the other ones
we're gonna do a really simple
definition at first just to kind of get
our bearings straight exactly what it is
we're talking about here then we're
gonna talk quite in-depth about how this
principle is derived we're gonna give it
a technical definition and that
technical definition is actually going
to be quite expansive and have a lot of
implications by itself it's one of the
more technical of the technical
definitions and talk about examples of
application real quick what to do not to
do how to overdo the principle and under
do it and then a few programming
recommendations you'll find that the
programming recommendations are actually
very straightforward we won't be
spending a ton of time on them because
they're kind of self-explanatory but the
derivation of this principle
particularly and the implications of it
from a sort of a technical definition
perspective that's really where the meat
potatoes of this lecture is so the super
simple definition is that if you don't
get better in training you get better
during rest so you want to train hard to
initiate improvements rest well to
realize them and repeat stimulate
recover and adapt right so we're kind of
saying is there's a distinct time focus
for doing hard work and maybe creating
that disruption to the system that
disruption is not the actual improvement
it's the signal but where the signal
goes is to the system's recovery and
improvement abilities and those seem to
act best when they're not being messed
with too much right so if you wanted you
know if you were playing God for example
and you wanted to give Miami
new windows you looked at the city of
mani and you said I don't like the
windows here I want all new windows you
could send in a hurricane and it would
blow out all the windows and then what
would happen
the hurricane would see she would pull
back here of godly powers that hurricane
would go away and then new windows would
be constructed because they have to be
replaced and be like a hi-yah great new
windows just what I intended with this
hurricane but so you get its stimulus
and then you pulled the stimulus away
and during non hurricane times times of
good weather the windows get replaced
but imagine if you never pulled a
hurricane away or the next day you
brought another hurricane you're like
dammit
I've done hurricane two days in a row
where these new windows well when you
windows don't get constructed during
hurricanes people just brought stuff up
and leave and just kind of hope he gets
better soon and check back to see what
the weather is in Miami from far away so
we don't actually see improvements in
most aspects during the heavy training
during the hard training we see it after
and there's lots more say about that
from a technical perspective so where do
we get all these ideas where is this
derived well originally this is all dry
for a main concept called GA s general
adaptation syndrome Oz is sort of
discovered and derived by hans selye a
long long time ago this is very very old
biology and it's basically describing
states of a physiological system as
homeostasis basically maintaining a
stable internal environment normal an
alarm stage the actual shock of the the
stimulus itself a resistance stage where
the system comes back and makes changes
and eventually if you mess with a system
too much there's an exhaustion stage and
that's sort of tantamount to
overtraining and overreaching in the SRA
equivalent and the thing is that general
adaptation syndrome applies to literally
all biological systems and it applies
very very well to all adaptive
biological systems so when we're
training or by definition dealing with
adaptive systems because if systems
didn't adapt based on stimuli we
wouldn't be training them right you
don't there's no training in which you
pull your own eyes out of your socket
and you wait for them to grow back in
cuz those are not adaptive systems once
you pull your eyes out you don't get
anymore
as nobody there's no such thing as I
pulling the training if there is don't
do it but you know if we're training
we're saying okay if we beat up our
muscles they will get better we're by
definition dealing with adaptive systems
and for sure this adaptation syndrome
idea applies to them and it applies to
them in this SRA type of model so that's
where it comes from
and interestingly enough SRA also is
derived from two principles that precede
it it is derived from the oral of
principle and fatigue management once
you know or load really well and you
understand it as a principle and once
you understand 4-d management you can
almost predict that SRA should at least
be a derivative and probably its own
principle so let's take a look at how
that happens overload basically tells us
that we have to have distinct times to
train hard hey we don't just get better
you know some kind of linear way right
we have to make a disruption we have to
push the system past physiological
boundaries we know that so that's what
overload tells us and fatigue management
tells us that we have to have distinct
time to recover because or load brings
with it improvement and fatigue so Orolo
tells us we got to have blips of hard
training fatigue management says we have
to have blips of easier times to be able
to recover to present another overload
so we're talking about this pad on there
emerges of blips overloading training
fatigue management to counterbalance
overloading training fatigue management
to counterbalance overloading training
fatigue management to counterbalance
when you apply those two together as you
get the SRA principles stimulus recovery
and amputation stimulus is the heart
training recovery is either easier
training which can occur under easier
training conditions or full rest and
adaptation is something that results if
recovery is occurring or occurs
completely and that adaptation elevates
our abilities allows us to come in
present another overload so on and so
forth
so basically once you have the overlord
principle and you have the fatigue
management principle when they intersect
with each other
they essentially give birth they produce
the SRA principle it can't be any other
way
because how do you overload and fatigue
manage at the same time you can't just
impossible how do you simultaneously
disrupt a system and a crew no fatigue
can't so
stimulus recovery and adaptation
recovery and app tation don't occur in
the presence of a stimulus because
that's when the disruption is occurring
SRA tells us there has to be distinct
times for that right and what you do is
once you know that sorry principle you
repeat it present another overloading
stimulus over and over and over and
that's how training progresses so that's
part of the principles derivation
there's more to say in the derivation so
when we say derivation we mean you know
how is the principle derived how did it
come to be that this was discovered to
be a principle and one of the sort of
physiological realities that made us go
ah man you know this really does need to
be a principle it's important enough to
mention for sure is a fact of physiology
in most systems that hard training
during the time of recovery interferes
with the adaptive processes as has been
shown over and over but if you train
super hard in two before you have some
degree of pretty meaningful recovery if
too soon during the process you hit it
hard again you further depress the
abilities of the system and you actually
interfere with the recovery a super
perfect analogy is the hurricane example
there's a hurricane blows out all the
windows of Miami and then made way
through the construction on the new
windows we get hit with another
hurricane is that going to help or hurt
the construction process giving us new
windows my god it's gonna be terrible
because it's gonna break all the new ish
windows that it was imported installed
it's gonna ruin her a lot of
construction machinery and matter of
fact construction machinery is gonna
have to be wheeled out super fast it's
gonna cost us a crapload of money and
it's gonna be like a job half done and
then it's gonna be receded and it's
gonna be really bad so when we come back
to try to build new windows again even
when there are no more hurricane
we're gonna have like double the damage
to deal with because we started
rebuilding the windows and put up all
this construction materials and then
that got all blown around and and messed
up so a really really bad deal it's
physiological fact that if you train
very hard during a period of very very
intense recovery you will interfere with
that period and that will interfere with
adaptation so the implication there is
that training hard in sequence without
any time for recovery of systems may be
counterproductive because it's one of
those things like if you think that you
get better in training as opposed to
during rest and recovery then the
logical inference from there is we
should just train hard all the time but
if you train all the time you're
literally training when you are supposed
to be getting the benefits of the
training it's kind of insane it's almost
like trying to be trying to make a lot
of money try to get rich so you can live
the high life and relax a lot how do you
do that properly you go through periods
either you know here's or months or days
or weeks or weeks or days even hours
during the day where you work super hard
make crap loads of money and then the
other hours of the day or you know
weekends or weeks or months are
dedicated to really enjoying that
lifestyle like that's the purpose of you
making the money the analogy here from
chronically overloading in sequence too
often would be okay you got a job on
Wall Street I'm gonna get rich so I can
live the high life and you end up
working so much you basically work all
the time you never live the high life
you just get richer and richer and
richer and you never spend it you have
failed the purpose of being rich it
doesn't matter that you have a ton of
money if you literally never plan to
spend it right now if you back off soon
enough you're still young you're still
healthy you have a crapload of money
then you can enjoy your money that's
kind of like functional overreaching in
some sense right you back off soon
enough and you can couldn't recover to
really really spend your money and enjoy
it but let's put it this way there's a
way to take that too far the analogy
there that example of overtraining would
be that you worked hard up until you
were age 75 and
finally retired and you're like oh my
god I get to spend all this money have
billions dollars what am I gonna do
you're not interested in yachts anymore
you're interested in you know champagne
and hot guys and girls on your yacht
you're not interested in world travel
because you're too damn old you don't
give a shit about anything anymore
all of a sudden you don't even have a
per there's not you can't even get that
benefit that you work for so much
because it's come and gone so if you
present enough overloading sessions in a
sequence even when you back off there is
no delayed super compensation you just
got worse because you never allowed that
healing recovery and adaptation to occur
that's a really big problem the kind of
good news of that's problem number one
an implication number one is just to
restate it again you've got to give time
for the adaptations to occur when you're
not overloading but let's say you did
try to sequentially overload over and
over over without giving time for a
recovery and adaptation the kind of good
news good news bad news is that that's
almost impossible to do and here's the
second fact than the implication that it
gives us overload becomes difficult or
incomplete or impossible to do if
performance recovery has not occurred so
the first fact told us that if we don't
take breaks between overloading times we
don't yield any adaptation because
recovery at least to some extent as a
prerequisite it's part of the same
process of adaptation but forget about
obtain for a second let's just talk
about recovery in order to overload you
have to be recovered in a performance
sense what does that mean that means
whatever you used to be able to do to
overload you've got to be able to do at
least that to overload completely again
because if you haven't run so for
example if you can bench 225 for 10 and
that's overloading to your pecs if you
try to do that the next day and then the
next day and then the next day sooner or
later your fatigue will sum up so high
that you would only be able to bench 225
for set of three now is that disruptive
is that overloading the answer is that
it's not you've become so fatigued
because of violating the SRA principle
you have become so unable to overload
that you
even present a stimulus anymore that's
the real problem so when we say like oh
my god you could be overloading for so
long but you never have time to adapt
forget about that you may not even be
able to overload sequentially for too
long kind of a good thing because it
stops you from being too stupid but none
of this is really good at it the injury
rates are super high the chances over
over reaching over training is super
high so it's bad deal you'll notice I
said something it was a complete
overload or incomplete overload what
does that mean
when we have a system that we want to
overload relative to its past session of
overloading it is considered complete
overload when we're heating within the
overall threshold like within ninety
percent or top 10% of the system's
capacity like for three reps from
failure or within 90 percent of peak
power peak velocity or you know we then
you know somewhere between your minimum
effective volume and your MRV right all
those overload threshold it has to be in
that threshold and it has to be
progressive it has to be more than last
time
that's what's which term to hear
complete overload so complete or allure
doesn't mean that you've given it
everything you have that's actually
maximum overload complete overload means
you've checked both boxes in the
overload condition of within threshold
yes it's hard and heavy and it's harder
and heavier or faster or whatever then
last time we can present incomplete
overload that means just one of the
conditions is met and really what it
means is the threshold condition is met
so for example if you squat four or five
four five by ten and that's a scoop or
overloading the situation for you if the
next workout you squat four or five four
four five by nine is it progressive no
so violates that condition but is it
still within the maximum is it within
the overload threshold yeah is it gonna
lead to adaptations yes not as many as
if it was progressive but certainly some
so if you overload too frequently you
can forget about complete overload
because you'll be so fatigued you won't
be able to be progressive and threshold
if you overlook too frequently the first
problem you're gonna into is incomplete
overload you're still gonna be able to
be within a maximum of thresholds
training still going to be hard in that
hard challenging system area where
there's disruptions are meaningful but
remember that doesn't yield the kind of
procession improvements that complete
overload does so already you're getting
not a lot of bang for your buck but then
several sessions later of sequential
overload with no ability to recover you
won't even be in incomplete overload you
will be in no overload outside of the
maximal threshold altogether and
descending so then you would really have
been screwed so basically if you violate
the SRA principle at first nothing
happens a little bit later
incomplete overload starts to occur
which is okay but not great and then
just a little while after that you don't
get any overload at all and then we have
really serious problems because you
don't get any overload forget about the
chemical processes of adaptation that
high fatigue interferes with you don't
have to worry about those because you
won't even be initiating them to begin
with because the training is literally
not stimulative enough really really big
problem now all this talk about overload
and recovery you mean start thinking
about the SRA principle is like okay we
got trained and we got to recover
completely before our next training
session that's actually not true
complete system recovery means that
literally everything about the system
was fixed 100% and it's back completely
to homeostasis that only has to happen
during active rest phase once a year it
has to almost happen during every day
load and it barely has to happen within
every single micro cycle of training so
what we need to happen is a recovery to
the extent that it is performance
recovery all the stuff doesn't have to
be fixed but your level of performance
you got fatigued the recovery needs to
come back at least this level of
performance and hopefully higher so that
you can reap overload again that's what
we mean by recovery we do not mean full
system recovery full system recovery is
not a part of the SRA principle it's a
part of the fatigue management principle
and we
need because some of the systems take on
damage so slowly and drop it so slowly
we don't ever need full recovery active
rest is the only time we need it
remember after an active recipes there
literally should be nothing going on
with your physiology that we can ever
say is under recover that should be
completely recovery but if you search
for complete recovery between every
single overloading bout total system
recovery as opposed to just performance
recovery of being able to come in and
hit it hard again you're searching for a
way to complete of a process and you're
just gonna waste a lot of time and not
get much better to put an example to you
that's really pertinent imagine being a
chef at a high-end kitchen in a
restaurant and putting out really good
meals complete recovery would mean that
after every single meal you made just a
couple of crumbs here and there no big
deal we could keep cooking great meals
all day long after every single meal we
shut the place down fumigate everything
deep clean everything a crew comes in at
three hours of deep cleaning does that
make sense
course it doesn't make sense because
little crumbs here and there'll bullshit
here and there it doesn't interfere with
the cooking process of any fundamental
level unless it gets out of hand so we
don't need complete recovery during SRA
we need enough recovery to be able to
make good meals again that means we need
to be able to present you overload again
so the recovery has to be back to
baseline it doesn't have to be
everything's gone away so but the
implication of this SRA principle
because of the fact that if we train
hard too much in sequence adaptations
basically stop occurring or degrade in
their ability and if we keep doing that
we're not even able to overload anymore
the implication here is the training has
to take a session rest session paradigm
it's a really important term that's
gonna help you out for the rest of your
sport exercise science knowledge session
rest session paradigm a paradigm is kind
of a way of seeing the world an
arrangement of things so a session rest
session paradigm means you hit it you
rest you hit it again you rest you hit
it again just like you've been used to
training for most of your life but this
isn't something we take for granted
because back when people first turn
training the weights they just kind of
like train with weights or sports so you
just kind of train
and sometimes you wouldn't and you got
tired and you wouldn't train but then
you train some there was no organization
to it sra lays down this fundamental
organization if we're gonna hit it hard
we're gonna arrest and we're gonna hit
it again and if we're not searching for
a rest it's not always a rest that works
best in the context of a whole program
sometimes we just have to recover so it
doesn't have to be complete rest so at
the very least it should be an overload
a recovery overload paradigm so we're
not saying that if you lift Monday you
can't lift Tuesday then you have to lift
Wednesday again we're saying if you lift
super hard Monday shouldn't probably
lift super hard Tuesday at least for the
same systems and then you should
probably lift super hard way or hit it
super hard Wednesday again that's
basically me Mia so section recession
paradigm or overload recovery overlord
paradigm it's really the same thing is
how we get this SRA principle all that
being said we can finally have a
technical definition and here it is I'll
just read it because overloading
training is maximally beneficial not
overloaded training works too it doesn't
work super well especially for advanced
people and because rest or easier
training promotes recovery adaptation
best overload training should be
arranged to accommodate for each cycle
of stimulus recovery and adaptation
before repeating overload again
in most cases so basically that session
rest paradigm or overload recovery
overload every time you look at training
every time you design a design a
training program you should have
distinct times of hitting it mess and
stuff up and distinct times of going
easier at least for those systems that's
how progress occurs so examples of
application super simple ones here we go
proper application example you train
upper body Monday pretty hard you train
it Wednesday pretty hard you train it
Friday pretty hard lower body you train
hard on Tuesday Thursday Saturday boom
problem solved
Monday Wednesday Friday overload Tuesday
Thursday Saturday we have recovery and
during those days we overload other
systems and have recovery on the
opposite day works really well
classic application we can over apply us
are a nice like we kind of hinted at
earlier if we over read we miss read the
SRA principle to go oh my god
well they say that you know adaptation
doesn't really occur during times of
heart training and we got to recover
between training we better recover
completely sewn over application is like
you wait until all bone micro trauma is
completely healed which takes forever by
the way because bones reconstruct super
slowly let's say you do a super heavy
plyometric workout you actually get bone
trauma from plyometrics from jumping
around if we zoom in at a microscopic
level you've taken bone damage and
that's okay because you could take bone
damage like that for months and it would
never risk injury and but you're getting
better at everything else the entire
time but no no no no no we've all read
the principle we're gonna make sure we
completely heal before we hit it again
you end up doing a session every two
weeks what kind of stuff do you get
better at if you train at every two
weeks unless you're a super high end
lifter who's for heart pounds your bed
lifting every two weeks because that's
how long it takes to recover even
performance do we really need to go
through and rest two weeks to recover
every single system of course not right
so that's an over application of course
under application is much more classic
very few people over apply there's some
high intensity training sort of one set
to failure protocol they used to have
four for bodybuilding back in the day
they overdid the SRA protocol and they
sort of over applied and they said you
know you first you can train twice a
week but then you really start to get
good you maybe only be able to train
once a week and you know from pert
review training is vastly overstated
they were really looking for much more
complete recovery than they needed but
under application is super common so
here's the example I wrote down here
Brent bench presses every single day
with overload because that's what it
takes to be the best right every single
day bench press and he's been getting a
bit weaker lately but that's nothing
more willpower can't solve right and so
a lot of times when people do programs
that are not properly SRA structured
they think you can just will yourself
into getting stronger ice now what the
purpose of training is willpower comes
in handy for consistency and for when
overload is a good idea to bring the
fire but when overloads not a good idea
willpower should act to keep you from
the gym to keep you from training hard
this is kind of a cool psychological
implication that SRA tells us or real
psychologically dedicated athletes
doesn't just train hard they also know
when it's time to back off and don't let
their impulsivity oh shit I got a train
lead their life and lead their training
and they leader they'd much rather let a
training plan dictate
so if Saturday is a rest day they may
feel like training they don't because
they know that rest days or easier days
of training are the very days on which
the actual adaptations are made big deal
all right
lastly let's take a look at some program
design implications from this principle
so one of the program design
implications comes from the idea that we
get tired during training and that if we
are tired during training we can't
present an overload so the first
implication here is that multiple daily
training sessions are usually better
than single sessions if there is lots of
work to be done and especially for high
overload threshold fitness
characteristics like speed and power
because remember for something like
hypertrophy there's a longer hair still
lifting above 60% of one rep max on
average you're still causing more
hypertrophic disruption so you feel like
a two-hour long hypertrophy workout at
the end of that workout you're not doing
as well as you could have been there
might be a good idea to split the work
on into two one-hour parts but you're
still cranking it and you're still
providing meaningful overload look you
got to get so beat up to not be able to
lift your 60% you know over your 1rm for
at least one rep that maybe that's
inconceivable you'll probably get
rhabdomyolysis before we ever got that
tired both of those are bad by the way
don't try that but it's really not a big
conservative hypertrophy but something
like speed and power remember that if
you get a drop-off in speeds like a
sprint speed of more than maybe 90 or 95
percent even of your maximum speed
you're not treating speed anymore your
training speed endurance it's an
entirely different variable if your peak
power drops below 90 percent during like
snatches clean and jerks or jumps you're
actually not training for peak power
anymore you're training for power
endurance which is a different variable
to
it doesn't improve your peak power
directly so if you're doing the Olympic
weightlifting workout after about 45
minutes or an hour of hard work you
literally almost no one can continue to
generate peak powers within 90% so then
why are they still in there
what's your well they are still
snatching clean a jerking they're still
doing squats they're still doing
training but they're not doing training
that's getting them better at power
because it's time to recover and adapt
and rest it is that time to all it
anymore because over lubes pretty much
impossible they've left their threshold
from fatigue so a lot of Olympic
weightlifters and this is very common
Olympic weightlifting training split
their training up into multiple daily
sessions there are Olympic weightlifting
teams that have fourteen or sixteen
weekly sessions of overloading training
or of training of some kind
what you think how the hell are they
doing that well each sessions 30 to 45
minutes long they go home they take a
nap they do other work they relax they
do not physical stuff they come back
recovered rested ready to hit it again
ready to go above 90% get that threshold
and they hit it so for a lot of things
if you have the time to split up the
training and experience less fatigue
during the course of a training session
that prevents you from doing your best
at the end of it not a terrible idea
second implication because we know that
we need hard training to stimulate and
easy or rest easy training or rest to
gain the adaptations we're looking for
each week of training each microcycle
should probably have distinct harder and
to easier periods a lot of times people
look at a training week and they think
man if I just spread everything out
evenly it's gonna be great but that
doesn't give your body enough of a
stimulus on the one side and it doesn't
give it enough of a distinct easier time
to really undergo recovery and
adaptation so whenever you structure
your micro-cycles
there should be some super hard stuff so
the super easy example is powerlifting
earlier in the week you might do your
heavy squats your heavy benches later in
the week you might do heavy dead lifting
which is a hard workout but then the
next workout after is just assistance
upper-body work which isn't super
difficult
and then two whole days of rest during
the weekend so the first part of the
week heavy squats heavy benches and that
together is brutal the second part of
the week first of all the training is
not as hard you know one of the days of
super hard but the other is not as hard
so on average it's a little easier and
we have more rest days on that part of
the week so then each week has this like
big run to big wave at the front end and
then at the back end a reduction and
it's boom and recover boom and a recover
so every week has this pulsatile
strategy SRA is met and we have the best
adaptations possible while still
presenting best overload possible number
three body part training this is a huge
implication that we can get into in
particular courses for this topic we're
gonna beat this to death later body part
training for bodybuilding for example we
want train back and train your arms some
train your legs kind of all the same
week has to be SRA structured so if you
have a week and it's a week of training
and you say ok Monday front delts and
triceps har heavy Tuesday chest hard
heavy oh so like front delts and triceps
are used in every pressing motion for
chest as a matter of fact when you train
front delts of triceps a lot of those
movements like skull crushers etc and
dips they engage the chest as well so if
you do chest right after how much are
you gonna be able to get out of chest
training with that much beat up of front
delts and triceps it's gonna limit your
chest training I guess well so it's
gonna do remember hard training during
times of adaptation or during times of
recovery interfere with how much
adaptation we get so your front delts
and your triceps are trying to grow and
the at the very time that they're trying
to grow guess what's happening um well
you are messing them up again during
push chest training doing Close Grip
benches and an incline dumbbell presses
and stuff you're hitting them again
you're interfering with adaptations so
what's a more logical design for
training those muscle groups well Monday
front delts triceps
Thursday chest when the front delts and
triceps have already recovered for the
most part maybe even almost completely
and then we hit chest without any
impediment and that gives time for all
the stuff to recover for chest for the
whole rest of the week the next Monday
we're fully recovered again and then we
go again once you understand the our
sorry principle now mind you that
doesn't mean we have to train twice a
week if we wanted to train more often
let's say we want to let's say we have a
18 total sets per week that's our you
know training load for this week it's
our maximum adaptive volume and 18 total
sets of chest for hypertrophy could we
do it in two workouts or nine sets each
chest nine sets on Monday and 9 cents
Thursday totally fits sre sort of timed
out pretty well
get a big stimulus recovery adaptation
then hit it against a miss recovery
adaptation totally 9 + 9 could you do 6
+ 6 + 6 on Monday Wednesday Friday yeah
totally because we have a pulse and and
a pulse and a pulse but the pulses are
sure the SRA curves generated for all
the systems that are being disrupted
they're shorter because it's less at any
one time
so the SRA uh principle doesn't really
tell us we only have to train once a
week or we can't train more than twice
you could train every single day pretty
much or pretty close for a lot of things
if you do very little work during the
day but if you have a really big session
you have to give it the time to allow
for recovery because otherwise this is
not gonna work so hopefully that makes
sense when you look and design yourself
bodybuilding routines in the future
you're gonna have to be really attentive
to this SRA structure to put this way
I've looked at a lot of magazine muscle
magazine routines that people say hey
this is good to do and you look at it
for like 30 seconds you're like who the
hell wrote this this is completely
messed up you know another sort of more
advanced example is you know super heavy
back training the day before legs and
you look at the exercises and the legs
that's like heavy squat and in the back
work it's like heavy deadlift like we
held squats heavy with the day after
dead lifting you're not going to be
limiting by your quads or
be limited by your quads even limited by
your lower back your lower back is gonna
give out way before your quads that
violates SRA never mind the fact that it
interferes you through the lower back
making adaptations cuz you're hitting it
again right so SRA is really big for
bodybuilding program designed to make an
intelligent to give yourself enough time
to recover etc etc now the last
implication is that so we keep talking
about the recovery there are rates of
recovery depending on which systems we
stimulate and the systems that our
training stimulates the most or
predominantly is going to kind of give
us a hint as to the optimal or at least
a good range of frequencies of training
we can program for that system so in
other words that the question of how
often should we train a system the
answer for that is how fast does its SRA
curve right stimulus kind of source we
go stimulus recovery adaptation super
compensation then hit it again how fast
does that curve recover how fast does
that curve operate because different
systems have curves that Laurel for
different times remember we said earlier
if you waited for your bones to heal you
would train every two weeks so the ones
for bone reconstruction the SRA curves
are super long it just takes a long time
to heal there are other curves that
occur much faster here are some examples
the fastest some of the fastest in sport
training SRA curves our technique SRA
curves
how often do technique curves or how
quickly do they recover how quick is the
SRA cycle stimulus recovery at time to
reheat adaptation again time to hit
stimulus again how quickly does that
happen with technique hours so can you
tell train technique multiple times per
day absolutely so if a tennis player
writes you out their program they play
tennis in the morning and then the
afternoon you you can't say oh no no no
no this is nonsense you got to wait at
least four days to play tennis again
absolutely not because it's mostly the
technical systems that are being
stressed they recover super fast than if
you wait longer they start to recede and
their abilities remember if you don't
use it you lose it to some extent at
least very slowly and at the very very
least even if you're not losing
abilities you could be making
ones in your knot technique superfast
the systems that underlie endurance
training for example type 1 muscle fiber
all alterations mitochondria alterations
vascularity etc they actually tend to
have an S or a curve usually of like a
day or so
so endurance you can train multiple
times a day and you can definitely train
every day the big warning is if you want
to Train endurance systems twice a week
you're gonna get very little out of that
because a ton of the adaptations you've
initiated are gonna start to recess
during that time so you want to build on
adaptations right you want recovery and
then hit it again recovery hit it again
recovery hit it again with endurance if
you train it twice a week or once a week
you're gonna get stimulus or khari
adaptation and it's gonna proceed
receipt receipt or so you go back to
normal baseline before we even started
training and then you're gonna hit it
again way too infrequent speed every day
or a couple of days B training is a good
idea it's a pretty quick SRA curve power
you can get away with twice a week
sometimes three times a week is a little
bit better it's kind of an intermediate
range SRA curve there for hypertrophy it
depends on the muscle group it depends
on the type of stimulus but training
usually anywhere between two and four
times a week for the same muscle group
is probably optimal and you can probably
get away with training even one so we
can get pretty good results for strength
especially if you're really strong it's
not just the muscles that get messed up
it's the nervous system as well and the
nervous system a lot of times takes
quite a bit to recover its ability to
overload again the quintessential
example here is the deadlift how many of
you have successfully dead lifted with
overload three times a week it's almost
unheard of people squat three times a
week they can bench three times a week
almost nobody deadlift see times really
it messes you up way too much the SRA
curve generated by deadlift take too
long to recover if you do recover and
you do get better dead lifting but maybe
dead lifting twice a week hard and for
most people not even you deadlift once a
week hard and the other time easy a lot
of people just I'd love to have you once
a week and the bigger stronger lifters
folks pulling in the seventh and eighth
sometimes they deadlift how hard and
heavy only once every week and a half or
two weeks even his dad's how long it
takes for the SR acres to dive down so
hopefully you guys got a lot out of that
that's the SRA principle give that some
thought
see you guys next time
[Music]