you ever notice how some people can eat
pretty much anything they want without
worrying about gaining weight one small
part is their actual metabolism it can
be a pretty large contributor but
nothing too crazy in most cases another
reason is that they have a lot of
non-exercise activity thermogen which
means they just move around a lot they
fidget a lot they move they have
physical jobs they just like to move
around more and they prefer to do it
they just naturally do it moving around
randomly throughout the day doing
various tasks versus just sitting there
can burn hundreds more calories even if
you're the exact same and the last
factor is the fact that you rarely spend
24 hours a day with these people and it
turns out that some people can eat very
impressive meals or very impressive
large amount of food at once but then
they don't eat much for the rest of the
time so a lot of time even the
supposition based on just your cursory
familiarity with those people that they
can eat a ton of calories and not gain
weight might not even be true because
you don't have access to all the
calories that they're eating