if you train really really hard it's
kind of always time to eat carbs but
shit if I'm not selling hard training
with that line you just don't want to
train her
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome back to another
five rules video this time the five
rules of carbs ye shall not snack
I mean fuck that rule smack away all
right five rolls of carbs more like
helpful hints to understand what carbs
are than rules but it's the five rules
video series and
well it's got the video guy said Mike we
need five rules for everything and I was
like Scott I don't think that world
works like that he's like shut up and do
it I was like okay okay I just started
typing really fast so here's what came
up in any case
he looks angry
but I can't say I hate that look
a little angry man I should just I
should just give lecture here we go
number one
good to understand that carbs help with
energy
for Fitness Pursuits and for work
carbs are the best fuel for thinking bar
none
yes sometimes for some people low carb
diets cause a sense of mental Clarity
and Mild Euphoria but for most people
they get that from eating carbs in a
well-balanced diet and if you're going
to take a test of mental ability you're
ready to be really sharp for an
interview I highly recommend you eat
carbs beforehand the brain's number one
preferred source of fuel is drum roll
glucose which I don't know if you've
heard is a carb
recovery is hugely potentiated by carbs
sleep is helped a ton by carbs and
muscle growth is helped a ton by carbs
if you have a compelling reason to eat
low carb or not eat carbs At All by all
means Namaste do your thing but if you
don't
it is a good idea to eat carbs
you don't have to eat a ton of them
but some of them are really good so if
you say look I mostly like to eat
proteins and fats
what are the advantages to eating carbs
again you just heard them rule number
two pair your carbs to your calorie
levels and to your activity level so for
example if you're eating much more
protein and fat your carbs need to come
down because your total calories are the
most important part about your diet
and
if your activity activity levels are
coming up and you want to have lots of
energy and be able to recover eating
more carbs is a good idea so for example
if you are on like a walking tour of the
monuments of Rome or something eat more
cars is probably pretty sharp right if
you are doing a big gym day with two
workouts or something if you have a big
event day for CrossFit or something
carbs can help you if you're lower in
activity mostly sitting around checking
emails on the iPad watching a Netflix
video or two on a lazy Sunday you can
have carbs again if you reduce your fats
for example keeping your protein stable
but you don't need a ton of carbs
necessarily unless you train really
frequently maybe six days a week and
really hard Sunday then if you don't
train is a really good time to really
get a lot of carbs into your muscles
into your glycogen stores so you can
recover better and perform better later
so if you train really really hard it's
kind of always time to eat carbs well
shit if I'm not selling hard training
with that line you just don't want to
train her number three
rule for most meals that you eat and by
you I mean person who's interested in
fitness and health I highly recommend
that the majority of your carbs come
from a combination of veggies fruits and
whole grains they are the most nutrient
dense they are the healthiest they keep
your energy levels the most stable they
keep you regular in the poop place I
believe it's called a colon
or you know
oh geez all the jokes I have queued up
are not for the YouTube audience
can you imagine that
just gonna shut up in any case they also
have another benefit these kinds of
carbs are the most filling they keep you
satiated and not hungry for the longest
time and that's really good especially
if you're on a fat loss diet or just
trying not to be a total pig and gain
weight for no reason can you have other
kinds of carbs and more processed carbs
yes as a matter of fact that's my next
rule rule number four if you're eating a
base of veggies fruits and whole grains
but you're losing weight when you don't
want to be or you're trying to gain
weight but you just can't stuff enough
food down your garlic because you're so
full all the time take your average carb
intake and increase the degree to which
it is processed refined more sugary I
know it's crazy it's supposed to kill
you it doesn't if you're a hard training
athlete you're relatively lean you're
totally good to go eating that
especially if you want to gain weight on
purpose so for example
if you're typically eating brown rice
switch to white rice if you're typically
eating like actual grains of rice normal
rice prepared switch to cream of rice
it'll go down faster and more processed
versions of carbohydrates just digest
quicker easier faster it doesn't make
them any healthier but not really any
less healthy on average it just means
you can get in more food also more
processed carbs tend to get into the
bloodstream and back into your cells or
not back if they didn't come from your
cells get you know from the gut to the
bloodstream to your cells more quickly
so that you can actually become hungry
faster instead of wanting to eat every
three hours you might want to eat every
two which if you're trying to cram in
the food to gain weight oh my God that's
a godsend now here's the other thing if
you're on a fat loss diet you're trying
to restrict the amount of calories
you're eating but you don't want to gnaw
your own hand off with Hunger I
recommend having most of your
carbohydrates come from veggies and
maybe fruits and a few whole grains so
we have processed and the so veggies
fruits whole grains processed carbs
that's how it looks on a fat loss diet
and a maintenance plan it might look
like this and when you really need to
gain a ton of weight it looks like that
not so many veggies trust me you'll
still be regular if you eat enough food
decent amount of fruits but not a ton
plenty of whole grains and a crapload of
processed carbs voila weight gain is
yours
there is no avoiding hard training if
you want to grow but if you want to grow
the most your training needs to be hard
and smart RP hypertrophy app will make
sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best results
lastly could not have
this be omitted rule number five is
sugar is totally fine so long as most of
your carbs come from high fiber sources
like fruits and veggies whole grains
sugar is not inherently bad for your
health somehow as a matter of fact in
your bloodstream it's all sugar the only
real carbohydrate molecule that's
supposed to be in your blood is glucose
if you have other ones in there that
could not be a great thing yes fructose
gets in the liver and stuff like that
and that's totally fine as well but
generally everything breaks down into
sugar and your body uses simple sugars
in most of its processes the sugar can't
be that bad for you and all the research
says it's not what is bad for you is
eating so much sugar that's so tasty
that's combined with fat candies and
cookies and ice cream that's not loaf
not a low-fat food group that I just
listed there that's how you get super
fat super unhealthy and super out of
shape Sugar by itself is not a problem
so if you eat mostly well and you want
to have a bit of sugar here and there
especially if you're really active it's
awesome it's totally okay and you won't
die
unless you have you know like some kind
of sugary cereal and you walk out into
the street and um you're just trying to
clean the streets and you're not paying
attention in that street sweeper car
just just knocks right into you the bad
news is it's gonna kill you that's a
heavy vehicle the good news is as you
get instantly killed with a concussion
force and looped under the car
well it might actually clean up your
dead body on the way and it's like it
never happened was that the perfect
crime
my Mafia instincts or it just drags your
ass in the spreader thingies that clean
just make this eight foot wide two mile
long trail of blood
hopefully it doesn't happen on a school
day before the kids get out to go to the
bus some of those kids will never have
any other dreams again
I'll shut up now I'll see you guys next
time but wait before you go
like subscribe comment if you like more
of this kind of insanity but with much
more knowledge
Our member area has way more nerdy
videos and if you want even more nerd
stuff team full ROM forum for just few
extra thousand dollars a second I'm
kidding it's not that expensive uh you
can have me answer your questions live
every week and we do all kinds of
helping each other out with technique
and all this other stuff so give it a
look it's all in the description below
and I'll see you guys