instead of doing some random stability
drill that you saw on Squad University
that just makes you look weak and cringe
here's an actual drill that can help you
improve shoulder health so strict press
220 above your head and hold the bar
there for as long as you can but here
comes the important part the real signs
stare down the gym stare everybody down
while holding the bar of your head this
is where your mind gives your body a
signal to release shoulder Health
hormones but the hormones for the first
set are not enough so you must wait a
few minutes and then repeat the process
exact same weight press the bar above
your head stare the gym down let them
know silently and respectfully that two
plays have impressed break character at
the end because okay you're not a smile
and then borrow some elbow sleeves from
a guy that just happened to have elbow
sleeves with him in the gym that day
press 230 this time over your head and
that's how you unlock shoulder health