hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization last week we talked about
how much muscle an average person and
above and below can expect to gain
during their sort of 10-year
natural training career that obviously
led to the implication that there are
things
called not natural training careers and
today's video a continuation or sort of
building on top of last time
how much muscle can one add with special
sports supplements that's the ones they
don't sell at gnc
super detailed discussion put on your
seat belts here we go we are going to
talk about a bunch of stuff but first a
huge caveat
these are synthesized estimates based on
my readings of the literature working
with tons of people watching other
people work with tons of people
scrolling instagram a lot uh that's
something i like
they're super general
large variants and they could be really
far off so take all the stuff with a
huge huge huge grain of anabolic salt
now
first we'll review nanny gains
and then we'll talk about what
drug taking will result if you take
drugs in the first 10 years of your
training career which i highly recommend
against i'll get that in a
second third point will be the three
degrees of intervention because people
say well how much muscle do drugs add
well that really depends on which sort
of three sides of the spectrum you're on
because there's a big difference in the
types and amounts of drugs that lead to
various outcomes right it's like saying
how much endurance can i put on if i
start racing bikes
well
you know if you do it twice a week for
30 minutes some if you turn into lance
armstrong's training partner a lot again
there's a lot of
gray area in between
next we're going to talk about what a
layered intervention is which is the
appropriate way to dark side if you are
going to dark side
we're going to talk about finally point
number five expectations from a properly
layered intervention of how much muscle
you could gain at various points using
drugs
and
take a final tally of what's going on a
few other little tidbits in there
between that and then and then lastly a
uh plea for me to you to not be stupid
and the usual thing people say this is
for informational and entertainment
purposes only
all right so
nattie gaines what do they look like
watch last week's video
and basically it says that
not so great genetics and environmental
factors don't line up for you super well
for 10 years of dedicated training and
dieting drug free you may be looking at
about 15 pounds of muscle gained total
on the average side of things you may be
looking at about 30 and on the above
average side you may be looking at about
45 pounds of muscle over 10 years 45
pounds of muscle holy crap that's a lot
now a few notes really quick
females multiply that by one half to
two-thirds okay
and huge huge huge thing to say
for some rare folks they gain way less
than that okay some people gain close to
nothing when they lift weights for years
and they just stop rightfully so because
what the fuck that legit happens it's
been uh observed in a very well
controlled studies before
some rare folks again very rare
uh
they can gain something like 70 pounds
of total muscle completely drug-free in
the first 10 years of their training and
that's a big deal and it really just
does happen absolutely happens so we
have to keep that in mind but it's
incredibly rare we're not all jared
feather hey jared feather
all right
now
question comes up okay you're saying
from what i'm hearing and this is what
i'm saying you do your first 10 years
natty like you damn well should i'll get
to more reasons why that's a good idea
and then you do drugs for maybe 10 years
and then you hopefully quit the fucking
sport because what the hell are you
doing with your life
what if you start doing drugs not after
10 years of natty training what if you
start getting that dirty business
after year 3 or 5 or whatever
well first of all i'd highly recommend
against that for a variety of reasons
i'll talk about later
secondly
i won't speculate on what you'll gain
because there's a huge mix between your
natural genetic gains and your drug
induced gains and it creates kind of
this fractal of variance that is just
all over the map and i'd have to
integrate how much you're taking for how
long blah blah so there's like there's
no answer it's not in this entire
presentation we'll have some clear
numbers for you for sure i'm not going
to be asked with a ton of nuance on only
nuance but there's not like a oh steroid
pill i take pill i gained exactly 10
pounds yeah youtube didn't lie the shit
doesn't happen okay there's a lot of
variants we'll talk about meaningful
stuff but if you start drugs way too
soon
who knows it could be a lot of shit now
let's get rid of the nuance and get to
some specifics it can be a shitload
if you start taking drugs when you've
only trained for two or three years you
can get so big so fast that you have a
career ending injury or two and then
you're done pull your pec off your bone
because your muscle grew so fast your
tendons sort of wasn't able to support
those forces that shit happens uh quite
a bit
it can also be highly underwhelming
there's a huge variance of drug
responses some people use drugs for
three months and they just like burn
five pounds of fat and add five pounds
of muscle like what the fuck uh no side
effects to be seen some people will use
drugs for three months and just
basically get flu-like symptoms every
time they shoot and then nothing happens
and they get uh just really pissed and
they've wasted money and they're like is
this fake and they mass back the gear
and it's real like oh fuck i really
wasn't
carved out for this which is by the way
saving yourself a whole headache so pray
that you don't respond well to these
drugs if you get into them
and here's the thing if you want to get
as big as you can in your lifetime
which is what i've been trying to do
with my life jesus christ that really is
all i've done with my life
um i would embrace the 10-year natty
journey and for the love of god at least
five years natty and nothing until
you're over 25 years old why
when you're 10 years in and i'll have
more details on why this is a good idea
later
you are in a position to make the choice
of whether and to what extent you want
to use drugs better
if you're under 25 years old you're
probably not making decisions at the
level of intellectual depth that you
could be when you're actually over 25
years old you know i'm a very sharp
cookie most days when i was in my early
20s i tested real well people went to
talk to me they're like oh he's real
smart but i made the stupidest fucking
life decisions you could ever imagine
and if i had a time machine the first
thing i would do is time machine my way
back to me under 25 and punch myself
square in the face and check this out
because i'm all jiu-jitsu training now
and shit i watch myself do fucking
nothing about it that's what's up right
in any case over 25 if you're just
better prepared to take monumentally
enormous decisions and putting foreign
substances into your body that wildly
alter your physiology and a huge health
decrement is a monumental decision so i
just anytime someone tells me oh i
started using drugs
you know when i was 22 when i was 18 i
just do a whole lot i would give him tom
a soul face which looks like
this blank stare right yes yes i know c
bum or whatever everyone always comments
what about xyz guy well a quick uh
bayesian analysis for you
were they under 25 years old yes
do i think they made a mistake then yes
yes i do
not a net mistake maybe there are
trade-offs but i think waiting until
you're over 25 is a really good idea
so
another benefit is when you start gear
after 10 years of natty training you're
pretty fucking jacked
and then you build on top of that which
is really awesome because you don't have
to destroy your health and fuck up your
psychology and a bunch of other stuff
uh
for games you would have gotten natural
anyway that's kind of sad right you guys
ever see people at the gym i'm sure you
know a few folks like this they like
started using steroids after like two
years and then after four years like as
big as you were you're six and you're
you're seven so you're more jacked than
them and they're like i'm in one cycle
and you're like sweet what's that and
they're like will you use right you're
like no use what they're like steroids
you're like no i don't know no i haven't
used steroids yet and they're like fuck
and they go home and cry a lot because
you're stronger and bigger than them but
you've just been training for two years
longer or something right you don't want
to be that person you don't want to be
that person
all right
now to make things technical because
that's why you come here to renaissance
periodization not for the bro shit
there are three general degrees of
intervention with tons of movement
between the three tons of gray area but
there are three
pretty distinct things and they can sort
of be cataloged and understood by
degrees of intervention like sort of
three main ways to go about enhancement
today to go about taking drugs to make
your physique more jacked and leaner
first is orals only and the not so
stupid way of doing this still probably
stupid but less stupid than the
alternatives
is you never do any cycles longer than
four to six weeks
you do maybe two to three cycles a year
total with tons of breaks in between to
let your body heal up
and you generally use
oral drugs at low doses at the end of
that means no needles no injections
right um at the end of uh cutting phases
like the last four or six weeks of fat
loss phase or the last four or six weeks
of a mass gaining phase that's a
not so stupid way of using them and
there's no endogenous shutdown of your
testosterone
and no big deal all right a pretty uh
lower reward you won't get super jack
doing this and i'll get to specifics of
how much muscle you can expect on
average but no huge risks taken in any
case which is probably a good thing
second option second layer of
intervention is what has been termed
blast and crews before by various people
you're using injectable substances
indefinitely this means you usually have
something like two to three hundred
milligrams of variation of injectable
testosterone per week kind of at all
times or many uh most of the times and
then one to two times per year on
average you may layer in some other
anabolic compounds on top of that to the
tune of 300 or 700 milligrams on top
right and that would be something like
uh primo mast variants of deca etc etc
many many other drugs on that list
you might use some orals and fat burners
to finish off
fat loss phases and
just as a huge thing super important you
got to start taking some ancillary drugs
here to make sure you're not dying all
the time and this is where blood
pressure drugs become kind of
indispensable for many people so just a
good thing to think about in general
now third degree of intervention
tip of the spear is what i just termed
for the purposes of this i had no better
ideas when i was writing this powerpoint
full bore going full bore all the way in
and you essentially continue to blast
and crews but usually people who go full
bore will use a bit more so 300 to 500
base tests uh when cruising and then
when blasting 500 to a thousand
milligrams per week of anabolics added
in potentially layered inside that or on
top of that is 150 to 500 weekly
milligrams of something like tren uh
various uh trenbolone acetate and
anthony et cetera and that would be
layered in for maybe the last two thirds
of a fat loss phase pre-contest it
really burns a lot of fat and keeps all
your muscle for you probably even add
some
and then usually folks that go full bore
will add somewhere between 20 and 100
milligrams of orals per day so like
anavar winstrol something like that in
the last four to 12 weeks of a fat loss
phase
that tends to be pretty common practice
and of course fat burners enter the
equation some of these here to
counteract the effects for example trend
seems to shut down or really mitigate
your internal thyroid production so you
might do clan t3 etc in addition to that
we're getting into a fucking suitcase of
drugs here not good okay
um and here's the kicker this is what
separates full bore other than dosage um
from the blast and crews is the addition
of peptides and they make a big
difference two to six international
units of growth hormone per day or five
days on two days off various splits here
but basically this occurs almost all
year round or year round
at the
last two thirds of muscle gain phases of
massing phases folks might use something
like 10 to 20 units of insulin in
addition to that time to workouts and
carb intakes and stuff like that it has
a cross potentiation with growth hormone
works really well
and then at this point you're taking
lots of ancillary drugs something like
metformin to counter growth hormone
sites for example blood pressure meds
standard in this case or essentially
just monitoring blood pressure make sure
you're not dying all the time real easy
to do when you're taking a lot of drugs
die all the time
so
those are the three layers of
intervention
now
we can layer them in
potentially
to if we're going to go to the dark side
and start using drugs just going full
bore right away is a fucking stupid idea
why
first you barely know what training and
diet styles work for you
uh because
you don't even fucking you've been
training for one or two years and you go
full bore that's insanity uh you might
know nothing about yourself and you
might have had great natty gains if you
just figured shit out but you never did
you just started using drugs
you have no idea how you respond to
drugs um you go full bore and then you
don't know how your health is gonna act
you don't know what kind of sides you're
gonna get like you could be like you
know five weeks later head to toe
covered in pimples and you know what the
fuck uh psychological sides are brutal
unreal anxiety depression all kinds of
crazy shit um and of course you don't
even know the benefits you're getting
into it could be all sides and very few
benefits and you're like what the fuck
did i spend all this money and get
myself in potentially legal trouble and
also the stupid bullshit for what
somebody could have just told me in
advance was a real bad idea right
and
another thing is you don't know how to
resp how you respond to which drugs like
if you take five drugs and someone's
like hey do they work you're like yeah
like which one do you think you respond
best to of the five like i have no idea
that's an unsolvable problem
mathematically by the way because unless
you introduce drugs and take them out or
layer the doses and play around you have
no idea which drugs are good bad which
ones may be causing a ton of side
effects which one's me being in a ton of
benefits so just going full bore
is one does not simply okay lord of the
rings meme one does not simply do that
um
and of course you have no idea how far
you can go natty and or with minimal
drugs right so
you just kind of throw the whole kitchen
sink at it and uh hope for the best and
when your kitchen sink is being thrown
at the body your body and your health
which my parents always tell me you only
have one health and if you waste it away
that's really bad a lot of truth to that
statement may not be the most
intelligent that you could ever do
so
here is the layering part almost
everyone who who will eventually start
and get into the dark side of things uh
go non-natty should start if they do
most people just don't need to start at
all perhaps almost all but if you're
going to start start with the orals only
option option number one
okay
then as results stabilize and you get a
feel for the positives and negatives
in the positives are outweighing the
negatives and you really think it
through and decide you can decide to go
blast and cruise uh like a few years
later or something like that if you want
children eventually this is a big deal
because you might have to take other
substances to keep your nuts alive and
if you don't your nuts could shrink and
you never have children again huge deal
and yeah i know you're 28 you may never
want children but when you turn you know
42 you might be like oh my god my life
is fucking empty and nothing i want more
than a child and then you're not so
fucking broken so you can't have
children so some shit you got to think
about in the long term um
hilariously probably the vast majority
of steroid users are fucking idiots who
don't think but one foot in front of
their face and that
endeavor of using drugs like that it
takes precisely the opposite kind of
person so that's kind of the sad irony
here don't be one of those people point
number three
during the blast and cruise times for
multiple years before you get into
peptides or any other shit you try
varied substances at lower doses and see
what the best trade-offs are of sort of
downsides upsides and see which
substances fit you well a lot of this
can be tailored to blood work you take
some substance you know blood works like
ah you're dying you take you take that
one out you take another substance and
your blood pressure this is pretty good
and then you're saying well yeah i'm
never gonna take that other substance
again or maybe later down the line if it
really comes to it but for now i've got
my substances that really work well for
me and then when you really figured
yourself out you start to layer in the
higher doses and the peptides and
you do this by seeing where the blast
and crews and no peptides is taking you
and
versus how far you'd like to push the
results so if blasting cruise has done
you really well you're still very
healthy you're prepared for the
trade-offs you can start layering and
slowly adding peptides growth hormone
insulin etc
to the extent that you're like okay i
need to gain 10 pounds in the next two
years to be a force on the national
level stage i talk to my coach i talk to
my doctor blah blah blah we're going to
ease into this and see how it works
it's a big deal to do so layered
intervention is how we're going to talk
about this thing for the rest of it so
when i say you've used drugs for 10
years from now on 10 years and maddie
10 years of drugs
i was gonna mean like two years of orals
only or something like that
three to five years of uh blasting crews
no peptides etc and then the last you
know five to whatever number of years of
that 10 is going to be full bore okay
that's the example if we use any other
kind of examples the numbers are going
to be off and i won't have any good
guesses for you anymore as to what you
can expect
all right finally expectations from a
layered progressive strategy holy shit
finally
why did we take so long to get to this
point i could have just started this
video with like i'll just give you
numbers of how much you're going to gain
well
many of the people perhaps most that are
asking like what are the results of
drugs have no idea what taking drugs
look like or should look like it's like
someone asking how high does a rocket go
and you're like ah i'll answer that
question timmy first you can answer me a
question of what is a rocket and they're
like
is it a a dog that's red you're like no
that's clifford you fucking idiot jesus
christ jimmy what are the teacher in
kindergarten but on a serious note if
you have no idea the concept of the
problem you're not getting a fucking
answer because you won't have any idea
how to contextualize that let's say
going to grandma's house like grandma
did you know the tesla model s goes 0 to
16 xyz seconds and the you know ferrari
does worse than that and she's like oh
that's nice timmy like you're not gonna
waste grandma's time with that shit so
we have to do all this learning
beforehand so you can actually
contextualize the shit now good news if
you know the shit already sweet maybe
someone time stamped this you fast
forward to this if you don't know what
the fuck i'm talking about go back watch
the video in any case sorry to be rude
let's get to the actual amounts of
muscle that you may on average be
expecting expecting's a bad term the
average person will get these average
young healthy male
tons of variants tons of areas so orals
only
in the first year of using them again
using it maybe twice for like a total of
i don't know
eight to twelve weeks total that entire
time you may put on between five and ten
pounds of muscle right that's a lot
that's pretty impressive and
if
you never go beyond orals only and for
ten years after your ten nanny years you
just oral cycles every now and again you
may be looking to put on something like
10 to 20 pounds 20 pounds actually quite
a bit maybe more like 10 to 15
total over 10 years so nothing crazy
revolutionary but with significantly
more jack than you would be if you were
just drug free so there's that but
that's with a minimal intervention
next what if you do blast and cruise
that implies that you do first two years
of or only and then you do blast and
cruise after that for the rest of the 10
years so say another eight years or
something like that
then you can look to gain uh you know 15
to 30 pounds of muscle over 10 years
okay another 15 to 30 above what you had
gained as a natural
all right like crap that's pretty
impressive very very different look okay
what about full bore full war again
assumes you do a few years of oils only
a few years of blast and cruise and then
you use the rest of the 10 years maybe
even 12 to do the full bore peptides
plenty of dosing all that stuff you can
look to add something like 20 to 50
pounds of muscle on top of your first 10
years of natty gains
now
the final tally looks very interesting
this i think is a very important topic
here
uh it's impactful and it can really
leave you with an impression of what
does this really look like okay so we're
taking our example from the last video
of our ideal male 18 years old right
130 pounds five foot nine
between 18 and 28
these folks just train natty and eat and
do their best
and they either have
ouch genetics right or lifestyle or
whatever the outcomes aren't that great
average or yahoo from our last lecture
uh i was like damn we're doing real well
for ourselves we're really good genetics
really good uh intervention et cetera et
cetera et cetera so we have those three
cases right
so
20 years of training in diet
we can look at 30 pounds total
after going full bore for the last five
years 30 pounds of total muscle
including the shit you got
when you were drug free like half of
that and then the other half when you
were not drug-free right that means at
130 pounds 5 foot 9 at 18
average body fat natty
10 years later age 28 you're 145 pounds
of 5 foot 9
lean
still natty and then 10 years after that
at age 38 you've been using drugs in
some capacity for the last 10 years you
are ripped to shreds at 160 pounds
that's full bore that's peptides that's
growth that's insulin that's trend
that's all that shit
people exist many many many many people
that are using
gobs of drugs for a fucking generation
and are 160 pounds at five foot nine
i've had folks come up to me in the gym
and start conversations about tren and
i'm like motherfucker who's who taking
trenton who did you he what big guy did
you hear this from and he's like i'm on
it right now and i'm like huh
okay
in real life i'm not a mean person just
on camera because i'm actually a pussy
in real life never look anyone in the
eye but on a serious note i wasn't going
to be like whoa that sucks but i was
like oh that's what's up no
but that's a lot of people
so if you're an individual i'll cover
this point again later just a
fine point on it
if you're an individual
who
expects to just be ifbb pro as soon as
you start using whatever they're using
you could be in for a world of hurt and
it's like maybe one third of the young
healthy male population is in that group
that's going to get roughly 30 pounds
total from the whole fucking deal it's a
year zero of training all the way
through the last 10 years of drug use
okay
that's reality as far as i have
perceived it at least and it's that's
got to give you some reverence for what
you're doing it's not the steroids are
not an instant muscle pill for many many
people but for some they are and that's
the fucked up thing about it
on to the average outcomes this is more
speed here this is average okay that
doesn't mean it's what you can expect
it's what you can expect if you turn out
to be average
20 years of diet training 60 pounds of
total muscle gain over that time
five last five years of that is going
full bore peptides everything right 130
pounds 18 years old average body fat
160 pounds at five nine at the end of
the natty days beginning of the the drug
days not bad
190 pounds
in contest shape ripped to shreds at age
38 and that's right in the middle of the
light heavily class in bodybuilding in
the in the npc in the united states and
the light heavies from what i understand
is like one of the most popular classes
hugely popular class and that kind of
makes sense again and almost everyone at
nationals at the light heavies is using
the fucking kitchen sink tons of shit
not everyone's using crazy amounts some
guys using insane amounts the average
guy's using it like oh you know like
full bore right and they're like you
know 190 195 on stage stuff like that
and you think but uh ifbb pros they're
so big almost no one almost no one has
what it takes to become an ifbb pro not
because you're not hardworking smart
enough you're fucking well overqualified
for that shit it's just genetics almost
uh always is the big factor right and
we'll talk about some other factors in a
sec
so
that's that's the reality
next is the yahoo outcomes okay oh my
god this has really really gone well for
us super good responder 20 years of
training 100 pounds total
muscle gained that's a lot of muscle so
you you start at 130 pounds of 5 9 at 18
years old maddie you get to 180 drug
free at age 28. hey that's pretty
fucking good you could be a really good
natural uh pro bodybuilder right or
at least maybe get a natural pro card i
don't know about really good
230 pounds at 5 foot 9 at age 38 going
full bore for that last bit or decent
bit
ripped to shreds five nine two thirty
that is an npc championship physique
that is a physique that 50 50 has the
chance to turn pro in many cases that's
a big motherfuck
that's a that's one nasty watercut away
from top of the heavyweight class or
coming in at the bottom of the supers
which is almost no one ever does at five
nine good god that's a fucking jack
super right
so
that is really really good outcomes not
average really really good
now what about ifv pros
what the fuck so first of all how big
are they really the answer is 250 pounds
on stage at around 5 foot 9 is kind of a
template for a top pro not just any pro
a top pro a 250 is a big motherfucker at
five nine that's like uh
phil heath at his biggest might have
been something like that and he has
amazing lines and everything but like
phil heath in real life on stage is like
oh my god that person is enormous
conditioning and symmetry aside of
course not everyone has the shape but
250 at 5 9 is really what we're talking
about when we say pro
top pro and those are the folks you know
about by the way that's whose videos you
watch and instagram you scroll through
um you know what other websites are
there facebook nobody uses facebook
anymore
so our top end if we scroll back a slide
yahoo outcomes real good outcomes five
foot nine two thirty where the fuck is
that twenty pounds of muscle coming from
we're saying top pros are 250 and some
of the guys with the best genetics are
230 where's the 20 pounds well
uh three things i can think of offhand
one is better starting points
a lot of the people that eventually turn
if pro they didn't graduate high school
at 1 30 they graduated high school at
160 to 180 and they were fucking lean
they were that kid in the locker room
that was 170 as a wrestler and had
absolutely yeah man start training what
the fuck are you like already an adult
male and we're all just children yeah
those people are real and if they really
choose to go
all in they can sometimes become top if
b pros and it kind of makes sense in
retrospect
another thing they have is amazing
adaptability genetics they just keep
gaining they gain more each month or
each year they gain for longer and
sometimes in some ideal circumstances
they just keep doing this and this and
they just keep going like that that
definitely happens
point number three is some will go
beyond full bore so many of you may have
uh
take an issue with my full bore stuff
and i'd say oh 500 trend i know pros
that are taking a thousand yeah so do i
some of those guys do take that much and
they die kind of often kind of publicly
it's a fucking risky enterprise it's
generally not a good idea but some guys
go beyond the pale and go into insane
dosages a lot of times not even doing
blood work or anything like that and
this is kind of how you end up at 250 or
five nine right doing real stupid shit
and having amazing genetics to begin
with right not everyone at that jack
level is doing stupid shit but a lot of
people right so that's kind of what
explains the difference between the iv
pros and just the genetic elite they're
230 or 5'9
all right take home points before we
wrap this up
staying natty for around 10 years at
least actually stay nanny forever is a
great idea
for even if you're planning on dark
siding staying nanny for 10 years is a
really fucking good idea
if you choose to go to the dark side
dark side
how can i not say that
only do so with regular blood work
medical supervision preparedness to
reduce stop
reduce anabolic intake stop taking
anabolics or take ancillaries
intelligently chosen to mitigate some
side effects if you're not into that
whole thing i wouldn't recommend this
enterprise at all as a matter of fact i
tell you not to do
some people so another implication take
home big take home point here point
number three some people go full bore
everything the kitchen sink and end up
at 160 pounds of five foot nine
lots of them
is that worth the trade-off for most no
for most people it's not uh and they
usually don't think about it once
they've bought into the culture and it's
do or die
then a lot of it is they do and then
they die okay
if you don't have the good genetics for
this this is why taking orals only first
if you want to start it's a good idea to
take them and kind of nothing happens or
very little happens that probably means
you're not getting a lot out of anything
else and then time to shut it down or
time to coast instead of going and being
like fuck that if orals didn't work
insulin and growth sure as hell gonna
make me big yeah that make you bigger
but at what expense right if you're
going to be ifb pro eventually that
means you're probably going to have a
pretty good response to the first few
years of limited drug use there's not
like some magic like extra drug that oh
that'll really change the game right
now the average young male can expect
something like 30 pounds of muscle with
using gear
on top of 30 pounds of natural muscle
earned over 10 years
so
that's 190 pounds of 5 foot 9 in our
example
that is not pro caliber in most cases
190 at 5 nine is a great physique
national caliber but not pro caliber so
a lot of stupid-ass comments on various
forums youtube included unfortunately
he's like man if i took gear he's taking
i'd be a fucking pro yeah you probably
wouldn't though you almost certainly
wouldn't sometimes you would but it's
unlikely so take that shit straight the
fuck to the garbage the pros are special
they are not because they're super sharp
usually they're not not because they're
doing all the right stuff a lot of times
they're not but mostly due to genetics
and consistency and you may not have
both of those things
next up
numerous
natties
from this example okay
will be as big or bigger than full bore
users remember i'm going to scroll back
a couple slides to remind myself we've
got guys
on the outcomes the shitty outcomes here
at 160 pounds at 5 foot 9 at 38 years
old they may run into someone with
average outcomes who's 160 and 5 9 at 28
years old has never touched a fucking
drug they may also run in to someone
who's 180 at five nine at 28 years old
and has never touched another a drug
they're just above average in genetics
so
what does that mean
reality is a motherfucker and if you
have shitty genetics and by the way
there are huge genetics to the extent of
your drug response okay these are just
averages some people do way better than
average
some people do way worse than average so
if you have shitty results natty
you could have
also shitty results on drugs and really
just have nothing to show for or very
limited you could have average drug
results and be much better you could
have great drug results even if you were
a shitty natty and are really up your
game but that's unlikely there is a
decent correlation between results natty
it's not 100
but it's sizeable between what you get
natural and then what you get with drugs
okay kai greene was like 210 pounds of
5'7 natural i believe it ronnie coleman
it was like 5 11. i think he was like
215 on stage
drug free if he was oh that's bullshit i
don't believe it well he was fucking 287
after all the drugs is it really that
hard to imagine right big big rainy what
do you think big rainy was when he was
drug free like i don't know he might
have started really early but he could
have had a physique that was 230 240 on
stage drug free i fully believe that
lean because there's only one fucking
big rainy and now he's on stage at 290
or 295 winning the olympia no fucking
shit right so
genetics is a motherfucker and drugs
don't make up the entire gap huge thing
to remember so drugs isn't like this
thing where you're like i am not an ifb
pro physique i take the drugs i become
one it just doesn't work like that for
some people it will and for some it'll
be like eh and for someone to be like
right and then they get all the health
and all this other bullshit and it's
just a whole can of worms
here's the deal last
point until my tirade at the end
200 pounds plus in stage condition at a
relatively average height
is very rare 225 plus is crazy rare and
250 plus is world class at these average
heights do not let social media fool you
into thinking otherwise
the people you follow on social media
have all those followers precisely
because they are rare they just are
right and much of that is genetics and a
bunch of other stuff and a ton of drugs
but a lot of people think like yeah like
you take drugs and you turn up 225 lean
that's what drug takers look like
bullshit and there's there's a wise i
forgot who said it i'm sure a number of
people have sort of independently
arrived at it you know in the average
gym you don't know who's on steroids
because most the people on them you
can't even fucking tell
that's the reality and again that's not
me telling you steroids don't book work
man don't take them they work fucking
great for some people but you're not
sure if that's going to be you so you
got to be smart about the shit which
brings me to my final point
i always do the illuminati triangle by
accident
accident
the illuminati have no such term
don't be stupid
right
here's the thing stupid people have been
rushing into drugs for a long time
generations if you rush into drugs you
won't be the first stupid person to do
it but you will be stupid
these people are good for at least one
thing they make cool exposes on fox 5
news in the morning about oh how bad
drugs are and once they were 45 they had
three heart attacks and 10 strokes and
they're full of regret and that's a
message to the children here's a better
message to children don't do dumb shit
like not doing blood work and like
rushing into drugs not taking the
kitchen sink and etc
most smart people who get into this sort
of business have a few things in common
time to find out if you're smart
first most smart people never start by
the way there's a pretty decent chance
that especially at extreme doses
anabolic steroids either make you
temporarily or semi-permanently or even
permanently less generally intelligent
that's a bad thing so you could be
taking steroids because you're dumb and
then they make you dumber still
fuck that explains a lot of the ifbb
pros i'm just kidding but on a serious
note this is real shit these
consequences are fucked up potentially
and you gotta you gotta be mine so most
smart people don't use steroids first
one
or any of that other shit
next
if starting smart people only start
after years of natty training and
learning the worst thing in the world is
when you've got a guy talking to you
about dosages and you're like yeah
that's what's up and you're at the gym
and then he turns around and does a hack
squat and you're like oh my god you
don't know how to lift weights who gave
you drugs when you don't all lift
weights right or are you talking about
people like you're like what's your diet
like and they're like well i do uh eight
ounces of steak six ounces of chicken
i'm like pause do you know what macros
are and they're like uh no you know how
to count protein you don't know how to
count motherfucker how do you even count
the amount of fucking syringe you're
filling with your fucking steroids the
answer is a lot of them don't do that
either tons of backwater stories which
i'm not gonna share uh of people as high
as pro caliber or top national who don't
know how to measure out their drugs in a
syringe and have been getting it wrong
for years yes
that's real and you look up to these
people like man i wonder what he's
thinking on the fucking flies like he
does his flies like this is still like
that was dr mike wrong oh that guy's
dumb as fucking rocks
happens all the time can you tell i'm
getting pissed
next one
when starting smart people do so in a
country where use is legal like the
united kingdom what a great place
they layer in from oral only
experimental very judicious use all the
way up to as tolerated based on risk
reward and based on blood work to that
end they monitor their health outcomes
constantly the entire time making smart
decisions including when to pull back
when to stop when to switch when to take
ancillaries etc
they never smart people never take more
than gets the job done
right and they only increase marginally
at a time smart people aren't like yeah
i'm taking a gram total time to go to
three don't do shit like that go to a
gram and a half see how it works right
another thing smart people do and your
boys for sure planning on doing this
shit getting out when accomplished okay
it's sad when you got 55 year old
motherfucker that's still running full
bore cycles like yeah i'm gonna put on a
little bit more muscle motherfucker 55
you're probably not putting out shit at
this point if you've been going full
bore for 20 years what are you doing
other than killing yourself and causing
massive inconvenience uh
it's that don't be that person once you
get through your competitive career get
through your early 40s probably time to
shut it down if you're a master's
competitor sweet
that's kind of cool if you're drug free
if you're not drug-free and you're
really full born your master's
competitor
your doctor
must love you because you make him a lot
of money
lastly
this entire bullshit i just said about
using drugs presupposes one thing that i
hadn't mentioned i have to mention
before we sign out
uh don't use drugs to cheat at sports
so if you are competing in a federation
in which drugs are banned
and you are simultaneously using drugs
you are a cocksucker and not in the fun
way
right cheating is lame and there's
federations where they let you do
whatever so
come compete with the rest of us crazy
assholes if you use drugs to cheat at
sports in which they're drug-free
competitors
you suck and if i find out about it i'll
have no problem telling that to your
face
just kidding again i don't get into
physical confrontations in reality i'm
actually not five six i'm five one i
only weigh 170 not 230 or whatever folks
is everything a lie maybe hopefully you
found this inspirational or educational
some combination um
gee whiz that was a lot see you next
time for the next video
you