I'm about to fact check Ryan humiston on
his best bicep training
advice welcome back Dr mil wolf here PhD
in sports science and I wanted to react
to a video by Ryan humiston it recently
popped up in my recommendations and some
of the stuff he seemed to be saying is
very interesting from a sports science
perspective in fact it's something we've
been researching quite a bit recently so
without further Ado let's get into it
suspense right now it's peing they don't
know what's about to hit them what is he
going to talk about what on Earth could
he possibly
nexts maybe long muscle
[Music]
L Ling for the pars or my life today
we're using an EMG machine to test
different bicep exercises why is that
important why should you even care well
have you ever done a crossbody Hammer
curl most people do these for the braak
Alis turns out it's actually a horrible
exercise for the break y partially
because every time I do them I end up
running into my overly developed chest
but also because when I tested it with
the EMG machine I ended up getting more
activation of the long head and short
head we're going to go over all the
exercises you've been basically wasting
your time with and it will blow your
mind all right Lads we've got a problem
here already why the random cleavage
shot I'm not 12 I I can keep the
attention on the video without the
cleavage shot and I've been seeing a lot
of this recently not just from Ryan but
also people like squat University it's
it's odd I understand why you're doing
it but I I don't think it's a good thing
secondly we're barely 30 seconds into
the video but EMG should not be used as
a means to determine what exercise is
better than another for hypertrophy
there's been several review papers on
the exact topic let me speak first on a
review paper by voty and colleagues from
20122 on exactly surface EMG and how
it's supposed to predict hypertrophy
surface EMG ultimately measures
neuromuscular excitation essentially the
amplitude of the electrical signal being
sent to your muscle however it's
important to note just how many iCal
jumps are involved in drawing the link
between surface CMG as a strong
predictor of hypertrophy first it is
assumed that neuromuscular excitation as
measured by surface CMG is tightly
correlated with muscle activation which
then is tightly correlated with cross
bridging of actin myosin which then
obviously leads to high degree of force
production which then would predict
hypertrophy now you'll notice that
there's a number of assumptions baked in
here and putting aside all this
theoretical mumbo jumbo as to why
surface EMG is not the best way to
assess which exercise best for
hypertrophy we do have direct tests of
this for instance a study by plin
colleagues measured EMG of a variety of
muscles during the squat and the hip
thrust exercise in different areas of
the glutes for example and then they had
participants actually do just the squat
or just the hip thrust and then they
wanted to see whether the readings and
surface EMG at Baseline for example
which exercise caused greater activation
in certain areas of the glute or which
individuals tended to experience the
greatest EMG whether those things would
predict actual muscle growth over time
from the Squall and hip thrust and
basically surface EMG didn't predict
hypertrophy in any way shape or form and
so look I'm all for people investing
into equipment as a means to make more
scientific content but we need to gcheck
ourselves a little bit when it comes to
this sort of stuff because specifically
with surface EMG yeah it's relatively
cheap like it's 10 15K for an influencer
like myself # social media PhD that is
not that much money and it can be very
attractive to think I'm going to invest
in this and it's going to give me great
conclusions about this exercise is what
you need to do and as you put in the
introduction this one is wasting your
gains but in truth surface EMG is not a
tool I can tell you this whatsoever but
let's carry on for example it's common
knowledge that incline curl hits more
long head because you're putting it in a
stretch position the fact that it cross
over shoulder elbow joint Shad break
yice only cross over the elbow joint it
makes sense that is not what happened
real quick there is some evidence now
suggesting that the short head also
crosses the shoulder joint this is more
recent evidence I'm not even sure that
it was published at the time of this
video but it's just worth noting that
it's not just a long ahead of the biceps
that gets more stretched out during
anline curl and additionally since the
brachialis and the bracho radialis serve
as elbow flexors there's a good chance
that they'll get a good stimulus whether
you're doing an inline curl whether
you're doing more of a preacher curl as
long as you're performing elbow flexion
with some cardats they will be trained
effectively just because an exercise is
a bit better for the biceps as well or a
bit wasse for the biceps as well doesn't
mean it'll be any better or worse for
other muscle groups ultimately your body
isn't thinking hm the biceps is being
trained right now let me go ahead and
reduce training for the brachialis and
break your radialis instead it's
thinking hm I need to be producing Force
right now to lift this wheight and I'm
going to be using all the muscles I can
get to perform that task to contribute
as much as possible essentially it's an
all Hands-On deck approach potentially
so while I do think certain exercises
tend to be better than others for
example we have a study by Zab cording
colleagues comparing the preach curl to
the inclin curl finding better bicep
hypertrophy from the preacher curl
essentially an exercise that places
plenty of tension on the biceps in the
stretch while we have those studies just
because one muscle is being trained more
effectively doesn't mean other muscles
that also contribute to the same joint
action are being trained less
effectively turns out it's a battle
between your break yice and your Shad to
see which one can generate the most
Force
really what the [ __ ] my first thought is
there's no way this machine's accurate I
can't be the first douchebag to spend
his money on a machine like this with a
superficial goal of hypertrophy and test
this and figure this out something's
wrong because otherwise my entire
training
career has been going to [ __ ] lie
seriously Google how to train a long
head one of the first results is always
an inclin dumbbell curl and I tested it
I tested every single angle you could
use on the bench I tested the cable
variation I even had an overly muscular
woman come in and verify my
results and it sucks and this racked my
brain I it doesn't make sense enough I
am a minute and a half into this video
the people who have watched this the 1.5
million people have come away from it
with entirely the wrong idea now and
that's not good and even the language
being used like I've wasted my training
career and that sort of thing brother
you did not waste your training career
putting aside EMG even being a good tool
for predicting hypertrophy it is very
unlikely that small differences will
completely negate any hypertrophy could
have SE are you performing a function of
the toip muscle is it being trained
pretty close to failure yes that is
going to be most of what makes an
exercise effective so no these EMG
readings do not just overrule everything
else and in fact based on the paper I
mentioned earlier they probably
shouldn't overrule anything it doesn't
make sense it should work you're putting
that bicep in a stretch position long
head it wasn't until I found this case
study that I finally
understood how dumb we all are it has
been dumb before and they found the same
exact thing the reason they said the
incline dumbbell Crow was poor in terms
of longit activation is because it
stretches it beyond the optimal length
leading to inefficient act and meas and
coupling now is the science perfect No
in fact someone made an adorable cartoon
video explaining how in perfect it is
and there's some things I agree with but
some things I definitely don't why just
because a muscle isn't operating at a
plateau or essentially the muscle length
at which it is capable of producing the
most force in its length tension
relationship doesn't mean it's not being
trained effectively the evidence for
that claim is pretty weak unfortunately
Ryan seems to be misunderstanding a lot
of the scien this device doesn't
actually measure muscle activation and
measures neuromuscular excitation but
this is without a doubt the best tool we
have in regards to to measurement to
discard this is to discredit tens of
thousands of studies and assume there's
some sort of dysfunction between the
signal being sent and the muscle
actually Contracting I can't control
whether or not you took your Flintstone
vitamins now your sodium potassium pump
is off and the reason I chose this exact
machine is how precise it is you can
actually measure the different levels of
excitability throughout the same muscle
why is that important because not all
exercises are created equal and most
will generate different levels of torque
throughout the muscle at various points
through the range of motion therefore
exciting those nerve cells that are
throughout your muscle with varying
levels of intensity oh man at least he's
aware of the research but I think what
he's not aware of is that to my
knowledge basically no empirical Studies
have really supported the idea that
surface CG will actually predict
hypertrophy I know it's tempting to
think that surface EMG you know you slap
some electrodes on your muscle and you
measure surface amplitude and all of a
sudden you know what's better for
hypertrophy that's really tempting cuz
then we don't need studies comparing
different exercises and measuring
hypertrophy we don't need all the muscle
length research do you have an EMG
machine congratulations you can figure
out what works best for you dear viewer
unfortunately that's just not how it
works it just isn't look I'm very open
to be wrong on this and maybe more
science comes out or maybe I've
overlooked some science on the topic but
damn I don't think this tool can be
using in this way as tempting as it is
towards the bottom and the top this is
the sensor placed at the bottom this one
is the one placed at the top when I did
a supern bicep curl I got a greater
response and potentially greater
contractile Force out of the fibers at
the lower end of my shad but when I did
concentration curls I actually created a
greater response and would potentially
generate a greater contractile force in
those fibers at the proximal end now
does this mean you should go knock on
the door of everybody who said that
concentration curls are a bad exercise
and put your shiny little teabag on
their forehead maybe what it tells me
more than anything else is that exercise
variability is critical if you don't
know what to do do a lot of things
especially when you consider the fact I
did several of these tests on this
particular one I did the supination curl
and then went right into the
concentration curl and even with fatigue
factored in I got more activation out of
the upper end that proximal end of my
short head a few things one I really
don't like this n equals 1 [ __ ] at
the moment like this doesn't tell us
anything as a reason why in studies we
have a lot of participants over longer
time frames typically measuring
hypertrophy and not just surface mg as a
predictor of hypertrophy there's a
reason why we need several participants
in fact typically several studies
sometimes a dozen studies or more to
really start arriving at relatively
robust conclusions of there being a true
effect we're measuring of something
truly being better than something so no
I don't like these pop science videos
where it's like n equals 1 and trying to
tell you how to train based on his own
experience with his EMG unit but I do
agree with him saying you should
probably use a variety of exercises look
you can definitely go overboard I don't
think you need to be doing four or more
exercises for most muscle groups per
week but some evidence we do have
suggest that using a variety of exercise
to train a muscle typically results in
more uniform or better overall
hypertrophy compared to just sticking to
one and specifically with muscles that
are a bit more complex like the back
where there's a lot of different muscle
groups a lot of different functions of
both the shoulder joint and the scapula
for those muscles having at least two to
three exercises in there per week is
going to be beneficial in all likelihood
another argument that drove me crazy
that I saw a lot of people making is
they said that incline curls were
actually a great exercise in spite of
the fact they put your longe head at a
disadvantage it's because you're not
factoring in passive tension in layman's
terms it's when you stretch you know the
[ __ ] you did in Elementary School PE
class when you cross one leg over the
other and you lean forward and you got
to whiff your own balls that's the
building blocks of an incredible
exercise now this is where we're going
to blow out the O-ring of that theory
now I am a fan of weighted stretches in
the last full gym program I just put out
the end of every back and chest day we
ended it with a 60-second extreme
stretch under load but they can't be the
foundation of your training if that was
the case then you would just sit on the
incline bench grab a heavy ass weight
and lower it for 10 minutes straight and
then hold that stretch the goal is
active tension that's what the [ __ ]
we're doing when you think of high cable
curls you think short head activation
which is true when your elbows are
forward but the moment you exaggerate
that external rotation and put that long
headit on stretch but not to the point
it actually inhibits activation like it
does with the incline curl you've now
based upon EMG data got the most
activation out of your long head and
have that passive stretch that everybody
seems to be in love with so for me this
exercise based upon all the testing I've
done is the best exercise for your long
head so go [ __ ] yourself in keeping with
a strong language display to here I
think he's conflating EMG and active
tension being produced again this just
seems like a very pulp science way of
looking at things where he's thinking
surface EMG will perfectly predict and
correlate with active tension being
produced by a given muscle there's a lot
of things that can go wrong with Electro
placement during Surfer CMG there's some
assumptions baked into the link between
surface CMG and active tension
production so no he is being a
reductionist and oversimplifying things
where it's not warranted to do so now
let's go over what I found to be the
best exercise for targeting your
brachialis and just so we're clear and
you understand why I picked this
exercise in my opinion if your goal is
to build muscle then you should be
trying to isolate down to whatever
muscle you're targeting as much as
humanly possible this machine made me
realize exactly how hard it is to do
that all right I agree on principle with
that I think that isolating a muscle
through only performing its function for
example if you're trying to trade a
biceps and you can do either a pull down
or a row or a bicep curl which is going
to be better all else being equal while
the one that only has you performing
elbow flexion there's fewer moving parts
and fewer other muscle groups that could
give up first but importantly it looks
like he's about to go too far with this
where he's going to say well actually
just isolating elbow flexion is enough
to really Target the biceps long head or
the brachialis and additionally it looks
like he's about to base it off of
surface EMG
which again previously I thought it was
as simple as just rotating your wrist
you want to hit more short head you take
a super grip long head's neutral
pronated hits more brachialis but it
turns out it's a lot more complicated
than that because you also have to
factor in internal and external rotation
of your shoulder as well as the position
of your body in relation to gravity so
good luck but you can definitely do it
especially when you're trying to Target
your brachialis when you take a pronated
grip and do a concentration curl it
almost completely turns off the
activation to your long and short head
and the brachialis is the primary driver
of the movement and I always thought
that reverse grip straight bar curls
were predominantly brachialis not the
case apparently your body's like oh [ __ ]
homie just turned his wrist guess I'll
turn off the biceps and break your
radialis entirely let me just use my
brachialis for elbow flexion again it's
super unlikely this is what's happening
and [ __ ] if you want an example of EMG
going quite wrong you can also look at a
series of articles by the well
intentioned and super knowledgeable
bread contus back in like 2017 for ke
Nation where he measured AMG of a
variety of muscles across a variety of
exercises and I'm pretty sure at the
time if I'm recalling correctly the
highest EMG for the quads and so
presumably the best exercise for the
quads in the legs was the hip thrust I'm
not sure I've ever seen anyone claim
properly that the hip thrust is the best
quad exercise but that's what Ryan's
doing here basically because those
shoulders are internally rotated and you
have a pronated grip you end up
inhibiting that short head and because
you're curling up on a path that is
directly in line with your long head
this actually based upon all the tests
I've done so far ends up being the
second best exercise I've found for your
long ha so to recap the best way to
really isolate down and Target your
brachialis is by pairing the pronation
of your wrist with the internal rotation
of your shoulder so exercise is like a
concentration curl with a pronated grip
or that same grip with a crossbody cable
curl with your arm fixed Against the
Machines background looks like I died in
my attempt to try to isolate the short
head I started to realize what fin scky
little pieces of [ __ ] those bicep
muscles are because they're all trying
to work in unison to do the same job so
you really have to manipulate your form
for example the best exercise I found is
when I jamed my arm up to a bench that
was on a steep incline and did dumbbell
curls but I also had to make sure the
elbow was slightly in front of me and I
put that shoulder an external rotation
cuz the moment I turned back in I got
more long head activation and it had to
be a supinated grip because the moment I
started screwing with my wrist weird
[ __ ] would happen also the support and
angle of this bench matters because if
you try to do it just standing in place
the other bicep muscle jump in and ruin
your life now there's still so much we
can cover just with biceps alone but I'm
going to leave it up to you guys if you
think this is interesting and it adds
value we'll keep going if you don't like
what amounts to the homeschooled version
of scientific training yeah I'd have to
fall into the category of not really
enjoying this Home Science homeschool
science content or whatever he calls it
this just feels like a wrong and pop
science approach to how to predict what
exercise are good for aoy because again
there are no real empirical findings to
my knowledge strongly substantiating
the idea that EMG will predict
hypertrophy across different exercises
and by the way there's a reason why in
universities and an actual studies
people need training before being able
to use surface EMG properly in the first
place the same goes for measuring muscle
thickness by ultrasound for example it's
not something that you can just do right
the first time around as a consumer so
there's just a number of issues with the
way he's using surface CMG and by the
way none of this is meant as a slight on
Ryan humon a lot of this content is
actually fine I just don't agree pretty
much whatsoever with the claims made in
this video overall based on just this
video I'd have to give it like a a two
or three out of 10 it's just not good
like the claims being made are
scientifically very difficult to defend
but hey as far as making content goes I
think that having a sort of CMG machine
is essentially a free content Mill right
cuz you can hook them up to your own
muscles do a variety of exercises and
then find stuff that isn't even there
you can find that one exercise is better
than the other but it isn't but you can
still make video about it and to the
relatively uninformed lay public it
might seem pretty believable so yeah I
have no doubt that the intentions were
probably good but I think the
information is ultimately bad that is
the video if you enjoy the video please
leave a like comment subscribe soften
the suffering I just had to injure if
you want to get a coach but coaches are
expensive check out myod app.com it's a
training app I've been developing for
years that'll come out a much lower
price point than basically any coach out
there but it uses the latest scientific
research providing you with an
individualized training program based on
your preferences as far as what muscle
groups you want to bring up oh you want
to grow your chest but your leg is
already pretty big it can account for
that and make sure that you're
specializing on your trust let's say you
only have an hour to train a week myapt
will also cover you in that case what's
that you only want to train on Mondays
on Tuesdays myapt can cover you on that
as well myapt is a super flexible
training tool it is literally designed
to be like a coach in your pocket so if
you go to myod up.com and sign up to be
notified when it gets released you'll be
the first one to know and you'll be able
to lock in at a lower price than any
other time if you're like Dr Milo I like
the T-shirt why yes that is atlas
carrying a world or whatever it is on
his back and yes it is a very cool
t-shirt if you like the T-shirt go check
out Rascal apparel.com using Code wolf
you'll get 10% off a checkout and you'll
be supporting your boy as well finally
if in the meantime you'd like me to
coach you check out the link above and
that can become your coach in the
meantime have a fantastic day and I will
see you guys next time peace