welcome back soon to be Dr Milo wolf
here from Wolf coaching coming at youday
with a react video today we're reacting
to lean beef patty now I've seen a lot
of her around on Instagram where she's
gotten extremely famous very very well
known in fact as far as like
reputability goes I think she's kind of
up there with Chris Bumstead for example
a huge figure within the fitness
industry and today we're reviewing her L
Body day seeing whether it's any good
from a sports scientist's perspective so
let's get into it welcome if you haven't
been here before my name is Patty and
today she's wearing a rascal apparel
that's Omar my
pre-workout I had two scoops of Nitric
and one scoop of energy gorilla mind who
the [ __ ] brings a glass into the CL just
have a travel cup
rather busy today at the gym
so let's
go I I don't know if I'm allowed to be
in this room
actually I don't think I am but I'm
going to be here also it kind of sucks
filming by yourself I'm not going to lie
I hate filming by myself it feels so
lonely oh boohoo let me play a sad song
for you the world's smallest you know
what she has a point with that though
most people most clients I have and
myself as well recording yourself in the
gym feels pretty daunting for a lot of
people now I imagine Le beef patty can
get away with this on account of having
2 million YouTube subscribers and making
a good deal of money from it but for a
lot of people especially when they're
first doing it it can be pretty
[Music]
awkward a lot of Mobility is pretty
subjective because everybody's needs are
different um I usually keep it between 5
and 15 reps though per little exercise I
just like having a number I like numbers
just kidding I hate numbers I hate math
but I like numbers between 5 and 15 got
to have these got to
have thoracic
twisting cat so I'm not super sure why
she's doing mobility walk let's see
maybe she's doing some lifts that
require it with that being said
generally Mobility work is kind of only
recommended if and when you need it
right Mobility work doesn't directly
grow your muscle so unless it allows you
to get into a way better position and
get more for example a longer muscle
length for your quads and the squat if
it allows you to do that and it's not
taking a lot of time might be worth
doing it because it allows you to get
more hypertrophy owing to low muscle
lims however most of the time unless you
have some sort of pre-existing pain or
injury or recommendation by a physio I
wouldn't recommend just doing mobility
work for the sake of it cow
cat
[Music]
Cow
I'm going grab this little bench for so
a lot of these warm-ups are not so much
stretching as they are dynamic warm up
which is good cuz that means you get
warm and you don't get the potential
decrease in force production that you
would see if you did some static
stretching before a session so that's
pretty good I will say some of the
exercises like the lateral lunge and the
cat Cow not super useful necessarily
because you wouldn't ever end up in
those positions in your session unless
you're doing like Jefferson curls for
your spine for your lower back extensors
or if you're doing lateral lunges or CLX
squats within your session for the most
part I would have just stuck to doing
some lunges or even simpler listen hear
me out here just doing the actual
exercise as a warm up you know doing
three sets of squats if you're about to
squat some heavyweight that would be
fine for support because uh your girl
needs some support
bro probably I could actually do without
that
see so first of all very cool that she's
doing Cissy squats very cool exercise
the fact that she needs support not a
big deal in fact in order for it to be
more stable and better for muscle growth
holding on to something probably a good
thing with that being said I am a little
bit concerned as to why she's doing so
many exercises for her W I feel like she
could just do the actual exercise but
otherwise so far so good balance is the
hardest part for
me let's go I'm actually getting
significantly stronger I definitely
could not do this like this last year
holy I'm kind of
strong nice what I will say though is a
first s is us to be more challenging or
leaning back a little bit more can be
helpful and it looks like she could get
deeper and get a longer muscle length or
better stretch on her quads at the very
bottom if she went further down oh
yeah
perfect there's some [ __ ] classical
music playing what's going on
[Music]
here
so what she's doing here it looks like
rl's they're not bad actually there's a
couple things I'd improve on number one
is I would pause right before she
touches the ground so as to get as much
longer muscle length work as possible
and secondly when she gets to the very
bottom her knees cave in and forward a
little bit and that's reducing the
stretch on the hamstrings and so if she
can't get all the way down I would just
limit the range of motion slightly or I
would simply cue her to keep her knees
back and out as far as possible and that
would maximize stretch on the H strings
I'm going to do five sets of
eight with medium hard difficulty but
I'm still able to get maybe like one or
two more reps RP
like
eight cool awesome so as far as the RP
goes I think you're doing a good job I
think doing rdl's or P89 is perfectly
fine you can go a little bit closer to
failure or even all the way to failure
on the last sets but as far as RP goes
air9 solid I would say five sets of rdls
specifically is a lot most people get a
lot of soreness and pretty fatigued from
just two or three sets and so five sets
can be pretty challenging otherwise
eight reps is perfectly fine I wouldn't
go much above 10 Reps for R but also not
below five reps if grow is the goal so
between five and 10 reps is totally fine
she's doing eight
[Music]
perfect awesome she's noting that she'd
rather use straps versus a mix grip
which I think is generally preferable
but for sure what you don't want to do
which is pointing out here is to not use
straps or mixed grip or hook grip using
either a mixed grip a hook grip or
straps once your grip starts to become
an issue is really important a lot of
beginners make the mistake of thinking
well if I can't hold on to the weight I
shouldn't be deadlifting it in reality
once you've been training for more than
like 2 to 3 months most people will be
able to deadlift way more then they can
hold on to and if you allow your grip to
become the Ling Factor your lower back
your glutes your adaps your hamstrings
nothing else is being trained as
effectively anymore you're essentially
reducing the stimulus for all the other
muscle groups in favor of just
stimulating the fors when in reality if
all you wanted to do was grow the fors
there are many better exercises out
there like wrist curls that fatigue
other muscle groups to a way lesser
extent so why try and make that lift a
forarm exercise when it's super well
suited to be a hip extensor
exercise okay that was set three and
it's getting
a bit
[Music]
harder need to stay
hydrated I need some song suggestions if
you have a song you like to suggest to
me please leave it in the comment
section below thank
you I would like to suggest I would like
to suggest lift yourself by Cony West
you're
[Music]
welcome
actually to touch on our hydration thing
a little bit real quick if you're in
very hot or very cool weather it is
likely worth hydrating yourself more
than you feel like you should in fact
when you're in very hot weather or very
cold weather as can often be the case in
as can often be the case in a gym if
you're for example living in the
southern us uh your body tends to not be
very good at making sure you drink
enough fluids and so if you're in very
hot weather and you train in a very hot
gym drink more than you think you should
and that will take care of your
hydration to a better extent in fact if
you want to take it one step further you
could have some Gatorade or even cut the
Gatorade with half water half Gatorade
so equal parts water and Gatorade or
alternatively just have water or have
water with some sodium so add some salt
into your water it's going to taste
disgusting but sodium does help with
rehydration the big shirt aesthetic has
got to be one of my favorites it gives
very much like old old school
bodybuilder I don't know if you guys
have ever been to the gym and you see
like one of those like you could tell
they used to be massive back in the day
cuz they're still big usually like their
forearms are pretty giry and their hands
are
like hands you know what I'm saying and
they're
super large veined and they waddle
around they're my favorite I love them I
haven't seen any of this CHP but every
once in a while I'll see an old head and
they are just like the most aesthetic
goals she's being a bit weird now I'm
not going to lie but yeah there is some
truth to that you know oversized
t-shirts old school bodybuilders big
forarms I agree still being with though
why why pointing out the hands of all
things all
right
intra intro workout snack I would have
preferred something that just like a
pure fast carb like just sugar candy or
rice cake but I have this protein bar
and it's going to have to do I'm eating
it because I'm a little bit tired and I
think that it would
help so having some intro outad
nutrition or potentially even before
your session nutrition having some carbs
some protein can be helpful as well as
long as you have some protein around
your session within a couple hours
before or after your session you're
covered if you at a meal like an hour
and a half before your session you don't
need to rush to the you know the
cupboards to get your protein powder out
and have a shake real quick it's fine
but having some protein sometime around
your session within a few hours probably
a good idea to maximize muscle growth
carbs on the other hand there is some
evidence as I break down in this video
here that having some carbs before a
session not a huge amount but some carbs
can be helpful and that probably applies
to within a session two so if you don't
have some carbohydrates before a session
that's totally fine and there is likely
something to having those carbs be a
little bit more fast acting or easily
adjustable so for example candy what
have you not a huge deal but could be
worth considering otherwise just have a
banana or an apple that'll do fine
too and it's a delicious
treat okay done I think I'm going to sit
for a couple of minutes um drink some
water go to the bathroom and then
continue to work out
okay so I like using one of these when I
do a hack spot to put it behind my back
it's like so the angle is better but
look at this it's pey don't nobody
comment saying it's average it's not
average we'll see how it
[Music]
[Applause]
goes
[Applause]
so essentially what she's doing here by
putting the fourer behind your back is
turning this into a bit more of a normal
squat variation by having by removing
that form roller your hip anle would
decrease so your well your ble will
actually increase become more obtuse um
which would decrease involvement of hip
extensors and by placing that form over
there you are increasing the amount of
glute adductor and lower back
involvement relative to how much is
hitting the quads so if your goal is
simply to hit the quads I would do it
without the form roller that's very
likely your best option but if you want
to turn it from being just or mostly a
quad exercise to also somewhat more
involving glutes adductors and lower
back then using a full m behind your
back will turn it into more of a regular
squat
[Applause]
variation
okay so my workout is like almost over
but all right so just to touch on the
depth here she could be going way deeper
especially if the goal is quads here I
would just go deeper but I would go
deeper even for the glutes and Alors as
I discussed in this video here training
at lower muscling is likely just better
and so if you're cutting your depth
short on the squats you're probably
missing out on some muscle growth so go
as deep as you can that's the point here
and ideally paws at the bottom as well
so it's not awful but it's not great
here but I just started listening to
this
song and now I feel REM motivated so I
don't know what I'm going to do maybe
just walk
on stair stepper anyway but no I'm going
to do this right
now okay so ideally butt does not come
off the
[Music]
bch
[Music]
okay I literally put like nearly maximum
effort to not lift my butt why is the
music choice so obnoxious we get it
you're you're meing very cool please
stop I don't even know what to say
honestly last but but certainly not
least glute medius Kickback all right so
as far as leg Cur technique went pretty
solid she paused at the bottom she
didn't really lift her butt to make the
shorten position easier looked pretty
solid I mean you can't really mess up LS
that much but she was doing a good job
so respect there stretch and also have
some protein um I don't have a shaker
bottle so I'm going to be using this
pickle jar with two scops of
gorilla why vanilla protein powder you
can have whatever kind this is just what
I am
drinking please I use buy a protein
shakeer just kidding I use why is she so
weird this
is
what is this what kids do nowadays that
looks
horrid I just smell the
residual pickle
flavor y that's
[Music]
disgusting
pancake and then this is the difference
your hips this is a
pancake that's the
difference that's the difference all
right so real talk I'm not really going
to break down what stretch she's doing
they're fine what I will say is if
you're going to do static stretching
doing it after a session is a good idea
like she's doing here she did her
Dynamic stretching or dynamic warmups
before the session which is good cuz it
gets her warmed up it doesn't induce the
reduction and force production that
static stretching can induce if you H
before training session doing her
passive stretching after a session
pretty solid so I give thumbs up from a
sport Science
perspective not going to show that
motion again check this
out
why why am I being shown videos of mice
kissing right now is I'm pushing my
shoulders up and also back like this
like
[Music]
arching and if it's a good day if it's a
good day I'll be able to touch my head
let's see if it's a good
[Music]
day not a good
day very
cool it's sort of flexibility that
doesn't really help you in anything if
you're just going about your daily life
or lifting
weights but it's still cool I guess so
if you like being flexible stretch
activities are suitable for flexibility
in itself is not a good thing by the way
it doesn't you longevity or anything if
you fall on your head you really don't
want to mess with your neck you know you
really don't want to mess with like your
spinal cords um not terrible advice I
agree with this do not mess with your
neck art of chokies that is for today I
really hope the video turns out well I'm
not sure how it will turn out let me
know what you think any I'm not sure how
old she is but she's pretty obnoxious I
personally prefer doing these videos
like with a friend and I think is
definitely more entertaining at least
like for me it's easier for me to like
bounce off of somebody else's energy
unfortunately I really only have so many
friends so I don't know hopefully
something will change in the future but
in the meantime I guess I'll just try to
get better at making videos by myself I
think it'll be better since this is like
a smaller gym and I'll probably feel
less intimidated to take videos
um but anyway thank you so much for
watching I hope you had a good
time doing that um anyway
goodbye all right well that's pretty
much the video I guess honestly pretty
solid like in fact I recently did
Bradley Martin I think this was better
than Bradley Martin I give this I give
leave me fatty at least as far as this
training session went an 8 out of 10 is
it perfect no but it's quite good
surprisingly good actually a few small
tweaks i' in incorporate but you know
like the basics of oh don't do static
stretching before session do some
Dynamic W before session even if that's
only the exercise itself generally
pretty decent technique although her
depth on some stuff could be improved
you know like I don't really have any
beef with it so generally pre-ol didn't
say too much [ __ ] so I give an out
of time anyways that's the video if you
want to see me review anyone else leave
a comment down below letting me know who
you want to see and I'll see you guys my
subscribers in that next one
peace I [ __ ] hate ads no one should
have to suffer this okay except if
you're watching my videos then please
please turn ad block off I will
personally come to your house and give
you a kiss on the forehead if you do