hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and I'm hitting you with
another
hypertrophy myth
and the Myth today is the training must
has to for sure be ultra hard if you're
serious about growth we'll talk about
what this myth really is and what people
are saying we'll talk about the sort of
Silver Lining that maybe it does make
some good points talk about the bad
stuff in ways in which really is a myth
and we'll sort of wrap it all up by
talking about a little real talk of what
you should take away from a video like
this so
the idea is that training has to be
super hard for you to grow and or just
grow at your best and any training that
doesn't push the limits is sub-optimal
and you'll see this in a whole lots of
social media comments of like oh he
didn't look like he was that close to
failure or like these guys don't scream
and then you get embellished the social
media content where bodybuilders yell
after every wrap of leg extensions and
stuff like that and hashtag hardcore and
triple drop sets and all this other
stuff and every session we go to war and
every session
everything's a failure all the time
because that's how you get results and
if you don't get results
uh trying like that your results aren't
the best and you're not serious okay
that's an interesting idea and the
Silver Lining here is that for
intermediates
and for advanced trainees
on occasion testing the limits is a very
good idea we know scientifically that
the best growth occurs just before the
limits
three two one reps in reserve while
three or two or one reps away from
muscular failure
but going to one and then zero reps away
from failure and to failure itself on
occasion maybe once every mesocycle at
the very end is a good way to make sure
that what you think is three two or one
reps away from failure actually is
because you could be said guessing you
could be kidding yourself we think a
serious relation failure is really six
which is oh so uncommon so occasionally
pushing it is a good idea at least for
that reason occasionally pushing it
it also have some unique growth benefits
we're really pushing it to your limits
and uh a little beyond your normal
limits can maybe cause a type of growth
maybe via satellite cell recruitment
that uh is special and is a
qualitatively different type of growth
that you just would never get training
normally that's speculative but the
speculation is reasonable enough for us
to at least consider you know we're not
gonna we're not 100 sure that training
with 2R all the time is the best gains
so I mean occasion we could really
really push it to see if we can get any
of that kind of special growth right and
for folks that do this the last week or
weeks of a program uh often the last
week or the last two are just going to
be brutal especially that last week
everything is one or zero reps away from
failure and it's just like you're going
to you know metaphorical War at that
point uh lots of screaming lots of
crying lots of laying in a puddle of
your own sweat make a little sweat and
angel in the gym that's the thing that
has to happen you know I get uh it gets
Flack from all sides when you're in
social media and you're a big deal
celebrity like me you can uh you know
you get uh criticism from both sides so
one of the things we get on our YouTube
videos uh you know every Monday we'll
show a training video and one of the
things is we say like hey like don't
train like this all the time this is
towards the end of a Mesa cycle usually
you know we train some more reps in
reserve than this it's not all triple
drop sets to failure people will say you
know this is really too much and uh
there's an inevitable guy that comes in
as can a Natty recover from this like
shut up everyone clap that he's Natty
thank you clap him out get out of here
and uh people seem to think like any
time you train hard or you're doing
something wrong you're gonna kill
yourself
so the good part of this train hard idea
is that it normalizes the idea that at
least sometimes you should be training
hard and that's okay I get a lot of
flack for throwing up after leg workouts
and
um the you know is that something you
want to do every leg workout no and I
don't do it every leg workout uh but
I'll do it every now and again because I
just have to throw up because I'm going
that hard and there's nothing wrong with
that on occasion like you throw up every
now and again it's not gonna rip your
esophagus open in all likelihood it's
not going to rot your teeth to shit
that's if you throw up multiple times a
day every day like a bulimic or
something so yes there are times where
pure brutality is the evidence-based
prescription and yes I know that
evidence-based in some circles has this
like sort of monotonic and that's the
ties like you just do like extensions
and you're like oh I can feel that
that's RAR and you stop and you write in
your notebook with your pencil you get
your calculator you book nerd shit and
uh yeah that's just not the way it is
real scientific training on occasion at
the end of a meso will be like nuts
multiple sets to failure or close
throwing up laying on the ground barely
able to walk convulsing all the stuff
you know somebody like Trevor Fulbright
who you've seen on this channel who
trains super hard in a super evidence
base stuff like that like it's it's it's
tough out there so yes that is a true
thing however
the bad stuff the stuff that makes this
myth well a myth
first not all training has to be to the
limits people say like dude I take every
set of failure every exercise I take one
set of failure every session I take at
least one set of failure and really like
just grind it out uh it turns out that
training three two one reps away from
failure is amazing and that's not to the
limits and it works really well and
people can say well hold on a second how
do we know it works well we have tons of
direct studies on it now that compare
training shy of failure and training to
failure and the training shy of failure
almost always beats the training to
failure in the compared groups
and then people will say well now hold
on a second
a lot of times there's these are
beginners so the group that thinks
they're training three reps away from
fail is really training like six reps
away from fairlike yes that's true and
the group that's training to fail is
training like really three reps away
from fail now yes that's true and
they're like so see that doesn't work
like no no it works even better than you
thought it did because now we have a six
rir in reality group beating a three RAR
group
six hours better than three RAR yeah for
beginners Maybe and am I saying you
should go train a 6r yes I am if it's
your first six months of training
absolutely certainly to solidify your
Technique and you will get great gains
better gains than if you want closer to
failure now as you get more advanced
that shit doesn't cut it anymore an
actual 3r is where you want to be but
people try to wiggle around this so the
research is very clear that you know
going all the way to failure is not the
best idea and then I'll say well my
favorite bodybuilder does well that's
because you're cherry picking your
favorite bodybuilders you know they'll
say well what about Dorian what about
Ronnie I don't even go to failure all
the time what about you Cutler Jay
Cutler is on record saying he maybe has
never trained to failure people like to
bring up people like JP and people like
Dorian and say oh see failure training
is the best but like there's tons of
other great bodybuilders
tons of other better bodybuilders that
don't go to failure all the time and
you're just like Jerry picking the fuck
out of them so like just admit it you
think going to failure is Hardcore and
being hardcore is fun that's the only
reason you think that is no you haven't
put any thought into it don't pretend
your feelings are thoughts
next
some muscles that you have just have
very low volume landmarks they just
don't need a lot of volume to grow and
any more volume than what you can put in
gets you overlapping soreness which
means your muscles never really heal and
degrades performance over time and can
cause injuries and can just have you
having a bad time and actually losing
muscle or maintaining muscle at the
expense of your tissue Integrity so like
if you can do three sets of hamstrings
twice a week and barely recover from
soreness each time you train and your
hamstring progression is amazing that's
all you need and we'll actually have
questions people say like man am I doing
something wrong like I just do three
sets of hams and it blows me away no no
you're both lucky that your volume
landmarks are so low you need so little
volume to stimulate a muscle properly
and you're doing everything right like
if only all the rest of our muscles only
needed six sets a week to grow maximally
holy shit I'd take that fucking pill but
that's not the case but you have people
in a situation where they see their
favorite you know Instagram influencer
claim to train 25 sets to failure every
week or some shit and they look at that
and they go fuck man like I want to do
that that seems cool and I guess that's
how you grow and then their own body
only recovers to something like six sets
or nine sets and they go damn like am I
doing something wrong and no no like do
you only can only train to what your
body can recover from now can you work
on your recovery separately get more
sleep get more food Etc to potentially
increase how many sets you can survive
yes that's totally worth your time but
whatever that number is going to be
after you make all those adjustments
that's just what it's going to be and
there's no reason for you to feel weird
about like well I just can't train that
much that's great that's actually a good
thing and
people who have more fast twitch muscle
fibers proportionally people that are
larger and stronger actually have lower
maximum recovery volumes on average so
many of your favorite bodybuilders don't
train nearly as much as they would if
they were smaller so because you can
train a very small amount oftentimes
that's indicative of the fact that
that's a gifted muscle group for you and
then it may actually get much bigger
over time right it's the people that can
do 30 sets for their arms and legs every
week that are generally endurance type
build small people that'll never get
that much bigger real talk so don't ever
worry about your volume landmarks they
are what they are seek to improve them
through recovery and through nutrition
and through sleep and all that stuff but
after that don't try to train more
because it feels more hardcore you can
only change how much you can recover
anymore is a stupid idea next
on some exercises failure looks really
dramatic
you're pulling an ah you're screaming in
blood squirting out of your eyes and all
that good stuff but on some exercises
failure just didn't look very dramatic
and tricep push down you go that's it
that's it that's failure and you don't
have to embellish it and scream and cry
and yell and that's not what causes
muscle growth anyway so as long as
you're being honest with yourself in
your own head and pushing yourself as
hard as you think you can go and
occasionally testing the waters and
going harder
that's all that has to happen to make
sure each set is of a high quality
especially on your peak week when you're
trying to push really really close to
failure if you have a doubt in your mind
about how hard you're pushing yourself
definitely try pushing yourself harder
but if you really are just failing with
a whole lot of emotion externally
visible don't worry about it that's all
for the cameras anyway and it doesn't
matter what your face looks like as long
as you're really trying you're good to
go but if you're one of these people
that fails rather undramatically it can
feel like you're missing out and that's
not something you should be feeling I
mean not in this case anyway when
everyone's at the party and you're at
home playing World of Warcraft yes you
should feel like you're missing out you
fucking loser
I'm just kidding I was never intelligent
enough to play World of Warcraft it
actually turns out you need friends even
to do that
so I sat at home and read the
encyclopedia
that's only partially a joke that
describes me at age 10.
anyway another one
going hard psychologically the grind the
screaming the yelling causes a huge
amount of psychological fatigue
that's a technical term for that is
psychological arousal that's stay calm
YouTube I know you get aroused easily
yes what you're talking about a sexual
arousal but there's General emotional
arousal which is that feeling but that
feeling causes a ton of psychological
fatigue and we know that fatigue is all
interrelated so you get generate a ton
of fatigue just by trying hard
psychologically it can spill over to the
rest of your training we know this is
true because if you generate a lot of
psychological fatigue not even training
it can spill over into the rest of your
training and Recovery if you have a two
hour long fight with your girlfriend not
physical fight emotional fight boy do
those hurt worse then you may find
yourself completely drained and um
unable to really have good workouts and
you need a couple days of deload that's
how much poison psychological fatigue
can introduce into the system now if you
make up with your girlfriend properly
the post fight
sex oh sorry not this this can uh also
drain you but in other ways
semen that's what I'm talking about in
any case
warrior shit is sweet you're a fucking
Ronin whatever the hell you have to tell
yourself but that can backfire so what I
would say is treat yourself more on
average like a machine rather than a
samurai warrior uh first micro cycle a
calm gentle compassionate machine iRobot
type shit you know the next couple mesos
incrementally more machine-like to like
Mech Warrior Gundam Wing type shit and
then maybe the last microcycle last week
yes unsheath your Samurai sword and
and really a fucking uh unleash the
warrior poet Samurai motherfucker inside
of you but if you unleash that dumbass
in micro cycle one you're just gonna be
so drained by week three that you won't
have productive training you'll have to
deload then you just have to sort of
like you're like a car that sputters and
stops sputters and stops you want
consistency and good high quality
training and you don't need to spill out
what you really think about Grandma
emotionally into the hack Squad uh in
microcycle one I mean well Grandma did
I'll never forgive and I'll never forget
but that's between me and the bar in
mesocycle in micro cycle five week five
week one I only have positive memories
of Grandma that I choose to recollect
here's the thing
last point
yes it's mythical and cool and idyllic
to do shitload of volume sets and sets
and sets and we do five sets of rows and
five sets of machine rows five sets of
dumbbell rows and five sets of pull
downs and five sets dildo rows and all
that other shit cool
but for almost everyone when they're
training properly three to ten sets per
muscle group per workout
is usually better than 10 or more I
think Mr Jeffrey nippard had a very good
review video where he concludes like
it's roughly six sets is kind of the
optimum now there's a ton of caveats to
that and six is pretty close another
review found it's roughly eight on
average but it's it's such a huge
distribution based on different factors
different muscles different fiber types
different individuals different times
and it ends up being like more like
three to ten
but uh you know does that mean that it
would be feel cooler in some way to be
able to do 12 or 15 sets per workout yes
it would feel fucking sweet and if you
got that energy in that drive to train
hard Hey listen I feel you also when you
catch a good pump and everything's
feeling amazing mind muscle you just
kind of want to stop but the reality is
you're there to do a job and the job is
to stimulate muscle growth and if that
job is check marked and over after 10
sets or eight sets or whatever it is
just go home right the purpose of the
gym is not so that you feel smashed the
purpose of the gym is that you
adequately stimulate muscle growth get a
robust pump get some soreness and get
the fuck out and come back and repeat
more on that last part in a second so
real talk and here's that last part
real ingredients of effective training
our consistency
multiple weekly workouts
multiple weeks strung together
of good workouts not psychotic workouts
good the beginning of the meso they
start pretty easy but effective you
don't need much at the beginning of the
muzzle you're not used to the shit
through the middle of the metal to get
pretty intense to the end they get
psychotic and insane and use time to
start thinking bad thoughts about
grandma again
and that all is good ingredients but
it's the consistency that unifies it
showing up for over the course of four
weeks eight good leg workouts will grow
infinitely more muscle maybe not
infinitely mild exaggeration then like
going hard once a week on legs and
overdoing it in the session that's only
four workouts another thing another real
effect sorry real ingredient of
effective training is progression
it's the ability to do
10 reps with 100 pounds one week 11 reps
with 100 pounds next week 11 reps with
105 pounds the week after and 12 reps
with 105 the week after that then deload
then start somewhere in the middle and
progress and it's that progression
progression progression which inevitably
gets you to the heights to which you're
capable of getting one emotional
psychotic workout you're like book
blasting my legs brother I swear to God
I saw my fucking dad in one of those
workouts man it closed my eyes during
the hats Club there he fucking was bro
sweet you felt a certain way about
things that's nice but are you
progressing over time and if you're
training so hard and so sloppily in such
shitty reps and different exercises and
whatever just to burn out the muscle you
may not even be able to track
progression because you don't really
standardize your shit and the other
thing is like you may get so emotionally
fatigued from workouts that you have a
couple weeks where you progress and then
a couple weeks where you regress realize
you're going too hard deload flip the
switch again and go it's much better to
be a little bit more calculated about
your shit dope out a good workout then
add a little bit to it then add a little
bit to it then add a little bit to it
eventually you get to that Icarus height
of your wings Start burning off that's
great but it's not the whole thing
progression in that sense means that
sometimes you will need to put it all on
the line but that sometimes generally
happens for like the last week before
your mesocycle ends because it's the
last cherry on top of a great stimulus
and because it is unsustainable you
cannot train like that for multiple
weeks in a row and if you can you're
just losing not enough volume each time
you could be doing more volume less
psychotic failure training and growing
even more
most times training is about showing up
using good technique going hard but
usually not all out hitting small load
and rep PR's coming back later that week
and repeating going up another week
repeating going up up up up up going
Ultra hard burning out deload and repeat
that's the ingredients so the Smith is
more like going hard all the time is a
myth but going hard some of the time is
a really good idea folks let me know
what you think in the comments below if
you're interested in more in-depth
scientific shit and more real life
training examples we have a member
section so give that shit a little
subscription there it costs like I think
it's a million dollars per hour
for you to subscribe so make sure your
um oil millionaire I'm sorry I said that
wrong oil quadrillionaire like myself I
actually have a few Zeppelins that are
oil powered no no they're not
gasoline-powered they're oil powered
they burn straight up oil the
environment never heard of it and yeah
they're hydrogen so I live on the
fucking Edge in any case if you're a
baller 1920s quadrillionaire like myself
feel free to subscribe to the members
section feel free to like and comment
leave us a comment that's nice you know
or not leave us a a mean comment and
we'll grr right back at you anyway see
you guys next time for the next video