hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization you asked and we answer
hypertrophy training modalities all the
ways in which you can train for
hypertrophy
explained and here's the first video
when will the next video be out who
knows maybe never just kidding we'll put
it out but in any case straight sets
is the first and actually most core way
to train for hypertrophy
all right so what's a straight set it's
just a set but we can be more specific
straight sets are defined as the
following
you do one set
of 5 to 30 repetitions which is
generally accepted as the probably best
hypertrophy range of reps
you know you do it pretty close to
failure enough to get a challenge
anywhere between three and zero reps in
reserve
and then afterwards before doing more
straight sets potentially you rest a
normal length of time
what's normal length of time
a lot of people say it depends luckily
we sort of crack the code here in rp and
we know what it depends on we have our
four factor model of rest times which if
you actually go and youtube search that
it has its own several videos we've made
for it so it's really really well
explained but it's actually a simple
concept i'll explain it right now
when you do a straight set then time for
you to do a next set
is at the least
when your local muscle
the actual exercise you're doing let's
say you're doing squats
when you can do at least five reps in
the next set so for example if you did a
set of 10 in the squat great and you
rest 15 seconds okay and you try to do
more squats you might get like one more
rep okay one rep is not hypertrophic
enough for it to count as a sets worth
of hypertrophic stimulus so you know
anything beyond five reps is probably
pretty decent so if you can't do five
reps yet on your next straight set rest
more time
secondly you wanna make sure that your
synergists are not preventing you from
doing as many reps as possible to
stimulate your target muscle so for
example if your quads are recovered from
the squat to do another five reps at
least but your lower back is still
really tight and still burning and still
really tired and it will give out before
you can do five reps or it will give out
before your quads do then you have to
rest longer so the synergists i'll have
to be ready same idea for the bench
press if your chest is ready to go but
your triceps still feel a little funny
rest longer
next cardio can't be a limiting factor
remember the muscle target muscle the
local muscle we are targeting has to be
limiting factors so in squats it's quads
your squats have to get close to failure
or to failure because your quads are
giving out if it's your cardio giving
out no bueno so if you're still
breathing ultra heavy rest longer and
she'll be breathing much more normally
and then you know that on the next set
there's a high chance that your quads
will stop you again instead of you just
gas out and get out of breath and lastly
these are not in order they just all
have to be check marked at some point
psychological drive right you have to
feel strong again and capable you guys
know what i'm talking about when you've
trained hard you do a set of squats you
rack the bar if 15 seconds someone's
like you're ready for another set it
doesn't even matter if your local
muscle's fine synergistic fine cardio is
fine you feel defeated you feel weak the
brain with various neurotransmitter
concentrations everything like that
can't just repeat on hard effort over
and over and over especially on really
hardcore exercises like squats so
sometimes it takes a few minutes for you
to sort of get your get your mojo back
like all right all right put that heavy
bomber back i'm ready until you're ready
to do that don't do another straight set
so how long should you rest between
straight sets depends you're doing
straight sets for calves sometimes the
answer is like i don't know 15 seconds
you can check all these boxes
on the other hand if you're resting you
know for squats or deadlifts for high
reps gee it could be five minutes or
something like that can you rest longer
than all these check marks sure but
there's an argument that if you rest
much longer you're kind of wasting your
time probably no worse results but
certainly a certain amount of results in
more time is probably less efficient so
normal rest times and when we say normal
rest that's what we mean
and
straight sets if you say okay i did four
straight sets of squats
that actually in the definition of
straight sets assume you're using the
same load every single time not
necessarily the same reps but same load
so straight sets at 405 pounds in the
squat means you did 405 for 10 and four
or five for nine and then four five for
nine and four five three something like
that or even it could be four or five
for ten ten ten doesn't matter but the
weight on the bar has to be the same if
the weight is heavier it still counts as
a straight set now it's ascending if the
weight is lighter it counts as a
down set and we'll cover that in another
week video because that's actually a
different modality with its own specific
cases of use and best practices now
straight sets you may recognize they're
like probably the way most people train
most of the time and that's a very good
thing there's a reason straight up
straight sets work really well i'll tell
you why
a lot of the hypertrophy that you're
trying to generate
occurs through the stimulation of your
faster twitch muscle fibers
and those faster fibers
take long time to recover relative to
the slower switch fibers
so if you're doing let's say a set where
you have a special magical machine
and the machine adjusts its loading
directly to mirror your fatigue so the
first rep is a 1rm
the second rep the machine automatically
adjusts it to your 2rm load and then
your 3rm so you can just keep going
people have hypothesized that if you
made such a machine it would be the
ultimate training modality however
there's a problem
after the first oh gee 10 reps like that
your faster fibers the ones that really
want to stimulate the ones that grow the
most they're just doing probably almost
nothing they're just sitting there
smoking a cigarette like we're fucked
we're way too tired to do shit they're
not generating a ton of tension or
metabolites or much of anything else and
thus they're not getting a hypertrophic
stimulus now what are the fibers that
keep you going because now you're on
your rep 15 rep 35
what is powering that is the slower
twitch fibers yeah sure you can do more
apps like that they don't grow a ton so
what's the solution to that problem well
rest you do a set of relatively heavy
load anywhere between 5 and 30 reps and
then you rest a normal amount of time
until
basically if you check the four boxes
that implies that your faster fibers are
probably pretty well rested so they can
again contribute to the movement very
profoundly and if they contribute
profoundly they generate lots of tension
and then they get a stimulus so yeah
ideally we would have some kind of
method where we didn't have to take any
breaks at all we could go into the gym
to train quads two minutes later after
the hardest single quad set of your life
with descending loads you would be done
sure that'd be a good workout but it
wouldn't be the best because rest times
refresh the faster fibers because
they're very fatiguable and allow you to
hit them again and again and again until
you stimulate them enough to where
they're at their maximum growth stimulus
back away go home eat lots of food
and get lots of rest come back repeat so
straight sets because of this idea that
faster fibers grow more and straight
sets are probably the best way to target
your faster fibers
they are the core of what makes you
jacked
yeah it's cool to use all the other
modalities and we'll get into those
videos in the next few months but
remember that straight sets are your
best friend okay it's like that lovable
dog that
golden retriever usually you're like hey
buddy he's always looking at you and
then you know like you die and he sits
by your grave for a long time very sad
you guys are watching that movie marley
and me i haven't because i i don't need
to see that shit i cry plenty in my
daily life i don't need any more tears
in any case
what are the upsides of straight sets
okay just not to be a dead horse which
if you had a dog like marley he'd
probably help you beat the dead horse
they are the meat and potatoes of
training i mean they get most of the
work done stimulate the faster fibers if
i had to gamble on what kind of one
training modality i would choose if i
was a stupid thing that people ask all
the time like if you had to pick one
training method what would it be it
would be straight sense okay
and on straight sets of another benefit
drop sets my reps which we'll get to
later
they're so tough approximately
psychologically because they're so
painful that a lot of times you can
degrade in technique during them and
it's like towards the end of like five
mile rep that's i don't know you started
doing leg presses i'm not so entirely
sure what you're doing now that doesn't
tend to happen on
straight sets because as you get really
tired you rack the bar and you rest a
full long time and you get to go again
and you get to start pretty fresh so
it's a really awesome way to focus on
technique which is why
one of the best use cases for straight
sets is beginners key beginners almost
every other type of set is inappropriate
for beginners straight sets are what you
should be doing
gee you know
the vast vast vast majority of your work
for the first
two to three years of your training
can and probably should be straight sets
because they allow you to stimulate
great growth
and focus on technique really well
because they give you breaks enough
times the technique does not degrade
now
straight sets are not appropriate for
every situation or at the very least
they're not the best for every situation
what are their downsides they can take a
long time to do so if you are in a rush
or just work schedule as such that for a
few months you know until this big
project gets done at work you have like
45 minutes to train three times a week
gee you know you gotta train your whole
body if you're resting three minutes
between sets you're like all right yeah
i did all my warm-ups i did four sets
and i'm leaving
what whether i have to do 20 more sets
to cover the rest of my body so in that
case you might not do straight sets you
might do some of the other modalities
that have shorter rest times because
straight sets just take a long time it's
like um you know
you're just buying a certain amount of
investment if you're doing straight sets
right okay it's like buying a house you
know you don't recreationally buy a
house you're like okay it's gonna take a
lot of money it's going to be worth it
it's going to take a lot straight sets
are just like that from the perspective
of time
lastly
straight sets have a limit remember we
said straight sets are either ascending
in load which is probably not a great
idea uh
because then why aren't you trying hard
you know i'll actually i'll answer this
question now because i'm sure you guys
will ask if i don't answer why are
ascending sets not a good idea so if you
start your work sets why is squatting
315 in the first set then 335 and then 3
45 and then 355 and that's bad idea
because you're the most fresh and most
strong and your faster fibers are most
rated lift on set number one and they're
incrementally more fatigued on sets two
three four five six etcetera so if
you're going to go heavy to target those
faster fibers
you should do that shit in set one so
descending sets are actually probably
more effective than ascending sets in in
the average circumstance right
so if we said okay straight sets or you
can send probably not a good idea but
they're very least the same load so like
3 15 3 15 3 15
what happens if you start at sets of
eight or whatever at 3 15 in the squat
and then after five sets you still need
more quad work and you want to do a few
more sets of squats but like your last
set was five reps and you're like yeah
my next that's gonna be like four reps
but remember four is just shy of our
best hypertrophic rep range so then what
do we do
well shit we got another training
modality that does exactly that solves
that problem has its own issues has its
own applications we'll talk about next
time when i see you guys not necessarily
next week but maybe so hopefully you
guys took something from this and if you
have any questions
go to hell i'm just kidding just ask
them in the comments below like
subscribe do all the youtube things and
we'll see you guys next time for you
know more learning