[Music]
I work hard for my results and I need my
diet dialed in the RP diet app tells me
what to eat to keep me on track it
offers suggestions for changes based on
my responses giving me the freedom to
choose my path a personal digital diet
coach for less than $15 a month yeah
that works
[Music]
three two one I think we're good to go
folks welcome back to the weekly webinar
dr. James here with dr. Mike as always
and we are back in the United States
thanks for being patient with us we are
on a modified schedule this week as we
mentioned last week because of our
travel but now we're back and back to
business
how you been like you know not well
James I've recently come to realize that
most of my life has been a a fraud a
fraud well yeah
you don't have just been i'm in the
illuminati man i know i knew it yeah
right and then i just don't know because
i feel like i get all these benefits
guilty you know cuz we kind of walk up
world but for the better
for our better lost you you know oh you
know what i watched on the plane coming
back with spider-man far from home
uh-huh did you see that one yet yes I
did I love the part where he's like he
gets this is his finally gets his moment
with MJ by himself and he's like I
wanted to tell you something she's like
you're spider-man and he was like what
no and she's like I knew it I already
knew it and he was like oh shit yeah
that was funny
that was really funny so good bottom
that movie was ok but I did like how
they addressed the Avengers stuff which
was the way they did that was really
funny I wish they would have just done
like more of that the whole movie um the
spider-man necessary they Captain
America video about the detention yes
yeah that's like amazing I think it was
in that movie or was it in the other
spider-man it might have been in the
other one they had this one they had the
like the Tony Stark like Netflix
documentaries and seen us so good I
loved see the the Captain America thing
when he's like so you're into tension
and yeah this is the time to think about
what you did except of course of course
he would make a video like
to the part where they were talking
about how like when people like blipped
from out from the from endgame and then
they came back how they stayed the same
age but everyone else like went up five
years that like I was dying I thought
that was the funniest shit I was like
I'm glad they brought that up yeah
hundred percent all right well we got
some shall we get into it yeah it's
mostly Daniel hacker this week all right
and I see that Bassam is also in there
all right let's get going let's do it
Daniel hacker the man that hacks says in
regards to Mike's training compatibility
video
how does frequency mu sorry hold on I
clicked on them fuck you lose it yeah
I'm good okay in regards to Mike's
training fail ability video how does
frequency come into play with the
activity that may be competing with
physique so someone does one of the more
interfering activities along with their
physique work but only doesn't one to
two times a week would that be equal to
doing less interfering a typically three
to four times a week to pick a specific
saying one to two time elite gymnastics
for an hour each time versus golf three
to four times a week firm or I think
that's not comparing frequency that's
comparing frequency and modalities yeah
it's too vague to just look at frequency
and then say like different modalities
are tit for tat you just can't do it
unfortunately each one yeah its own its
own individual basis because for example
even in that example you might say golf
and you might be under the assumption
that golf is minimal interfering but
every time you swing that golf club
you're gonna be torquing your back and
your back just might take too much of a
beating so doing golf four times a week
might actually be more and disruptive
than something else because the back
might be a limiting factor just as an
example so I don't think you can I don't
think you can make those kind of
generalities just by saying one is more
or less interfering therefore you could
do more frequency it's just going to be
on its own individual assessment basis
my question specifically about ways to
mitigate interference with certain
higher demand activities I did
gymnastics one to two times a week what
are some strategies less than its
interference my physique training well
the first one is to make sure it's kept
away from interfering with physique
training that's very hard so as parts of
the week of physique training is gonna
require a lot of energy and a lot of
joints integrity and there's other parts
like doing lateral raises and bicep
curls with a cable just not quite a
whole lot of either so if you're doing
gymnastics I would put it close to where
the hard stuff is potentially right
after it so this is your gymnastics not
gonna go all that well but you won't
interfere with the hard stuff because
after the gymnastics and you're good at
Meetup you're gonna be doing the easier
stuff so that's a very good start to
what would be required and another thing
is to you know do whatever sport you do
you do much more technical approach and
less grit much less grinding much less
volume it you know it's trade-off there
but it's nonetheless allows you to do
both to some extent let's see what he
says in what he's doing now James and
maybe you couldn't think of something at
the end of his paragraph that he's not
doing yeah what are some strategies to
lessen its interference my physique
training so far I don't do any of the
conditioning work because to me that's
too junky volume I make sure to do my
jumps onto thin mats instead of the
ground to minimize harsh landings yeah
what specifically do you drumset a thick
mats is a good idea I always do
my weight training first of the day
because that's a priority it's good idea
I didn't do any gymnastics training
during over reaching weight training
weeks the fine idea though you could
probably do a little bit of gymnastics
to keep the technical aspect high
because remember technique degrades
relatively quickly
um I should also mention that the way my
training structured my coach pick a
couple moves and work on them until
they're perfect I don't do any arena
fall work mainly just to work on flip
variations and hand balance on a side he
told me I needed more explosive as my
jumps coming in after seven times seven
sets of Smith machines will do that to
you you tried to get me to do frog jumps
in place for four by 25 I told him to go
to hell he apologized and requested five
by five jumps instead yes so this is
kind of a tough question because you
don't um
you don't train some things so that it
doesn't interfere with something else
that you're trained
right you trained that thing to the best
ability that you can to get the best
gains that you can so it's kind of a
hard way of phrasing the question and
maybe that's me being pedantic and I and
you know you can stick it to me on that
all you want that's fine but it's again
it's kind of like how do you how do you
fight not to lose versus how do you
fight to win it's kind of kind of how
your phrasing the question right and so
I think all the things that you are
doing are totally fine but at the same
time if you are overly constrictive in
the way that you approach or gymnastics
training then the whole thing becomes
junk falling because you're not making
any progress and just spinning your
wheels not really doing anything and
then you're just accumulating training
volume that's interfering with your
physique training so you're I'm going
with that so it's kind of like it's
theirs
you should have distinct goals and maybe
that might be really useful and I think
what your coach is doing is fine where
you may be picking a few movements and
you're really trying to hone them in and
do a really good job but at the same
time I think maybe it might be good to
kind of outline some short and long term
goals for the gymnastics training that
you can start working towards and then
you can kind of structure the training
that you're doing towards those goals
and then you can kind of balance how
they're interfering with your physique
stuff because otherwise you're just kind
of doing random stuff for seemingly no
reason and then it's very difficult to
answer questions like that like how do I
make sure it's not interfering with my
other stuff well the answer would be to
just do as little as possible but then
right then you're just not making any
progress on it either that's the
downside so I think that would probably
be a good idea to do some short-term
long-term goals of what you want to get
out of doing gymnastics even even if and
if you're if beat one of the answers is
just like I just enjoy doing this and I
want to feel good and I want to feel
athletic and I want to feel you know not
like I'm just spending my life in the
gym all the time that's fine we just put
it out there and then it's easier to
answer those questions
does that make my to see where I'm going
with that or yeah just a soul I know
then he says this is place you want to
know you're going to like once again in
reference to Mike's chart where does the
dance where does dance rank in terms of
interference to physique training isn't
1 to 1.5 hour long dance classes Daniel
that depends highly on what kind of
dance are talking about so on the most
interfering type of dance are probably
breakdancing that's what we had like
basically gymnastics is brutal the van
after that you have sort of dynamic hip
hop dancing popping locking a group
choreographed hip hop dancing would be
really
because I bounced around all the time
thinkin it like salsa mambo that kind of
things and you know you'll have some
breaks and there's not a ton of jumping
or they think that's occasional some
flipping some holdings of twirling and
then you know if you get into the more
relaxed dances all the way up into
certain kinds of modern dance that are
very slow and into a sort of technical
ballet basically it's trust to be quite
not interfering in this really just sort
of like easy cardio although you know
belly being in a sense of like I should
have said like slow interpretive dance
not ballet la is I don't think anyone
does as a hobby
I think yeah ballet is like
all-or-nothing kind of thing yeah even
you do ballet or you don't or your
romanian teacher yells at you yeah she's
not aware that she's in that a country
that has civil rights for children that
just made me have flashbacks for of
Black Swan mmm sexy movie I'm sick man
yeah I'm totally sick but I'm like I
think that was a great answer again it's
one of those like dance is gonna be so
variable I remember even just getting
prepped for the wedding Mel and I were
taking dance classes for the little
crappy dance that we fucked up during
our wedding was great and then I was it
was starting to I was getting back
problems just from the extra dance
Jewish thing you've ever said in your
life yeah totally know an egg cuz
because you move your hips a lot and
there was a couple like lifting
movements where AM L I would lift now
and spin and I in Mel can attest this
like the weeks going into our wedding I
was having these back issues I was like
dude it's just this fucking dance stuff
is killing my back and that was because
because I thought I could just you know
I was just like let's just dance
whatever I'll just keep doing what I
normally do and ignore it no that was a
mistake my back gave up yeah that sucks
all right some additional questions to
my previous couple we've covered this to
a certain extent before the topic of lat
/ Robert and ravine recoverability
am I out of line saying if one is not
doing barbell rows or one arm rows which
are pretty tiring themselves it feels
like the MRV is almost infinity James
touched on this although I think he was
doing freeway run too and built similar
dreams and on tallish six feet long arms
and legs last night as I train up to 24
sets on the age of 20
range and definitely recover just fine
my frequency three times a week I think
this is normal
I'm going to potentially try four week
frequency soon probably when I'm hyper
caloric and see if I can get a few more
sets in and recover just the same yeah
it's only fine it's back sometimes can
be trained a lot yeah I think it's
totally normal just keep in mind like
you might read sings that we had similar
anthropometry and similar problems
you're probably gonna run into the same
problem I did through experimentation
was if you can move up to four times
frequency on back but that might limit
the types of leg exercises you do just
due to the overlap between your leg and
back training so you might find that
four times a week frequency you can't do
like really heavy deadlifts or stiff
legged deadlifts but you might be able
to do something else like 45-degree back
raise or glue grip Bray's or you know
even good mornings or something just
fine similar topic is using cable row
slash cable pull over to pre-exhaust the
last four barbell rows a good / bad idea
men barbell rows in a year because they
were irritating at bicep analysis years
gone I'm thinking if I pre exhaust my
lats with cable rows slash pullovers
which I feel a tone that I could use
less load for the barbell so Oh to you
he's sorry he goes on on Rosen and
potentially rose and potentially let my
last work harder as opposed to using or
bicep a movement thoughts also in this
case what a deficit barbell row will be
better than normal so I'll just go back
say this I don't think rows are the best
way to train the lats I think Rose are
the best trade way to train the back
through at large which means the last
teres major and especially middle traps
and rhomboids all of those muscles get
hit really well with rows but if you
just want to zoom in on the last
vertical pulling is usually better right
so if your body builder comes to you any
hits a rear double bicep and it's like
his fucking traps and his fucking
rhomboid so teres major just massive
like you know James like massive like
palm tree upper back fuck
like there butthis lats are kind of
small you don't have a do rows right yet
you haven't do vertical poles very
directly targets left very easy to
overload
so can you pre exhaust the last to have
them more hit by rows yes you can um but
you know that's not something that would
be immediately apparent of the first
best thing to do if you were to do that
I think doing vertical pulling before
you do rolling is the best way to do
that and that includes something like a
pullover which is technically a vertical
pole using cable rows to pre exhaust for
barbell rows just doesn't make a whole
lot of sense to me James does it make
any sense to you no I have the same
opinion as you on that and I think that
trying to pre exhaust the lats before
Rose might just make it like one of
those really shitty movements where your
your lats just give out right away but
you're really not getting a ton of lats
stimulus either at the same to me that's
like a really low SFR situation where
you just get a lot of fatigue not a lot
of stimulus and then the muscles that
you're trying to train like your scapula
retractors just don't get trained at all
at that point because you have a great
example of this pre exhausting
hamstrings too and then doing lunges to
focus on them like that'll just make you
really socket lunges and be wobbly and
have cramps but lunges don't go really
stimulate your hamstrings nearly as much
is what we required of a movement that
focuses on them yeah so I yeah I totally
agree and I think that doing you could
do potentially that same idea with
vertical pulling like a pulldown or
something and that might be really great
but I don't know and I personally
haven't found the pre-exhaust on the
back to be particularly useful for me
that's just me speaking Michael have you
have you done that and found it to be
efficacious yeah like so I'll do like
pull-ups or pull downs and then I'll do
rows after and that way like that's
during a workout that's designed to
really hit the lats first as a primary
move and the rest of the back is very
secondary so what I'll do is like six
sets of vertical pulling and then just
two or three sets of horizontal pulling
the rowing right so that really those
two sets are just kind of maintenance
work for the rhomboids chairs
been the traps etc and they're still
stimulative tool Atticus are so
pre-exhaustion but the stainless to
fatigue ratio over rose for the last
still sucks think if someone tell me you
had to work lats more when I switched to
Rose from vertical pulling no I was
simply continuing to be more vertical
pulling or all over but I think that
option so it's not like what I do micro
pre-exhaustion and ends up being that
but it really is just like well I have
to row and block Lee after my you know
I'm not gonna do it first because it's
not the priority a so I have to do it
last and luckily a cool side benefit is
that the lats are hit more on the rose
than they would normally be that is not
even to say that they are the limiting
factor on Rose or that they get a really
really good stimulus on Rose compared to
other exercises yeah and that's and to
me that seems more like a just like a
normal kind of prioritization triage
rather than like a deliberate
pre-exhaust strategy which isn't yeah
and totally normal
I'm trying to think leg presses and sumo
squats like if I wanted to keep training
my quads I've just do more leg presses
or not switch to sumo squats but if I
also have to do a doctor's and glutes
that day I'll put super squats at the
end and the cool thing is that the quads
still get some kind of hit on sumo
squats but it's certainly not a maximum
I wouldn't design that program you like
ooh these sumo squats are really gonna
fry my quads after this right now then
if it is they still keep the quads or a
pump to get a little bit more stimulus
but the real benefit is I just have
lasted and fuck with my workout up and
they still hit the maintenance for
glutes and afters yeah and if you were
gonna use a pre-exhaust movement for the
barbell row I feel like even like a scab
shrug or like a face pull would be like
I'm a better cuz you're at that point
you're actually targeting like the
rhomboids and the traps and stuff but
you know again kind of keeps the lats
out of it so interesting thought Daniel
but maybe will go a different direction
on the topic of training smaller muscle
groups to their MRV or clothes I'm not
having all the time to be in the gym do
you think it's a good idea to use
intensity techniques quite often for
muscle groups like side delts biceps can
Center if one is limited time their gym
so I'll answer this question really
quickly I think it's fine to use
intensity techniques for any muscle
you're interested spend a lot of time on
iframe six times a week once a day and
I'm happy that I can take my big muscle
groups chess pawns on Hampstead Murphy
no problem i residential last week last
round boy training center seems like
infinity that's law on us groups I just
have time to take over fifteen and sixty
six a week whatever thinking about is to
employ drops us partials when I stole as
much more often of these muscle groups
in hopes of getting extra bonus since
more Street sense is just not realistic
figure I'm not going to incur much
systemic fatigue doing this stuff
because these muscle groups are small
and taking our phones be enough agree I
think it's a great idea I will say a
couple of things one the amount of time
you rest between straight sets of very
small muscle groups is very small
because they recover very quickly right
the local muscle recovers quickly anyway
because they're small but also the
systemic burden central the central
fatigue the are vascular fatigue and the
surface fatigue drops off really quickly
so you do a set of calves you don't have
to wait around four minutes you know set
and wait around for ten seconds would be
completely ready to do five plus reps
which means that effect of Sam so it's
already good news secondly if you do do
so a lot of problem with the intensity
technique so to speak if they start sort
of they don't let you recover quite
fully and and thus that you if you
overdo them on the compound are some of
the big muscle groups you end up getting
like you're as serious and fatigue ratio
is not that great because the more of
them you do sort of the more
cardiovascular and central fatigue is
starting to build the quality of the
repetitions sets starts to go down this
is less of a problem with the smaller
muscle groups because they are so
limited only by local recovery and not
really central recovery or systemic
recovery so they they are definitely
better candidates for that kind of thing
so I my advice is to part one yes it's
really fine to do these intensity
techniques to save time but - why don't
you just try resting the appropriate
amount you may find that the appropriate
amount saves you so much time you don't
even eat it that's a really good
suggestion and Daniel only because of
your previous question I feel like an
asshole today god damn it you are an
asshole today James you're an asshole
every day I know I'm just looking at the
previous question and I'm like okay well
you got time for gymnastics training why
don't you have time to just throw in a
couple extra set
the biceps while you I don't know right
am i it's a priority I guess right
different when you're I I get that so
what but like saying like limited time
at the gym I'm like yeah I don't know
but I think I think that the happy
compromise is actually what Mike said
which is just maybe be a little bit more
mindful if not taking more rest time
than you need
you might just be taking more than you
probably need and you can probably add
five to six sets of eyes I mean like
five to six sets of biceps you rest 30
seconds between each one rest yeah 30
seconds to a minute between each one I
mean we're talking like less than 10
minutes total total time doing that
exercise not a huge deal you can
probably and if you want to do a drop
set those are the muscles that respond
the least poorly to them I'm not an
asshole I'm just skeptical kromaggs not
a player I just crush a lot all right
I'm the topic of going maybe 10 to 12
sets for say quads in one session your
police said you're skeptical of people
that say they do this do you think this
is a strength and size dependent though
Mike you have huge quads here - Charlie
- that counted I just wrote about a G
about you're all big strong and life is
very fast which in your quads what about
just a normal-sized guy but wouldn't you
actually be skeptical if he wasn't
training on the higher end of procession
ball recommendation because he doesn't
recruit a kind of fatigue you do if not
gonna squat 250 410 or only hacks went
to 75 shouldn't someone like that
actually do higher on it because he can
recover from it
maybe wouldn't it be weird if someone
came to you and said I did four by 225
on the squad and Forex leg presses a 315
and I can't walk no because that's
actually what Paul cutter just did that
literal same workout described he
couldn't walk wouldn't you tell them
that they need to increase their cardio
or something I picked quads but any body
part applies in my face here many
summaries saying larger more faster
switch individuals the lower end of the
center recommendation will have to be
used where someone who is smaller medium
sized to be much better off on the
higher end so point one I agree with you
yeah low rents that recommendation at
least to start with bigger faster search
guys can get a lot on a limited number
of sets
although the way they got that big is
usually because they've been training
for a long time and they're trained
ability is very high there
conditioning or capacities I got a
little Senate just some extent what that
was gonna be my appointment usually
although they're stronger they usually
have really high were capacities right
but is there the second part is someone
who is smaller medium sized would be
much better often higher and no that's a
trade-off between frequency and
precession volume so if they can really
easily breeze through eight sessions or
sorry eight sets and not get crazy
fucked up instead of doing two sessions
a week one or two three it's not a three
why don't you two for that way they're
per session quality is fucking really
high but because they recover so well
they can do a higher frequency so just
because you can survive 20 sets for work
out doesn't mean you need to do twenty
cents per work out literature is pretty
clear that much over ten is not maybe
the best idea so I think up to ten to
twelve is totally fine
right but I wouldn't be like all you
should do fifteen no problem I think
they should be just increase in
frequency or someone like Paul Condit
I'll put it this way what Paul did with
his quads said you know eight sets total
four sets of squats or forces like
presses for some sort of Smith machine
squats after Paul's not gonna be right
for like four or five days that's a
that's a once a week workout with
another smaller workout shoved in there
right so if you can just walk through
that workout I don't think the answer is
to do 8 9 10 11 12 15 16 17 reps I think
or set that's I think the answer is more
like instead of doing one and a half
workouts a week like on cotton might do
two and a half or three and a half of so
awesome and he says I feel like I'm also
see the obvious here as I read it and
I'm slightly feeling like a jerk you're
not at all these are all very
interesting things there's a lot of new
ones here I think you're completely
correct that a smaller little slower
switch folks especially people in a
great Carter shape and really mean they
can crank but I think the answer for
them is probably more often a higher
frequency after they get much past 10
sets then it is higher per session
volume games yeah so Daniel I think the
root of the issue here is when we say
we're skeptical and it's it's not that
they can't tolerate doing more it's that
once you get kind of past that like 12
10 mark we start to have questions about
like how the SFR of those sessions is
really going that's more of the root of
the issues like are you picking
exercises that are really good for that
muscle group or is your technique
individualized in such a way
it's really hurting those muscles to the
best you can so when Mike and I when we
say like we raise our kind of the
people's eyebrow to somebody who says
they do like 20 sets per session the
assumption is that they're doing it and
they're either picking lame exercises or
their techniques just not very good at
the exercises that they're doing or some
combination of both of those things
right so the ten sets thing seems to be
pretty consistent across groups the only
change there again being what Mike Rd
said when you have people who are really
big and fast which it might be a little
bit lower but other than that it's
probably the same and then it becomes an
issue of frequency so it's not so much
that like we don't believe that slow
slower twitch or maybe if you who aren't
super strong can't do more they
absolutely can do more but it doesn't
mean that they necessarily benefit for
more and so that's kind of the issue
there is where what is the quality of
those extra sets what does the quality
of the initial sets what are they
actually doing in that session that's
where that skeptical eye brow comes from
not the actual number well I guess I
guess it is the actual number of sets
but it's like how did they get to such a
high number of sets that's kind of the
issue right yeah it's not so often
they're just really slow to what you're
doing everything right it's
unfortunately much more often they're
doing a lot of shit wrong James and I
have taken a lot of people through leg
workouts over the years and most people
are just shocked after three stats like
well my legs are my legs feel strange
but the fuck have you been doing for
fucking your whole life like good
morning squats you know yeah exactly
yeah you you get taught how to do high
bar full depth squats and especially
full depth leg presses or hack squats
dude that's my standard like workout if
someone's like well I don't know like
your methods and do you really train
hard on my come train with me they're
like all right let's do quads okay sweet
four sets of 15 to 20 rep leg presses
one or two from failed and then four
sets of high bar pause squats one or two
from fail usually people will get off
the leg press convulsing or just roll
off or throw up and they're like oh fuck
and then I have time for squat so how
much do you squad they're like 405 and
like today we will begin with 185 did
you want 85 for eight and a half reps
and shit blood and they're like what the
fuck have I been doing in my own
training and you're like I don't know
what you've been doing maybe only
something that was not this and that's
the thing like anybody can write this
shit down on on an excel sheet or on a
piece of paper and say this is what
you're doing today but it takes somebody
with a good code
I to notice if somebody's doing it in
such a way that is really really good
and really stimulus it right and that's
just like from being in the gym having a
lot of experience and obviously Mike and
I have an education and this stuff's is
we have a kind of an extra edge but you
don't have to have a PhD to look at
somebody squatting and being like
they're getting no quads out of that
that's gonna be all fucking glutes all
fucking back right same thing goes when
assessing um like reps from failure how
many times have you asked somebody to do
like okay let's do four from failure and
they stopped at ten from failure and
look at you and you're like keep going
right
that's just like from comes from being a
good having excuse me having a good
coaches I have a good experience alright
in putting somebody through a good
session and that's kind of to be honest
that's a huge advantage of doing
one-on-one personal training versus
doing online coaching unless people are
sending you every you know sets of
everything that they're doing on video
you can you can actually watch them
doing it making sure that they're
getting the most out of those sessions
that you can sometimes when we do online
coaching I mean unless we specifically
ask them for videos or it becomes an
issue you're just kind of assuming that
they're doing the right thing but they
might not they might not be they might
be like way away from their rir goals
their technique might not be quite
individualized in such a way so I think
that's a good another good mark of a
good coach where you can take something
simple like do three sets of squats
three sets of leg press and it becomes
completely devastating when they were
doing like ten sets of x y&z in 10 SEC's
of you know ABC and getting nothing out
of it mm-hmm I will say this a bit of a
cop-out of my part most because I hate
writing long comments on Instagram but
again ask them Instagram a lot like I'll
just squat or do some kind of poll and
people say like you know what are you
this looks great like this it's
interesting what are your cues do you
have any cues for this seems to be
something people are obsessed with cues
a lot of times I don't there's anything
first of all cues are fucking stupid
there's nothing replaced as a coach
actually being there should have fuck up
a lot of cues but also cueing a couple
of things can throw off the rest of what
you've been doing which is totally fine
so it turns out coaching technique is
quite complex and the best cue is to
show someone how a person executes some
movement on video and to give them the
top three most spurt
Q's and then if you want any more cues
on top of that what you're really saying
is I need personal training because the
nuance is not for Instagram you know so
I think a lot of people get really over
overkill and what kind of video is kind
of watch to pick apart my squat it's
like I mean you just go over max ADA's
training facility in Ames so you can fix
your squat once and for all and that's a
really interesting differentiation
between like a lot of sport training and
physique training whereas like never
asked that in sport training worse
accused for soccer yeah and even even if
you're like you're doing lifting for
sport right there's a lot of good
reasons to ask somebody to critique your
your technique to make sure you're doing
it correctly so it has good transfer of
training good safety injury management
stuff but for physique training it's
like are you actually hitting the muscle
that you're trying to train it is much
simpler question right it's like okay if
you're not do it that's like that's an
all mostly a binary type answer right if
you're like not really training it that
well like you probably need to revisit
your technique so you know it's
interesting exciting very related
sometimes later guys being like hey I
tried that like c4 Smith Machine squat
and I'm arching my back my chest is uh
my core is tight I'm squatting all the
way down to my heels my feet are a
little bit front my quads are shooting
out like I don't really feel my quads
like do you have any cues for me and I'm
like bro but that's literally all I got
man
you know I no idea try to fucking use
your quads it's one of those like I'd
have to see if what you're saying is
really what you're doing because
sometimes people say stuff you're like
that's not what you're doing you show
how you're really doing like oh my god
my quads well sometimes if people you
know when it's a mind muscle connection
like I'll put you this traitor I don't
think the accused for mind muscle
connection
I think used for technique once you have
good technique the mind muscle can
actually either comes or it doesn't come
and you've got a coach that you've got
to just rule like fucking loose on to
your own shit and be like my lats lats
lats ah okay I feel it and some of the
cues for a quarter like it on slowly
centric down really squeeze at the
bottom but like it's kind of obvious
shit you know what I mean it's like I
don't feel my lats in this like fuck man
I would say change your technique and or
just focus on a couple sessions of
trying to feel your lats a little bit
more lighten up the weight and try to
feel them if you can't feel them after
that I don't know what you tell me
the risk of sounding like an asshole
which seems to be the trend of this
episodes I think a lot of people with
the cueing stuff also are shit how do I
say this they're not really interested
in lifting they're trying to find
excuses to not lift more not do more
stuff you know what I mean there's like
a lot of people who are more interested
in like just critiquing every like
biomechanical aspect of what they're
doing and not actually getting in the
gym and training where they're just
willing to stop whatever it is that
they're doing and Riaan victory invest
in their technique which is not a bad
thing on paper but they get the
paralysis by analysis proud dude I got
to put a big example for that I get
asked lake on pull-downs do you lock
your scapula into place or do you let
them move like what the fuck never
thought about that in my entire life
why don't you arbitrarily lock something
into place my pulls out all the way I
make sure I feel it in here right I
repeat that's it it's crazy
like when you think about elbow position
in the squad with the fuck we're not
powerlifting bro like whatever feels
come to you and you let you can hit your
quads you're good to go
like some folks are just out there I'm
not sure dude you want to know a really
funny problem I had I just this is a
little bit of a tangent so I apologize
but I have a client it's a it's a woman
that's as far as I'll say she had a
breast augmentation right
and so her doctor just she's her
recovery is going really well and her
doctor gave her clearance to do lower
body exercises right which is good so
thumbs up and so I was thinking like
okay what are some movements we can do
and then I was like okay let's try some
of these things and I was like we can do
like you know simple stuff like machine
stuff like lying hamstring curl it's
like wait no that's no good it's gonna
like smoosh up the boobs let's do some
like leg press like oh no that's no good
either right that's gonna like smoosh up
the boobs let's try like 45 degree back
raise and I was like fuck that's no good
either you know and it's not that just
like touching the boobs is a problem but
like just minimize discomfort in that
area and so I was kind of thinking about
like I had a good thought experiment and
that's another instance where you might
have to just like change the technique
altogether on something just to make it
work for the time being and we were
talking about optimizing but this is
more of an issue of like I have some
limitations and I still need to train
how can I still train under some set of
limitations so I was thinking like
okay instead of using a plate you know
use two dumbbells or something where you
can just let the way hand comfortably
stuff like that but you get into funny
problems like that and it was a fun
experiment for me today yeah
Jean whole worth this says hi guys I
appreciate Alec on to you guys but I
think it definitely got me headed in the
right direction after a few years of
scenic spending my wheels well it's good
awesome man
hopefully this isn't too broad of a
topic to discuss what are some common
training pitfalls when training approach
if you're barely seeing if and if at any
if if at any muscle gains user myself
low example I've been trained for five
years makes up cutting a bulky never
been anywhere from 170 to 220 pounds I
feel like it has got to be the sure if
my training I managed to get down to to
get to 225 315 4 or 5 4 bench squat and
deadlift but I am cutting now and I'm 62
and 165 pounds they use those online
calculators which give a rough estimate
of attainable BM and height and bone
size I feel like I am still 20 30 pounds
away from something I kept theoretically
achieve okay that's the that's
theoretical maximum it's not theoretical
average and it's not even you know you
may be below average your genetics will
get to that it just baffles me that even
though I've been up to 220 pounds
probably way too aggressive and stupid
hindsight's haven't gained more muscle
I'm just thinking something had to have
been way wrong I've also always been
pretty meticulous to track in macro so I
don't think that would have been in
corporate outside of just taking it too
far and getting too fat
I'm guessing volume but prior to our Pia
seemed like everything I read was very
against high volume training I just need
to focus of getting strong in the big
three and gains would come rushing in
I don't know I'll utilize the apt and
hopefully open to have a successful mass
gaining phase after my show November
thanks John as a fall question if I may
and pretty sure I've been primarily
straight trading for the last five years
unknowingly so training for to be yeah
you have to be able that's the case even
though I have been training pretty good
sleeve what my muscles are still maybe
around beginner levels to be able to
gain muscle at a rate a beginner would
expect to listen John you're talking
about getting like any really impressive
gains at all let's let's not expect
anything okay
so don't expect to gain great at
beginner wood
I don't expect anything just training
eat and you'll see right I John not not
focusing on you you're not doing this
but some people is really really highly
curious about what they can expect to
achieve it doesn't matter because you're
usually eating cheap it or not you know
like after a couple of years you'll
figure out what you're cheating and then
he goes on to say like oh I stressing
out about an exam like at some point you
just have to take the exam take the exam
or not yeah or even though I don't have
much muscle but since I've been training
for five years my beginner gains went
down the drain so it's definitely not
snuffly not the case so well let's
address this so even though I don't have
much muscle but since I've been training
fibres are we gonna get down drain
absolutely not beginning Dean's are
always there for you and to the extent
that you do more correct things you get
them so for example if you've men
massively under dosing balling for ten
years
so now ten years of true there's no way
out beginner games you start to train
for the first time ever above your NBD
short of maybe your first couple of
weeks of training you will see radical
gains if you have the genetics for
radical games plain and simple all right
so that's definitely not a concern will
so that James and I usually go through a
checklist is your sleep and rest
sufficient to be you know to the most
people zapper genes okay because if it's
not an undying training don't matter
that it would make perfect sense why you
are not big so loosely rests recovery
stress that's the next is diet so if you
consistently been eating a hyper caloric
diet seems like you have seems like
you've been pretty heavy and especially
if you got heavy you know we're gonna
period for months not weeks and if you
stayed around there for a while and
because you know if you went up to 220
over three months and went back down to
160 over the next three months I would
not expect you to gain much muscle from
that she's been up to age pretty high
and consistently eating a lot of food
that checks that box and the next one is
have you been training with at least a
one to two time a week training
frequency and have you been training
with any v2m Rd volumes right and
relative intensities that are above for
RP or for RI are so put another way is
are you training hard enough right you
have a hole in your plan there which
mean actually violate that mu V Tamara
you window so I think maybe that's the
case for you that you haven't been
that's the good news so I think you're
in for some games
if that really is some not great news
individuals who are meant to be very big
do not struggle with size with any basic
semblance of a program in their early
years individuals who have a really good
genetics if you put them on a strength
training program they get jacked like
people with bad genetics get jacked on
hypertrophy programs like you do 3x3
squats deadlifts and bench twice a week
and all of a sudden you look like how
like sort of half way to body builder
what the fuck but it's not a good way to
get big for people with good genetics
get the extorter no matter what so you
probably don't have amazing genetics
there's my guess unless there's a part
of this plan that we just don't know
about that's missing I think you're
gonna get very likely better results in
training with more volume and slowly
increasing your calories slowly adding
body weight but I don't think you're
gonna have amazing results and if you've
been training for five years you weight
roughly 200 pounds and you bench 225
squat 315 and a 4 or 5 4 max I would say
that those by normative standards but
you
I suppose you pay for the truth here at
RP plus that puts you into the below
average category for strength of someone
of your size is it still fucking awesome
yeah totally are you still gonna get
stronger for sure you can get bigger
absolutely I just based on my
understanding of what you're going
through here I would say that you
shouldn't be expecting these super crazy
games to come out of nowhere because
that's unlikely I'm very sorry for how
harsh that sounds but am I trying to
give you an accurate what we think is a
truthful analysis and tell you just keep
trying a bunch of different training
methods that might finally turn you into
rolling with I do think the volume is a
very good idea to explore I'm curious to
see how that's gonna help James yeah so
that that kind of I think Mike probably
had this in the back of his mind too but
that definitely confirmed my suspicions
as we started reading this question I
was like have you been training for
strength and not hypertrophy right and
that's usually kind of the root of the
issue and it seems to be the case as
Mike said you probably aren't like the
most fast twitch like muscle jacked guy
that's ever lived and that's okay I
think that you you run into a few
conundrums here where your
rage is not truly that of a beginner
though you can still make really really
good gains once you start switching to
hypertrophy relatively good gains is
what I mean by that that one of the
downsides of having been doing strength
training for that long as your mev might
be a little bit higher whereas somebody
who's like a true beginner can do like
half a set and their muscle growth
potentially starts taking off which is
really sweet you are probably gonna have
to put in a little bit more on the mev
side a little bit more on the MRV so I
just cuz you've been training for a
while but you'll still make good gains
relative to what you're capable of I
think seeing is that your body weight
was up towards about 220 you might have
just been like pushing the diet stuff
way too hard especially if your bench
like didn't go through the roof that
would be an example like you knew you
had a lot of potential where if you
gained 30 pounds and your bench went up
like 60 pounds
we'd be like okay there's something
there you probably could be gaining a
lot more muscle but if it really didn't
like if you just gained a bunch of body
weight and your strength really didn't
go up very much I tend to tend to agree
with Mike there that's you probably
don't have the best muscle gain put
jeans out there and that's that's
perfectly okay you can still make
progress so I think once you make the
switch to hypertrophy training what
you're gonna see it now is your weights
gonna be much more stable over time and
you'll start making at least some
physique gains over time right you'll be
able to keep a much tighter bound on
your uppers and lowers for your massing
and cutting while still seeing a net
change year to year which is right now
you kind of sound like and I'm not
really sure if I'm seeing a lot of
change my body weights changing my
strength not really changing right when
you start switching to hypercute reining
you're going to be at the end of it at
the end of the year you'll be able to
say hey that did something right and I'm
not super fat and I'm not super skinny
something good happened and I'm making
progress and I think that's probably
what you're looking for at this point
yeah the other thing too is like it this
kind of was in the previous question
with Daniel um another thing aside from
the volume but like also kind of the SFR
of the stuff that you're doing like we
get people who are doing low bar squats
for sets it you know for like 3 by 8 and
wondering why they're not getting a ton
of quad growth well it's like well maybe
that's not a great exercise that you're
choosing stuff like that especially
people with your background who train
for strength so I would say reevaluate
SFR of the exercises that you're using
and maybe make a nice list for every
major muscle group and say hey these are
the ones that I really seem to get a lot
out of they'll be really helpful to and
then it's just a voile marks thing yeah
all right Robert Gillis really is very
gains of Game of Thrones type name yeah
well again to you he has ancestors in
Georgia and not via Georgia Devil
Solberg at Georgia ball that's oh I like
the weight I like I didn't even know
very good why that song reference I
didn't know oh yeah yeah didn't know
that I knew that kind of I didn't know
he was music that you didn't know you
knew about that golden fiddle yeah well
you know what I've been to plenty of
bars of ETSU against my will where that
song comes on and everyone loves it and
I start thinking of suicide oh my god
I was watching the UFC recap from from
when we were in Ireland and I was just
kind of like kind of working and
listening at the same time and it was
like introducing so-and-so from Johnson
City Tennessee owes lycra wad whoa what
are you serious he got his ass kicked
but it was not funny yeah I was like
well that guy's from JC oh well all
right so Robert goes really clearly
somewhere from Georgia or some SS tree
which by the way has statistically the
best wrestlers in the entire world their
population is like six million and they
have like four Olympic gold medals does
it make any sense good it's pretty sweet
yeah so Robert says is there any
validity idea that different rips on
vertical poles affect different areas of
latts of my experience I can feel the
shoulder with overhead grip 1.5 shoulder
with overhand grip and underhand
shoulder width grip slightly different
areas and everything else things are
gonna feel a version of me in those um
yeah totally absolutely possible
regional activation differences are
definitely a thing and if you feel it in
some areas nobody's gonna tell you that
that's not working that's almost
certainly working so just what we would
say is make sure that it's a its own
overall good exercise because you know
if you have tiny
lats in general but slightly bigger out
or elastic nobody gives a shit right so
the core basics are
good but if you need extra volume to
fill in then I would to use a specific
yeah and you can see a historical
context for this with bodybuilders
saying you know I gotta hit all the
angles that's like a classic thing I got
hit all the angles in my session right
because they're feeling it in different
regions within the muscle right that's
why I bless let it was the last week or
the week before Mike was making me laugh
with the like the flat bench incline
bench decline bench cable fly like same
idea right where your magnen you can
feel that in all the different parts of
your chest right that's good thing you
just don't even do that in the same
workout yeah and like um you also don't
want to like Mike was just alluding to
in his last comment here you don't want
to needlessly try and focus on a region
if it really limits how much you can get
out of the exercise as a whole right so
if you're like oh I really feel like if
I go as narrow as possible on these
underhand pull downs I get like this
little tip on my lat
but if you just did like regular grip
underhand pull down so you feel it like
all over the fucking place right you're
probably needlessly limiting in that
exercise modification but it's totally
fine to accentuate different regions
with different modifications on
technique alright a fusion of two worlds
Sean Moore Kyle Ruben says hey guys
asked a question last week but I think
your guys's answer for my head oh no
totally curious I'll just try it one
more time but we phrased much simpler
for myself I think he's identically
talking down to us we fucked up the
answer I'm just kidding hey if you pick
a weight that lands you and say the 15
to 20 range on the first set you're
hitting your intermediate fibers pretty
well correct yet that would be the
hypothesis sure B if you're if you
rested not long enough so that your next
set only got 5 reps is it essentially
only the fast twitch fibers but pulled
off those 5 reps no all fibers are
activated during maximal training right
in this sense because they slow Nurmi
once we're ready yet right no this
morning meeting ones were active but
what the hypothesis is a very
hypothetical thing generally speaking
slow twitch fibers may need more volume
to respond to growth offend faster
twitch fibers and intermediate which
fibers somewhere between the two so if
your reps a drop off a real fast
your total workload over the course of
multiple sets might fuck you over a
little bit on the intermediate or slower
fiber so there may be something to
resting a little bit longer between sets
which definitely fucks your faster
fibers but just from whole bunch of junk
volume before them but that junk volume
is to some extent more effort referred
to slower media fibers because faster
your fiber is so vastly responsible for
most hypertrophy and because your you
use your media fibers and especially
your slower ones for just daily
ambulation movement and that's how they
stay bigger that it really means that
you can drop off anything just to five
reps is totally fine but if you really
do feel like you get better pumps and
soreness etcetera if you rest a little
longer or do some bounce sets to keep
the reps closer to that fifteen to
twenty initial range that's definitely
something to experiment with so James
that I would never say that you
shouldn't do down sets to stay within a
tighter range like 10 to a 15 to 20 and
that you shouldn't rest longer so you
can have the reps go higher get a
delayed effect so on and so forth
computer media storage fibers what we
would say is you don't have to do that
and if you drop all the way down to five
reps between cents it doesn't matter
much but you there's no correct answer
to which one works best for you you
should have to try it and see which one
gives you the better stimulus to fatigue
waves you change yeah I totally agree
and it's kind of this particular
question it's kind of funny because it
kind of goes counterintuitive to some of
the stuff in there an exercise
physiology like Henneman size principle
for example says okay for you know like
lower power output our lower force tasks
you primarily just use your slower
twitch or slower diameter muscle fibers
but that's not to say that that is what
causes them to grow the most necessarily
either so they are very fatigue
resistant and because of that although
you can activate them at kind of lower
intensity thresholds you still have to
do a shitload of stuff to make them grow
use because they're so fatigue
resistance so it's kind of one of those
conundrums where you think about like
what activates slower twitch muscle
fibers it's like well generally lower
force lower power output activities but
it's not to say that they can't benefit
from doing something like a like an
incomplete rest protocol or just
blasting them with volume mmm that's why
I think it's really cool when you have
some applications of harder and easier
training days especially
part focus a for example if you do
really hard back training on one day
well I actually give a better example
really hard twice that focus training on
one day Monday tricep big triceps a
little bit of chest at the end the next
day you do mostly chest and just your
triceps get hit just ancillary me see
okay was when triceps get hit as
synergists their fastest which fibers
probably aren't active because they're
not themselves the muscle of local is
now is not approaching failure like the
pecs will fail first by four or five
reps or something you could say that's a
bad thing but here's the deal when you
do your hard work out of Monday you
fucking fry your biggest and fast which
fibers which might take a while to
recover days but the slower twelve
fibers in their media fibers you also
fried you might very well be ready to
get 100% hit super hard again by
Wednesday and luckily they get hit very
hard just as hard as they would when
you're training close to failure you hit
the same level do Flickr can you stop
four or five runs short of failure
because they still are fully active that
entire time and generate full amounts of
tension so the cool thing is is that as
you hit chest hard and ease up on
triceps ease up on triceps or you know
he's up on chest hit triceps hard the
faster fibers it basically in that
scheme get worked a little bit more
rarely than the slower fibers Amin
fibers would work much more frequently
which is a good thing because they can
probably take the frequent work whereas
the faster fibers can't take the
frequent work like if you tried to train
super heavy pecs three times a week
really close to fail you might find
yourself not being able to do that three
times a week but you might be able to do
it twice a week and your triceps sort of
take the slack on the other day I have
experimented with that situation exactly
number two recently listen to Mike on a
GPS muscle soreness podcast
Mike mention the idea that the ideal
scenario are close to in front of her to
be training would be a stability and
performance yet potentially close to it
it's a safe bet here's what I would say
if I perpetrated would be stability of
performance as one increases sets over a
motorcycle James just to recap this
means like as you increase as you
overload during the cycle and increase
sense you're prepared it's a sign of
level
yeah Mike recycle - Mike recycle that
means you're by definition in fitness
because that means your fatigue is it
for sure accumulating and for some
reason you're not getting weaker so that
means you're for sure community fitness
if you do less than that less volume
than that and your performance is going
up it's good that your performance is
going up but you can no longer tell what
part of that is just insufficient
accumulation of fatigue or reduction of
fatigue which is bad because you could
just be doing more volume anymore which
parts actually better improvements at
Fitness um I would surmise especially
what's your advantage the improvements
in fitness due to muscular hypertrophy
are almost undetectable even on the
mesocycle level like how much muscle you
gonna gain week to week how many reps on
your squat at 4 or 5 are you gonna add
from the muscle gain last week in quads
a third tenth of a wrap something like
that like it's not even one round so I
would say that any you know fitness
games you make within an accumulation
phase can be restructured to be thought
of as these are only progressions you
didn't take its fatigue you didn't cash
in for probably more hypertrophy and of
course if you do more then we fatigue it
degrades your performance over the
course of amount cycles accumulation
phase then for sure you just interfere
with overload and almost certainly on
the other end of the shaper fibers so
that's the background and then he asks
what this this would be different for
statics that's training correct it means
you don't increase your sense dr.
Mazzone
you would want to see performance
increases micro - micro if set numbers
stay the same right I don't think I
would if I was doing statics that's
training that means I would assume that
my heavy TMR he was so close together
let's say MRV
MeV is 16 sets ever these 18 sets that
means they're just basically do 17 17 17
17 better IRR IR and let load
progressions do all of the fatigue
accumulating that means I still
accumulate fatigue during the Momentis
cycle and I still aim for roughly
equivalent performance micro micro micro
if performance is going up significantly
again you cannot tell which part of it
is just insufficient accumulation of
fatigue and or no accumulation of
fatigue even a reduction of fatigue
and/or which part of it is the actual
increase in fitness characteristics so I
would stay away from any in hypertrophy
first of all don't do statics that's
training that's fucking stupid yeah
that's
right so but if you do static this
training because of effect agenda the
enemy are so close together I would
absolutely not be aiming to get stronger
the whole micro micro micro now remember
you get stronger after the D load that's
when you're supposed to reveal your
symptoms I mean right and frankly that's
an oddly specific scenario I don't think
most people are advanced enough to
really find themselves in that position
right so the more likely problem if
you're doing static sets is if you train
at MeV you might see performance going
up for a couple weeks and then it starts
to plateau off if you're training at MRV
your performance will probably start
degrading within one to two weeks and if
you're at ma vie you probably are seeing
performance go up what you're leaving a
lot on the table you know that whole
time so that's kind of the the issue you
run into and then of course we already
said you don't want to be doing static
sets for hypertrophy because you want to
be either increasing your effective sets
or effective reps however you want to
phrase it both are applicable yeah
number three using quads an example here
but asking a general for muscle groups
say someone never squatted and only did
leg press and leg extensions do you
think they'd be able to reach their
maximum quad potential but it would take
longer and I don't not even sure it
would take longer and or more sets per
session to get there for sure more sets
procession because the Rastas magnitude
of squad system asset would there be
some quad growth that would never be
achieved without squatting I think there
would be some quad core but never be
cheap about squatting but it would be
teeny tiny like a one or two percent
difference in you can even see one or
two percent on a quad if you look at it
because some fibers would be hit yeah it
just did it for variation these squats
aren't even the one the exercise we need
to pick if you never into lunges if you
never did have squats if you never did
wider stance squats you would miss out
on some maximization of a mode or heated
pool in some area of the quads that the
other two exercises don't maximize but
if you told me like hey if I never squat
I only do hack squats leg presses and
legs stand just how much quad Everage
for moving missing out on I would say
it's less than half a percent or some
like that there's a never high bar squad
but I do sumo squats hack squats leg
press and legs if you do all those other
things correctly I'm not willing to bet
you would make any noticeable change in
squats you know so there's I Celtic
evening magical about squats they're
just a very effective exercise
and you know if it's there's what it is
I'd have to do squats it's just I'll put
you this way you're not doing squats a
lot of times doing shitty or exercises
and the next question isn't to attack
you and say you should just squats the
real question is why aren't you doing
squats and a lot of people just like I'm
cuz I suck bitch yeah and you're like
okay that's an interesting reason and
you can certainly make up for being a
little baby big bitch by doing other
exercises but maybe you've got a look
inside that soul and punch yourself in
the fucking ovaries yeah and I think I
think furthermore this gets to the idea
that you can't put any any one exercise
on a pedestal of being the best or super
elite it's just you could you could
leave any exercise off the table and
probably get the most growth that you
reasonably could get within like a very
marginal percentage really what the
issue comes down to is like what are
good SFR exercises for you right so like
and Mike and I every year we talk about
like the the squats versus in the
extension example right it's like Mike
could never do knee extensions again
ever in his life and he's gonna have B's
gonna get as much quad growth as he
possibly could get right me like squats
I can't just like my back becomes a
limiting factor my si becomes a limiting
factor I need to do something else for a
fatigue management and and in the
extensions are a good asset for exercise
for me so it's one of those things like
you can't put any one exercise and apply
it to everybody and say you are leaving
something on the table if you're not
doing this no that does not apply now
there are some that I think we could
just throw in the garbage more or less
right like your single leg BOSU squats
like that's mostly just for bodybuilding
throw in the garbage right but within a
reasonable with some reasonable
restrictions of your yeah means barbells
dumbbells right well there's categories
of exercises you don't want to leave out
like for example rows can I get maximum
back development without ever wrong
absolutely not absolutely not
notably um well can I get maximum
hamstring development without hip
hinging no no shit like that right you
say can I get best squad development we
do the extensions only never doing any
kind of pressing absolutely not so there
is the general classes of exercises but
within the specific class the difference
between the exercises
yeah and the reason why squad comes up
is just that it tends to be a good raw
stimulus magnitude and SFR exercise for
most people on average that's why it
comes up that way but just keep in mind
like that might not apply to you and and
people that you work with necessarily
i've been using the RP diet to fill my
weightlifting performance for years and
our peace simple science-based approach
has been instrumental to my success with
the new RP diet app following our P's
principles is as easy as entering my
goals and schedule in choosing my
favorite foods the app builds a diet to
my exact needs reminds me to eat my
meals and adapts to my body's changes
every single day and week the RP diet
app is a huge help in my quest to become
the best athlete I can be and if your
goal is to be your best it will help you
it's just a huge who is always our
pleasure
oh so don't do it we're on YouTube now I
can't say ya know now that this is
someone so that it works there's a
rapper Instagram celebrity called Vicky
whoa it's Vicky is her Instagram I know
well it's Vicky yeah she's the just the
scuzziest most white trashiest like
unbelievable like just the lowest of the
low and she bagged her bogan yeah every
hillbilly term on when she got into some
beef with like like a seven-year-old
asian rapper or some shit like this
subtle girl his mom makes her rap was
this a couple years ago yeah I think I
should put out this song this is the
most racist fucking song of all time
she's like rhymes about eating cats and
dogs
rhyming is like a very charitable
interpretation what's going on and then
during the song I think just start the
song she goes konichiwa motherfucker
Sean work on ribbon since this is
clearly part Japanese there you watch
that song it it's like you didn't
realize this whole video is just you
being racist against yourself like
you're the only victim here nobody takes
you seriously unbelievable oh gosh we
love learning about hillbillies with all
of our
people were like what kind of arts and
food culture do you have when they visit
other countries we're like tell us about
your trash we want to know about who's
the lowest of the low
where's your kid rock what's your kid
rock like oh and they usually have a
street yeah go that's if you want to go
into this area this area right perfect
dude Jason was like telling us all sorts
of stuff we didn't know about like Irish
lowlife culture it was amazing I'll fill
you in another time because it's not
appropriate for this boy like we got he
learned more than we realized was I mean
like I have Irish family I had no idea
about some of the stuff so it was
interesting all right Aiden Brown says
hi Megan Jean you just answer my
questions last week about my brother's
sinusitis I have a question is speaking
about myself I also have sinusitis I'm
just kid
I have finished a prolonged cutting
phase and of loss around 35 pounds over
six months with maintenance faces
sprinkled in that's pretty good
excellent
I'm about to go into another maintenance
phase to drop all the fatigue that
securely didn't get rid of the food
focus I currently have before going into
my mass phase with me now at a level of
body fat that I cannot consider okay to
start a mass space with slightly visible
abs I was um quite overweight when I
started okay I would carry on but I
don't have the mental just to carry on
dieting to get down to 10 percent onto a
body fat range which is what you guys
are commander neverhood optimal by small
tiny little margins theoretically
optimal it's not even research and that
trade-off is a smart trade-off if
they're smart enough and I'm extremely
motivated put on some real size it's
really great after messing about and my
first one two years of training you're
not knowing how to train properly I
really want to put on as much size as
possible me into my third year of
training now I know all the amazing
content you put out what would be the
most optimal strategy going forward for
me in terms of massing phase as many
cuts etc well you could buy the mini cut
manual book that actually describes the
periodization and the RP diet book that
describes appeared station you should
and has awesome examples but let's see
what your plan is and see how close it
aligns
my plan was to finish maintenance slash
active recipes I'm doing now then going
to 12-week massive phase and gain at a
rate of one percent per month sounds
great followed by four we commence phase
after this maintenance phase are we
doing another 12-week mass
and be appropriate and then a mini cut
depending on the fat accumulation so I
would change two things 12-week massing
phase that I would change into a 16-week
massing phase because I think you got
sixteen weeks on UniFirst run one
percent per month sounds totally great
even one and a half is fine followed by
a four week mini cut not maintenance you
don't need a maintenance yet and then
after that mini cut you do twelve weeks
and then you do a two week maintenance
act of Resta then another maybe mini cut
a real cut and then you repeat the
process change any critiques no I think
that's a great strategy and one thing
I've gotten I've gotten into a bad habit
in the past of like laying out these
elaborate body composition plans for
clients and people and what I think is
important too is to also allow some
touch an s' for you to reevaluate what
you want to do so I think like what Mike
said do the 16 weeks of mass is a really
good start see where you're at at the
end of 16 weeks doesn't mean you have to
do necessarily a mini cut or maintenance
or anything you can just basically look
at yourself and if you're like I feel
like shit and I don't feel good like am
I really gonna do another 12 weeks of
massing after this you don't have to
just cuz you wrote it down on a piece of
paper I said this is what I'm gonna do
you shouldn't feel shame about that
either right so what I would say is do
the 16 weeks plan on either doing a
maintenance or mini cut to follow one or
the other and the one that you choose is
the most reflective of how you're
feeling at that time so you might decide
like I don't really feel like massing
anymore great do the maintenance and
then you can do a full cut later on lose
the fat and then you can repeat the
process rinse and repeat at the desired
body fat level that you want to start at
maybe you have more juice in the tank
after doing 16 weeks of massing you
might decide this time I'm gonna cut all
the way down to 10 percent or something
if you wanted to so Mike's suggestion
was really great I'm not trying to say
not to do that but I'm also suggesting
just leave a little little time for
re-evaluation in there so you can make
changes based on how you're feeling in
the now it's one of those things
mellowest I'm gonna butcher this mellow
always talks about like people always
make lofty goals for themselves when
life is going well when they're sitting
on the couch and everything's good right
it's probably a better idea to make
those goals when you're in the thick of
it when you're in the in the situation
whether it's you know you're training
for a marathon you're training for body
cop whatever when you're doing the diet
when you're doing the training then kind
of re-evaluate where those goals are at
and make a decision because you're in
the shit
you know how it's gonna feel you know
where you're going yeah yeah excellent
excellent
Kevin Farley from our own work I can't
see Farley and not think of Chris Farley
it's fucked up I know all fucked and
look though the one the coffee one gets
me so fucking bad I can never stop
laughing at that Jesus dildol over 38
years that's just that's his YouTube
handle right just general questions to
spark discussion with our products oh
okay
well when do you guys have any plans of
incorporating that purchase research
file different templates into an app
form similar to what you did with the
iodine app or include it all in one
bundle I as a user of the app and her
tree chocolates would love to see
something come down the line later on
you could easily program an app to
incorporate all aspects of my career to
be templates and more such as metabolite
training for example lobsters drops us
giant sense my ropes etcetera any
thoughts on this lots of thoughts which
are confidential and proprietary so that
gives you all the meat bitch
just kidding oh damn fuck you Kevin yeah
like I saw the Michael James weather or
the just an assaultive doesn't mean it's
popular services Kevin your mind is
exactly on the right track and our minds
are there as well oh yeah hey for now
number two did we see an option down the
line with the RT diet I've giving users
the options increase/decrease different
macros an example of the users getting
an option to increase cards instead of
fat so the masking phase I know from the
past rp+ webinars and podcasts to Steve
Hall you said you like to keep fast as
low as possible point 3 grams per how
would I believe when mashing so you can
slam carburettors performance thanks
your pal Kevin Kevin that is in fact
something we'll eventually do with the
app what you do with apps is you find a
core audience for your app or core
customer base and you try to do a good
job with them and then once they're
really super taken care of you can
expand a little bit to get the little
users that have different special
considerations for whatever it's worth
people who want to manipulate their own
macronutrients or technically advanced
users technically in the vast minority
of app users because most of those
people just don't use apps I don't use a
fucking camera I use my fucking people
ask me if I use the RP diet app what you
guys think this is man where the fuck
the up your diet I've come from I use my
own fucking brain I was loved to use the
app eventually when it super has an
advanced mode and I can configure it
exactly all
fucking weird ways that I want because
most users don't need weird ways most
years have no fucking idea what the hell
they're doing and that's why they come
like if I had a fucking if the Spotify
app which I'd pay for every month or
fuck I think it's great it's like any
music app do you ever get like the music
apps where there's like a treble and
bass and whatever and all these little
things but there's like 15 of who shits
and it said it like lion 192 what the
fuck is the chip keep that the fuck away
from me I just wanna listen to music
right so a lot of people want simplified
experience which is what we're core
working on with the rp9 app and it's
super great it's work super well and
then we're slowly building out just
slightly more advanced versions and we
have a design a rebuild schedule for
something like March or April which is
gonna rework the core algorithms and
introduce a couple of new really cool
features like being able to shift macros
for meal to meal I've already said too
much
don't go man any of this is on YouTube
call me but yes we're absolutely working
a more advanced stuff it's just a later
priority want to make sure that the
folks who really come to the app because
they don't know nutrition fucking wanna
know they just want the app - Tom what
the fuck to do is they can get cheese or
caring for that first and like what we
don't want to happen to is to include
all this shit that's like unnecessarily
hard and confusing for people who like
Mike said have no no background in
nutrition they just want to get fit and
healthy for the first time how many
macros do you want to eat like what the
fuck I thought the app is supposed to
tell me how many macros I'm crazy and so
like what we don't want is for like you
know mom who trains CrossFit four times
per week to pick the leg oh let's do the
low-fat high-carb option now I have to
eat like 200 grams of carbs from right
yeah no that's not what we want
that's a select group of people who
would potentially like that but we just
don't want it to get it intermingled
with the people who don't need it for
the time being yeah all right Andy hobby
sounds like a fire you know just kidding
it's kind of like Hoda Kotb what the
fuck is that she's oh she's like uh
she's like an NBC news anchor she's on
like the Good Morning America ain't you
real fuckin mean i hot be made me think
of cod B for some reason but he's let me
let me admit something to you James you
may already know this Mel for sure knows
this
[Music]
by a variety of pet peeves they're just
nonsensical and I don't take them
seriously
um I know which is one of them which
includes myself is people with elaborate
names like they motherfuckers trying to
get credit for having a cool name
oh yes I'm coming on again here my own
last name like Mike Israa tell people
what's the origin I'm like fuck me like
shut up Mike is racquel really what's
the origin it's sighs like very
distinctly like the origin what do you
think right there like Israel
motherfucker it's a Georgian names like
oh fuck I'm sorry guys but but they
seriously like you know there's like a
news anchors are awful at this and I
don't folks just this is all a joke okay
but like news anchors are just like you
know it's like a lot of SHM a lot but
lamella from blah blah I'm saying your
name is Jody Swanson that's your name
now you're gonna go buy a regular
fucking name man I got some fancy shit
you know like like Finnish names are the
best for this is finnish name ah no it's
got three fucking letters that's a
fucking name names
I know a n oh you don't need a 20 letter
fucking mean asshole oh here's another
one my friend Ryan Hinds who's never
gonna watch this but he's a buddy of
mine on Instagram this one girl I put
down like this sort of like this joke on
Instagram and I was like you know people
with like if your name is really fancy
like my name is very difficult to
pronounce if you read it you're like how
the fuck you say that yeah people who
really get pedantic about it and like
make sure people pronounce their names
right or assholes like people try to
pronounce your name they're already
doing you more than the fucking service
that you deserve whose user dick and
this one girl gets on there and she's
like I make sure to sit down with
everyone then this pronounces my name
teach them how to say it right and Ryan
goes well you're a fucking cunt Oh
fucking he's a yeah he's a gay man so he
could get away with saying fuck all to
women and he just doesn't give a shit
slash mouch can't be intimidated so it
was like damn bitch you really you still
have friends after you do yeah you
haven't turned enough people off you
know gets me as people who have like
five names who their name is like five
separate names law
it's like maybe two one Alejandro Joseph
buh-buh-buh-buh anyone pick one done I'm
gonna call you Joe you know it means Joe
you're lucky and get a name get a fuckin
letter or number
shit got dark yeah
all right Andy hobby says he knocked
rose I've been a big fan of RP for a
long time I've been way to a nutrition
qualification Mac nutrition University
by Mark MacDonald who we met in
Australia and which I would recommend
it's very good my question is both to do
with nutrition well seeing our number
one Martin really downplays the
importance of calorie surplus for muscle
gain stated it can help to be at least
at maintenance earnest like surplus but
its wings out on the priorities for it's
top priority on our P diet what's the
rationale for every calories as a number
one priority for muscle gain um try
getting muscle on a fat loss diet you'll
quickly find out that it's nearly
impossible unless you've been training
for just a couple of months or some very
picture net occasions just a few years
so if you haven't mean that's already
your super good to go you know you can
gain plenty and maintenance but you
maximize gain in a slight surplus for
sure so if you want remember the RP
chart is for maximum gains you want
muscle we want you to gain muscle the
most and that way as a hyper caloric
diet as yes part two if you already lean
you max out or certain body we'd like
your lean 165 you're getting dick you
know fuckin deficit you're getting dick
in a fucking maintenance because you're
not just gonna go from being 10 percent
8 percent fat 165 and gain muscle to be
4 percent fat that's a nonsense it just
never happened you have to gain weight
the centrality of the caloric surplus at
some point in your evolution to get the
most muscle you can is critical I think
the reason about I don't know right dump
laser I think one of the reasons there's
none plays that he's training to be a
personal trainer type of nutritionist
most of the clients you ever there's so
much of goddamn body fat and they don't
have a fucking problem eating a lot
anyway that's their problem as they eat
too much anyway so if they come if a
woman comes to you just 45 years old
she's I want to gain muscle you can
actually put her on a diet that drops
her weight and gains muscle at the same
time your interest regard lady time to
start smashing huge m3k protein shakes
like my right she doesn't need that shit
but for someone in max
muscular potential of the already mean
and well-trained the caloric surplus is
a non-negotiable
most important factor yeah and I've been
Mike nailed it
but I think it's probably easy so you
the question was like what's the
rationale for choosing calories is the
most important thing I think a better
question is what's the rationale for not
choosing calories is the most important
thing and in that case it's because of
training age that's really what it boils
down to when you're working with
beginners and intermediates you can make
lots of gains at maintenance calories
sometimes you can even make them in a
deficit like Mike already said but once
you get to that late intermediate and
advanced stage especially if somebody is
really pushing their limits of their
body composition there's nothing as
powerful as calories and the rationale
is I mean hundreds if not potentially
thousands of papers and research that's
looked at this and just shown like if
you eat more you're gonna very likely
gain muscle even if it's not the right
balance of timing and type of foods and
macronutrients you're still probably
gonna gain muscle at some point right so
I think the rationale is more of kind of
the training age context of who you're
working with when it's beginners and
intermediates yeah you don't always have
to be in a calorie surplus but once you
move on to competitive sports and people
who have been training for you know ten
years or more there's no way around it
unfortunately yep number two he also
puts total daily protein as less
important than protein spacing ie space
stimulation of NPs by a protein bolus
seeding they having better spaced
protein feeding as a side effect of
higher total protein intake is what gets
the results not be highly day high
you're tired daily protein intake itself
to my mind it's impossible to get spaced
feedings protein big enough so they
don't pass without hitting your daily
total protein so it seems to be going
the wrong way around diversity if you
get your total daily protein in one go
you will get better results from someone
whose phases of protein feedings bolus
being large enough to stimulate MPs but
it's below their total daily requirement
what are your thoughts well this is
actually been directly researched
they've researched a number of different
feeding frequencies on mammal ISM and it
turns out that between gee roughly
between two and six meals a day and
precisely between four and six there's
no fucking difference but every time
they research the amount of total daily
protein they find that if you don't eat
enough you pay a very very big price so
I think by definition total daily
protein intake is more important
there is an exception to that which is
if you have a hundred and eighty grams
of total protein which is let's say an
optimal intake and you have a one meal
versus a hundred and sixty grams of
protein which you have it in for evenly
spaced meals of forty grams of protein
they're gonna go away more muscle in
that second tradition on the first
because you really fucked up the protein
timing a special protein timing is
relatively normal optimizing that timing
is not going to be worth as much of your
time yes if your protein intake is
relatively normal optimizing that will
give you much more muscle gain totally
said hopefully I've represented martin's
position as fairly here not trying to
start beef oh there we already happy for
Martin fuck that cat no JK he's great
he's alright anything he says it's music
to my ears because he has the most
ridiculous British accent ever and it's
just poetry and his positions out stuff
are very good and very rehab so as well
yeah he's you know if he's one of those
folks in the industry one of the few or
when he speaks we take everything he
says seriously if you don't agree with
it there's a bunch of people like that
you know of course I care accountants
Schoenfeld etc blah blah but like folks
like meadow you know meadow will say
some black you should every not again
but I've never heard meadow say anything
wacky that I wasn't like oh I'm gonna
give that East aside right where some
people like people with it they're like
what do you think about what athlean-x
em shut the fuck up shut up that's the
most the most Fanny name ever and might
as well put a Z in there too late for
extreme why is it extremely well I guess
it is that excused
remember the Australian guy that was it
was it was he was citing basically like
guys who were had big muscles as being
mostly inflammation yeah that guy was
amazing eighteen he's great the banana
guy bring on hey all right
metal Paul says he knocks a very curious
on the answer Sheena hackers question of
last mission to is I'm one of those
doing ten plus that's four quads
alone a light day at the tail end of a
mezzo coop so we gave that answer well
and then he said in regarding the
Instagram post with Cano DM any general
tips to sharpen up your quad training
well if you look at if you listen back
to
QS discussion you know god dammit the
answer is no I've never had the feeling
I couldn't walk after a leg session Oh
Jim you don't need that feeling to gain
size but if you never get there it also
begs the question what are you doing but
you should get there at some point and
then be like Oh something worked right
that was good but maybe you need to tone
it back for next time a little bit yeah
so let's see how can we get you to not
walk pull it push it to the max yeah
come closer to failure narrow your
stance and lower it on the like press
and I'm a hack squat and when you're
squatting near your stance stay very
upright get a full range of motion get
really close to failure and do sets in
the rep range you're not used to
specifically quads really seem to get
trashed in them 15 to 20 salmon leave me
again we've got you got you one more
time turns out we both know a lot of
same shit you know first set in the 15
to 20 range a lot of people will do a
lot of hates and they're like I know if
you're all fucked up people will do 15
to 20 reps and just have convulsions
like cause they can't help themselves
which it's all going awry so they do
those three things and I think you're on
you know output to your ear if you're
like Preston says Quan technique is
really good and really really puts a lot
of stretch on the quads for weight
remember if you're getting close to
failure if you're doing lots of sets I'm
not resting like hours between them or
something and you're getting crazy pumps
and if you're doing this with the rep
ranges that tend to have the best
results for quads at least a short term
if you say I'm not feeling it what else
should I do like Louie I got nothing for
you
you know I don't have to see ya I was
Michael ready to hit the point that I
wanted to hit on but I was gonna say use
those higher rep ranges a lot of people
just train quads like 6 to 8 reps and
they're like man and it's like wow yeah
you've just doing strength training at
that point for your quads or you might
want to just think about pumping it up
and using exercises that are conducive
to that range as well changing things up
like people give Michael out of shit for
using the Smith machine a lot but Smith
machine is a good way to actually make
sure that you're using your quads on the
squad and not just goofing it up with
your lower back or your glutes a lot
which is something that I would do so
sharpen up your technique individualize
your technique use those higher rep
ranges and also just make sure you're
not resting needlessly long that's one
thing that's helped
a lot too with my quad training I was
the most guilty of taking like there
like 10 minutes between sets doing sets
of eight four quads mostly just ended up
like getting a back workout a quad
workout so don't do that
[Music]
fucking fucking alright says hey hey nut
Jamie and Mikey the cutie doctors of the
big big muscle building build Oh God
okay so if we had on one of those what's
that called James with an airplane as
the gauge way to gauge for ela seldom
that shit just hit the fuckin red real
quick and then like we could read all of
your shit you write it like in South I
told I was up there it is I am an the
guy that dude definitely read in selling
selling sell digging up a hole here
that's it in Soho so how are you guys
doing over there in Duplin that's
actually is probably the seminars must
have been amazing I wish it could be
there you know massive we hope to meet
you in real life one day as well yeah
and thank you the seminars went really
well
Ireland yeah awesome place to visit
everyone's super nice super
accommodating so nice I'm so drunk at
night yeah first I want to say that I'm
just about to finish my last
overreaching week of my first ever
actual which I'm a cyclone a gaining
face because II templates here's not
what my eyes actually started to tear up
from the pain of doing seven sets of
light curls oof at one hour I are after
China by the leg work I fucking love it
I'm just a baby she's pretty crying
tears another no bollocks
I'm going to Bible it didn't make an
intro work out drink with it yeah James
videos of awesome we need to have Marcus
on here once a week oh sorry once that
once a month for sure I already talked
to him he said he's in so we could just
do like hey folks we're gonna answer
your real questions but then Marcus is
gonna come here and just make fun of you
oh my god that'd be amazing
that sounds great we're just we're just
giving you shit but that's on
that sounds very good and also been
having fun with picking the low-hanging
questions I named instagrams comments uh
uh
Basset no Bassam you're doing a goddamn
public service really a private service
for me and a service for the community I
will say so Bassam is on there like
answering the low-hanging but not even
the answers most of the questions really
really well as you know it's the
question that I answered like a thousand
times of Basson's like I got this the
reason my carcass is back in the squad
is it doesn't fucking matter chill the
hell out okay you guys I find it
actually really helpful for myself as I
find myself Lord leagues I explain
totally yeah so I've fun getting rid of
me
don't please stay for the love of God
don't go I guess Mike I will start
posting stuff on my insta so don't you
worry yeah I followed him on insta
Basavanna my mom has no post like again
in so often I can change or so I don't
post much either so I'm with you you're
up for that install ship - I know I know
if I could thing applies to everyone
right just found I'm going to
regurgitate sweet sweet science stuff
and probably do body positivity for all
the disordered athletes that needed
god-awful body negativity that's a movie
I have three questions one training
related one nutrition one general
question for Mike in so and then my
rebuttal Mike statements about my name
spicy Wow okay I like how these your
spicy turn jeans I know it catches on
quick yeah first question then the DS
after training my quads I've source
which meets we walk like a fucking
penguin where I have to lock out my
knees before my foot hits the ground
when I walk they knows however if I just
stick through the pain and try to walk
normally after a while this one's kind
of disappears I'm not sure if that's a
good thing it so it's a neural thing
your nerve nervous system gets used to a
base level of pain doesn't attacks
anymore I'm concerned the reduction of
tourists by walking as I trying to get
rid of your stillness by using the
muscle which in turn will potentially
blunt the soreness and MPs and that
muscle should I worry about the soreness
becoming mild or just by walking no is
actually a noun to no effect it's very
good probably increases your muscle
growth because it pushes blood through
that area new pieces recovery or shadow
just not care a move to Antarctica
routine you might think would life
that's always not a good idea
penguins are five animals now and this
is the the the reason why those
can can blunt the muscle effect because
it stops it downstream right it's the
problem is when it really starts to
blunt some of the inflammation from
occurring in the first place yeah right
and that's when you can really start to
see decreases in MPs but like Mike said
that's just an analgesic thing it's more
of just like a psychosomatic thing you
just don't notice it really anymore it's
not actually down regulating muscle
growth it's not actually removing maybe
an inflammation that's going on you
might be getting a light active recovery
just from moving around pumping blood
removing some wastes but I mean what's
the alternative also like you're just
not gonna walk you're gonna Professor X
your way around I don't think that's an
option that would be sweet though
yeah we're actors man second question
now that I'm approaching my dealing week
does the carb distribution throw number
five meals even matter at all anymore
since I'm on maintenance for a week no
nah I mistaken with the octave diet
recommendations and they've been serving
mile by mile t it's necessary to have
20% carbs p.m. 30% workout so it's more
work I was literally just a V and two
I'm maintaining what the fuck we'll be
extra if anytime you benefit do make me
maintain harder I just take Viagra if
that was the case yeah that's what's up
we're not saying don't take viagra I
think really just like just don't load
all of your carbs into one or two meals
I mean that would be the only thing
really but even then it's probably not a
big deal but they're the last question
for Mike one Jesus Christ just offensive
all right for some background I know for
an effort start about your view on Lucy
official and refractory period I feel
somewhat confused as I've heard
conflicting opinions slash series from
Jordan Feigenbaum if I understand
correctly he mentions that the refractor
curd is quite an important thing and
should be what your meal time he should
be based on since MPs could not be
triggered again and until the refractory
period is over and then injesting
protein within that period will only be
oxidized as fuel and it's not
contributing yes ladies agreement with
him to a point just research carried out
in various situations you also mentioned
the body of science data not the pornos
lot of science the Supreme Court isn't
clear enough to be carried out practice
which is what Jordan seems to be trying
to recommend seemingly yes I feel like
it was two-sided permission can be
confusing and can you eat yourself can
you see yourself having a discussion
with Jordan flying upon somebody else
matter sure that's fine I think it would
be testy Paul default a man to talk
tell Steve oh they're gonna be awesome
but we could all get closer to truth on
topic even if it's not that much totally
I totally agree with you
the sir remember the lucy special stuff
really falls apart with it's visible in
protein research in the laboratory they
give bonuses of exclusively amino acids
watch what happens
problem is imagine eat at Chipotle
burrito do you know how slowly that
protein leeches into your blood it's not
a spike it just goes like this
right and then you eat like eggs and
toast and oatmeal goes so as you eat
like four or five times a day your amino
acid levels on your bloodstream you're
almost static right people gain muscle
like that though so it can't be that big
of a deal and I don't know anyone that
just had bonuses of way and then doesn't
need anything all day but doesn't lose a
lot of muscle is just too few calories
Mike why do you why are you ducking
Jordan here you just want to hide behind
your Steve Hall shield of security
why don't you get Lyle McDonald to
mediate this discussion that would be
great be like Lyle I know we've had our
differences but can you host a debate in
which you're not participating yes
that's what we need to see get you and
Jordan with fly immediatey don't have
Steve Hall doing it he's just gonna be
on your side but I don't think either
Jordan we would for comedic purposes um
all right Jordan's I've met Jordan real
life he's a cool fucking cat he's he's
Jewish which is also has that a very
difficult name to deal with I can bow
like come on here by Jordan flying bomb
is too much all right
that's all I have for today now last I
need to address YouTube calling you out
I'm fuckin with you all when it comes to
my name's I see where you're coming my
name Jimmy pronounced and yes the
hillbilly pronunciation of my name is
correct yes you are also right but it's
an Arabic name but funny enough in
Arabic it's actually spelled
ba which means smiling that's pretty
sweet
what a happy hippie world the AI is
we're sure not existent but it's
pronounced with a smaller I in English
the emphasis and
therefore on the first half of my name
make sense it if it was not then my name
would be spelled I seem ah so that's
like how I would have read how I read
his Aseema scene that's what I would
have thought which it's not because
that's not even a word nor a head a name
in Arabic mother philippi you don't know
if that's not a name inheritor but you
know all of their make you know every
Arabic name shows you how much I know
about words and or Arabic I don't know
nothing about words also Mike don't
bring me that Russian crap lol I would
love to let you know that I'm in fact -
born in Moscow Russia and speak Russian
fluently and half my Russian version of
my name on my passport in Russian by
scene still ephesus still may know it's
not voodoo Visine ok now we're speaking
Russian we don't say Visine we say
Visine CN ruski my scene Jeff my
seamless America is my shit I think I
think you just got out Russia alpha on
the web no man we're gonna do a fucking
we're gonna do a fucking survey of
Russians we're gonna show them your name
spelled in Russia view a holic body say
this fucking time Maxime by team why
seem that much so anyway I hope you get
that dude dude this is like the ultimate
battle of like we have the Russian Jew
and the Russian Arab sweet in reality
we're both just Russian pieces Russia
really colors that one I'm like I'm a
Russian Jew he's like I'm rushing air
third persons like so you're Russian
yeah yeah yeah we're just all Russian we
have mob connections in conclusion I not
learned that I'm pedantic about the
pronunciation of my name in the end it's
still up to you to tell you whatever you
want oh well thank you guys for answer
my questions advance and taking your
time you're sincerely
basel right Bassam Bassam yes Bassam
like a bass like a fish that's what he
said last time man all right all right
bass another clarification I
he did clarify just forgot I just can't
remember bass but I seem to be led by
seeing I'm calling you by see him
because that's what goddamn Russian ear
and give sure what anyone says I'm
playing with you I'll call you whatever
you want all right all right now we go
is there anything live stream to live
stream know it that was my bad i we
talked about doing it on thursday like
you and I did and then I forgot to email
our web guy who would have sent the rp+
email so that was my good news bad news
James um we have to do three YouTube
questions for our promise so I those and
if you don't mind I'll can start now
cool yeah let's do it
I'm gonna pick these more or less at
random let me scroll around that'd be so
sweet the crew know says YouTube
question um which script do you think is
better Pfeiffer trophy number one in
which we divide the train muscle parts
equal to each day chest for set
shoulders for sets
hands for sets back for sets likes four
sets and so six times a week number two
in which we change muscle parts every
two days or two times greater number of
sets but giving her a rest day while
maintaining weekly volume one three five
chest
it sets hands eight cents likes eight
sets of okay so on and so forth thanks
that's a really good question
I think you want to avoid two things you
want to avoid dipping below a muscles
minimum effective falling so if you have
like one situation like one day of the
week in which you do eight sets and
another day we can would you be to this
is not really clearly what you're
getting out of those two and definitely
four and four or sarios ten total five
and five would work better right on the
other hand you want to stay away from
extensive volumes right if you do one
set one day in 1910 and ten would have
been better because
19 sets or is over what is maximally
adaptive so you definitely wanna on
average Steve within that middle ground
um because the frequencies the same here
right so you want to stay in that middle
ground of volume but I think James and I
have numerous times described the case
for some degree of positivity he
actually in this very earlier in this
very podcast or whatever webinar or
conference is called so early in this
webinar we described the case where
basically you know like triceps your
train
super hard one day easier another day
super harder another day and that might
attend to some of the different fiber
types and the fractures of fiber type so
I think then the my guess as to what
would be the very optimal if I had to
guess and this is very much a guess is
something like five cents three cents
five cents three cents five cents three
sets would work a little bit better than
forceps forceps forceps forceps and a
lot better than like eight sets two sets
eight that's two cents eight those two
so string like that James yeah that's a
very good explanation I also think it's
it's also good to not arbitrarily set
like just days for recovery time lines
because each muscle is gonna be kind of
events part of the other question was
like should you just wait air
accountants is huge on this yeah so
other as much as you need cover as much
as you need and so you can you can kind
of pre plan it based on your experience
where you know like okay I know my delts
I can train five times per week so that
means like I might only need one or two
rest days for delts and I'm almost I'm
training delts basically every time I
train whereas other ones you might
pre-plan like one or two times per week
like hamstrings and then many others you
know air comes is basically advocated
for an auto regulatory basis where you
say like once I feel like I'm ready to
do an over loading session again I just
do and I don't necessarily have to
pre-plan it I can just Auto regulate it
so that's another pitfall that you can
fall into so I think between those two
without that one yep alright so next
question is HM HM hmm says should volume
from compound lives contribute towards
both primary and secondary movers
example the rainy domestic will
beginning at MeV and ending slightly at
mr v you're overloading each microcycle
by adding sets the amount of sets added
each
your cycle is calculated for each muscle
by the following and of no cycles let's
go for muscle a km RV all extra -
starting number of sets of the first
micro cycle divided by the number of
microsurgery this oval looks like that's
an approximate value as that tells you
roughly how many sets you can expect to
add at every micro cycle but the details
of that are auto regulated every single
micro cycle sometimes you may add zero
sense sometimes you may take a mini D
load sometimes we had three sets where
you plan it - so remember it's not that
formulaic but that formula does give you
the rough slope which you would expect
and I mean it's fair to say that you can
you can consider any compound movement
that whatever it is like a benchpress
like is that volume of benchpress
contributing to not only chest but maybe
your anterior deltoids and your triceps
yes how you calculate that is really on
an individual basis because you could
just not calculate it at all and all to
regulate those muscle groups anyway and
you're good to go if you always have a
pressing movement whether it's an
incline or a flat press or whatever ends
up being a wash over time no matter how
you split it some people are big on
using the fractional z' like they will
say okay this counts is like a 1/3 of a
tricep set either way so that yet the
point is like is whatever you do as long
as you do it consistently and your
training doesn't change super
drastically over time in that like
you're not doing heavy compounds for
certain muscle groups at all when you
normally would it's a wash you can do it
either way and yeah it's just an auto
regulation auto regulation issue at that
point you actually think you answer this
question but let me let me finish the
question here for simplicity sake we'll
use one look for muscle group backward
when cable rope biceps movement curl
let's see here do to increase your back
of only by 5 cents per micro cycle in
your duty increase your bicep slowing by
3 cents per micro cycle again that's
very very rough estimates if we allow
for the cable volume to contribute
towards our biceps training as well as
our back it would no doubt which is no
doubt to those in the real world we
would very quickly find that the rate of
backbone increase would cause the biceps
training volume is a side effect devices
being secondary moves in a row now paste
the schedule rate of volume progression
for the biceps so because we've added
sense for key boroughs to meet the
schedule volume increases for our back
can I belong to maintain and reduce
that's a
so that's a good thought but you've
automatic you in that analysis your
calculation is automatically wrong
because in the previous mesocycle you
didn't account for the back volume
affecting your bicep volume so it's a
you're automatically making an incorrect
assumption there it's a good thought but
you're using right now and then not it's
apples to oranges stand alone of RVs
versus integrated I'm RVs for full-body
we may have to maintain and reduce
that's through compared to last week if
you want to stay with it was eyeballing
the incremental increase for biceps so
there's two problems one we didn't come
for the back of all you need to graded
into the totem our beam problem number
two is where is really really showing
why the auto regulated method is fifty
times better if them going up by a
certain plan so basically the question
you have to ask is am i getting enough
flat stimulation and back stimulation if
no ad sets for back then you say okay
how are my biceps doing what's the
stimulus to fatigue ratio there if I
need more stimulus I do more curls if if
I get a lot of stimulus from these rows
maybe I haven't need to add as many
curls I thought I might have to right so
it's just individual muscle by muscle
use compound movements to do most of
your volume and then you titrate in the
isolations a little bit more pullovers
for just lats a little bit more curls
for just biceps to feel in the specific
muscle needs and always do it
consistently however you do it that's
condensing here so if you count
fractional z' from back into your biceps
always do it that way so the problem
that you described in this this
situation is where you were not counting
them
you made an MRV mev estimate for a
muscle group and then you started
counting them as fractional than the
next one and then you ran into a problem
where one progression interfered with
another that should not happen if you
are using the same method across
mesocycles yep yep all right last one
chris Bickley says I love these webinars
thanks for all the content you provided
RP I work at a garden center at the
garden center at a garden center
I thought garden center was like a like
a like a huge like was that called like
some kind of like Madison Square Garden
or like how they speak in Europe were
they like I workout gardens
what the fuck is that four days a week
and was wondering how working manual
labor job affects the amount of honest I
should tens today I can do they're busy
and quiet times but even in the quiet
times I'm on my feet and we're around H
to get at least twelve thousand steps a
day when the quiet periods up to twenty
thousand in the spring oh it's nice
Christmas when the plants are blooming I
feel like I have everything taken care
of
outside of work sleep good nutrition of
stress so I'm training does my job
affect the volume intensity I can do yes
yes well I have to take into account
that my job needs a recovery time
therefore not going to high volume or
intensity yes through Auto regulation if
you're good to go you're good to go if
you're tired then you need to auto right
too late for that and realize that you
can't do any advice on how to combine
training with manual a bur job would be
appreciated as I do not see much advice
on the subject so couple of quick
recommendations and I'm sure on this a
bunch so James will fill it in one is do
your hardest training when you have more
we are the most fresh so like don't do
legs on Friday night when you're fucked
up from a week of work lake do them
Sunday morning right and then do upper
body the rest of the week and then do
legs again like Tuesday morning all
right Sunday morning Tuesday morning and
then it's totally good because then you
know you're you're basically like you
know just very very you don't have to
suffer the week's worth of fatigue you
can do it the best times and another
really good point here is do your really
heavy super difficult work on Sunday
morning and then your lighter higher up
stuff on Tuesday and that way what is
happening is you your work really just
doesn't impact your legs at all because
we walk around till thousand steps
that's it's gonna hit your legs if your
upper body is gonna be very competently
easy to Train and then he says PS I
train on the three days off from work
not up to training after a hard day of
work too much so you already got the
number one thing and if you do train
after work just take it you know take
some times and caffeine really get your
shit together and go don't just fall out
of work and into training well Jean yeah
that was really good I would say you
know if you really have lofty physique
goals you might want to get that up from
three days maybe up to four
maybe more if that's not conducive to
your schedule that's totally
understandable what I would say is try
to see if you can train your upper body
on work days if you can I know legs is
probably gonna be out of the question if
you're already saying you're too tired
and then doing like it Mike said like
maybe Sunday morning when you're more
fresh another thing to keep in mind is
that you might have to choose less
axially loading exercises just to keep a
nice stimulus because you might find
that just being on your feet all day and
if you're working at a garden center I'm
gonna assume that means you're loading
bags of soil plants bricks like
wheelbarrowing things back at our bodies
right we it's so one of the things
that's gonna catch up with you but
before you realize it is the axial
loading and the systemic fatigue that
comes with that so you might find
yourself relying less and less and less
on things like squatting and dead
lifting and more and more and more on
things like leg pressing or even just
doing like knee extensions 45-degree
back raises stuff like that things that
aren't putting a huge axial load
throughout your system and you can you
could apply that to your upper body
stuff as well so that would be an easy
one to watch out for it might also be
good like if your another reason why
it's you might have a good incentive to
actually train on your work days I know
this sounds asked backwards
yom-yom is so that you could actually
have rest days when the weekend comes if
you have very distinct rest days because
if you're just training on the days like
Friday Saturday Sunday that means like
you're doing physical labor all through
the week on when you're working and
you're doing physical labor on the
weekends when you're working out and you
really don't have a true day where you
get to kind of rest now your body will
acclimatize to your daily workloads so
it's not a huge deal but it might
actually be in your benefit to have some
training days that are on your work days
and then having some very very distinct
no activity type days to recover a
little bit better and then one last
thing that just kind of came into my
mind you said that there are clear
seasonal trends in your job which is
actually kind of awesome because then
you can period eyes you're training to
accommodate those trends so you have
much much harder periods of training
like you're really really hard
hypertrophy training when you're job
stress is generally low and then like in
the spring in the summer time when
people are wanting to be outdoors and
enjoying their gardens and coming to the
garden center you might just do more
like maintenance style training just
kind of keeping the gains that you have
made and not going super super hard in
the gym that way it's not crushing you
all the time that would be something
that I would entertain absolutely and
something that you would you would do
with other kind of people who have
seasonal trends like firefighters for
example police officers same idea Lex
there are times throughout the year when
their activity goes up and down with
this change of seasons so too would your
training potentially and make it easier
on the harder times and vice versa
damn James beat that one to death oh
cool I mean that's aughh those are fun
those are kind of fun lifestyle
questions because then it's like you
know it's it's more of a problem you
have to kind of problem-solve like it's
not a matter of like optimality it's
like okay you have some shit conditions
like how do you can manage it you need
to give question James to sort of wrap
this up if you had to eat a piece of
shit the size of your fingertip
how would you you can mix it with any
amount of food they just reasonable like
us a bold sized food like you can't
spread it over 20 I was gonna say can
you like wrap it up in a pizza and like
maybe you would wrap it up in like a
slice or two dude you got it you gotta
just you know what it's like the most
powerful taste in the world is lucozade
you put that shit you put up that turd
in a little Lucas a your landed up here
a peeing Gatorade it's the most glycemic
thing ever you won't even notice that
that turn is in there all you're gonna
taste is that sweet Lucas a it
you're gonna chug that shit down it's
gonna be amazing yeah I would do some
kind of really strong drink and just do
basically like a big shot of the shit
and the drink and then do it actually no
I'm G ting um if I get a chance to wait
for the shit to dry out or even if it
doesn't dry out
I would desiccate it no you can't die
find a center I find a cetera I would
break the piece of poop like if it's the
size of your pinkie I will break it up
into four peel size things like mash it
together and just fucking pill drop it
dude I can fuck it yeah you could do
like a little dumpling right easy dude
that's gross I'm eating shit tomorrow
I'm a transplant yeah alright that's it
for this we should be background I think
the normal schedule I'm around next week
are you around yeah okay so we should be
back on the normal schedule sorry for
being a little bit off this week that'll
be Tuesdays at 7:30 eastern US time for
three
California us time please keep sending
in your questions these were some really
good thought-provoking questions this
week we really appreciate you guys and
hope you enjoy seeing us on YouTube yeah
hey quick real quick James Frey let you
go do you want to hang out this weekend
I'm in California
are you really yep I'm shooting videos
with Chad Wesley Smith a new hunter
trophy shit and I'll be in the Orange
County area all day Saturday and maybe
Saturday evening leo yeah that sounds
good Mel's gonna be gone but we can hang
out for sure time to get wild like fast
forward you're just bothering to get a
gutter and Chad and I are standing
around like vomiting like while justice
league is playing in the background like
man James went hard tonight alright
alright see all of you guys later peace