okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting this week we're gonna be
looking at the idea that you should
design your diet and your training
program based on your body type often
referred to as your somatic ight but
before we dig into all that now let's
first have a quick look at where all of
this actually came from so in 1940 an
American psychologist William Sheldon
published a book called the varieties of
human physique outlining his idea that
individuals could be categorized
according to three main somatic types
the ectomorph implying thinness
endomorph implying fatness and mesomorph
implying muscularity the Sheldon
examined 4,000 photographs of students
from the University of Chicago and
classified them on a scale of one to
seven for each of the body types now at
the time these measurements had nothing
to do with diet or training instead
Sheldon wanted to find an association
between each body type and personality
intelligence and even so-called moral
worth and future achievement and his
work has since been discredited by the
scientific community at large and I
think it's worth mentioning that in
retrospect it seems that many of his
ideas were likely influenced by the
growing pseudoscience of eugenics at the
time but anyway somehow classifying body
types according to Sheldon's somatic
types remains popular today and it's
very common in fitness circles to see
people refer to themselves as an
ectomorph if they struggle gaining
weight or building muscle and as an
indole morph if they struggle losing fat
or have more of a heavier set build now
some data out of Russia has showed that
somatic typing can actually be useful
for predicting athletic success in a
specific sport for example they note
that since basketball relies on jumping
abilities mesomorphic individuals might
be better suited for basketball but
still I can't help but call into
question the practical application of
this knowledge for us as people
interested in building muscle or losing
fat that seems pretty obvious to me that
athletes with different limb lengths and
body measurements will be better suited
for different sports but that just
doesn't seem relevant to how sometta
types are commonly used in fitness
circles another issue I have with
somatic typing is that it tends to put
people in a box implying that they can't
change their body type over time
which simply isn't true as Shuzhen Pro
natural bodybuilder Alberto Nunez as an
example seeing him at his most bulked
weight of 250 pounds
you probably think he's a pure endomorph
but looking at him on stage or close to
stage time you'd probably think he's
more of a maze or more for ectomorph
especially considering that he tends to
diet on very high carbohydrate intakes
I'm tying all this together I would say
that I haven't found any convincing
evidence that your classification into
one of these three somatic types should
influence the way you train or diet the
best way to build muscle is through
progressive overload just adding more
mechanical tension to the muscle over
time and this is true whether you're a
pure endomorph or a pure ectomorph and
the best way to lose fat is to put
yourself in a caloric deficit and eat
sufficient protein and this is also true
regardless of your body type but before
I write this idea off as completely
busted I'd like to share a little bit of
nuance based on some other research less
to do with somatic types and more to do
with genetics because clearly there are
some people who can build muscles so
much more easily than others and by the
same token there's some people who can
lose fat much more easily than others
and in fact in one 2005 study when 585
untrained subjects were put on the exact
same arm training program for 12 weeks
the researchers found enormous variation
in biceps muscle growth where the worst
responder actually lost about 5% and the
best responder gained about 55% of
muscle cross-sectional area in the
biceps and by the same token there are
clearly some people who have a much
easier time getting lean and staying
lean than others this most likely has to
do with how hunger is regulated in the
brain and this is due to genetic
differences and hormones like leptin and
while resting metabolic rate differences
between individuals of the same body
weight or not nearly as different as we
once thought
there are huge individual differences in
levels of meat or non-exercise activity
thermogenesis so stuff like fidgeting
tapping your feet or bobbing your head
to music and in fact one study from
Levine and colleagues showed that when
subjects were overfed by 1000 calories
per day for eight weeks changes in fat
gain ranged from 0.3 kilograms so about
0.8 pounds
to 4.2 kilograms just about nine pounds
and changes a neat range from negative
98 calories per day so subjects actually
moved around less to positive 692
calories per day meaning some of the
subjects nearly entirely offset the
1,000 extra calories consumed by simply
subconsciously moving around more during
the day so I think that these
differences in combination with genetic
differences in bone structure can in
large part explain why some people look
like endomorphs and some people look
more like mezzo or ectomorphs and
because of these largely genetically
determined factors some people may do
better on higher volume training
routines and some people may do better
with higher reps or lower reps and
similarly some folks will just have to
diet on lower calories than others and
some people may do better on lower carb
diets and others for similar reasons but
still I think classifying people into
one of three somatic types generally
isn't useful since first it implies that
body types can't change over time which
is false and secondly these
classifications don't tell us how we
should train or how we should eat and as
of now while high quality genetic
testing is still in its infancy I think
the best way to design your training
program is by borrowing from exercise
science and doing your own self
experimentation and the same thing goes
for diet just how many calories you need
to eat and why macronutrient ratio will
be best for your body is something that
you have to figure out over time so to
wrap this one up I would say that the
idea that you should train and diet
according to your body type
it is busted sometta typing has a
history rich in pseudoscience and while
body measurements certainly can be
useful for tracking progress and
establishing a starting place your
specific somatic type isn't going to
provide much useful information when it
comes to designing an actual plan to get
you there so that's it for this one guys
before we go I want to give a huge thank
you to hims for sponsoring this
myth-busting do hims as a science-based
brand offering men medical grade
solutions for hair loss
edie and most recently skin care and
hims is great for this stuff because you
can get quality medical grade
recommendations from actual licensed
doctors and have both prescription and
on prescription products and right to
your door without having to leave your
house so hims is offering you guys a
virtual visit with a licensed doctor in
a month trial of the complete hair kit
for just five bucks so if you go to for
hims com forward slash Nippert or click
the first link in the description box
below you can get started with your
first complete hair kit today and for
the record all interactions are kept
confidential
so your information is always kept
private so thanks again to hims for
sponsoring the video I really appreciate
it and make sure you guys check out that
link in the description if you are
interested and thank you guys so much
for watching please leave me a like if
you enjoyed the video or if you learned
something I don't forget to subscribe if
you haven't already and I'll see you
guys all here next Monday