what's up everyone is Tuesday May the
16th is actually our last day in Egypt
we're going to be doing a workout today
with my friend for media if you remember
him from the first video Islam I just
had a meeting with the hotel staff here
and they're going to give a special
permission to film in the time just as I
had to go for my meeting of breakfast
later closing so Stephanie went and
grabbed it like everything everything
this is my mushroom omelette and I've
got some cards here and in the view of
the Nile of life this is our favorite
place to connect a grill and then I had
them bring fresh coffee and they do this
let's do the coffee and I press and it's
delicious Cheers taking the carbs with
us
[Music]
this is the mobile Thursday ok that
takes it very slowly look at this
oh man it's fantastic so nice if I must
have a pretty big following here because
like both Steph and I both had our
snapchat completely blown up with
nothing welcome to Egypt and we were
like we felt very warmly welcomed it's
been amazing to have Jeff actually here
in Cairo and Stephanie I hope you guys
have some fun
yeah man we've absolutely loved it for
real so we're going to get some free
workout you know we could sit on it
while we were in the Kuna
so before we train we're going to do a
quick Q&A for islam's channel I'll put
the link to the video in the description
go check it out the introduction is
going to be in Arabic but don't worry
guys
everything's going to be in English
because you know how fluent Jessa's yeah
Arabic but you jump should you should
ask the question in Arabic and I should
try to guess what the question is not in
English completely computer and award in
there like yes cuz you will go to
another media
rookies remember alright so yeah go
Chuck go over and check out the video on
Islam channel it's gonna be really good
I'm gonna need to high volume and one
prolific this is our maid she gets the
free workout ready deputy has drugs with
you men love this what are you doing ah
okay so for like the 10% of what matters
this is your 10 percent yeah 11 percent
plus flavors are we mixing here one
scoop mango splash prolific in two
scoops paradise cooler have I put more
water I think that's fine actually I
don't I don't want to be urinating the
whole time have you tried have you tried
this before these product yeah you know
we have this thing here you do know you
haven't tried these yeah ah I'm about to
take your natty virginity move in all
seriousness it's a caffeine based
pre-workout and then the other one is
citrulline and nitrates and also has a
guillotine so it's like a really good oh
my gosh we go I wanna I want the first
reaction to candy signs pre-workout I
don't want them to be like what are you
doing to them this is actually a torture
scene disclaimer guys discover I'm just
going to speak to a lot of people here
and what they're known it about fewer
concepts that Stephanie made me under
Jess guidance yeah just wrong to your
work you can work out your cast look all
right yeah you're gonna spit it out at
the camera it smells amazing so yeah
it's aromatherapy actually it is we like
about flowers
it's really really good ah really good
I'm in a 700 minute
this is going to be addicted to this
stuff we have it here alright so we just
finished filming the video for as long
channeled my back things up so I'm
getting my agent and hopefully 200 what
would you call this technique this is a
very special technique you took a lot of
training
what's when I'm bulking it works better
I brought him that was exhausting that
you grilling me with these questions
whatever okay yes this is all right the
guys are here with Islam we're going to
be doing a push workout today guys and
we're going to start with a horizontal
prep so for that we're going to do
dumbbell presses and we're going to get
into a vertical press the shoulder so
we'll talk about that after so I'm still
feels like oh yeah
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
that's good Samanta please says one of
these you pop your elbows pretty place
the clipboard out for a bit malaria to
go out that's good Alex at you can
assess a little bit safer trap and then
you still get that direction of pulling
lines the five-week up program you sent
Ric Flair yeah
are you already straight but I want to
go like parking lot earlier watch eight
to ten I feel like maybe we be like yeah
and you're us are okay go
go
[Music]
from
Oh
Oh
[Music]
could be
what we're doing we're taking our first
two pets to an RPM nine we're leaving
golden wrap in the tanks and our blast
that we're going to go to failure so
we're eating for eight to ten reps but
on that last separation to go all of
whatever we've got the idea to straight
sets we've got the same weight across
all three so what you need to be for a
period don't think that if I'm moving
really heavy weight I was sick like I'm
I don't rush through especially if I'm
doing a bar bench press or something I
read like three minutes maybe four for
the last one yep if I said I'm going to
I just rate that I don't like doing
Crimmins I don't know this is
comfortable everything about us not
exactly I would say three to five
minutes for heavier stuff and then the
lighter pump stuff I would think you
only want a few minutes done with them
you just want to feel generally
recovered but yeah it is but you know
try you so that like extra bit of volume
another swelling or whatever it is if
you're gonna get a better pump in you're
going to drive you out ahead of all the
response with shorter recipes anyway
it's a little bit bro science ebook it
can help if nothing else give you a
little bit of a better problem with you
google faster you don't want to get in
tune by that that you actually you're
not able to hit hydrate the rest of your
work yeah so there is a sweet spot
depending on
suddenly intensity that they work with
yet it's not magic number but it's when
I feel like yeah I can do I'm ready to
dead three point five is actually a
magic number
let's go go yeah yeah yeah but you got
morning Bush good I just like crank up
an ops like a famous for right right
right let's push push good good work
good job first second exercise we're
going to do a vertical press this we're
doing standing on oppressed you start
with your palm facing and intro throwing
motion there's a concentric you turn
your palm facing outward and I find it
to be a really good lift pump exercise
for the Delta really or hold L Pyrus rep
Contreras I think of would did it a
study where compared standing dumbbell
presses to seated dumbbell presses and
barbell variations and he found the
standing dumbbell crest activational
site built for developing sort with over
cats this is probably really good
exercise on your three sets of twelve to
fifteen reps and I really do normally be
like a overhead press to the barbell or
something like that but when I draw
myself carriages and I do
it could be a little bit more taxing on
my lower back stuff this is a good
alternative you can use lower load
lighter weight because a little bit more
difficulty why are you yeah world record
success renew people I don't raises
gauging with the cables is you have a
more consistent resistance curve to the
dumbbells you have no tension on the
side delt at the bottom with the cables
you have some tension indicating point
in this direction over time through the
whole range of motion so the dumbbells
with concentric gear and the tension
drops off as you come down in practice I
like to kind of switch it up but I was
also going to say we're training at the
willow stream spot at Fairmont knob city
in Cairo Egypt this is probably honestly
the best hotel team I've ever seen in
terms of equipment they have a quantum
machine that dumbbells that go very
heavy you have this beautiful view of
the Nile River yeah it's a really really
beautiful spot so so if you do happen to
find yourself in Cairo Egypt strongly
recommend this hotel not just for like
the food and service but the gym is
really really good as well we know it's
got another crazy one
[Music]
all behind yes yes fool people they go
all the way Brian yeah could you're
leaving the way to which is
[Music]
they feel like yeah thankfully right
yeah a bit less emotion sponsor II want
you to watch the front for him 91 says
this behind just no appeal of a net sale
yet anyway we gotta stop this is more
comfortable than do that it's way better
this is great this credit this is a
crazy crazy addictions hot after thigh
workout so what the titles referring to
[Music]
yeah I think info that I think you're
going to have you yeah real good
if our next exercise we're gonna do
another chat movement you need to
working testing walnuts Exodus any
here's work in higher rep range in form
or twice more isolation unit here
actually can go palms facing down
support from a trip
do you like me hand outer I feel the
difference the first time I do that I
was like I really haven't read it more
yeah you just folded under big a little
change
yes I
you want to get like a full stretch you
take a step forward and strong to create
your back foot because it's a way too
heavy it awfully kind of rock you back
you want to really be pleased it's there
and I like to set them up with a
completely horizontal so I'm not how to
climb up your that you could have been
working a little bit up to them with
this in shoulder to leverage better
level
[Music]
a package was initiated in the end work
let's go forward
also people go through multiple so you
can see what happens when you get super
super specs on your prices you feel more
specially when you leave for some cheap
and just trap right down you get a super
super pump contraceptive the airplanes
in all seriousness oh this is actually I
have no idea how people do this a lot my
dad showed me the next time not like
fifty because one of the first exercise
I ever did for triceps and I do like it
helpful if you have to like stand on
your toes because it'll it'll drop you
up but to me it it points in order to
like to a press down like your shoulders
are quite extended but in this they're
actually been hyper extended so I do
think it's really good for developing
the short it is a bit of pest involved
well yeah it's almost like it's like a
machine you get your Delta so red is
like playing Super Duty to go in there
you kind of like 51st don't know me or
don't
I said let's go deaf let's go man maybe
if you want to do one exercise that hang
at least one exercise where the
shoulders extended so I can press down
like the Egyptian suck them and you also
want to be one exercise where the
shoulder is not flexible excuse me in
the overhead maybe I use forehead is
more active down here long head is
racked up here to do a combination you
hit both with the more left I also
didn't want to give the impression in
that video we're just generally bad only
the short head is active over here in
only one they're both after these all
types of exercises it's just that one
head or the other is more and less
active just like degrees of activity
it's not an arm overhead and thing we're
doing through set to close 60s
that's going to conclude this push
workout want to pay thank you is long
for taking you through the crazy
injection where they utter web we must
rig it and really improve in serving
sure here they get up we live in price
competition food and it's a very
well-known place and we're going to I
know just some horses food good it yeah
don't forget opponent at the all and i
without yeah definitely so what do you
think of the differences judge and
you'll get it all in your block of court
report you look longer time tactical
guys don't forget to check out the moms
versus the same set now we get down to
this cookies can be great if you get the
food for real nothing feels really hot
today this food smells absolutely
delicious
so I'm taking us to like an authentic a
different place definitely eating
outside the hotel we're here this grill
would be able to tell you what it's
probably what does it help
Oh L prison only
on Brandon is really offensive to notice
tonight
what is it close on the canoe and
eggplant with special spices this one
golden ticket setting up the window here
that my first cruise has a real
authentic addiction to I just kind of
okay you could be stuck beside yeah
it's really nice that's oh yeah I love
this one more to be honest but this is
what I wrote on the back you read and
they just do it in a certain way just
with it if you guys rifles away
we have in here kind of Sylvie with your
hands it's gold cao cao lu she hello
hello oh hello
and then she yeah how long yeah got it
ah it's ultra hot it's super hot babe
yeah you can wait on takeaway thinking
we're going to burn you it's gonna burn
your waist really high that with our
shallows hungry Mel I taste that chef
Nippert they think how's Kennedy gonna
look so good what it'd be very fatty yes
it is I took the color all extremely
happy but it's done please oh wow you
guys have lots of stuff coming soon
let's read try next Azam sis I want to
say this excited to eat it with the
spoon or with bread oh I think I'd
rather with bread
it's delayed I can taste it oh wow
[Music]
Wow yeah just finished up earring with a
loss and safe and Stephanie my whole
rating and review of all the Egyptian
food is on is once a house off with the
link to that in the description like I
said I'll just say it's really good my
stomach and I you to it so yeah you guys
it is packed here three holy holy cow
there's a lot of people at the airport
yeah yeah yeah
look two swords a 2d hey ah thank you
smells like catch me the airport
terminal 2 on our way to
[Applause]
French right everybody thank you
we checked in online because my chef
okay okay thank you sir customs in Egypt
easier in customers into America this is
American customs of the worst food in
Egypt just getting a diet soda stuff is
going to do a video on this write it
into a video on - remain absolutely
there Nicholas I might actually touched
on the sign complaint video so first
time flying your friends one of everyone
it's Wednesday May 217 and we just made
it to Paris France six o'clock one
morning we arrived at like five it's not
like 6:15 is actually kind of tricky to
get out of here so we're searching for
okay looking for a train that will get
us in Paris the risk we're going to go
for your Quick Pick of the Eiffel Tower
maybe grab some coffee or some breakfast
or something and then make it back to
the airport to make our flights to
Atlanta just like a 10-hour flight so
fun of travel properties two days maybe
a little bit of Paris it's pretty
exciting because we miss Rome we had to
sort of a stopover but we have like ten
hours here in Paris so enough time to
actually get to see some stuff
[Applause]
[Music]
what is happening I play a slot machine
[Music]
we're at the airport and then we get off
338 minutes
Wow Wow look at that
uber ride we finally made it we have
made it to the Eiffel Tower
that was a interesting excursion so I
had to get off the train because I got
so motion stick we kind of got off at a
random place I need to look for some
like anti-nausea medicine I grew up in
the bathroom of the Starbucks in Paris I
started feeling a lot better so yeah
just threw up at some tea and now I feel
like I'm good to go so just pop it in
uber and now here we are super quick
selfies at power and now we're coming to
this place so I got a coffee this is
actually vegetable soup I'm a huge soup
guy
Stephanie got a salad it's just like
kind of like a puree of vegetable broth
it was me and that I could give this a
light to decent 400 I was writing in a
while that's why I'm not eating it
this is my omelette expecting I have to
help you with a song flatly sick french
fries didn't realize that these came
with that but husband's Christ
French French part
there's very protocol you can put all
the common threads of all the types of
french fries and it's like put it into
like a generic french fries it would
beat this came right here the most basic
french fries it means latte you know the
skinny vanilla lattes skinny mocha good
you know a lot better what do you think
though yeah very good
you just finished out with breakfast and
now we're on our way to grab a quick bit
of food at the grocery store we have a
really long flight a 10-hour flight so
we want to grab some snack make sure
we're not hungry
and I don't want to rely on airport food
because I think that's the second time
it's made me stick on this trip no more
Egyptian food for jump all right you're
gonna casually strolling looking for
we're all surrounding areas very
beautiful in the park and everywhere
right you know moussaka your name ADATA
boomba
we're in a rush scuse me thank you I can
see what you found this two morons
firing in the pyramid you like looking
at thank you this is an American version
go to Egypt something is sad
that's that bird happy you don't even
care like come at me I'll roll over I
was thinking like some fruit or
something there's pretty dope he's got a
banana oh and some peanuts covered in a
chip coating stuff you got some rice
cake rice and some value values Oh taken
Ollie's
and run at time Cooper's on the way I
pay you a 24 pack of 12 I have a cab
waiting
okay so we were a little rushed getting
the Frenchman's at the other place
obviously our River ahead come so on
this place in the airport which I look
funny spot we've been more fancy onyx
with a lot yeah this looks this looks
awesome
we're going to get a hat yes does exist
our last bite got a 10-hour flight from
France seconds right to the left
Superbike school
[Music]
don't let me teach you so yeah this is
very good okay actually honey P is your
jet ball go man go kill it kill it
you want me to take some text to see it
look like