enough protein enough calories now on to
the training the first thing I'm curious
about that doesn't mean it has the
biggest magnitude of effect but it
should be what you address first in your
program is what is your Technique like
because people will say oh I'm like my
chest won't grow and I'll watch him
bench press and do flies and I'm like
fucking Christ and they're like what I'm
like yeah on paper you're training a
chest but in reality like you're
training mostly triceps and front delts
cuz you're like you're benching like
this the fuck is going on like arch your
godamn back get your elbows back really
stretch the PEC so on and so forth
really really good technique control the
weight at all times especially slowly on
the Centric get a deep stretch for every
lift that it's possible to get a deep
stretch with and make sure most reps
look very similar if someone plays an
Instagram video of you lifting it better
shit look like fucking replay except
it's just 15 reps and then you stop and
walk off and they're holy fuck I thought
that was just one rep on replay that's
what you want consistency with excellent
Technique we have tons of videos on that