welcome to the house of hypertrophy its
estimated creatine sales exceed over
$400 million per year and that Americans
consume over 4 million kg of the
supplement per year but how effective is
creatine for building muscle and
strength today we're going to dissect
the most upto-date literature on the
topic and we'll also touch on some other
popular topics surrounding creatine
let's dive
[Music]
in the Discover of creatine is credited
to this person in 1832 who extracted the
compounds from meat however it wasn't
until the 199s where following the
Barcelona Olympics in 1992 some British
athletes admitted to using creatine
after winning gold in the following
Olympics in Atlanta in 1996 it was
estimated 80% of athletes were using
creatine this origin story may explain
why some wonder if creatine is an
anabolic steroid but rest assured
creatine is most definitely not an
anabolic steroid you still get to keep
your naty card with creatine consumption
it also appears that in 1993 a company
under the name of EAS was the first to
produce commercially available creatine
under the name phosphagen since the '90s
over 500 peer-reviewed scientific
Studies have examined creatine before
examining creatine's impact on muscle
growth and strength let's quickly
mention some crazing facts and its
effects on the body the majority of
creatine in the body is found in muscles
the total creatine pool in muscle
averages 120 mm per kilg for a 70 kg
individual your body urinates about 1 to
2% of intramuscular creatine per day so
around 1 to3 G of creatine is needed to
maintain creatine stores some of this
comes from the liver and kidney
synthesizing it while for omnivores
various animal Foods further provide a
source of creatine vegetarians and
vegans w won't obtain this and so
actually tend to have lower creatine
stores within their muscles this raises
an interesting question do vegetarians
and vegan see greater benefits from
creatine this will be addressed later
the upper limit of intramuscular
creatine seems to be around 160 m per
kogam in most individuals so
supplementing with creatine can help you
reach these levels attaining these
levels likely enhances your performance
during intense activity why muscle
fibers generate energy for various
processes including contraction via
breaking down a molecule called ATP into
ADP creatine has the ability to donate a
phosphate group to ADP turning it back
into ATP thereby enabling it to generate
energy again ATP stores are rapidly
depleted during intense muscular effort
so increasing intramuscular creatine via
creating supplementation enables you to
replenish ATP stores faster enhancing
performance
creatine has been documented to enhance
muscle hypertrophy and will'll uncover
how much shortly but most believe
creatine enhances hypertrophy because of
creatine's ability to increase Exercise
capacity by way of replenishing ATP but
I'm skeptical that this explains the
entirety of creatine's muscle building
benefits or even any of it the reason
for this is other supplements have been
documented to similarly increase
Exercise capacity but fail to enhance
long-term hypertrophy as reviewed by
this paper other plausible mechanisms
behind creatine's gains exist creatine
could directly increase activity of
intracellular signaling Pathways that
promote hypertrophy and or even decrease
the activity of intracellular Pathways
that inhibit hypertrophy don't worry if
any of this sounds too complex just know
there are multiple ways creatine could
help build more muscle the more
important question is is how much more
muscle does creatine help you build
since
2014 five meta analyses have explored
how creatine may help the lean mass
gains you see from resistance training
meta analyses for those unaware combine
the results of numerous studies looking
at the same topic these analyses tend to
find Creatine boost the lean mass gains
you experience from resistance training
by 1 to 1.4 kilog across largely a 7 to
14 we period however one potentially
important important consideration is
that lean mess since it's all the
non-fat tissue which isn't just muscle
tissue isn't considered the highest
quality measure of hypertrophy instead
directly measuring the growth of
specific muscles via ultrasound or MRI
is considered to be more reliable and
precise fortunately we have a recent
meta analysis that examines how creatine
directly influenced the growth of
specific muscles 10 studies were
included and when looking at the triceps
elbow Flex exors quadriceps and
hamstrings creating supplementation
produced a 0.10 to 0.16 CM greater
increase in muscle thickness compared to
taking a placebo the researchers
measured the effect sizes of these
results effect sizes are simply a
measure of how big or small an effect is
the overall effect size was 0.11 which
the researchers noted to actually be a
trivial effect that is less than small
this led to the conclusion that the
practical significance of creatin for
hypertrophy may be minimal but there is
a major problem with this conclusion the
researchers used effect siiz thresholds
that were derived from and tailored for
interpreting strength and power gains so
using these thresholds on muscle hyper
data isn't necessarily sensible
fortunately Greg Knuckles from Stronger
by science recently formulated effect
size threshold specifically tailored to
and derived from the hypertrophy
research the 0.11 effect size falls into
into a small to medium effect making it
look better furthermore if we compare
this beneficial creatine effect size to
the overall effects I seen in the
hypertrophy research we come to the
conclusion that creatine helps you build
muscle onethird faster before moving on
to discussing non-responders and high
responders some people may be wondering
what type of hypertrophy creatin might
produce let me explain muscle fibers
consists of the contract out proteins
and the py plasm which is largely fluid
but contains numerous components the
current evidence indicates muscle fibers
primarily grow through increasing both
the contractile proteins and pyroplastic
the same rates creatine is an osmolyte
which means it can draw in water indeed
this paper found creatine
supplementation produced an increase in
intracellular water content thus some of
the increase in muscle size from
creatine is likely due to increased
fluid in the psychop of mus muscle
fibers but we still have evidence
creatine May enhance growth of the
contracti proteins and recall we
detailed potential mechanisms by which
creatine could grow the contractile
proteins therefore creatine is probably
growing both the psychop and contract
our proteins but more research is needed
for determining the precise proportions
one thing to keep in mind is since some
of the extra gains from creatin is
likely water induced its pure muscle
size benefit might reduce long term
since once muscle creatine levels are
fully saturated presumably no extra
water induced gains occur moreover once
you stop taking creatine and muscle
creatine levels return to Baseline
presumably any water Inu size gains you
had will be lost this doesn't
necessarily mean creatine has little
benefits over the long term as we can't
rule out the possibility of creatine
still producing solid extra contractile
protein gains over the very long term or
that it still enhances coplas growth via
mechanisms independent of the water
gains purely associated with the
creatine molecules future research is
[Music]
required so creatine may help you build
muscle one/ third faster yet it's
important to point out this is an
average some people may experience an
even greater benefit While others much
less as detailed in this excellent
classic paper there are non-responders
partial responders and high responders
to create in supplementation it's
estimated 20 to 30% of people could be
non-responders non-responders tend to
have higher initial creating stores
lower muscle fiber sizes and lower
fat-free mess higher responders have the
opposite of all this this raises an
interesting question recoil vegetarians
and vegans tend to have lower muscle
creatin stores does this mean they are
generally higher responders to creatine
there only appears to be this Canadian
paper 18 vegetarians three of them
actually vegan and 24 non-vegetarians
supplemented with either creatine or a
placebo during 8 weeks of lifting the
vegetarian group that supplemented with
creatine saw the greatest increases in
creatine stores lean mess and endurance
versus the non-vegetarians but strength
gains were similar between both so
overall vegetarians and vegans May
indeed generally be higher responders
age is another potentially notable
Factor we've mentioned that this meta
analysis found creatine's beneficial
boost in muscle I pury equated to an
effect size of 0.11 however the
researchers did perform separate
analysis on younger and older adults the
younger adults saw an effect size
benefit of 0.23 which suggests an even
greater benefit of creating
supplementation the older adult s an
effect size benefit of
0.06 which suggests a much smaller
benefit of creating
supplementation I believe more studies
are required to properly conclude
include older adults experience
relatively low hypy benefit from creatin
supplementation it's also worth
considering that older adults May
largely not always though build less
muscle so this could contribute to the
seemingly lower effects of creatine but
variability between older adults may
still exist for example one paper in
older adults still found Crea and
supplementation resulted in pretty
meaningful more overall
[Music]
hypertrophy
so far we've just been talking about
muscle building but what about strength
gains these meta analyses established
creating supplementation boosted bench
press and back Squatch strength with
effects that would probably be described
as small to moderate in percentage terms
this classic review paper indicates
creatine supplementation increased
strength by eight extra percentage
points and muscular endurance by 14
extra percentage points but similar to
the hypertrophy discussion variability
between individuals likely exists for
example this paper found over 12 weeks
of lifting a group taking creatine
increased their bench press one R max
strength by 22.6 kg while a group not
taking creatine increased their bench
press one R max strength by 15 kg but
other papers find reduced benefits such
as this paper which found over 8 weeks
of lifting creatine supplementation
increased the bench press one R max
strength by 6.8 kg while not taking
creatin led to not too far off 5 7 kg
increase as a final point for this
section older adults do seem to reap
respectable strength gains from creatine
as this meta analysis which analyze
studies specifically on older adults
established enhanced chest press and leg
press strength with these small to
moderate effect
sizes let us dissect what the research
says about other popular conversations
surrounding
creatine there is evidence that creatine
May enhance recovery and reduce markers
of muscle damage after a single training
session although it's a little ambiguous
if this continues in the long term
nonetheless survey data suggests a large
bulk of athletes subjectively feel
enhanced recovery from creatine
supplementation the concern about
creatine and hair loss originates from
this 200 2009 study which found creatin
supplementation increased DHT levels
since DH has been linked with hair loss
some say this means creatine causes hair
loss however there are major problems
with this conclusion this is merely one
study on 20 rugby players that has never
been replicated the increase in DHT was
well within the normal physiological
range and there's even a case to be made
that this was a false positive I've
expanded on this false positive point in
the pin comment and description if
you're interested plus we have other
evidence finding creatine doesn't
increase other androgens like free
testosterone drone perhaps the most
crucial final point is as explained by
Greg Knuckles from Stronger by science
the researchers measured serum DHT
levels and this isn't strongly related
to hair loss instead it's the local DHT
in the scalp that is so in total it is
accurate for me to say there is zero
scientific evidence associating creatine
with actual hair loss it would be
dishonest of me to say creatines do
absolutely not cause hair loss because
absence of evidence does not mean
evidence of absence but for now there's
as much scientific evidence of creatine
causing hair loss as there is evidence
for apples causing hair loss but what
about the anecdotes you can find many
online attributing various hair problems
to their creatin supplementation there's
a good reason anecdotes are generally
poor quality evidence they suffer from
imprecise to no actual measurements and
a multitude of confounders moreover the
rise of the mere idea that creatine
accelerates hair loss may just lead
people erroneously attributing their
head changes to creatine when if they
went back in time and never took
creatine but still paid close attention
to their hair their hair would have seen
identical changes ultimately there's
going to be a significant overlap in the
people predisposed to hair loss and
people who lift weights and opt to try
creatine if you're seriously concerned
you may just want to wait and see if
future studies come
[Music]
out creatine monohydrate is simply the
most studied form of creatine however
there are Alternative forms of creatine
on the market claiming to be superior
what does the research say we have this
review paper firstly the researchers
reviewed the marketplace and
demonstrated how all the Alternative
creatin forms cost more but importantly
none of the Alternative forms have been
proven to be superior to monohydrate and
some of them don't even consistently
outperform placebos therefore
monohydrate Remains the most studied
form that is the cheapest and
effective
the fundamental purpose of supplementing
creatine is to fully saturate your
muscle creatine levels which thereby
reaps the benefits there are two
approaches commonly taken the first
approach uses a loading phase which has
you ingest 20 to 25 G typically split
into four or five daily doses for 5 to 7
days this aims to fully saturate muscle
creating stores and from here you just
take 3 to 5 G daily to maintain this the
second approach is to forget about
loading and just consume 3 to 5 G per
day this will delay saturation but this
does not matter long term for example
taking 3 G per day probably saturates
muscle creating Source in 28 days and
extrapolating from other data taking 5 G
per day may do this in around 14 days
feel free to select the approach you
prefer the second approach though
delaying saturation is cheaper moreover
mild gastrointestinal discomfort is seen
in some individuals from creatine and
this this may be more likely when taking
higher doses as done during loading so
the second approach may be better here
too now when comparing a 3 to 5 G daily
dose over the long term one paper
largely finds similar strength
adaptations so 3 G may be sufficient for
the large majority of people and will
also knowe that a classic paper
established 2 G of creatine was
sufficient to maintain saturated muscle
creating stores after a loading phase
which further supports the notion lower
doses may be sufficient for the majority
of people although it is likely larger
individuals will benefit from doses
closer to 5 G scale to body mass 0.04 G
per kilogram each day may work there's
no evidence that you need to cycle
creatine long-term consumption is also
safe some have raised concerns relating
to the kidneys but this stems from a
poor understanding of creatine and
creatinine metabolism and a case study
published in 1998 creatinine increases
from supplementation are not believed to
be problem and the 1998 case study had
multiple shortcomings we have other data
and as concluded in this massive review
adverse effects are not seen when they
are multiple confounders such as these
are in
play does the time of day you consume
Creatine mattera fascinatingly a meta
analysis found lean mass gains were
better when supplementing with creatine
after training compared to before
training however there were merely three
studies in this meta analysis strength
gains were also similar regardless of
when creatine was supplemented we've
also had another paper come out since
this analysis finding similar
hypertrophy and strength gains between
supplementing before and after training
overall I'd say timing isn't a make or
break factor and this is especially
likely true in the long term when
creatin stores are fully saturated so
just consume it whenever you like at the
end of the day supplements like creatine
are the cherry on top consistent and
effective training is going to be the
source of the majority of your gains the
highquality alpha progression app has
all the features any lifter needs in one
place it's flawlessly crafted to help
you stay motivated and consistent with
effective training to achieve your
desired physique and strength levels the
app can remove confusion and generate a
program 100% customized to your desires
in 1 minute or less let it know the
equipment you have and how much time you
have available to commit to training if
you have certain muscles you like to
focus on more or less the app can
accommodate for this too there's more
than a quadrillion input combinations on
which your plan will be based on and the
training philosophy is inspired by the
latest meta analysis and reviews with
the touch of a few buttons you can
personalize things even further if you
like you can switch out exercises change
the rep numbers or add or decrease sets
depending on how you feel the latest
update provides you with unlockable
achievements to reward your effort and
help sustain motivation to help you
reach your Ambitions invaluable time is
also saved as the app automatically
generates graphs tracking your long-term
progression the link in the comments and
description unlocks 2 weeks free of
trying out all the premium features of
the app and if you like it and choose to
go further the link gives you 20% off a
subscription I genuinely believe the app
is phenomenal with the numerous reviews
speaking to
[Music]
this it's in summary since creatine's
emergence on the market in the 1990s it
has become one of the most well
researched supplements that has been
established to be safe and it enhances
hypertrophy and strength with what we
can probably describe as small to
moderate effects but variability exists
some may see larger benefits While
others may be non-responders creating
monohydrate is the most time tested form
other forms are more expensive and have
failed to produce Superior effects to
monohydrate in the current literature
you can have a loading phase if you wish
but it's not essential and it
technically costs more plus it may cause
GI discomfort for some thank you for
watching feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or our recent deep
dive into building the lats