this is about the most punishment a
human body can take as a set of 20 on
deficit deadlifts I would say so we
should have a doctor's warning on these
things yeah yeah okay you didn't read
your contract that we sent do not do
this under any circumstances you might
be paralyzed
[Music]
yeah folks I'm Dr Mike for Renaissance
specialization this is my 100%
legitimately biological son Jared febb
ifbb Pro and uh who's this you may ask I
don't well it is a m Dana Lynn Bailey
best three names because the kind of
people have three names are people of
greatness and technically speaking
serial killers is true I could see that
I'm gonna go with greatness now good
news good news Jin Bailey does not at
all fit the profile of a serial killer
she doesn't live in an isolated Ranch in
Montana uh the uni bomber is actually
from where we're rat solid this is
adding up to be a real great video but
good news at all we together because we
are doing psychotic serial killer back
we're going to hit dlbs back with some
deficit pulls then we're going to come
back and get another victim the flexion
row and then we're going to victimize
pull-ups is just a disgusting bloody
Montana Ranch of eviscerated animals
sort of like the's daily life we're
going to do that today to her back maybe
sprinkle and Del PS huge honor to be uh
in the gym with you you invented women's
physique
some say you're still the perfect
physique how old are you can you tell
our viewers is that possible you stopped
aging at some point we'll get the
scientist can know what I'm saying girl
it's just working pretty well you feel
me but in any case Politically Incorrect
things aside Jared oh I'm excited it's
going to be really fun first ever win
Suzie I don't know if how when was that
2015 13 I won it3 2013 so all you young
ass Tik tocking kids probably don't even
know but the OG
mmy musle the
musle let's let's put some more muscle
on my children let's do it folks the
first exercise we have for today is the
deficit deadlift yes it hits the glutes
yes it hits the hams but it hits the
whole fing back like crazy not a ton of
lats though it hits them a little bit as
well but it really hits the spinal
Erectors rhomboids the entire trapezius
complex Total Wars declared on the back
we're probably going to do four sets of
15 to 20 reps of the things this is not
an exercise you go super heavy on if you
want hypertrophy but High Reps for this
with really good technique which we'll
brush you off on in a second is really
really huge raw stimulus magnitude it
causes a lot of fatigue but DLB has been
around you know I'm saying she's going
to block that she's going to duck
the fatigue somehow Gucci let's do this
and then we'll talk about the next
exercise we two requests one is that you
use good technique which means flat back
slow control gentle touches full
lockouts that's it and second request is
try oh okay that's it okay what did you
say 15 20 left just start pulling okay a
lot okay yeah we're only going to count
good technique reps by the way I got you
whatever you're
[Music]
ready 10 come on Dana now it starts Dana
let's get our
together
move it yep slow as if you're going to
do another one and then gently look
place it down oh my
god oh yeah she still got
it this is about the most punishment a
human body can take as a set of 20 on
deficit deadlift I would say so yeah
that was awesome Dana take about a
minute to breathe and then we'll be back
into the
ship
[Music]
14 nobody said this would be easy one
Soft Touch come all the way back up and
then as if you're going to do another
one all the way up
finish strong yes lock it and then slow
as if another Ultra slow super slow Mega
slow God good holy I'm just
glad not you slow as a guy folks while
DLB collects herself for another set do
you have to do deficit deadlifts for
back growth no there's tons of other
great exercises but if you have a lot of
fatigue tolerance if fatigue isn't
approximately limiting factor for you
like it is currently for DLB uh then you
have a lot of upside a lot of fatigue
you can expend chasing hypertrophy and
the raw stimulus magnitude the total
amount of muscle growth Drive that the
deficit deadlift for higher rep sets of
15 to 20 can give you is insane
especially if you use chalk and Versa
grips to get your grip out of the
equation Wilderness will happen to your
back you'll get that thick Ronnie Dorian
type of back there obviously not
way but over time it'll happen this is
an exercise that if you're really easy
on your fatigue you don't have a lot of
margin don't do it or do it last when
you're weakest but for DB we're starting
first cuz she's female she's well
trained she got plenty of fatigue upside
we're kicking that gains train right to
her back folks give that some thought
let's do it good technique all the way
through gentle touches slow
[Music]
entri nine another one you've done
harder let's
go 11 as if another Ultra slow let's put
the cherry on top here super slow super
slow super gentle oh my God amazing all
hell yeah
Dana hopefully we didn't break DLB
deficits are done four sets 20 16 14 12
try this at home it's nuts now it's time
for flexion rows barbell flexion rows
that means you start them with a big
deficit and you're actually rounded over
and as you row you arch your back to
make it flat at least touch your tummy
and go back down no holding at the top
just a brief touch so you all might see
this workout and think this is a lot of
heavy compound and yeah you might
see me and Mike training we do like a
heavy compound row maybe an assisted
pullup maybe a machine row she's doing
literally
deadlifts bent rows also pull-ups all
these things are very very heavy
compound so females first and foremost
already biologically are a little bit
more adapted for higher volumes to begin
with you taking that in consideration as
well as she's a smaller female uh not
hyper muscular anymore she's kind of
downsized since her women's physique
days so when you take all that
consideration her total fatigue that she
can accumulate with these exercises
because they're not super duper heavy is
much lower than someone like say me or
Mike when you see us training if me and
Mike did this workout yeah we'd probably
get rabo and just die after the session
but because of her metrics she's but
she's female um she's actually very well
trained for this type of stuff because
she's done CrossFit in the past she's
done super high volume bodybuilding
training she's going to be okay to take
this on and she could probably do this
for an extended period of time without
getting into that overreaching state
that me and Mike likely would if we did
it for say 3 weeks in a row so take all
that consideration for yourself and your
metrics how big you are how advanced you
are if you're hyper muscular maybe less
heavy compounds in a session if you're
uh less muscular or just beginning your
journey you most likely could do these
hard higher RSM so we're all seeing
those magnitude sessions and totally get
away with it for a very very long time
DB try to really get your chest up at
the top big arched back yes and that's
it rack rest
that's it that's what we want so quick
up chest up down slow gentle touch
repeat it's going to be
[Music]
fun let's go let's go let's go let's go
we're here for
pain seven let's get three
more oh God go go go go go eight two
more nine slow gentle 10 and put it down
real slow Yes W that's
it oh
 slow big chest at the top
yes four slow and that's it very good oh
 oh we got bonus round I thought
that was yeah you did 11 more you
tricked yourself I I
[Music]
have
keep it
rocking we keep it rocking got to
remember you're a 41y old woman no I'm
not 41 40 and a half you got to remember
she's a 41y old woman she can't she
didn't tell us that come on Grandma
let's go do more more exercises how old
are you 40 almost but I'm Jewish so I'm
like biologically
68 yeah we just we start out old and age
even faster terrible would you like a
walker Miss Miss ly
Bailey the technique here is similar to
all the other full hang at the bottom
for a second come all the way up crunch
your back at the top don't hold just
Crunch and then slowly descend that slow
descent is going to make this way
tougher but more effective you do mostly
like up and up and back yep well
whenever you're ready first work set you
got enough grip in your hands to make
some sense out of I think so let's
start doing reps works that
activate slow just touch gently at the
top you don't have to wait at the
top right back
[Music]
down beautiful keep
[Music]
going nice and slow slow
slow good
so what's your favorite way to train
favorite way I mean bodybuilding but
body train yeah like something like this
I never do just one thing at a time
hardly ever like except if if it's like
squats or bench like you superet a lot
of everything's super seted so I'll
I'll always do like like if we're doing
chess it's like cable flies with a press
or push-ups I'm just constantly moving I
think it's more so cuz I can't narrow
down down all the things I want to do so
I'm like I'll just do all of them I'll
just I'll do all of
them these are perfect keep it
going
yep last one D let's go back big big
chest at the top finish good sh good
sh milk
it
[Music]
Big
Move finish good slow
control and one last one whenever you're
ready move
it yeah
slow
control
unrack will I still be passing drug
tests if I put these on my hands oh yeah
is there some wasn't there some recent
controversy about the you being drug
free and like that yeah cuz no one
believes me I've been around the sport
long enough and you don't really have
any other the signs of vage use except
for one you're jacked I am not
sufficient to conclude that someone's on
drugs now this interview will look real
embarrassing you can come out that
you're on drugs later DLB I'll come to
your Montana house honestly I'll take
what's mine that's the only I I put it
out on a podcast with Bradley Martin
just calling out people like yeah yeah
I'll put up whatever $50,000 you can
come drug test me whenever you want cuz
this is like I haven't reped since 2015
yeah and I I look better now than I even
did back then you but people aren't
realizing it's like I've been
training six to seven days a week for
the last 20 years I've been doing that
too but I've been on a boatload of
steroids the whole time not the whole
time half the time sometimes I forget to
take them I honestly wake up every day
and I don't know who I am and it takes
in hours sometimes days fore to figure
that out I just know that it what it
does to the
the female body it makes it less female
it makes it less female cuz you're
putting male hormones into a female body
I put some male hormones in the female
body before a girl you know what I'm
saying Dana I'm going to tell you
something I probably shouldn't if I had
the opportunity to hold something penis
shaped in my hand I never ever say no
and so what we want you to do is to Arc
up here hold for a split second at the
high position slow come down till it's
flush with your lats hold and then
[Music]
slow good these are quality reps up
quick hold
slow and then one
more and then slow cool now do not leave
the machine just sit there for a bit
five more Buckle in
begin
four begin you're ready one Perfect all
delts Nobody English Dana don't swing
into it use your
belts finish
slow and full rest get out of the
machine relax we'll do another set in a
bit good
stuff
rest relax six is your next goal you
know for uh for your age and body
weight you really have some promise in
physique there's this division called
classic uh the female physique or
whatever I think women's physique you
should look into it I
will
don't bounce out of the bottom now up
yeah three and you're done begin now now
now now now now now now down that's one
need three total no bouncing right back
up yes hold down slow that's
two hold resist resist resist resist
resist resist
relax all right Dana come here come on
here really quick one last little fun
thing this one this is for Sam I'm sorry
lift your hands completely outstretched
fingers completely locked that elbows to
here and then down to here and then up
and just keep doing that are you keep
going trust me it'll get real fun here
soon why is the air so heavy here right
here right stick it one second at the
top and then slow on the way down and
right up there yes just like that try to
point your pinkies into the sky get
those side delts really crunching High
elbows this is a little crazy keep going
this is exactly what we want why is that
hurt good keep going is it okay if I
touch you yeah good keep
going resist a little bit not a
ton
resist up elbows big into the sky yes
and down three more up and hold one
down up and hold
two down and last one up and hold elow
hold don't let me push you down don't
let me push you down don't let me push
you down don't let me push you down
relax all right ready this is the fun
part high
[Laughter]
five did you snort unbelievable what an
unrefined montanan folks this has been d
an and Bailey she is now Dan and Bailey
but probably more sore a little yeah a
little bit more sore a little bit more
tired I'm actually glad that some of the
blood from my back moved to to the Del
to the shoulder a good tradeoff now you
still can't drive a car but for other
reasons like I sort of feel silly right
now yeah I feel silly well with big Del
you can feel however you want it's other
people's problem did I get bigger guys I
let us know in the comments uh damn oh
 here we go oh
listen uh Dana huge honor to be able to
train you for a little bit um we've been
looking up to you for quite some time
and incredible look incredible longevity
incredible uh Ambassador for the sport
really apprciate CU I'm a terrible
Ambassador for the sport and so I just
people to look up to I'll never be as
good as that oh yeah yeah they're like
that guy weird convictions and support
cases with me it's just a laundry list
uh you were awesome thank you so much
and folks uh you know who DLB is already
we don't have to tell you but go check
her stuff out and uh Jared and I have an
only fans so don't worry about DLB go
buy our what anyway see you guys
next
[Music]
time