[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization
and today we're going to do one of the
recipes from my second cookbook the
Renaissance feast this is chicken parm
casserole I know a lot of you guys try
to make RPE
friendly food that fits your templates
that your family can also eat and this
is a great one first of all it comes
together pretty quick throw it in the
oven but this is one that hopefully will
have something for everybody in your
family my kids like this this is just a
really good family meal and it's great
because then you can stay on your
template I know that's a big challenge
for a lot of you so let's get started
with this recipe all I did first was use
a tablespoon of extra-virgin olive oil
and coat the pan with it you can totally
use cooking spray for that instead so I
just have covered the whole bottom of a
13 by 9 by 2 oiled pan with the chicken
pieces that's just boneless skinless
chicken breast and now I'm gonna
sprinkle over some raw garlic raw
chopped garlic and some red pepper
flakes leave this out if this if it's
for the kids and they don't like spice
my don't and then salt and pepper so
just take some veggies only marinara
sauce and put this down over the top
can't have chicken parm without marinara
right
alright now we want some crunch on this
so I have whole-grain croutons in here
these are really not as hard to find as
you might think if you go to you know
either the produce section or the dried
you know one of the dried aisles of
crackers and stuff like that
if you look around enough you'll
definitely see multigrain whole-grain
croutons just check the labels try to
find one that has just the least amount
of extra stuff in it but they're they're
pretty easy to find so what I do with
these is I just want to crunch them up
I'm not gonna put them in a food
processor and make it like a really fine
topping I want some texture to this I
want something to chew and crunch into
and I'm eating this but I don't want to
leave them whole so just put them in a
freezer bag and just get some aggression
out this is like a light workout like
I'm flexing while I'm doing this just
crunch them up with your hands and then
put this down on the top alright so
don't lose any of those don't pull that
on the top and here comes the cheese and
if you can't have dairy use non-dairy
cheese it's fine
they make some really good ones now I'm
gonna do some 2% shredded mutts and
grated parm Oh baby would she use only
top this is gonna get golden and then
when you cut into this you're gonna have
like pelty gooey cheese and then crunchy
croutons and then that awesome marinara
sauce and then underneath there's just
all that great protein so you get to
knock out a ton of portions here alright
so we've got our cheese on the top here
and then let's sprinkle on some fresh
chopped basil beautiful that's smells so
good I love fresh basil put that on the
top and then this is ready to go in the
oven alright guys sorry I pulled that
out of the oven let it set for a little
bit you can see there's a lot of juices
in there you know I always say saved
uses for stuff so I would definitely say
that save that leave it in there it'll
keep it moist when it's in your fridge
the leftovers but I went ahead and let
it set up for just a bit and then I went
ahead and cut some pieces and put it on
the plate ready to go sprinkle it first
with some fresh chopped basil and I'm
ready to dive into this
[Music]