you can go from looking eh to looking
holy shit in 6 weeks not a joke sounds
salesy and sounds like a bullshit
something or other other Fitness
channels would say to rip you off I
swear to God the shit really actually
works hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today I
want to talk to you about the Tia mini
cut a special type of mini cut which is
already special I guess and it's up just
some really cool things here here's the
deal mini cuts are often looked at by
folks who haven't looked into it much as
ways of getting shredded fast and that's
not entirely wrong but it's not entirely
correct the original purpose of the
traditional mini cut is to prepare you
for more muscle gains right after how
mini cut accomplishes this traditionally
is by first having low training volume
you don't want to train a ton just at
maintenance volume or so because you
want to reduce the amount of training
volume exposure to increase the
sensitivity of your muscles to muscle
growth training and high volume training
such that as you finish the mini cut you
really become sensitive to muscle growth
from that low volume exposure when you
start your hypertrophy muscle growth
training again right after to potentiate
for gaining even more size your
sensitivity to muscle growth training is
going to be really really high so that's
a great thing you won't see a whole lot
of changes during the mini cut but
afterwards you will grow a lot of muscle
it's a delayed
response second you want to do not so
much cardio because if you do a ton of
cardio it turns out it makes your legs
more resistant to muscle growth than if
you don't do a ton of cardio that's not
ideal also cardio increases the fatigue
you experience we do a mini cut to
prepare us for another really really
productive multiple week cycle of muscle
gain phase we don't really want to be
too fatigued coming into that now
something has to happen body fat has to
has to come off so the deficit is going
to be really large you're going to lose
between one often times and 1.5% of your
body weight weekly that's at least the
goal tissue wise the reality is your
first week you might lose five or 10
pounds on body water alone and every
single one of those weeks of the mini
cut is going to be somewhere depending
on your body size and particularities of
your goal 500 calorie deficit per day so
it means if you eat 2,000 calories a day
normally you would eat something like,
1500 all the way to a 00 calorie daily
deficit which means if you normally eat
4,000 calories you could be eating 2500
rough lastly these mini Cuts tend to be
two to six weeks in length often two to
four weeks in length just to burn enough
body fat off really reduce the
desensitization increase the sensitivity
to hypertrophy training and get ready to
do another you're essentially clearing
the runway for another muscle gain phase
that's really cool we have a ton of
videos on how to to do that the
particulars the specifics how to be
successful but the Tia mini cut stands
for temporarily improved appearance
minic cut is a little bit different its
job is not to prepare you for muscle
gain phase not at all its job is to take
a 3 to six week
period and because you are very
constrained in that time we're going to
have to do some kind of crazy stuff
nothing dangerous just tough and
unsustainable by definition in order to
accomplish the task which the TAA mini
cut is absolutely designed for and that
task is to try to look as lean as
possible in the shortest time that you
can look something like a weekend where
your ex is going to be you guys rented a
cabin with a little beach and a little
boat there few crocodiles have been
deposited into that Lake to make things
fun you know you can film your own
version of Lake plast of the movie on
your iPhone as the crocodile Shred your
lower Limbs and you gargle all the way
down to the bottom of the lake oh that
turned rather dark as dark as the bottom
of a lake is typically in any case
you're out there you're with your
friends and you want to be able to
impress at least two people one your ex
that fucking bitch how dare she break it
off with you we're just going in
different directions bitch I'm going
show your direction lean then you'll be
upset that you broke up with me maybe
and the other person you want to impress
upon with your new lean appearance is
the boyfriend right how dare he
voluntarily interact with someone who is
single which is to say steal property
that used to belong to you and really in
some moral sense still does your
ex-girlfriend how are you going to
impress these folks other than with as
shredded of an appearance as possible
but just like she used to do you back
when you were dating the girlfriend only
sent you the invite four weeks away from
the event damn it but no TI mini Cuts
can help how can they help what are we
supposed to do about about this so we
can have shredded abs and tell Jenna and
Eric that they suck and then push them
right into the mouth of an awaiting
crocodile well here's the deal first
High training volume why you want to
maintain as much muscle mass under an
extreme cardio High cardio environment
and low food environment in order to do
that you have to crank the training a
ton to counteract the muscle loss
signaling you have to boost the muscle
growth signaling you won't gain a ton of
muscle mass Maybe a little bit but what
you'll do is run those muscle growth
processes so fast that the muscle loss
processes counterveiling them via the
super high cardio and the super low food
can't keep up and thus the result is at
least your muscle mass stays the same
and potentially even gain a little bit
this will beat you up and make you
really tired more on that shortly in
addition High cardio you're trying to
burn as much fat as possible with a
short time that means typically you want
to aim for 10,000 daily steps or more
maybe even something like 15,000 daily
steps for some of you that sounds
insane it's going to shred you up for
those of you that doesn't sound insane
and you do it all the time try 20,000 I
know it sounds nuts but a high step
count is actually not overly fatiguing
can you do it for a few weeks yeah hell
yeah you can can you do it for a few
months or years gee that might be tough
to do so so far we crank the training
volume regular high volume training as
if we're on hyper phase the physical
activity cardio is going to be kind of
as much as you can sustain in 3 to 6
weeks figure it out for yourself but
it's generally somewhere between 10 and
15,000 daily steps and the deficit is
just the same size as in the mini cut as
far as food being cut but the resultant
caloric deficit may be even higher
because of that increased cardio and
that high volume training so you take
your food and you drop it by 5,000 to,
1500 calories depending on body size
goals Etc and then you run with it and
by run I mean w over to your chair and
collapse halfway through each day
thinking why the fuck am I doing this to
myself and then you remember that
bastard who took your girlfriend and
those crocodiles so hungry for his flesh
and hers that you need enough willpower
just to push them and the way you're
going to push them is you're going to do
an AB shot they're going to get
mystified right there on the docks of
the lake and then bam both of them go
into the crocodile mission accomplished
that mission is going to take you 3 to
six weeks that's how much is often
required to make a really awesome visual
change it's a little on the longer side
it's not 2 to six weeks you can do a TIA
mini cut to temporarily improve your
appearance in two weeks fuck I'll be
completely honest with you you just
often look flat and miserable and tired
but 3 weeks four weeks five weeks and if
you can manage it six weeks six weeks of
this is going to be both really pushing
your limits psychologically and
physically but also cause a drastic
change you think about it even if you
hit about 1% body fat loss per week for
6 weeks which is entire L reasonable in
the shorttime mini cut you can drop 6%
fuck it let's call it 5% of your body
fat in 6 weeks 5% body fat takes you to
from 133% which is pretty damn lean F
maale and looks pretty pretty good to 8%
in which case you'll have veins on your
abs surely enough veins on your abs to
impose upon your ex-girlfriend that
bitch made a mistake she should have
been with you and now she's with pudgy
mcperson and even though he's a nice guy
treats her well remembers first and last
name sometimes her middle name and even
knows when Valentine's Day is nothing
you could have done with yourself he
doesn't have veins on his abs so fuck
him and come back to me Jenna just come
back no questions asked I always loved
you I told you as much and if you don't
come back crocodiles so what are the
upsides and downsides of taking this
approach well the upsides are pretty
obvious if you can drop 5% of your body
fat in 6 weeks that sounds pretty
fucking sweet that means you look way
different than quick you can go from
looking eh to looking holy shit in 6
weeks not a joke sounds salesy and
sounds like a bullshit something or
other other Fitness channels would say
to rip you off I swear to God this shit
really actually works especially if you
manage your fluids appropriately which
means that in the two weeks out from
where you need to be you raise your salt
by doubling it you also raise your fluid
roughly by doubling it or basically
drink to thirst but your salt is going
to go up so much you're going to be way
thirstier and you continue to run this
high salt high fluid environment until a
few days before the actual trip or event
begins then a day or two before probably
about a day and a half you drop your
salt back to normal levels and you drop
your fluids back to normal levels which
is going to flush you out which means on
the day of the event you are going to
look stripped and dripped and all that
good stuff to generate maximum jealousy
if you want in that last day and a half
you can also increase your carbohydrate
levels eating clean carbs only clean
being in scare quotes but basically
healthy carbohydrates fruits grains and
and uh you know veggies and stuff like
that if you increase those without
increasing the salt keeping salt
normally even lower what ends up
happening is the carbs go to your
muscles they drag a lot of water from
your body into your muscles you look
poofy bubbly and shredded at the same
time it's like a mini contest and you
show up Saturday morning every
everyone's at the beach your shirt comes
off ooze
Oz halfway Chubbies from the guys that
thought they were straight but I've
never seen a six-pack like yours and the
ladies I would get into the
physiological responses but we're not
that kind of YouTube channel we just get
cancelled instantly in any case good
things I'll put it this
way no I shouldn't yeah fuck it there's
a certain amount of fluid in the lake
across from your cabin but that's not
the only fluid going on right now when
your boy takes off the app Scot the
video guy why do you only laugh at the
most perverted shit what's wrong with
you all right there are downsides so the
upsides if you look like Thor amazing
downsides it's really
hard you are going to be pushed to your
limits every fucking day so if you have
like work deadline work deadline special
work project special school project and
then you go to this little summer house
with your friends you might not be able
to be successful at life or nearly as
much so if you do a TIA mini C all the
way in so make sure you have that
bandwidth next it drives your hunger
signaling up like crazy so you might be
able to diet for a wedding look amazing
and then at the wedding eat everything
including half of the father-in-law's
leg and end up regaining a bunch and
being bloated or miserable that's
definitely a
concern another thing is it drops your
energy level so much because it's so
fatiguing that if you're doing this to
increase your energy for some kind of
fun party and you're saying hey we're
going to go to Lake I'm going to show
off my abs and then once it comes down
to showing off your abs and playing
frisbee with the guys you guys know when
just a bunch of guys get together hey
it's all fun and well nobody's having
any weird thoughts and they just get
they just only in their board shorts and
they're like in this Lake water which is
mostly pristine but like about a foot
deep and the the foot deep part of the
beach goes for you know like 50 feet or
so and the guys just a couple guys no
big deal everyone's having fun no big
deal they just get together and just
toss the frisbee around their bodies are
moving glistening Under the Sun and the
way they just like you know run to the
Frisbee they illustrate their youth and
athleticism and there's nothing
unchristian about that at all and you're
there watching them and going damn wait
a minute I did the ti mini cut I'm one
of the guys I'm ripped let me go play
Frisbee and you realize as you're
running to the beach that you don't want
to run anywhere or move or talk to
anyone because you're so fatigued you
just go and you go back and lay down and
get some sun nothing wrong with that but
if you like to be active and like to
have fun do not ta mini cut into an act
a fun event or just be aware of the fact
that your energy level could be a huge
crash
lastly after you finish it it requires a
whole week or two weeks of easy training
and plenty of food to heal your diet
fatigue in order to get your body back
from this crazy high fatigue state to
actually have productive training and
dieting afterwards this is not a
sustainable way to do things it's an
emergency break the axe open with the
glass and fire shit you guys know what
I'm talking about uh it's just an
emergency thing you can do if you have
very small amount of warning and you
have to have ripped ABS I'm not sure
exactly how many uh situations in life
really are like that but again if you
get invited to a lake and Upstate New
York and there's crocodiles in there and
you have to impress your ex and a
current new boyfriend give This Ti mini
cut some thought just understand that if
you fall into the crocodile Lake you
will not have the energy to get out the
crocodiles will eat you but will be
disappointed with how you taste cuz you
won't be very well marbled anymore cuz
you'll be so godamn lean and shit maybe
they'll uh even spit you out and say hey
go get fatter and come back and get
eaten but your ex she's getting eaten
like crazy which I guess is sad because
you still loved her but if you can't
have her nobody can except for the
crocodiles they can have her to consume
uh potentially date if crocodiles do
that what am I even saying and here's
the thing if this all sounds pretty
complicated how do I set up the deficit
how do I set up the Surplus give this
some thought if you download the do art
P diet coach app Shameless plug you can
actually just program it for 1% loss per
week for four to 6 weeks and it'll tell
you meal by meal with meal reminders
time by time day by day how to eat
exactly and it'll update the diet for
you so that you can actually get as lean
as possible because sometimes eyeballing
all this is really tough especially if
your diet fatigue is high give that some
thought do your best and remember don't
really push people into crocodiles
mouths that's a bad thing people are
friends if you like more friends
we have a membership side of the channel
which you can instantly subscribe to for
slightly more money and the huge upside
is that you get extra content every week
if you want even more content in
interaction in lifting technique
Corrections tons of tips free products
and services then the team full ROM form
is right for you that is in a link below
almost certainly see you guys next
time