what's going on guys it is September the
3rd it is Saturday today I'm going to
start blogging again
consistently so there's two weeks left
going into the mr. Olympia weekend so I
will be in Vegas for that not at any
particular booth or anything like that
but just sort of chillin walking around
the expo and enjoying my time in Vegas I
guess every other day I'll upload a
video mostly just tracking my training
and the process through my lean bulk
this is the beautiful view in Kelowna
and this is the Okanagan Lake and if you
look over here you can just see how the
lake meets in with the mountain ranges I
don't really know what they're called
but today is a leg day so I'm going to
kick it off with a leg day I'm gonna go
check out a new gym called global gym
here in Kelowna so I'll probably see you
guys in there if I don't check in before
with my pre-workout meal alright guys so
I just made it to the gym I obviously
didn't mention this in the vlog because
the last video I posted was my workout
with Danni since then I came down with
just a cold so I've had a bit of a sore
throat I'm a little bit stuffed up so
you might hear that my voice but for the
last I think 3 days I just took off from
the gym altogether and now just now I'm
starting to feel good again to the point
where I can train legs but the rest of
this two week block leading into the
Olympia I'm going to be doing a
push-pull leg split push-pull like so
I'm not going to go into any detail
about the specifics of my program right
now I'll do that in a later video maybe
but for right now I just wanted to get
things rolling and
introduce you guys to a new series and
show you guys what we're doing today
I just like
okay what's up everyone so I'm back with
a informative voiceover for this leg
training session yesterday so I kick
things off with a little bit of dynamic
stretching
mostly for hamstrings and you would have
seen I actually did three sets of
fifteen standing leg curls and this is
what I call a pre activation method so
I'm not a big fan of pre fatiguing just
because it's been shown in the
literature to not really be effective at
what it's intended to do the idea with
pre fatiguing is to sort of generate
some sort of metabolic response or
fatigue in that muscle so it'll be more
active later in compound movements so
for example if you were wanting to make
your pecs be more activated by the
benchpress you would do a PEC deck fly
before bench pressing and presumably
that would cause your pecs to be more
stimulated during the bench press or
whatever this has actually been refuted
in studies as for example burn ecchi
until 2009 found that it didn't lead to
increased PEC activation rather it only
led to increase activation of the
triceps which means that well since the
pecs are fatigued the triceps kind of
had to take over so it did exactly the
opposite of what you wanted it to do in
my case I like doing this especially for
hamstrings because for one it gets them
more warmed up takes them through the
range of motion and improves my range of
motion a little bit for the compound
movements that are to follow especially
with the leg press I find my hamstrings
do get a little bit tight so just doing
a few of those hamstring curls
beforehand really helps me it also helps
me establish a little bit of a better
mind muscle connection for the rest of
the workout this was meant to be a
hamstrings dominant workout and I'll
talk about that a little bit more later
but I am alternating between a glute
focus workout and a ham
String focus workout and i let the quads
just sort of get leftover work from any
of the squatting or like pressing that I
do and then also it's important to keep
in mind that in the literature when pre
exhaustion has been sort of debunked
it's always been done to neuromuscular
fatigue so if you're not taking you know
those pre activation sets to failure
then I don't think they're going to have
any negative effect in terms of
activation for the follow up compound
movements so that's the explanation of
what I was doing at the beginning after
that it was on to a horizontal hack
squat machine so the reason I really
like this machine is because for
whatever reason my lower back has to do
less stabilization so the strain that I
would normally feel from an upright hack
squat just isn't really there and it's
just a really good feel for me after
that I moved on to this horizontal squat
press so this is very similar to the
traditional leg press 45-degree leg
press except the plates are loaded in
more of a pendulum fashion rather than a
linear fashion so just a slightly
different way of loading this exercise
not a big deal if you don't have one but
I do find it to be a little bit more of
a natural feel for me just the way that
my leverages are set up and it's always
not a bad idea to sort of switch up the
way that you're loading movements just
in general so following the squat press
it was on to glute-ham raises these were
particularly challenging for me on this
day I think it's just the way that the
glute/ham raise machine is set up really
doesn't give you a lot of assistance
with the knee flexion unlike some of the
the other glute/ham raised machines with
the sort of circular pad I did three
sets of eight reps I think that this is
probably my current favorite hamstring
movement just because I'm not really
able to do any hip extension base
hamstring movements like a Romanian
deadlift for example so this movement is
able to Train hip extension
isometrically while still training knee
flexion you hit
the hamstrings both proximally and
distally and yet it's just a very
challenging movement so I really like
this one a lot and then for a hamstring
focus day that wasn't quite enough
volume so I finished off with three sets
of fifteen on the lying leg curl so what
I've been doing with this movement is
plantar flexing I think I talked about
this in another video but I've been
plantar flexing for the first ten reps
and or roughly 10 reps depending on the
day and then I'll dorsi flex for the
remaining five reps or so to extend
failure further this sort of borrows
from the so called effective reps
technique where you're just able to
extend failure a little bit further in a
sense it's sort of like a drop set where
you're just able to allow another muscle
to sort of come into play that other
muscle being the calves and then I
finished off this workout with some hip
abductions on this machine right here so
it's a little bit of a different machine
you're really leaning back normally I
would lean forward on these and I find
that they're very similar but I feel
slightly different part of my glutes
when leaning back more like this as
opposed to leaning forward so I just try
to do as many different variations as I
can as long as I don't get to
willy-nilly with things so yeah this is
a great exercise for the glute medius
kind of building they're like outside
part of your glutes so I finished off
with three sets of 20 to 25 reps on this
machine and that is going to conclude
this workout guys and this commentary I
really hope that you liked the footage
and I'll see you guys again in the next
couple of clips
okay what's going on guys so I just
finished up with my leg workout I don't
think I got to film quite everything
just because my camera was dying and
it's dead right now so I'm filming on my
iPhone but in any case that is my first
leg session back after my sickness it
was a really good workout now I'm just
coming back to my mom's place where we
are going to get ready to go out for
dinner so that's gonna be my
post-workout meal and I'll show you guys
what I get mom doesn't have any whey
protein so what oh I did have some at
the place here but you don't so I didn't
like I know like I'll take response to
that okay I should reword that guys I
stole all of moms way so there's on here
so before we go out I did want to get
some kind of post-workout so I'm gonna
chug back I'm in the frame so I'm gonna
chug a cup of egg whites not something I
normally do because it tends to limit
the bioavailability so you're probably
only actually absorbing somewhere
between based on what I've seen 50 to 70
percent of the protein that's here when
you eat it raw whereas when you eat it
cooked it's like above 90% but go
excuse me it's not that it has a bad
taste it's just like it's just weird
consistency I guess but anyway so that
was a cup of egg white so 28 grams of
protein as listed so if I'm being
optimistic but seventy percent of twenty
eight twenty twenty-one twenty grams
protein something like that
especially was a 40-minute wait at this
restaurant so we're gonna go check out a
different spot over there isn't quick
the Cairo is it her pucara Cairo I think
I'm gonna go with the lamb meatballs and
then for my entree everything sounds
super good but the spring chicken is
kind of high protein and has some
veggies so I'm gonna go with that and
then we're still not sure about this but
I think we're gonna split this white
chocolate cheesecake this is a gin foam
drink there's like a mint foam on top
and I forget I don't know I always
forget this stuff but it's like some
kind of sweet cucumber base to the
drinks
as delicious
that's like that's like 9:45 it just it
would very sweet very tasty elation try
it so these are the what do they land
involve him yeah there's goat cheese
owns not they look really good so this
is the main course it's a chicken with
some potatoes and cauliflower is that
someone coffee this
geez what is this white chocolate
raspberry cheesecake eating white
chocolate blueberry she's been
is going to finish our meal guys split
Oh guys we'd finish up in the meal
overall was very good the Cheesecake at
the end was a little bit disappointing
other than that very good say I've given
overall maybe a soft 7.5 8 out of 10 so
yeah good meal now for the rest of the
night just got a little bit of work to
finish up and that's about it so I'm
gonna call it a night I hope you guys
enjoyed the vlog if you liked the video
don't forget to like it subscribe to the
channel if you haven't already thank you
very much for watching I'll see you guys
in a couple days