it's pretty unclear whether or not
warming up before lifting weights
actually prevents injury full disclosure
not my of expertise however when looking
at the research on warming up more
broadly a few things stand out one we
have very little evidence when it comes
to resistance training specifically and
warming up two strength training itself
is one of the most effective ways of
reducing injury risk from other
activities and specifically Ecentric
training is something we often use for
other sports to prevent injury and well
strength training does also include eetc
training next most of the research on
static stretching fails to really show a
benefit in terms of reducing injury risk
there is some evidence for it reducing
muscular tenderness injury risk but it's
limited and finally most of the research
we have that does show a decrease in
injury risk for M up often uses a
multicomponent warm up intervention such
as the FIFA 11 plus which has around 15
different things going on some of which
are strength training exercises which
makes it difficult to tell whether the
reduction and injury risk wasn't just
because the people performed strength
training but regardless warming up might
have performance benefits for certain
things in the gym that's why