and if you don't train is a really good
time to really get a lot of carbs into
your muscles into your glycogen stores
so you can recover better and perform
better later so if you train really
really hard it's kind of always time to
eat carbs which if I'm not selling
hard training with that line you just
don't want to train hard number three
rule for most meals that you eat and by
you I mean person who's interested in
fitness and health I highly recommend
that the majority of your carbs come
from a combination of veggies fruits and
whole grains they are the most nutrient
dense can you imagine that
just gonna shut up in any case they also
have another benefit these kinds of
carbs are the most filling they keep you
satiated and not hungry for the longest
time and that's really good especially
if you're on a fat loss diet