foreign
okay what's going on guys and welcome to
the first pull workout of the ultimate
push-pull leg Series in this video we're
hitting six pulling exercises the target
the back rear delts and biceps and then
in the coming videos I'll be taking
through the rest of the push-pull legs
workouts to complete the full week of
training now I noticed that on my last
push day upload there were a few people
that were asking what the difference is
between this new push-pull leg series
and my previous ones from 2018 and 2021.
the main difference is that both of
these programs were power building
routines so they were focused on both
strength and hypertrophy more evenly
whereas this new routine is much more
bodybuilding focused this means we'll be
doing more exercise variation including
a bunch of new exercises and more novel
intensity techniques than we did before
and this time while doing plenty of
bodybuilding work we'll be using what I
call a minimalist approach to the squat
bench and deadlift doing just the
minimum volume required to make progress
on those lifts so for those of you who
do care about strength there is some
strength work in this program but it's
very minimal and I'll always offer
substitution options for the power lifts
if you want to make it even more
bodybuilding focused and as before if
you want to have everything in your
hands right away you can pick up the
full ultimate push-pull legs hypertrophy
plan over on jeffnipper.com and I'll
have a little more info about that at
the end of the video alright so after a
quick five minute warm-up on the
treadmill or StairMaster in about 10 arm
circles per side and 10 cable external
rotations per side we're kicking things
off with four feeder sets on the lat
pull down for 10 reps each now the idea
of a feeder set is something I learned
from my great mentor John Meadows we do
these a lot together when we train it's
basically a way of warming up where
you'll do four or five feeder sets
gradually building up in weight until
you get to one all-out set to failure so
for your first feeder set you'll pick a
light weight and do it for 10 reps this
should be very low exertion at an rpe of
four or five just meant to get the blood
flowing then you'll rest for a minute or
two increase the weight a bit into
another 10 reps and now you're up to an
rpe of six or seven so it's getting a
bit harder you'll rest for another
minute or two increase the weight again
and do another 10 reps and now you're at
another rpe of seven or eight so you've
got two or three reps left in the tank
here and you'll increase the weight one
last time and try to get 10 reps and
this time you're going to an rpe of 10
so all the way to failure now the
argument you'll hear against doing
feeder sets is that they might end up
fatiguing you for the main working set
so some might argue that it'd be better
to do a shorter warm-up with less sets
and Reps so you get to the working sets
faster this is the approach that I also
take on most exercises especially when
I'm trying to overload with more weight
however on a more mind muscle connection
based exercise like a lat pull down
where many people do struggle finding a
good mind muscle connection with their
back I find that feeder sets can
accomplish two things first they can
help you get into a better Groove with
the movement so that by the time you
reach the failure set your lats are
engaging much better and second they can
be helpful in finding the right weight
for the failure set because you select
the weight for that set based on how
hard the feeder sets felt for example if
your third feeder set already feels
pretty heavy you know you won't need to
add much weight for the failure set on
the other hand if your third feeder set
still feels pretty easy you know you're
strong on this day and should bump the
weight up for the failure set and then
after that first failure set I'll rest
for two or three minutes and do one more
set to failure and I challenge myself to
reach the same number of reps as I did
on the first failure set with the same
weight but because of fatigue that's not
always possible oftentimes I'll end up
getting seven or eight reps for the
second failure set and then after that
I'll do a mini drop set by stripping the
weight back by about 30 percent and
cranking out four or five more reps I
like doing this at the end just to make
sure the back fibers are in fact
reaching very high levels of activation
because with the lat pull down in
particular you might reach technical
failure but find that your back could
probably still do quite a few more reps
if you just cheated a little bit so
rather than cheating I compensate by
doing this mini drop set to really
finish things off and I'm using a middle
overhand grip at about 1 to 1.5 times
shoulder width here when doing straight
sets I'll often use a different grip
width for each set however because the
entire point of feeder sets is to get in
a good Groove and establish a strength
Baseline I'd rather keep my grip
consistent from set to set here and the
middle grip is usually the sweet spot
because if you go too wide you'll
shorten the range of motion and if you
go really close the biceps tend to take
over a bit more I'd also recommend using
straps on your failure sets this way
your grip strength won't limit the
number of reps your back can do and I
also find that most people are able to
feel a much stronger mind muscle
connection when they strap in if you
don't have straps I'd recommend at least
using a thumbless grip which in my
coaching experience is one of the best
cues for helping people engage their
back better one last thing I've noticed
from many of the ifbb pros who train at
my gym is that they aren't super stiff
and uptight when they train I think this
is a good thing when I allow my body to
move more naturally and be more fluid
within reason I can feel the target
muscle working so much better than if
I'm very stiff and uptight so on
exercises like this I think it's okay if
you allow yourself to lean and rock a
bit as long as you're feeling the target
muscle pulling and stretching under
control especially on the negative okay
after that we're hitting three sets of
10 to 12 reps on the Omni grip chest
supported machine
I mean grip just means that you're using
a different grip for each set so for set
one we're using a wider grip on set two
we're using a slightly closer grip and
then on set three we're using either a
neutral or under a hand grip now I'm
using this panata chest supportive
machine at my gym but you can use any
chest supportive machine that you feel
working your back well that can be a
simple t-bar row or if you don't have
machine access you can simply do a Helms
row with dumbbells bracing your chest
against the back of an incline bench in
my opinion every pull day should have at
least two main types of exercises a
vertical pull like the lat pull down we
just did and a horizontal pull like the
machine row we're doing here now and
while both exercises will hit the entire
back to a substantial degree the lat
pull Downs will emphasize the lats and
Terrace muscles while the rows will
emphasize the traps and rhomboids of the
mid-back especially if we focus on
actively squeezing our shoulder blades
together and like I mentioned earlier
we're using three different grips for
each of the three working sets simply
because the back is so complex and it's
made up of so many different muscles
that I'll pull on the skeleton in
slightly different ways so hitting those
muscles from slightly different angles
by varying your grip position makes a
lot of sense okay after that we're
moving on to a superset of bottom half
dumbbell lat pullovers and a static lat
stretch for a 30 second hold and we're
doing two sets of each so we'll do a set
of pullovers stretch our right lat for
30 seconds stretch our left lap for 30
seconds rest for 30 seconds then do a
second set of pullovers then scratch our
left lat for 30 seconds stretch our
right lat for 30 seconds and then move
on to the next exercise so just note
that we're switching the order of the
side we're stretching first on each of
those supersets now I'm calling these
bottom half pullovers because we're
completely cutting out the top half of
the range of motion instead just staying
in the more lengthened stretched aspect
of the lift and this is because there's
virtually zero tension on the lats at
the top now I'm not sure how many people
in my audience are aware of this ongoing
debate but the pullover has been
recently added to the chopping block of
exercises for the last little while
online some coach have been arguing that
because the labs don't have the best
leverage with the arms positioned
overhead the pullover is probably not a
very good exercise choice for the lats
however just because the lats aren't
optimally leveraged with the arms
overhead doesn't mean that they can't
still experience stretch and tension as
long as the bulk of the muscle fibers
are behind the active joint which they
are in this case they'll still have some
leverage on that joint and I personally
still like the dumbbell lat pullover as
a stretch type exercise for the lats for
two very simple reasons first I always
feel a great stretch on my lats when I
do them and second my lats are always
sore for a day or two after doing them
now neither of those two things are
ideal for determining exercise selection
on their own but when they line up over
years of training I think they're
perfectly reasonable proxies for muscle
activation of course the only way to
really know if the pullover is a good
lat exercise would be if someone did a
longitudinal hypertrophy study where
they measured the lat thickness of a
group doing pullovers versus the lat
thickness of a group not doing pullovers
across several months but as far as I'm
aware that study doesn't exist so until
that study comes out and potentially
proves me wrong I still think lap
pullovers are a solid option to include
as for the stretching I do one lat at a
time by just grabbing onto something
solid and leaning my hips back until I
feel a nice deep stretch all along one
side of my back I'll hold that stretch
for 30 seconds at a 7 out of 10
intensity so just before the feeling of
pain or discomfort and then I'll switch
and do the other side I talked about the
benefits of intercept stretching in my
last push Day video so if you didn't
catch that one I'll link it down below
okay after that we're doing three sets
of 12 to 15 reps on the Omni Direction
face pull again omnidirection just means
that we're pulling from a different
direction on each set on set one we'll
position the cable low and pull from low
to high on set two we'll position the
cable at shoulder height and pull more
or less straight across in the middle
and then on set three we'll position the
cable high and pull down toward the eyes
and again this just goes back to the
concept of the back being a big complex
web of different muscles and so while it
is true that a vertical pull and a
horizon horizontal pull are the only two
movements you really need to grow your
back I think that if we're trying to
maximize back development hitting things
from a variety of different angles is
likely more optimal okay so after that
we're moving on to three sets of six to
eight reps on the Easy Bar bicep curl I
find a lot of people neglect lower rep
bicep work and just aim for the pump and
mind muscle connection but I think
including a bit of both is important so
here we're using some decent weight and
focusing on Progressive overload in a
low to moderate rep Zone you can treat
this more like you would a bench press
or a deadlift where you should track the
weights you're using over time and make
sure that either the weight or the
number of reps you're hitting is
increasing from week to week obviously
it's important to keep your form
consistent but a little bit of hip drive
on the positive to get the bar moving is
okay as long as you're controlling the
negative on each and every rep all right
and then to finish off the workout we're
doing two sets of 10 to 12 reps on the
bottom half preacher curl so here we're
doing partial reps in the stretched
aspect of the lift only I decided to
include these based on the results of
this 2021 study from sadle and
colleagues which split 30 32 subjects
into one of three groups one group did
only the bottom half of their preacher
curls so they curled from 0 to 50
degrees of elbow flexion another group
did only the top half of their preacher
curls so they curled from 80 to 130
degrees of elbow flexion and then the
third group was a control group they
didn't train at all after five weeks the
bottom half group saw more than twice
the gains in muscle thickness as the top
half group indicating that the
lengthened stretched aspect of preacher
curls is the more hypertrophic part of
that lift and then in the study the
authors highlighted a whole bunch of
other literature pointing toward the
idea that training a muscle at longer
muscle lengths is very important for
muscle growth and here I like to do one
side at a time so I'll start with my
weaker arm and then match the reps with
my stronger arm this is good for
preventing any little bicep asymmetries
from developing and also helps me focus
on really feeling the stretch and
mentally focusing all the tension to one
bicep at a time and like I said earlier
if you'd like to have the entire
push-pull legs program all in one place
so you can just go to the gym and run it
you can pick up the full 12 week
ultimate push leg system over on
jeffnipper.com I think it's my most
interesting program to date in terms of
How It's structured and sequenced across
three distinct phases of training and
it's definitely my most bodybuilding
Focus program to date as well there's
also a four day five day and six day per
week version of the program available
depending on how many days per week you
can train so I'll leave a little more
info about that in the description box
down below if you'd like to check it out
and that's it for this one guys thank
you so much for watching don't forget to
leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the
video subscribe if you haven't already
and I'll see you guys all here in the
next one