hey guys Sean nwani here of
bodytransformationtruth.com and in this
video I want to go over the concept of
time under tension and discuss whether
or not it is an important aspect of your
workout plan and if it's something that
you need to be concerning yourself with
so what is time under tension well just
like the name implies time under tension
or t UT for short uh focuses on the
total length of time that each set lasts
rather than worrying about any specific
number of reps performed so instead of
aiming for say eight reps in a given set
you might instead aim for a total time
under tension of say 50 seconds and once
that 50 seconds was up you would then
discontinue your set regardless of how
many reps you performed now you're going
to hear different guidelines depending
on who you talk to to but as a general
overall guideline a total time under
tension of around 1 to 20 seconds is
typically considered ideal for gains in
strength 30 to 60 seconds is considered
ideal for hypertrophy and about 70 to
100 seconds or more is considered ideal
for endurance but again these are just
estimates and it is going to vary uh
depending on who you talk to now is time
under tension important for muscle
growth and is it better for you to count
time rather than reps well the short
answer is that while the total amount of
time that your muscles spend under
tension certainly does play a role in
achieving optimal muscle building
results it's really not something that
you need to be worrying about when it
all comes down to it although you will
see all sorts of different guidelines
being given such as 20 seconds for uh
gains in strength or 60 seconds for
gains in hypertrophy these are
ultimately just based on anecdote and
personal opinion rather than on any sort
of well-controlled research and the
truth here is that it's not as if
anybody actually knows for certain uh
which specific time frames are best for
each individual training goal in the
first place time under tension really
just tells us something that most
lifters already probably know and that
is that very short sets performed using
a very low number of reps so probably
around four less are likely not ideal
for hypertrophy but are going to be
better suited to strength gains and that
very long sets performed using a
particularly High number of reps so
usually above 12 uh are also not going
to be ideal for hypertrophy but are more
suited to endurance gains and this is
why when it comes to maximizing muscle
growth you'll almost always be given a
recommended rep range of anywhere from
about 5 up to 12 reps per set so as long
as you're training somewhere in this
range and you're executing your reps
using a fast and explosive concentric
and a reasonably well-rolled uh negative
then there's really no need for you to
worry about anything beyond that in
terms of specific time frames you're
likely going to land within the typical
time under ttention uh recommended
ranges for hypertrophy anyway and even
if you do happen to miss a few seconds
again as I said before keep in mind that
these ranges are really just estimates
anyway not only is worrying about time
under tension an unnecessary aspect of
your workout plan but it can also have
potentially negative effects as well and
this is because setting up a stopwatch
and Performing your sets with an exact
time frame in mind uh is actually quite
distracting and it will ultimately take
your focus away from the things that
really matter matter when it comes to
maximizing muscle growth such as proper
rep Tempo uh intensity levels and a
focus on progression in weight and Reps
not only that but training with the goal
of optimizing time under tension also
typically causes most lifters to
intentionally slow down their rep
Cadence uh in order to make sure that
they reach the minimum time requirements
now there's no question that it's
important for you to remain in complete
control of the weight at all times
throughout your Set uh but the research
is fairly clear in demonstrating that
taking the super slow approach uh to
your lifting Cadence is not going to be
ideal for maximizing muscle hypertrophy
the concentric portion of the rep or the
lifting phase that should be performed
as hard and as fast as possible while
still maintaining proper form and while
the Ecentric portion or the lowering
phase uh should definitely be performed
under deliberate control uh going any
longer than about 4 seconds is likely
going to be excessive again this is just
another example of how focusing on time
under tension can actually work against
you rather than for you so my suggestion
here is to just forget about the concept
of time under tension altogether and
just put your focus on four main things
during any given set number one
performing the uh exercise using proper
forming technique number two utilizing
proper rep Tempo so as I said before uh
an explosive concentric and a controlled
but not overly slow Ecentric uh number
three training with a sufficient level
of intensity by performing each set
about one to two reps short of
concentric muscular failure and number
four focusing on improving upon the
previous workouts performance by either
increasing the amount of weight lifted
On Any Given exercise or by performing
additional reps using the the same
weight if you are doing all four of
these things on each set that you
perform then you're already going to
make awesome gains in the gym and
worrying about time under tension is
really just going to be completely
unnecessary so thanks for watching this
video Lesson I hope you found the
information useful here today if you
want to learn everything that you need
to know when it comes to uh structuring
The Perfect workout plan for yourself
based on your individual goals and body
type along with step-by-step meal plans
supplement guides and other useful tips
make sure to head over to
bodytransformationtruth.com and grab my
complete body transformation blueprint
system by clicking the icon at the top
of the video or using the link in the
description box below if you did enjoy
the video as always please make sure to
hit the like button leave a comment and
subscribe to stay up todate on future
videos and make sure to check out my
official blog over at shann now.com for
all of my latest articles tips and other
updates talk to you again
soon