zombies they bite Grandma Grandma's a
zombie now well grandma's already dead
let's pretend I'm just kidding actually
that's really fucked up she's gonna
watch us and be like what the fuck is
wrong with you
what the hell she just buried her own
grandma on the show you forgot about
your grandma Scott let's go man we can't
be around these people guys I've hit
PR's on swamp ass that I never thought
were possible I am just dripping have
you ever been in a situation where you
have to rescue someone but they're fat
like me and you're just like fuck it
this guy's too fat
you do know CrossFit is a drug tested
sport right I'm well aware
I'm not an athlete my parole officer
says I'm not allowed to take off my
shirt in public anymore it's been a
giant misunderstanding I guess
regretting your life that haunts you on
a daily basis meeting a guy named Dr
Mike Israel is getting to be a common
answer