there's not like one right way to do the
lateral raise there are plenty of good
options for folks with sensitive
shoulders if they give you a little bit
of trouble what you can do is allow a
race to almost parallel if you troll no
big deal you get a great shoulder
stimulus some other folks might try to
go all the way too parallel and back
down and that's totally fine if your
shoulders can take it that's probably a
little bit better there is another
version where you go to above parallel
and then you can get a really really
baller shoulder pump and everything
works out super great if your shoulder
joints can take it that's also good and
then of course there's the super ROM
variant and what you go all the way up
and then control the eccentric all the
way up and control The Eccentric that's
not like better but it can provide an
awesome shoulder stimulus if your
shoulder drugs can take it just know
that there are options
foreign