all right what's going on guys so just
wanted to do a quick update for you guys
I'm gonna do this video as kind of like
a voiceover over my training from the
last week and just kind of summarize my
thoughts on how prep is going so far I
recorded a podcast with Cliff Wilson
just last week and that's live on the
channel now and also on iTunes and one
of the reoccurring themes that I sort of
noticed in this conversation was that
there are really no tricks there's no
secret to getting stage lean and most of
the time it really doesn't just boil
down to continuing to diet pushing a
little bit harder he's digging a little
deeper and just giving yourself plenty
of time to get ready and even amongst
you know the best coaches in the
business there really isn't any one
secret protocol that we can turn to to
get you there it's just a matter of
continuing to push continuing to grind
keep dieting even when you think you're
completely ready just continue to push
it a little bit further and this is
something that I've really taken on in
this prep you know I've given myself 20
weeks and I've already been dieting for
eight weeks so I'm almost at the halfway
point already and in comparison to other
preps it just doesn't feel as though
I've been dieting for eight weeks
already the time is just completely
flown by I think that's because I'm just
taking a slow and steady approach int
everything is still just liveable at
this point my macros haven't gotten
reduced to the point where you know I
feel depleted or
hungry all the time or energy deprived
or anything like that yes once in a
while you know my my mood will be a
little bit more depressed or things that
wouldn't typically annoy me so much
might annoy me a little bit more might
be a little bit more irritable but that
was actually more so at the beginning of
the cut when I first started then how I
am now and I think a lot of that has to
do this but the fact that I've just sort
of embraced the fact that you know this
is what I'm doing and it's what I want
to do you know these are just that grows
like it's just body building and it's
nothing worth affecting your personal
life over and I guess I just settled
into a way of prepping now or it just
feels more sustainable than it would
have been in the past where you have a
really strict deadline you feel rushed
against the clock all the time you feel
like you're always playing catch-up
that's something that I'm really
enjoying about this present I've also
really noticed a difference
psychologically in having a coach take
over on my last contest prep I ran
everything myself and this can be a huge
psychological burden for yourself
because looking at yourself in the
mirror and not sort of having that
unbiased eye to give you a second
opinion can constantly just play on your
mind you know you can second-guess
things and even if you have a lot of
experience coaching other people it's
still sometimes difficult to know when
or how early to pull the trigger on your
macros or make changes having an Erica
someone who you know I trust in has
allowed me to just relax and just follow
the protocol trust the process I don't
think I'll ever be going back to doing a
prep on my own again I just feel that
I'm able to be so much more
you use with what I do when I know that
having to worry about getting me in
stage shape is in the someone else's
hands and that isn't to say that you
can't guide yourself through the
coaching process and I've done it myself
but from a standpoint of just
psychological health and even just a
little bit of expert reassurance and
stability
I would definitely highly recommend just
getting a coach because there are enough
coaches out there who are science-based
and we're gonna lead you down the right
path and add 175 grams of protein 250
grams of carbs and 55 grams of fat and I
don't always hit those dead-on I was
usually beat off by you know 5 grams on
each up or down so if I am say over five
grams on fats
I will scale the carbs down say 10 grams
or so so that the overall calories will
still be pretty similar from day to day
that's just a viewpoint that I've always
had when it comes to contest prep and
trishing and training and everything
is that that little bit of extra dietary
freedom in the form of not focusing so
much on the precision can allow for a
lot less stress in my experience it
frees up your options to enjoy some
different foods and things like that it
we have also been doing something that I
call bracketing my day so I'll wake up
I'll have the exact same breakfast every
morning which is scrambled egg whites
with some fat-free cheese on it and then
60 grams of whole meal and some berries
and that just allows me to for one to
save some time because it can be a pain
you know you wake up what am I gonna
have for breakfast today if it's
different from day to day you can kill a
bunch of time just thinking about what
you're gonna have and then you have to
enter it all into MyFitnessPal
individually I would rather have a
little bit more set structure than that
so when I wake up I know exactly what
I'm gonna have I can just copy it over
from the previous day and I just find
that to be so convenient and then I also
will add in my last meal which is
usually my fourth or fifth meal of the
day at the beginning of the day so I
know that I always have those macros
there and if I do want to change the
meal a little bit I at least have it
accounted for ahead of time so that you
know the end of the day doesn't come and
I'm not super hungry going today and
that last meal is a salad just a ton of
romaine lettuce with chicken breast and
goat cheese low-fat salad dressing
usually like some very zucchini
mushrooms or whatever and it's just this
huge pile of food so I can always go to
bed I'm having a relatively full stomach
and that just helps me sleep a little
bit better and then in between those
meals
I'll have the freedom to fit my the rest
of my macros how it please because I do
take care of my fruit and veggie
requirements in those two meals for the
most part and then with the other meals
in between I can fit in some foods that
I enjoy and give myself a little bit of
extra dietary flexibility without losing
that sort of baseline level structure
still just doing three to four cardio
sessions per week I'll either do that in
the morning in the form of a walk of
doors or I'll do the elliptical or the
bike after my workout and during that
I'll usually get to eat or listen to a
podcast or something that hasn't got too
much of a
yes my weight has been stable for about
two weeks now at around 156 so I'm
anticipating that I'll be getting a drop
in macros soon but I am ready for it
like I said I feel as though I've
adapted to these macros and I just feel
comfortable on them so I feel ready to
give it a little extra push at this
point and just continue to take things
as they come I'm really excited for the
rest of this prep the natty professor is
gonna be competing at the same
competition as me he won them up the
Musclemania in California this year I
want it at the previous so it'll be
interesting to see what happens with
that showdown but that's just a little
bit of extra motivation for me to keep
pushing and keep training as as hard as
I possibly can
alright guys so that's going to conclude
the commentary on the video I hope that
you guys enjoyed the rest of this
training footage and thanks for all the
support feel free to like the video and
subscribe if you're going the sort of
content thanks again for watching