how do you know if you're actually
pushing yourself hard enough the good
news you probably are that's a big
question or people actually accurate at
gauging how close the failure they are
that's what our study tried to answer
you're likely a lot more accurate than
you think you are our meta-analysis
found that on average when people were
asked to rate how many routes they could
have done people were only off in their
estimation by one rep people were most
accurate in sets of up to 12 repetitions
when you get above 12 repetitions people
tend to underestimate themselves by more
and more so not only can we use reps and
Reserve as a means to make sure we're
getting good stimulus we can also be
pretty sure that by using this tool
we're actually pretty accurate the one
practical recommendation I have for
people who really struggle to think they
have an accurate estimate of represent
Reserve would be to take their last set
of failure trading to failure only some
sets is probably a good idea for
hypertrude enemies but by doing so you
also get a learning experience of how
does one weapon Reserve or failure
actually feel and look like and
hopefully over time that will help you
become slightly better at engaging
custom Reserve