to ensure that the entire muscle is
worked it is important that you perform
all of the exercises through a full
range of motion this is generally very
good advice I will say that recent
research has Illustrated that maybe the
full range of motion isn't the best to
best but whatever range of motion you do
the Deep super big stretch has to be a
critical component to maximize your
hypertrophy outcomes so you don't have
to train with the full ROM but whatever
part of the range of motion you cut out
should not be that deep stretch and when
we see people in the real gym squats
benches push-ups which part they cutting
out that deep deepest stretch to the
muscle part that's the one you don't
want to cut out for the 80s training
with a full- range motion was very very
good advice and I would say quite apt