foreign
folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization welcome back to the
targeting the muscle Series today we're
doing the technically most important
exercise anyone could ever do
the machine chest press that's right
Grandma did it mom did it great grandma
hated it great great grandma intervented
it and died by it in it actually
it's very difficult to die in one of
these short of a cardiac event what the
hell am I saying we have tips for how to
take any machine chest press that's
reasonably built and this one sure as
hell is thanks Nautilus and get the most
out of it if you have trouble feeling
your pecs let's get into the tips
all right tip number one and this is
actually probably the first thing you
would do is to make sure that the seat
height is appropriate for you so check
this out I'll demo quick right now it's
on elevated seat height for me and I
actually surprisingly even though I'm
only four foot nine I have uh actually
quite a large uh sorry long torso I
guess it's large too yeah I have a
pretty long torso so if I get into the
machine like this
for me you guys notice I'm like kind of
pushing down which is like all well and
good but I don't feel like I can
generate a ton of power this way and I
don't feel like my pecs are working a
ton as much as they could be so for me I
prefer a look at them look at how easy
Nautilus makes this a lower seat height
so now that the seat is lower oh man
that's how I can get really really
settled in here and do some really good
work so for you there's no correct
answer as to what seat height is best
play with a few of them and see which
one you like most which one you can feel
your pets work in the best tons of
tension tons of pump tons of burn so on
and so forth
all right next tip and this is
unfortunately not possible with all
machines and the Machine switch is not
possible you should throw away
immediately or complain to your gym
owner is adjusting the range of motion
of the handles a lot of hypertrophy
based on research and theory and a lot
of practical experience from almost
everyone who's reasonably intelligent
seems to occur deep in a stretch with
heavy loads and if you're in a machine
and you haven't played with the
adjustment you could be in a situation
where you're you're pressing like this
now notice the stack is clinking and I'm
not even at normal bench press steps yet
machines can offer you greater than
bench press steps which is one of their
options so if you're in a situation
where you can't free your pecs well I
can't feel my pecs either because I'm
barely getting a stretch now if I make
the adjustment here
and I lower
the situation
we could have done a slightly better job
with one of those pressing things but I
get in to the super deep now watch this
oh my God this is as deep as I go I'm
not warmed up
all the way up
super deep stretch it makes all the
difference in the world and a lot of
times
if you're using a machine or you've been
using it for a while you're like I don't
like this machine you sort of haven't
put your finger on exactly why you might
not have realized that there is a
selectorized uh difference in How Deep
The Machine goes and if you adjust the
selector to go nice and deep you're
going to be like oh my God I wrote this
machine off for no reason this is
actually incredible I actually love
using it give it some thought give it a
try
[Music]
next notice we haven't even talked about
actually doing the repetitions yet and
just set up is grip width and again here
there is not really a super correct
answer it's all to preferences all to
feel it's all to individual
anthropometry so we have an option of
taking a very wide grip and a lot of
times that works well for people's pecs
especially if you retract your shoulder
blades and push your chest out like
you're supposed to be on every chest
movement
this can feel amazing it can really let
you feel the chest and your triceps
don't have to be a super big limiting
factor now for some people their
shoulders feel so weird and it's such a
big stretch for the pecs that they can't
generate a lot of force it ends up being
not the correct answer in addition to
that if you have the chest super wide
sometimes it actually limits the range
of motion because your elbows can't go
back that far so for some folks a closer
grip can actually fry the living
out of their pecs because it allows them
a huge range of motion with the exercise
and the elbow survival real far back
that humorous angle is super deep and
then it allows you a really good
situation and of course there's
somewhere in the middle between the two
and that's often where you should start
and experiment from there again there
are no correct answers here and anyone
who tells you all this grip is better
because this PubMed study on 12
undergraduates who never lifted before
as an EMG that doesn't tell us anything
said that my grips better blah blah
that's all good and well and you could
start at whatever the studies say but
absolutely adjust to your own preference
two things we're looking for one where
do we feel the muscle the best and the
deepest stretch and the most pump and
burn and two where are our shoulder
joints and elbow joints more comfortable
sometimes even wrists because if you go
out super wide your wrists feel weird
comfy joints hit for the muscle and
we're golden
oh
kind of a combo tip
slow eccentric and a pause at the bottom
so if you're having trouble feeling your
pecs
this
is absolutely a fine Cadence for people
who don't have trouble feeling their
backs but if you have trouble family
packs what you could do is take a real
slow eccentric three or four seconds
really try to feel your chest opening up
and then at the bottom pause for like
two seconds one and two and up
slow eccentric feel those pecs spreading
chest up at the bottom pause oh that
even hurts there's barely any weight for
me this is not a very heavy machine it's
not that I'm strong and I can already
feel my packs with this with with this
tip slow eccentric
big pause and then up yes you will get
fewer reps yes you will be able to lift
less weight but you will potentially
be able to stimulate your packs that
much more at a smaller expense to your
joints if you have trouble feeling your
pecs I 100 advise that you give this a
shot
[Music]
last tip and this one works especially
well granted you're doing everything
else correctly so when you set up at the
bench make sure you can get a really
deep stretch make sure your shoulders
are back chest is up everything's flat
everything's tight and solid
where do your elbows go fundamentally
there are two extremes one is your
elbows stay in
both on The Eccentric and the concentric
okay option two is you flare your elbows
out okay
there's a third option the Third Way
awkward historical reference
is elbows at roughly 45 degrees
I would start at 45 but I would play
around with close and I would play
around with wide as far as double
position or sorry tight in and
outstretched to see which one you feel
works best and there's kind of a
combinatorial part here where if you
have a wider grip a narrow elbow angle
sometimes feels really weird but
a a big open angle feels great if you
have an arrow grip sometimes the close
angle feels great if you have a medium
grip it really is uh whatever feels best
so again anyone who tries to tell you
there's a correct way to push your
elbows could be statistically correct 60
40 uh you know sixty percent of people
that try the bench or 45 degree elbow
angle or whatever could be optimal but
remember you're not a statistic don't
don't end up being statistic I'm like a
90s anti-drug commercial you know I'm
not the person will tell you that so you
are an individual and that means that
you have to figure out a way that works
best for you so if tons of people are
like yeah 45 degrees is the best and you
feel amazing if you pull your elbows in
who the is going to tell you that's
that's the wrong way if your shoulders
your elbows and your wrists feel great
and whatever elbow angle you play with
feels best for hitting your pecs you get
a bigger pump you get a bigger sensation
of the muscle having a ton of tension
throughput you get sore Etc et cetera
then that's the right answer folks
it comes down to this any machine can be
used better or worse and the Machine
design is of course important but there
are lots of great machines out there
that you can use very poorly but with
the tips I'm giving you especially here
on the chess machine and there's tons
more videos like this to come in other
machines you can alter the machine use
the machine position your body in such a
way that gives you a much better
stimulus for the Target muscle than
otherwise if you have no problem
targeting your packs you could just I
don't even know why you're watching this
video feel free to report us or some
 like that don't do that at least
but if you are having trouble targeting
your packs try some of these tips be
patient with them try them for a few
weeks really feel out your body you may
come to have several ways of using a
chess machine that's working really
great for you you might only have one
but if we found one way that works best
for you well you kind of owe us
pack size you show up to the club and
girls are like hey what's up what are
you up to and you're like
and she's like oh my God pack Morse code
and then I was gonna do sexual things
with my face but that's not YouTube
friendly see you guys later comment like
subscribe and if you have exercises or
machines you want us to talk about
optimizing for the Target muscle please
let us know in the comments and also let
us know what your favorite flavor of ice
cream is
um if it's moose tracks don't comment
because you're a idiot I'm
totally kidding see you guys next time
[Music]