our next exercise is an alternating
standing dumbbell row make sure to put
the ah it was only a matter of time
until the fucking end
[Music]
hey folks I'm Dr Michael creator of the
RP hypertrophy app and professor of
exercise and sports science at Lehman
College and I am here to review gal
gadot's workout for Wonder Woman
1984. on a side note Gal Gadot is uh
Jewish and so am I are you without
family
let's get into it my name is Magnus
slickback
yes Magnus thank God he's back the man
behind every beautiful Hollywood body
you have ever seen and will see Magnus
look back I'm from a country far to the
North and I've brought two things for
you one is my Viking sword in which I
Crush my enemies and two is completely
pointless workouts where I fucking rip
off Hollywood celebrities and if I ever
see that Dr Mike guy he's getting the
Viking treatment he's got the video guy
why don't you shut up we're from the
north of the countries we're very calm
peoples but we can get pretty irate you
know in his last video we saw him
wearing a velor tracksuit something is
missing in my heart this isn't the
madness I've come to know and love let's
find out where this goes I'm a personal
trainer nutritionist oh a nutritionist
oh I don't even want to pull on that
string let's hit it so today I'm going
to show you one of the days from the
program that I did with Gal Gadot
I got a program for Gal Gadot I'm gonna
stop Mike stop that's not appropriate
[Music]
so when gal came to me we had about damn
look at him hanging out with Hollywood
so what do I got to do with Hangout
though she's probably eight feet taller
than me but you know what I'm saying
baby I could look up been looking up to
you a long time if you know what I mean
again I will I will stop five months to
prepare for filming when you start
preparing for a marathon of a movie like
this you want to make sure to build a
strong Foundation agreed I love it
Marathon movie strong Foundation check
check included in that is to screen
someone physically to see how they move
screen them physically to see how they
move I wonder how the program changes
other than like you lift less weight to
begin with I think she moves like any
other human being no maybe I just don't
know enough things which is why I'm not
training Hollywood celebrities when
building a character you really need to
break down what character needs and if
you look at Wonder Woman she obviously
needs I know what she needs a bitch you
gotta fly jump tall buildings in a
single bound punch through walls block
bullets what else obviously needs the
physique she needs the physique of
course how did I miss that she also
needs strength ability agility and
endurance I'm pretty sure he listed
every single human physical quality I
guess she's got it all uphill training
battle here to film in movies like
running a marathon it's not a Sprint you
need to make sure that you stay healthy
and that you last for the whole duration
folks I'm I'm so sure how movie filming
occurs but if you're unable to stay
healthy for the duration of a movie
Shoot you're probably in a state of
health that exercise might not be able
to help you with you need to see real
doctors that know things keeping someone
healthy through a movie Shoot is a
matter of them just being alive Joaquin
Phoenix makes it through a movie Shoot
folks I don't think he's ever seen a
weight in his entire life Wow Wow
Hollywood celebrity trainers just make
the person me
[Music]
Wonder Woman's Gotta Have not delts
which Magnus doesn't have but that's
neither here nor there that's just me
being catty two is maybe be able to move
generally in a way that allows you to do
the stunts that CGI and your stunt woman
doesn't do which is almost nothing
they're not getting ready for a marathon
motherboards a photo shoot it's a video
shoot Hollywood
[Music]
it would be disaster if your client
would get injured and production needs
to stop it would cost millions of
dollars so that's true it would be a
disaster if your client gets injured so
maybe you can take them through full
Rangers of motion with heavy loads in
training progressing slowly through that
to a high degree of Competency and
ability such that they are highly
inoculated against injury and I'm sure
that's what's going to be happening here
when building a superhero it takes a
village false take only me Magnus
lickback I am the village all you need
is me and my Viking sword so it's not
only me as a trainer there's also a
stunt team stunt team much more
important job than you have agreed stunt
doubles body doubles body doubles what I
assume he doesn't also train physios
okay in case she hurts her knee or
something and chefs chefs I thought he
was gonna say nutritionist this really
is Hollywood isn't it it takes a lot of
chefs to keep me upright too I feel his
pain as a profoundly rich man so what I
do on a movie set is I take care of the
fiscal training I make sure that the
right food comes up at the right time
and that my actor actress eats it it's
good that he's like in charge of getting
food into them that's that's tight I
also make sure to warm them up before a
big physical scene whoa he gets to warm
them up before a physical scene that's
kind of interesting I wouldn't think
that was a thing I would think that the
stunt coordinator would do that but and
just oh oversee things so they don't get
injured I don't
I don't get oversee things that prevent
injury he's not a sports medicine doctor
maybe he has magic back in the size I
can see when the stunt will cause injury
and I can prevent it obviously
nutrition's a big part of building a
superhero I will cover that in another
video today it's going to be more about
the training it's got the video guy
we're gonna get that nutrition video
stat does it exist Scott the video guy
found the video about gal gadot's diet
so let me take a look at that one
like Wonder Woman hi I'm Magnus I've
been a trainer for 20 years
helping actors to getting superhero
shape today we're talking about gal
gadot's nutrition for Wonder Woman 84. I
like that every nutrition video has like
raw vegetables and eggs as props next to
it if you're confused about what kind of
video you're watching It's A nutrition
video look at the foods they're so
healthy
I don't believe in extreme diets or
shortcuts I think that good food is a
big part of life and I don't really want
to exclude Foods out of my diet hey this
is good stuff no food exclusion just
manipulation so far so good Magnus is
the man the Magnus may be actually one
of the best Hollywood trainers which
unfortunately isn't saying a ton with
that said I try to focus on nutrition in
17 out of every 20 meals interesting
rationale there 17 out of 20. so gal ate
five meals per day that's 20 meals in
four days four days we made sure that 17
out of those 20 meals were on point that
meant not only hitting our
macronutrients protein fat and carbs but
also avoiding simple fast cars the
reason we avoided the simple fast carbs
simple fats and carbs what the fuck is a
simple fat is that they have more impact
on your blood sugar oh simple fast carbs
they have more of an impact on your
blood sugar I don't know why that's a
bad thing he not diabetic humans can
regulate their blood sugar perfectly if
the fast carbs take it up your body
takes it back down and if you control
your calories it has essentially no
impact on your body composition outside
of maybe you're trying to be a pro
bodybuilder we'll see my goal for gal
was to eat about 100 grams of protein
per day 100 grams of protein per day for
gal I don't know how much she weighs but
it can't be much more than 130 or 140
it's probably less uh so 100 grams is
decent about 200 to 240 grams of slow
carbs 200 to 240 grams slow carbs
not bad and 80 to 90 grams of good fats
whoa that's a lot of fat wow 89 grams of
good that's what I eat and I'm like 18
times her size not terrible not a
terrible diet at all I love it so gal
would eat breakfast morning snack lunch
afternoon snack and dinner
so you're probably asking what was on
the menu for gal a typical breakfast
would consist of eggs with a slow carb
could also be a protein boosted
overnight oats a typical lunch would
consist of either chicken or fish with
some slow carbs and some good fats and a
ton of vegetables I don't see any slow
carbs in those pictures this looks like
veggies and avocados maybe they forgot
the carbs or some shit I don't know
maybe they're underneath don't forget
your vegetables a typical dinner would
be a grass-fed organic steak oh my God
everyone knows steak has to be organic
because everyone also knows that organic
confers zero advantages it is scam if
you didn't know that now you know a nice
salad and a slow carb like whole grain
rice the glycemic index which determines
how fast or slow carb is is insanely
overrated not most of these folks in
Hollywood are like a generation behind
modern nutritional science so I don't
blame it
if you want to try this diet at home
there's a way you can simplify this diet
and make it work you surface hell yeah
fist your way to success
so for breakfast you're gonna have one
fistful or protein
ideally eggs and then a half fist of
slow complex carbs your snack should be
a fistful of protein
with a half fist of good fats or slow
carbs lunch would be a fistful or
protein A Fistful of slow carbs it's a
lot of fisting to remember and two
fistrals are vegetables dinner is the
same as lunch one Fistful of protein one
Fistful of slow carbs two fish rolls of
vegetables this is actually very very
good advice for most people I love it
remember that five meals a day equals 20
meals in four days so think in four day
cycles why the fuck would you think in
four day cycles we have a seven day
cycle Magnus I don't like the week seven
is not the number I like and Greta
tonburg say that seven is bad then we
lead to global warming four days for
everyone 17 out of 20 meals should be on
point three out of 20 enjoy your life by
the way if you're trying to lose fat all
of your meals should be the kind of
meals you need three cheat meals out of
every 20 meals can throw you completely
off the rails on a fat loss diet on a
maintenance diet or muscle gain diet
this is very sensible advice if you're
going too extreme
this is not doable it's going to be poor
life and it's going to be extremely hard
to stick to this diet so please
have that pasta on a Wednesday have a
glass of wine on a Friday if that's what
you want 3 out of 20 meals enjoy life
with enjoying life 3 out of 20
that means you never have to have a
guilty conscience you never failed the
diet you know if you had something bad
or you treated yourself
next meal better be good
yeah if you're trying to get in shape
and not just sustain a healthy existence
you should probably be eating pretty
much all of your food for the two or
three or four months in which you're
doing this diet exactly to the tea and
you're tough enough to be able to do it
you don't have to just have cheat meals
all the time if regular good eating this
is uh totally good advice but again if
you're trying to get in shape you can do
better the great thing about this diet
is that you cannot fail you don't have
to have a guilty conscience yeah you can
fail in the diet you just start eating
way more shit than three out of 20. all
right that answers a lot of diet
questions let's get back to the workout
so I had Gail on a five day split it was
actually three day plus two day split
three plus two so far so good that
definitely adds up to five in the first
three days we would work through the
whole body once and then the two next
days or the two last days would work
through the body once again yeah so we
would work through the body two times in
five days I guess that makes sense he
described it awkwardly but uh whole body
in three days hopefully split somehow
and then whole body again in two days
peace very good way to go about it
Magnus never misses the first exercise
of the day is our warm up I'm using an
assault bike the first exercise is a
warm-up huh and I thought warm-ups came
before the exercises
okay on any day where I'm working out my
upper body I like to warm up with
something that activates my upper body
as well so I'm doing five minutes on the
salt bike assault bike rowing machine
five minutes that's a hell of a warm up
usually you would better off warming up
with actual weights like lifting them
with lighter loads and higher reps and
then slowly increasing over a few sets
in the load and decreasing the Reps but
this is a fine way to do it five minutes
has been excessive especially on an
assault bike if you're not just you know
sitting there doing almost nothing
I like that the demonstrator for this is
Magnus himself because look to be honest
Wonder Woman very strong but you have no
Viking Blood and that means she's not as
strong as me I do the workout she should
be so gracious I demonstrate on her
behalf he's an excellent beard also and
haircut
look at those legs Magnus got fucking
Wheels bro so our next exercise is a
wide grip lat pull down I'm doing 12
reps and three sets this video is odd
because it's the Wonder Woman workout
but then he's saying I'm doing 12 reps
in three sets also what is being
demonstrated is not really a lat pull
down it's more like a high row but
who's counting when it's wacky Hollywood
training not a terrible exercise fun
fine for training the back you can't be
very strong and benefit from this
exercise because if you're strong enough
you'll just pull yourself up off the
ground or forward into the machine but I
suppose gal gadot's not terribly strong
ratio to her body mass so good choice
our third exercise is for the chest it's
a push-up push-up's a great movement for
the chest depending on how strong you
are you can you can start with technique
and work your strength up so you can do
them flat and a good progression start
on an incline and go to Flat depending
on strength I love it so far so good
what I always do when I do push-ups is I
finish on my knees
[Music]
I've finished on my knees a few times no
wait wait people have finished
on me while I was on my knees
yeah
anyway hello gal gato so work to failure
and then try to do five to seven reps on
your knees I love it so you go close to
failure or to failure from your feet and
you get into knee push-ups and the lower
actual load to your muscles allows you
to crank out more UPS coaster failure
this is really good stuff this is
effective high quality training see I'm
not just a mean person that makes fun of
everyone I'm also Fair
honestly Magnus is good at this shit
Magnus as the actor for Wonder Woman and
Wonder Woman three that's my move our
next exercise is an alternating standing
dumbbell row make sure to put the uh it
was only a matter of time until the
factory began alternating standing
dumbbell row I like that it's called
standing dumbbell row because it's sure
shit not bent over so it's at least
accurate by a description
the alternating is to I guess piss away
a lot of energy trying to do double the
amount of time standing and get half the
Reps 20 Reps for three sets is fine if
you just bent over further and did it
two arms at a time he would get more of
an effect for the same amount of fatigue
but this looks cool and that's the thing
in Hollywood if it looks cool they'll do
it the dumbbells back on your hips
squeeze your rhomboids or shoulder
blades together chest forward squat down
a little bit and lean forward then you
fall into the middle you rotate the
dumbbell in and then you pull up make
sure not to rotate your spine prevent
that rotation you can totally rotate
your spine it's totally fine your spine
is designed to rotate so you go slow on
the way down eccentric and you go much
more explosive concentric on the way up
very great advice on The Eccentric
concentric Magnus knows things though it
may not appear at times that he does
towards the end of this program I'm
starting to superset a lot more so this
is the first superset of the day and
we're starting with a reversed fly with
dumbbells on an incline bench and then
we're turning around and we're doing an
incline fly on the bench so supersetting
antagonistic muscle groups is pretty
decent way to save a lot of time and get
a good workout but because of the
systemic fatigue that you accumulate
over the multiple sets and the switch
from one exercise to the other doesn't
allow you to perfect your Technique or
your mind muscle connection not the best
way to train if I was training somebody
for a Hollywood roll and they had a
decent amount of time which it seems
like she does have we just rest a normal
amount of time between sets in most
cases or do supersets where you superset
an Agonist muscle so for example you do
some pack flies and then you do some
dumbbell bench for the chest but small
critique this is fine to do 12 reps on
both for three rounds when doing a
reverse fly make sure to squeeze the
shoulders together shrug back keep your
Spine and Neck neutral uh it doesn't
matter where you put your Spine and Neck
you're not getting hurt with dumbbells
like that you can look up down forward
whichever way you want hurt your back or
neck doing 10 pound dumbbell flies you
got another thing coming and go fast on
the way out and slow on the way down
when doing a fly make sure that you
lower your shoulders and you slowly
stretch out as far as you're comfortable
with and then you go explosive on the
way up but good tips I wouldn't explode
out of a dumbbell fly but I'm just being
pedantic at this point generally very
good advice on the the Cadence and
technique so our final superset of the
day is all about the core so we're
starting with a crossover mountain
climber and then we're going straight
into rotational leg kicks
core shipped the crossover mountain
climber is an exercise that you cannot
progressively load as there is no way to
put any weights on your knees I'm also
not entirely sure what part of the core
that even trains let's see what the
superset is to when performing a
mountain climber make sure that you
lower your shoulders and you keep your
hands underneath your shoulders this is
just like weird stuff to do that looks
cool category when performing the
rotational leg kick make sure that your
shoulders are lowered keep your hands
underneath your shoulders rotate the hip
in underneath you it's an okay movement
there are so many more straightforward
time effective ways to train your abs
like hanging knee or leg raises any
abdominal crunch machine Any loaded
sit-up or crunch always the fancy shit
the Hollywood goes to I hate it and kick
on the opposite side and make sure that
your leg does not touch the floor I
don't know what they kick us for I just
don't know I've had a lot of education
and a lot of taught a lot of classes in
this I don't know what's going on that's
it that's one of the days from the whole
Wonder Woman program and obviously
different weeks would look different but
uh yeah this is a tough one I'm still
super impressed with how gal put her
through this program on a weekly basis
and as you can tell in the movie she she
looks great she does not only look the
part does she you know one of my big
gripes and this is not something I want
to take too seriously Wonder Woman's
supposed to be jacked she's a goddess in
Gal Gadot though beautiful and lovely
and Stellar it just kind of looks oh
skinny I'm going to hell I'm going to
feminist hell for saying that but I just
kind of wish they slabbed a bit more
muscle on her and these workouts are
actually quite good I'm not upset about
the workout hope you liked the video if
you want to see the full program it's on
my app
magnusmethod.com Magnus this method has
an app why did I hire a ton of Engineers
to help construct the RP hypertrophy app
and get all these years of education to
put into it I want to kind of just
downloaded the Magnus method app exact
training for today's top celebrities you
can train just like Gal Gadot Alicia V
Kinder James McAvoy Ben Affleck Alex
Skarsgard Katy Perry interesting and Dua
Lipa damn what do these people have in
common I train them and now I can train
you get full access today for just one
dollar Magnus this is too good to be
true okay so that is the workout listen
honestly
eight out of 10. a couple minor
critiques here and there but the upper
body workout was weight training based
just one stupid weird movement for abs
and training ABS is mostly pointless
because they're made in the kitchen and
not in the gym anyway so I'm not holding
them to a huge super high standard there
I can't hate it too much man uh Magnus
you consider yourself redeemed sir and
well forget about the Batman Ben Affleck
thing you guys can check out that video
of ours we did a while back that was a
fucking train wreck but uh Magnus knows
folks um good stuff and uh I'll leave
off with saying this last thing
Gal Gadot
hello
we'll see you guys next time
[Music]