[Music]
listen up I've got a story to tell by
the scientist as if you don't already
know the original Leng the gangster he's
the master of the lab the king of the
test with his love for length imp
partials he's the best of the best he's
got the theory the knowledge and the PHD
an exercise science he's the epitome
he's all about those games pushing
limits every day stretching muscles
longer it's the length and partials way
W length and partials way
Leng and
partials length and partials are my life
length and partials short muscle LS can
get the knif Dr Wolf he got the whole
world is suspense what on Earth could he
possibly say next length and partials
maybe long muscle lengths it won't be
short and partials cuz that don't make
sense length and
partials lengthen partials are my life
lengthen partials short muscles L SK get
the night
lals Leng [ __ ] [ __ ]
Leng
muss go get yourself an additional 10%
hypertrophy thanks to Dr mil wolf
communicating this THD Until the End
[ __ ]