that is optimally hard training smart
and hard I've only been described as one
of those no no hold on neither but I'm
trying to work on at least one viagara
is a hell of a
drun hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization I am a
professor of sport and exercise science
a competitive Grappler and Brazilian
jiu-jitsu wait a minute those are the
same thing bodybuilder and Brazilian ji
Jitsu Grappler and I want to help you
get fit but it's quite complicated at
times which why we have this Fitness
simplified series and on today's episode
we're going to talk about what hard
training actually is so that you can
know what it is and thus do it and thus
get great results so I can think of four
categories on which we can measure and
rank how hard training is because it's
not just one thing and a fifth bonus
category that is ultra Ultra important
so the four categories are load that is
how heavy are you lifting if you see
someone squatting 800 lb it's unlikely
that you're going to say whoa that's
really easy training unless they're just
speed repping it or something which
would be nuts there's relative effort
which is how close to failure are you
pushing yourself obviously very
intricately involved in what heart
training actually is then there's volume
a lot of people who train really close
to failure even Beyond failure Pat
themselves on the back a lot for being
hardcore and going hard if you're doing
one or two sets very close to failure
procession but that's not really that
hard volume is that other component
which is how many many sets are you
doing because even if each set is three
reps away from failure 20 sets in a
workout is fucking monstrous that's a
different kind of heart and lastly it's
easy to say you train hard if you train
pretty hard really close to failure with
heavy loads and high volumes twice a
week but if you train six times a week
that frequency is that fourth way that
we can measure how hard training is
because even if training isn't Ultra
hard just showing up often is a
different kind of hard which takes me to
the last fifth bonus way of conceiving
what hard training is and that's
consistency and I'll talk about this in
a little bit but consistency is a matter
of showing up week after week month
after month in some sense it is the
hardest thing to do and thus if you are
consistent no matter the other variables
you are training very very hard indeed
so let's talk about all of these
variables and where we need to align our
efforts so that we know we're training
hard and either we are not training
insufficiently hard to get the results
we want or that we are training so hard
that it's Overkill that it's actually
costing us all right let's start with
load how much weight is on the bar
anything in muscle growth and this is
for muscle growth by the way it's all
you strength people go be strong
somewhere else just kidding you're
welcome to stay and listen but some of
this will get you stronger most just
really jacked anything between sets of
five and sets of 30 repetitions per set
is a load that is challenging enough to
robustly stimulate hypertrophy robustly
predictably get you more jacked more
muscle on your body in such a way that
it's so close results wise someone does
only sets of five and someone else with
the same genetic makeup does only sets
of 30 after several months on average
those folks will have roughly the same
gains in muscle and everything in
between works as well however going much
outside of that range is no longer
optimal for example if you do sets of
two or three repetitions I mean so heavy
that you can't get five reps you know
it's not going to be ultra effective
because the total amount of muscular
stimulus is low simply because the time
you spend generating a crapload of
tension is very short in order to fully
stimulate your muscle molecular Machines
of growth you need to give them a a very
prolonged signal many reps more than
five if you do four reps do you not grow
any muscle no it's just less efficient
because you'll have to do a few extra
sets if you do one or two reps at a time
you'll have to do a lot of extra sets
and you're lifting so heavy that your
joints might not love it but you have to
do a lot of sets to make up all the work
it just might not be sustainable on the
other end if you do consistently sets of
40 50 or 60 reps unless you're a
beginner you're not going to be getting
ideal growth because those molecular
machines I just talked about they detect
tension and even if you do a crapload of
reps each rep has such a small amount of
tension that they just don't add up to
much for example if someone was
whispering in your ear in a lounge you
might hear them and be like oh oh yeah
Kelsey she likes me sweet she's kind of
cool but if they're Whispering really
really
quietly you might only get some fraction
of the message and be leave it melie
likes me the fuck who the fuck is melie
I don't know anyone Nam melie get the
fuck out of my face guy and then you
just totally misinterpret the message
it's so quiet that it doesn't even get
above the noise of the club or barely
just the same weight if a weight you're
lifting is so light that when it's
talking by analogy this is all just
molecular actions to the molecular
machines that detect tension it's like
hey molecular machines like grow some
muscle and they're like what grow
muscle okay yeah okay and maybe for a
beginner or if it's 35 reps instead of
65 that you're doing in one set yeah
yeah grow muscle and then I'll turn to
Mich machines that actually do it be
like hey grow a little muscle not a ton
and they're like why not of time like
the guy that asked for it it wasn't very
loud about it it was kind of kind like a
secret so keep it on down low if you go
into higher reps yeah you still grow
muscle but less and the higher the Reps
get you get to over 100 reps in one set
think about how light that weight has to
be a two pound dumbbell and then you may
outside of the novelty of just a very
different stimulus receive very little
growth and after a few weeks no growth
at all and then it's just cardio you
could actually lose muscle training with
that many repetitions because you're
getting really good at reps it's good
for other
things but uh no good at putting on
muscle so as such a thing is too heavy
anything fewer few than much fewer than
five reps per set and there is such a
thing as to light much fewer much more
reps many more reps than over 30 that's
load so 5 to 30 and you're fucking in
the clear next is relative effort
because notice something is missing from
the discussion of load I did say 5 to 30
reps but I never said how close to
failure because I can pick up a two-
pound dumbbell and get five reps and be
like boom hypertrophy range where's my
growth but the problem is you didn't
push the muscles close enough to failure
such that enough metabolites were
generated in them and these are
metabolic byproducts of muscle
contraction that caus muscle growth nor
did you get close enough to failure for
your biggest most growth prone parts of
your muscles called motor units to even
really activate much to start producing
tension and start signaling their own
growth it just wasn't Tough Enough so
hard training also means relative effort
which ranges somewhere between three or
four reps in reserve reps until you hit
you can't lift anymore all the way into
the negatives maybe like -2 which is
when your training partner after you
failed on the bench press grabs the bar
and takes a little bit of load off you
and you crunch out a couple more Forest
reps that's actually negative reps in
reserve you went two reps beyond what
you could have done to failure so long
as you're north of three or four reps in
reserve all the way up to well several
reps past failure there's really no
wrong answers you're training hard
enough for gains on average the concern
here becomes more of how sustainable is
this practice if with higher volumes
you're always crunching it to failure
and Beyond you might make take a few
weeks and then you need to D Lo really
relax all the training and maybe take a
week off because you've beaten yourself
up so much but if you start at something
like three reps in reserve and slowly
progress by increasing loads and
increasing reps that you do over time
you may be able to get six or eight or
even more weeks consistently training
hard hard enough to cause really great
gains so you know it's it's kind of like
uh you know if you go to a dance club
and you dance every song you're
psychotic dancing after three songs you
might get tired and be like fuck this
let's go to the lounge or go to Burger
King but if you pace yourself you may be
able to dance to eight total songs even
though you're just grooving for some of
them and are really fucking going wild
for others you'll have more total Fun by
analogy more total muscle growth over
time muscle is built over weeks and
months it's not me measurably built over
days so if you have the craziest hardest
workout of your life because you're
crunching everything to Beyond failure
you have to ask yourself can I do that
next week and next week and next week if
the answer is like yeah really well then
maybe you should start a little easier
and eventually get harder before you
pull the plug Delo drop that fatigue and
then repeat the entire cycle next hard
way to train way to train hard is volume
volume is just how many sets you do for
any muscle group or for the whole body
generally speaking the more sets you do
the harder your training but only within
your ability to recover so if you have a
certain Lifestyle the more money you
spend the better your life generally
comes you can eat nicer food you can
have more butlers you can order more
Lamborghinis all good things but if your
money spending exceeds your income life
will start to go very poorly for you
very shortly after and then you have to
pay creditors and loan officers and sell
your Mansion which is unconscionable to
Elite Ultra rich people like myself so
just the same way harder is better in a
sense with volume more sets grow more
muscle in almost every study but you're
no good to anyone if you can't recover
if you're doing so many sets per week
that over the weeks your strength starts
to Peak and then tank you're doing too
much and doing less is actually better
so do only as many sets as challenges
you but no more sets than you can
recover from second to last is frequency
how often you are training frequency
generally ranges in the effective range
of what's really good from two to six
sessions a week for the same muscle
group so if you want big biceps you can
train them twice a week three times four
times five times or even six times if
you can recover between sessions and
between weeks more is better in almost
every study people grow more muscle when
they train something three times a week
than when they train it twice a week
fact but those that can't recover from
three times a week consistently gain
less muscle or no muscle at all and
those that just go two times a week but
can well recover from it they get better
gains so more is better only if you can
recover from it and even if more is
effective and more effective than less
even if training your biceps four times
a week grows you more than training them
twice a week by some small but notable
margin that oftentimes is a temporary
effect because over time fatigue
especially joint and connective tissue
fatigue from training fucking biceps
four times a week your elbows get beat
up your shoulders don't feel so great
your bicep tendon feels strange because
muscles heal faster than more completely
than tendons in the same unit of time
you can in the several month span really
crank up your frequency but then you
have to go a few months with a much
lower frequency so occasional months of
higher frequency are cool because they
will get you shortterm temporarily
better results but then you might have
to back off go to a normal frequency for
a few months everything's feeling good
again then you can up the frequency
again so think of frequency as anything
between two and six sessions per muscle
group per week is totally fine works
great but if you want to push it a
little into the higher Realms understand
that at some point your recovery ability
is going to degrade you might experience
some joint connected tissue weird stuff
and then you'll have to back off the
frequency go back to two times a week
let everything heal recover maybe take
an active rest phase which is basically
you don't do any real lifting for one or
two weeks then you'll be able to start
ramping up that frequency
again what do you get when PhD sport
scientists collaborate with Pro
bodybuilders the most effective muscle
growth training app ever
made get yours now lastly is consistency
how many weeks and months of training of
showing up to the gym when you said you
were going to can you put together this
may truly be the hardest of hard
training because kind of anyone can lift
what to them seems pretty heavy kind of
anyone can push one set really close to
failure Beyond maybe not anyone but many
people a lot of people can even do a
high volume day or week many people can
do a month of training that's ultra high
frequency very many people have done you
know small off routines German volume
training and it's crazy frequencies
crazy volumes but a lot of those people
will train pretty hard and they'll just
fall off the map the people that get the
best results over the long term the most
jacked most ripped most everything
people ratio to their genetics and drug
use of course are the people that are
showing up week after week month after
month and D or I say year after year so
in a sense going when you may be not
ideally positioned to IT training maybe
sometimes even on vacation training when
times get tough training when you're not
Ultra motivated is when your gains
separate you from the pack and then
you're like a lone wolf
and you're cuddly and adorable but you
bite this might be the hardest of the
hard because very many people will fall
off many people can do the temporary
grunting but every fucking week and
month showing up and doing what you have
to do is a big deal and that's one of
the things that makes consistency in
some sense the hardest of the hard
training so if you say Hey you know does
Bill train hard you're like yeah sort of
But Bill's always here bro and if he's
always here and he's training at least
as hard as it's minimally required to
make gains Bill's going to outlast all
of us and get super jacked then get laid
breakups some people you just never
forget anyway on a final note when you
can recover and progress harder is
better and that way you're not hitting
the wall every time and it doesn't throw
off your consistency which is the
ultimate Bedrock of hard training my
humble recommendation to you is to do
The Following start start easy and
progress slowly progress two slightly
heavier loads each week or a few extra
reps progress by that method of just
adding load and Reps automatically will
progress you closer and closer to
failure higher and higher relative
effort every single week if you're
recovering very easily add a set here
and there to make your recovery
challenging still recover on time for
the next session but maybe just barely
and every now and again every few months
increase the number of sessions you're
doing for muscle just by one so if
you're usually training biceps twice a
week and you want some extra bicep girth
girthy go to three times a week for a
month or two occasionally pulse in that
frequency difficulty once you're spent
and you're really fatigued even if
you're de loading taking easy weeks here
and there rewind that whole process take
one or two active rest weeks which means
no gym just chilling out and then begin
again at what is tough but very
sustainable and then slowly make it
tougher over time until you can't and
then it's another period of rest
followed by that same stepwise
progression and every single time you
reclimb that staircase you start a
little bit higher of a step and end at a
step you've never been to before and
that is the nature of taking hard
training and funneling into Dependable
progress which is like kind of what you
want from hard training because
otherwise why the hell are you doing
that is optimally hard training it's
smart and hard I've only been described
as one of those no no hold on neither
but I'm trying to work on at least one
viagara is a hell of a drug if you need
help with the recovery with the
nutrition with the growth fuel the RP
diet coach app is a really great
resource that you can get on any of the
Google Play or iTunes stores I help to
design it so I think it works okay and
the RP hypertrophy app takes care of all
of what we just talked about in the
context of your training once you put in
the initial conditions of what you want
and how many days a week you can train
Etc the app takes care of all of the
rest so this idea of training hard
enough and worrying am I training hard
the app has you completely handled just
do what it says the RP hypertrophy app
it's a PR Rive web app so the link to it
is in the description below if you
download it magical things might happen
unicorns are actually quite dangerous we
used to have unicorns drop out of the
app a few people got stabbed with the
horn huge lawsuits huge lawsuits so um
duck the Unicorn magical things will
happen if you download the app you'll
get more jacked and shit will make sense
when you're training and you don't have
to second guess yourself give that some
thought let us know in the comments if
you have any questions and we'll see you
next
time
oh