in the last few years we've seen quite a
few products from
celebrities Fitness influencers that
promise to take your mental and physical
performance strength to the next level
but as we saw with things like Prime by
KSI and Logan Paul although a very tasty
drink the hydration SL performance boost
that it promised was really not
supported by much scientific evidence
similarly couple of years ago Greg dued
had released a testerone supplement that
was straight up a
scam testerone you're stronger you have
more muscle you Flex in the mirror you
look leaner thicker fuller better but
more recently Chris Williamson and James
Smith have released their own Focus
drink newtonic now a disclaimer I am
personally not extremely familiar with
their content although I Follow Chris
Williamson on Instagram and I have
watched some of his podcasts they both
seem like extremely likable dudes and I
was surprised to see that they released
a product that claimed to be a
GameChanger for Focus now let me
introduce a new tonic to you as they've
said themselves in some of their promo
videos some of the people that have used
their product have claimed it is like a
real life Limitless pill but let's take
a step back here so Chris Williamson and
James Smith is CH m
surveyed Their audience they wanted to
see if Their audience had any issues and
many people in their audience mentioned
that focus and distractions were an
issue James Smith himself said in one of
the promo videos that they wanted to
make something that would solve the
problem that Their audience had so
essentially they took the research and
fixed the problem by making neonic this
is a direct quote newtonic is marketed
as a drink for mental focus mental
Clarity and it is marketed as an
evidence-based scientifically based
drink that is essentially as solid as a
drink of that caliber can
[Music]
get James Smith himself said the neonic
was the drink he wanted to have when he
was young as he also had issues with
Focus distractions and so on and so
forth all this is good and all and if
you go on the drinks website you see
that there is research there are studies
there there is a clear supplement label
with no proprietary Blends and overall
you have two creators that are very
likable that have been putting out good
content have been fighting
misinformation at least to a certain
extent impressive we're done we made it
we made it and have platformed people
like Dr Mike Israel among others come up
with their own product at face value
things seem pretty legit studies good
price and overall a product by two
trustworthy individuals in the fitness
and in general the productivity SL
self-improvement Community but what
happens when we look behind the curtain
is the research that has been cited and
has been presented as solid as they
claim to be or do things crumble when
you start reading the fine print as
we've talked about before on this
channel when evaluating research and
scientific claims things can go from
solid to not solid whatsoever real quick
especially if you start digging into the
details looking at the different studies
that are used versus just solely taking
the conclusion of a study and
essentially summarizing it so without
further Ado let's look at whether
newtonic is a
[Music]
[Applause]
scam and whether Chris Williamson and
James Smith may have some explaining
when presenting the product they
mentioned that they did the due
diligence they looked at studies in
human adults and not studies in rats in
a video talking about what went into
making the drink uh there was a heavy
focus on the research side of things and
the fact that they wanted to include
studies that were done in human adults
and not in rats as you often see however
let's break down each ingredient that is
used in newtonic and see if the claims
that are made to support it are actually
legit the first ingredient that we see
on their page is cognizant AKA scoline
which is a naturally occurring substance
in the body that plays a crucial role in
brain health without getting into too
many details citicoline is like a
natural brain booster that helps
maintain and improve brain health which
makes it a relatively popular supplement
for cognitive support now that's all
great and well but let's look at the
main studies that have been cited for
its support so as far as the first study
goes we have 15 year olds that took
culine for 28 days straight
supplementing with it every single day
and saw an improvement in cognitive
performance before we talk about some of
the terms and conditions there let's
also look at study 2 so study 2 had 60
healthy female adults around 4070 years
old that were randomly assigned to
either a supplement group or a placebo
group very similar design to the preview
study one pill every day for 28 days and
they were assessed at the continuous
performance test 2 AKA cpd2 essentially
after 28 days of supplementing with
cognizant they made less errors
overall now there are some terms and
conditions when it comes to these
findings and how much stock we can put
in them the first study was an
adolescence which doesn't completely
take away from their product however if
I'm not mistaken the product is mainly
marketed for adults um as they also said
when uh they were planning essentially
to look at research specifically adults
and the most important um term and
condition for me personally is the fact
that supplementation was continues for
28 days 250 or 500 mg that essentially
means that if you want to see an effect
some effect from supplementing with
citicoline you likely have to take it
daily which then brings up the question
of how effective is a drink that I'm not
sure if everybody who consumes it on a
daily basis but is that a potential as
RK that goes next to the effects of the
drink given the fact that you're likely
not going to see a ton of cognition
boost just by taking it a few days here
and there whenever you feel like you
need that boost however the first
ingredient that is used is somewhat
evidencebased sure not a game changer
not ADHD medication by no means but at
least some promising evidence behind it
the next ingredient is Roda Rosa which
has been traditionally used for its
ability to essentially alleviate stress
induced fatigue now the mechanisms
behind rodol OA and its adaptogenic and
neut Tropic effects are complex but
nonetheless there is some evidence in
human trials where rodia showed some
promise uh when it came to alleviating
fatigue caused by psychological stress
the first study that is cited on the
website is a randomized placebo control
double blind crossover study with a wash
out period 56 fake doctors a Ka
Physicians that were doing night shifts
essentially took part and a fatigue
index was calculated based on a bunch of
parameters and they essentially wanted
to check whether supplementation would
lower their fatigue index pre and post
the intervention interestingly and this
is something that you won't see on the
website all the patients completed the
study and had no adverse effects uh or
Adverse Events however and as presented
in the study itself
the total fatigue index was
significantly better after 2 weeks of
taking rodol Rosa but there were only
significant differences just for that
period so as the authors put it the only
significant change is seen in the varium
control group between period 1 and
Period 2 with a change in performance or
fatigue index of approximately 20% this
is an example of where the fine print
becomes important if you read the
summary that is on the website it makes
it appear riola Rosa is far more
effective than what we actually see in
the study doctors took it during a
period where they were also going
through night shifts it helped decrease
overall fatigue by 20% for a period of
time but then after a bit it didn't seem
to do much however let's not put all our
stock in one study and very briefly look
at the totality of evidence around rodol
Rosa focusing on a study called Rola
Rosa for physical and mental fatigue a
systematic review this systematic review
essentially concluded that research
regarding riola Ros efficacy is
contradictory while some evidence
suggests that the herir may be helpful
in enhancing physical performance and
alleviating mental fatigue
methodological flaws limit accurate
assessment of efficacy and more
randomized control trials are needed in
order to truly understand the efficacy
of rodol Rosa for fatigue so again we
see some data that supports that hey
maybe rodol Roso can have some effect at
alleviating mental fatigue that comes
from stress but the current totality of
scientific evidence is not really solid
and does not allow us to conclusively
say that hey this is actually going to
make a big difference however again we
see that there is at least something
behind that ingredient and it is not a
complete scam like we see with many
supplements out there but stick around
cuz there are many more ingredients in
this wonderful product and what you may
see at the end will shock you building
tension moving on to Al theanine so
instead of looking simply at the studies
on their website we will look at a
systematic review that looked at the
cognitive enhancing effects of caffeine
and alanine together so caffeine and
eleanine are natural compounds found
primarily in tea and coffee respectively
and their combination has shown
improvements in short-term sustained
attention and overall
cognition reverse task related mind
wandering and improved inhibitory
control were also seen uh among boys
with ADHD dab shout out ADHD gang while
improvements in acute stress and in
increased amount of work were noted in a
population of men and women age 50 to 69
in Japan so after reviewing the entire
literature this is the matter review
concluded that the combination of those
two shows favorable clinical
significance in the domains of attention
memory cognition and hyperactivity and
it is overall concluded that the
combination of alanine and caffeine is
likely a safe an effective cognitive
enhancer however like with everything
future research is still needed to
explain everything um that has been
found thus far as well as many of the
limitations included however it is also
important to note that in the current
literature the doses of caffeine and
theanine that have been tested are not
the exact same as those found in neonic
and that is one of the potential
limitations but we're seeing another
thumbs up which brings me to the next
ingredient which is caffeine now the
caffeine dose that has been used in
neonic is slightly lower than your
traditional Monster Energy drink at
least here in Europe which has 150 Mig
of caffeine for cognition specifically
the dose of caffeine that has been used
which is 120 mg based on the current
scientific evidence and one of the stud
studies that they site is likely enough
to give you a bit of a boost as far as
cognitive performance and attention goes
higher doses of caffeine at like 3 to 7
Mig per kilo of body weight ingested
approximately an hour before exercise
can enhance physical
performance there is a large
interindividual variation when it comes
to caffeine ingestion but the caffeine
dose used in nutonic is solid enough for
its purpose it is not a pre-workout
drink it's not meant to get you to be
hyper anding twitching in this case they
just want you to focus more and if you
overdo it with caffeine and you're there
jittery and and going off your absolute
mind like I am right now because I have
had a lot of caffeine that would be
counterproductive to your focus so
thumbs up for the caffeine dosage used
it is just the right amount for what
it's supposed to do moving on to jinsen
which unfortunately has no convincing
evidence of a cognitive effect in
general so gin sync Panic has been used
to treat disease and to combat Aging for
thousands of years and currently it is a
bit of a high supplement in the herbal
bestsellers list and it is a quite
widely used herbal product but the
current totality of scientific evidence
shows that although gin syn appears to
have some beneficial effects on
cognition and behavior as well as
quality of life more research is needed
in order to actually tell you
conclusively that it can do something
something and the title of the study
sort of spoils that by saying that hey
at the moment the current evidence is
not really that great and that
essentially brings us to the end of the
list there is also B vitamins uh but I
don't think I need to go over those uh
there literally in every dream so is
neonic a scam you ask Dr pack real
doctor no gimmicks the answer is a soft
note it is not a scam it is arguably a
solid attempt at creating um focus SL
distraction improving drink however if
you're somebody who's finding it very
hard to focus consistently and you're
seeing that no matter the caffeine the
eleanine whatever um no matter the
YouTube videos where they get you to
study with some other guy studying with
you no matter the motivational quote no
matter the actual Drive no matter the
financial debt that you're in that is H
ing over your head and telling you bro
you got to focus on this if you're
seeing that [ __ ] is not getting right
you may need one therapy and two actual
medication because you may have some
actual condition that is making it
exceptionally hard for you to focus
which brings me to the next Point yes
this drink is not a scam is a soft no as
far as scam goes cuz obviously some of
the claims made around its Effectiveness
are somewhat hyperbolic Plus in order to
actually get the most out of the
majority of ingredients in there you
likely need to be taking it on a daily
basis or very frequently but the good
guys over at newtonic from what I
checked have kept the price in order and
it is along the prices of a Red Bull
drink or just any energy drink out there
if you're an energy drink enjoyer you
like those creators you want to support
their thing and in general you want to
Placebo yourself that you're going to
get a bit more Focus out of this drink
and obviously with some scientific
evidence showing that hey the
ingredients in in there may help you at
least to a certain extent to get a bit
more out of it versus having a Red Bull
go for it however what I didn't like was
a comparison uh where they smartly
compared neonic to energy drinks and
coffee if we throw energy drinks out of
the way coffee overall is an absolute
Beast of um not a substance absolute
Beast of a drink to consume in terms of
of its overall uh health benefits
cognition boost brain health it is just
one of the best things that you can
consume in drink form um if you are
after something that improves your
health and also gives you focus so black
coffee has no calories super cheap easy
to make and when we look at meta
analytic data on its effects on health
and obviously brain health um but Health
specifically coffee is their flexing on
your ton
something uh that my guys did smartly
cuz they put it with energy drinks uh
and sort of said oh this is made for
Focus no these are made for energy this
is made for focus and they sort of
lumped it all together I get it they're
playing their game [ __ ] do they care
about some random Fatso um calling it
out but it's facts coffee uh I would say
beats newtonic on any day in terms of
its overall value uh that it gives you
and its overall bank for its but so
overall I declare newtonic and non scam
but with an asterisk next to it
obviously it's not going to be what will
get you to focus if you have deeper
issues if you're somebody who consumes
caffeine and likes the flavor of the
drink likes the creators solid option as
an alternative to a Red Bull or a
monster um if you're a coffee enjoyer
potentially consider sticking with good
old coffee and yes big coffee has paid
me to say this and I will die for big
coffee even though I'm actively cheating
on big coffee with a zero sugar Monster
Energy drink guys you can sponsor me too
we are desperate out here just send me
something but that was it don't forget
to like subscribe hit the notification
icon express interest at myod up.com for
the best training app an app
legitimately coach you create you a
custom program without any templates
based on any [ __ ] configuration your
crazy mind your neutronic fueled mind
can think of my adep can do it and I'm
not capping you want a two-day program
that is 15 minutes uh per session and
focuses on biceps upper traps and glutes
it will do it for you you want a six day
per week Push Pull legs routine with an
emphasis on side dels it will do it you
want to work out two hours a day and do
mostly legs well then seek medical help
my friend but the app can you up there
as well 10% off for ascal apparel you
know the deal we're sponsored athletes
out there and next time you see anybody
selling you stuff and citing research be
skeptical these guys here did their best
but as you saw even with the best
intentions things were not as hype as
presented and that's it we'll see you
guys next time dabin is so back baby
of course
[Music]