you can regain body fat very quickly but
you can regain lean body mass very
quickly so I'm not sure that as a
rationale for saying that should be the
goal for everyone
as soon as the subjects have regained
their original body weight we see that
there is actually no metabolic damage
last thing you want to do is take
someone like nano said who is eating
3000 calories a day pre-cut ends up at
2,000 calories a day and jumps right
back to 3,000 all right everyone
welcome to the ice cream for Pierre's
podcast my name is Jeff Nippert and I am
your host and joining me this week I've
got an all-star lineup of guests with me
and I'm going to get to introducing them
in just a minute
but first I just want to get into what
it is that we're trying to accomplish
here with this episode so my basic goal
here was to bring together who I think
are really the best coaches and
researchers and athletes themselves who
are speaking about the topic of reverse
dieting and host what's going to be a
formal debate around the topic so in
case some of you guys aren't familiar
with that term we're going to be using
reverse dieting to mean the methodical
typically slow introduction of calories
after a cut or a weight loss period for
the sake of improving metabolic rate and
mitigating facking and basically how
we're going to set this up is I will
serve as the moderator so for the sake
of this discussion I will be completely
neutral any of the preconceived ideas
that I have about reverse dieting I'll
just leave off the table and I'll also
encourage you guys to do the same so
whether you think reverse dieting is
great or it's a pile of crap I just
encourage you to really listen to the
experts and hear what it is they have to
say and then when you come at the other
side you can come to an educated
decision based on the evidence presented
just to introduce our guests here so
representing the against reverse dieting
side in there
we can order I've got Eric Helms on the
line so Eric is a pro natural
bodybuilder he's a competitive power
lifter he holds no less than two masters
degrees one in sports nutrition the
other in Exercise Sciences he's
currently working on his PhD in New
Zealand Eric has published multiple
peer-reviewed articles and scientific
journals including articles on
recommendations for natural bodybuilding
that I would recommend to everyone and
he is a coach at 3d muscle journey
coaching natural body builders and power
lifters around the world so it's a
pleasure to have you here and welcome to
the show Eric thank you so much Jeff I
appreciate it also representing the
against reverse dieting side we've got
men Oh hence women's joining us again so
men OH was on the podcast just a few
episodes ago in episode 18 where we
chatted about high frequency
bodybuilding and why he's not a huge fan
of bro splits so some of you guys who
might not be familiar with men oh he's
an online physique coach fitness model
he's a scientific author with multiple
published articles and scientific
journals he's the director at bayesian
bodybuilding he's got a master's degree
with distinction from the University of
Warwick and men oh it's great to have
you back man my pleasure
so representing the for reverse dieting
side we have dr. Elaine Norton with us
today
so Layne is a pro natural bodybuilder
he's a world-record-holding power lifter
he's got a PhD in nutritional sciences
he's published multiple articles in
several scientific journals and he is
the owner and online coach at bio Lane
LLC Lane it's a real pleasure to have
you on the show so thank you for joining
us thanks Jeff I appreciate being
included then also on Lane's team for
reverse dieting we have dr. Peter Fitch
in with us in audio only
and so Peter was on the show a few
episodes ago I think in episode 12 and
we talked about hormonal adaptations to
contest prep and discussed a case study
that doctor fiction did on himself and
followed himself through his contest
prep so Peter is himself a pro natural
bodybuilder he's got a PhD in
nutritional sciences that was earned or
defended between these recordings so
congrats here and he's also published
you know multiple scientific articles
and peer reviewed journals and he's a
he's the founder and an online coach at
fit body physique LLC so welcome back
Peter thanks for having me back alright
guys so we're going to get on with it
so how this debate is going to be
structured is we will allow all of our
guests to speak once so there will be
two opening statements one from Eric and
one from Layne and then we will have a
round of rebuttals
so then Meno will speak and then Peter
will speak and then after that we're
just going to have an organized
discussion where the debaters can ask
questions of one another and I will do
my best to moderate that and make sure
that it stays organized so without
further preamble from me Eric Holmes you
can take it away sweet well thank you so
much for allowing me to start first I
just want to start with kind of saying
that the probably the most important big
thing that I hope everyone gets out of
this is that you can have disagreements
in a respectful way that actually
improved everyone's knowledge and
understanding of something for just a
brief bit of background most recently
Meno and I had like a one week long
debate on protein and now we are on the
same side of the table and you know only
a year ago Peter and I were we're
co-authors on evidence-based
recommendations to natural bodybuilding
and only three weeks from now I'll be
presenting in Australia with Layne so I
think I hope everyone understands from
that that we don't necessarily have to
be
at each other's throats when it's
disagreements and that this can be
something very productive so anyway
I'm of the opinion that the primary goal
post show is to recover as fast as
possible
psychologically and physiologically and
that some of the models of reverse
dieting are focused too much on trying
to prevent fat gain when in fact the
fastest way to recover metabolic rate
and TDE total energy expenditure is to
put fat back on the only reason for a
physique competitor let's say a male
physique competitor or body better to
have striated glutes is if they're going
to be on stage and the quickest way to
get in a state where they are healthy
again mentally and physically is to get
out of that state so I think some of the
problems quote-unquote with reverse
dieting really come down to how it is
applied and what it is meant to me and
for every person who says we're gross
dieting there's probably another
definition of what reverse dieting is so
before I start talking about this I just
want to apologize if I strawman the
other team based on what I'm discussing
these it may be that there are more
similarities rather than differences in
the approaches that we think are optimal
but I will talk about the one that I
think it's problematic the approach
where you stay in a calorie deficit for
a prolonged period say three four five
six seven weeks or even months post-show
before getting into a surplus in the
hopes of you know adding food while
staying lean is basically just
prolonging the diet and I think this
approach not only creates further
complications mentally and leads people
down the pathway towards struggling with
eating disorders but also subverts the
offseason and it's longer before you get
to a point where your hormonal e in it
and a place to make gains have enough
body fat to actually train as hard as
they could and it's just they're not in
a position to make progress um
and the claim that building metabolic
capacity where people who have taken an
offseason or two to slowly look very
very slowly build up calories allows
them to died on higher calories I think
it's often coming from people who spent
multiple seasons basically in a perma
dieting state if we talk about perma
bulking but a lot of the people who I
have seen who have had quote-unquote
success with this slow drawing on
reverse diet come from a background
where they were competing every single
year and doing so in a very harsh state
so yes it is better to be in this kind
of slow extended very conservative slow
build to a surplus but that doesn't mean
it's the optimal way to approach it that
just means it's better than being in
this constantly metabolically suppressed
state if you will what would be optimal
would be to get yourself out of a
deficit immediately and purposely gain
fat to the point until you're probably
at the low end of your settling point
and from that point on start maybe the
more slow methodical approach to
increasing calories to reach a target
rate of weight gain is appropriate for
putting on muscle gain doing so prevents
a lot of health issues and women
specifically the loss of the menstrual
cycle is a common thing and in some
categories say bodybuilding its more
common than not to have it go away and
the hormonal adaptations that occur that
that result in amenorrhea can have
long-term consequences for health such
as bone density and on the physical side
of it we also sorry on the psychological
side of it we also know that eating
disorders are not simply just a state of
mind but they are a biological
consequence of dieting to extremely low
levels we know from the minnesota
semi-starvation study that many of the
symptoms that we associate with anorexia
induced by dieting so a lot of the
problems that come from dieting and the
psychological stresses that a competitor
incurs are due to having to diet down
and being in a prolonged state of
dieting is is not an ideal way to get
out of that
I think we have to approach a recovery
diet looking at people as people rather
than purely as bodybuilders and even if
you were to go back to years ago or a
year and a half ago three dmj ourselves
we used what would probably be
considered a an overly conservative
reverse dieting approach and we ended up
stopping because we had about a ten
percent success rate it's so common for
people to say that their period after a
show the reverse diet is harder than the
diet itself and we accept this at face
value but I actually think there's
something wrong with that that really
should give us pause it should make us
think is this the best way to do it are
we actually is the sacrifice of having
only one out of ten people actually be
able to follow the quote unquote plan
worth the potential benefit of maybe
being leaner or having a you know faster
metabolic rate or being able to diet on
higher food and then we actually have to
question whether that's true because now
that we have a few years of not using
the reverse diet compared to having used
the reverse diet even in the people who
were successful our anecdotal experience
has been that they don't get the diet on
higher food the next season they don't
necessarily start leaner really the only
goal should be to prevent binging to
prevent fat overshoot and to allow a
person to have a productive offseason
and while the reverse diet can get you
there it does so with a lot of stress
and in most cases we found that
following a rigid reverse diet prompts
almost what you could describe as
bulimia not necessarily actually
throwing up but this I try to follow
strict reverse diet I blow it okay so
that I'm going to come back down the
reverse diet and it's this self created
cycle of not being able to follow this
rigid diet because there's not the same
goal of getting on stage so so that's
the practical side of it from a pure
physiological evidence-based side of it
we know that while there is a large
down-regulation and total energy
expenditure over the course of a diet
the vast majority of that quote unquote
metabolic adaptation is actually neat
it's the reduction in non-exercise
activity
and we don't necessarily have enough
data to know whether or not or how that
responds to changes in food intake there
is a reduction in our mr when especially
when you get very very lean but it's
maybe at best only 20 to 30 percent of
the down-regulation and total energy
expenditure so from even a mechanistic
kind of hypothetical standpoint there
are some issues with the idea of trying
to correct quote-unquote metabolic
adaptation which is predominantly
activity-based however I would agree
that part of that activity is actually
efficiency of skeletal muscle things you
can't modify so anyway because of the
psychological downsides of getting
incredibly lean and the physiological
downsides to getting incredibly lean and
just the lack of success and the high
rates of failure it makes a lot more
sense to get yourself to the low end
your setpoint and then slow it down and
that's why we promote what's called the
quote unquote recovery diet we think not
only will this just prevent some of
these downsides but it's also more
beneficial in terms of a productive
offseason because you're not spending
three four or five months or however
long and this extremely low body fat
suppressed state and a non hormonal
optimal place for muscle gain if you can
get yourself to a better body fat you're
eating more food you can get back to
training and being in a more sane state
immediately so that you can make more
productive progress and that is my
opener okay thank you Eric
no word so now I'll give Layne an
opportunity to to speak his thoughts
so Wayne you can take it away okay
sure uh thanks thanks Eric so there's
not a whole lot I would disagree with
the first thing I'd like to start out
with is that Eric made a good point to
say that reverse dieting means something
different everybody and I think
especially based on some of the
criticism I've got I think some people
say well Lane wants to keep people and
extended deficits for long periods of
time and I can tell you right now my my
ideal reverse would be to
quickly jump calories up pretty high get
somebody feeling really good to the
point where you know there's not that
there's there's not that kind of
psychological drain and then slowly add
calories from there the issue becomes
I'm always trying to fit this in the
context of what the particular client
wants and there are several there's a
lot of people out there who say they are
not willing to accept fat gain in any
way shape or form or especially with
regards to women I would love to be able
to convince some women to put on some
weight it's not the easiest thing in the
world to do and oftentimes what I've
found is yes I've seen some people who
reverse dieting when you start adding it
slowly they just can't handle it and
that's not a judgment on any of them and
so I'll either tell them like look this
isn't working we need to add we need to
add calories faster it's not appropriate
for your situation but there's also
people who when they go up to when they
quickly kind of put that fat mask back
on
for them it triggers immediately I would
die back down and a lot of times they're
going to if I don't if I don't diet them
at that point because I'll refuse to
they'll immediately go and do it on
their own and so I'm always kind of
alright so what do I find it's a middle
ground that's going to get them from
doing that okay that being said anytime
I feel that somebody is getting to the
point where they're having an unhealthy
relationship with food or they're really
struggling with this sort of thing I
mean I've had clients come to me and
said you know I understand I'm going to
feel a little bit worse for a little bit
longer but I'm willing to accept that if
we can limit fat gain a little bit more
as long as they do that kind of in a
eyes wide open sold away and I don't
detect them sorry starting to get those
psychological cues that something's
wrong
I'm okay with that but I'm also okay
with somebody saying hey I want to feel
I just want to feel a little more faster
and if that comes with some weight gain
I'm okay with that what I find is not
go off on a tangent but a lot of people
don't want to eat mindfully in any way
shape or form and they want to they want
to go out and kind of eat whatever and
just hope and pray that nothing they'll
gain fat and that's not how metabolism
works I wouldn't say I think we also
have to keep the thing about general
population versus competitors so in
terms of competitors I completely agree
with Eric there there is absolutely no
reason to stay super lean year-round
I've seen people who they reversed I
mean I've seen a guy who we got him up
to almost 450 grams of carbs a day which
was definitely above his maintenance
that what he was previously and he was
maintaining very very very lean weight
and he came to me and said hey I just
got my testosterone checked and all this
stuff and it was low and I feel bad
about that I said okay well listen we
can add more calories but you have to
understand that we can be more
aggressive you're going to have some fat
gain are you okay with that he said well
I don't know I said well listen you told
me you didn't want to gain fat now
you're told me you're worried about your
hormones I can tell you personally if
you're a [ __ ] that's affecting your
health you need to stop we need to get
more aggressive we did that so I think
it's not as clear and dry as just one
size fits all and I think you have to be
very nuanced with how you do it
I have seen people and again the problem
with this is you know science scientific
studies I always say are like a blunt
instrument they tell us what exactly
what not to do like if we see something
happen in science and you go directly
against that that's the blunt instrument
telling you not to do that but coaching
is a little bit more of an art form and
that there's going to be some things and
I'm sure some of the coaches on here if
you don't agree with reverse dieting or
my implementation of it there are some
things that you're just not going to
have a scientific study on to reference
necessarily I have observed people and
I've got I got a gals numbers pulled up
here just I wanted to reference them
she started with our my goodness
gracious
here we go I can never find it when you
need it right okay so she started with
me at and this is again there's always
the issue that somebody may not be
reporting correctly and that's that's a
totally legitimate criticism but this is
a pretty robust she started with me at
121 pounds at 101 grams of carbs in 6666
grams of carbs hunted 1 grams of protein
41 grams of fat
obviously that's not something you want
to be on for a long term and she claims
she was maintaining probably was she
having some binges here and there that's
my guess is yes over the course of time
we got her up to 130 pound 30 and a half
pounds at her now she got there at
around 165 grams of carbs 70 57 grams of
fat she stayed there up til 315 grams of
carbs and 81 grams of fat so she did not
gain any more weight during that last
time period again to Jeff's point get
somebody up to a certain point and then
slowly raise calories I agree that's the
best way to go about it she has now died
down to 108 pounds again keeping in mind
she started at 121 she's not out of 108
pounds at 130 grams of carbs 45 grams of
fat now I wouldn't say that that's a
super-high level of food intake but I
would also say that is significantly
more than she was gaining on when we
started when we started she was gaining
pretty steadily even up to 100 grams of
carbs a day and 40 grams of fat so again
if you want to argue that that's all
somebody underreporting and all that
sort of stuff you can do that but I've
seen this for some other people that
there does seem to be now agree with
Eric some people you can get their food
up to a certain point in the off season
they will get them they will be able to
maintain their weight on higher food but
then you go to cut down and you have to
get back down to the exact same level
okay and typically I find that in people
who were very very very restricted for
for a long time before that if you look
at and I can't remember the name of the
paper but there was actually a research
paper showing that
a really strict restriction for five to
eight weeks produce produced adaptations
in metabolism and even gene expression
that lasted up to a year later so it
seems like the body has kind of just
like we have muscle memory the body has
some kind of memory when it comes to fat
loss and weight regain the one other
thing I want to point out and again this
was in rats so you know however much
weight you want to give to that but I
don't see how it's a study we could have
done in humans there was a study done
where they they basically they dieted
animals down about they lost 1/7 of
their body weight and then they said
they basically ad libitum fed them and
what they found was they they regained
in a regain past their original body fat
level and they went and looked at their
fat cell number when they started at a
certain amount of fat cells when they
regained they actually added about 50%
fat cells 50% more from a rapid regain
of weight and they did not stop gating
until their individual fat cells were
again the same size as what they were
before they started dieting - that's
kind of supporting the contention that
body fat setpoint is not necessarily a
body fat percentage number but rather
it's sensing the actual size of the fat
cell and flux across the of calories
across the fat cell so my concern would
be raising calories too fast post
restriction from a simple perspective of
there's a possibility that we can create
create a higher body fat setpoint
especially when you start getting into
weight cycling and that's again why my
last point I want to make we always like
to get this idea that the metabolism is
as a math equation and it is it is a
math equation it is it is absolutely
calories in versus calories out but
everything that makes up calories in
calories out is unbelievably complex
nuanced and we don't even have all the
parameters for it that's in my opinion
because you can see there is a weight
cycling experiment in animals by
Brownell and they fed animals the exact
same
total calories over the course of time
they had one group just steadily over
feed and they had another group diet
cyclical where they would go up down
with their calories so they would
restrict them and then let them eat and
restrict them and let them eat the group
that did the calorie the the weight
cycling put on more body fat over time
even though over time total calorie
intake was the same if we were is a
simple math equation in just a basic
math equation we should see them be the
same over time
all right lane that was great thank you
now we'll have Meno come in and respond
to what Lane just said and perhaps I had
any ideas that he has on his own all
right let me preface this that I am
technically on cocaine at the moment
here in here at Ecuador coca leaf tea is
legal so but it's over thank macavity
since the usually compared to the effect
is usually compared to caffeine I
actually don't feel anything from it any
stimulant effect whatsoever but I
thought that this game was appropriate
as for the discussion I think in large
turns application wise we are actually
very much in agreement and rather than
the lanes critic here I think it's
discussion will benefit most from
becoming a bit more concrete some more
data and figures and terms and for that
I'd like to start with the ID of
metabolic damage because my research
assistant
Nastasia zinchenko and I recently
co-authored a paper that's currently in
review about metabolic damage and
traditional few terms that have been
used in the debate metabolic damage as
defined in the literature that we
reviewed at least is basically the idea
after underfeeding for a problem
period of time you induce negative
metabolic adaptations that persist after
weight regain or after refeeding so
basically if you're at a certain body
composition at time point X and 2015 or
something and you go in a deficit for a
whole year you enter content shape and
then you revert back to your original
body composition over time the metabolic
damage theory is basically that at that
point your energy expenditure will be
lower than it was before
so we reviewed the literature on that
and this is very closely linked with the
idea of fat stores memory that Layne
touched on which is basically the idea
that there is a set point or at least
some memory mechanism in your body by
which your body fat percentage or total
fat mass or normal fat cells as an
effect on your metabolism and that you
can basically damage your metabolism
this way so what we did is unlike many
of the literature we used a method to
relate measured to predicted resting
energy expenditure or basal metabolic
rate sleeping energy expenditure those
terms are usually used interchangeably
in the literature or they're not but the
methodology is actually the same so they
should be used interchangeably
we used set of formulas that's correct
for body fat percentage body composition
and have shown accuracy that is
comparable with that of Oregon based
measurements and that is very important
because it's not just lean body mass
that affects your basal metabolic rate
but awfully in body mass organ mass has
a far higher contribution to your energy
expenditure than muscle mass so you want
to correct for that and with the
formulas that we use with this week
calculated measured and predicted basal
metabolic rate over time in a series of
data and for one is the Minnesota
starvation experiment very well known
guys dieting to average of my belief
five point five percent body fat or
entrained individuals basically
untrained they were quite active but not
resistance trained that is drastic and
many competitors although they readily
believe that they are two percent or
something it's actually quite hard to be
less than five point five percent body
fat even if you are resisting strength
and carry a lot of muscle mass even for
men for women it's absolutely out of the
question basically you'd be dead and
basically what we did is when you use
the correct methods you can actually see
that in the Minnesota starvation
experiment as soon as the subjects that
regained their original body weight we
see that there is actually no metabolic
damage so their their basal metabolic
rate was exactly as you would predict
the change in the ratio of measured to
predict it was actually not different
and this is a new finding because other
research especially offered ulu as argue
that it's fat mass that determines these
things and that's why the fat stores
memory model comes from we show that if
you use the right equations you correct
for body fat percentage which indirectly
serves as a proxy for organ mass we see
that once you have returned to your
original body composition or when you
correct for your body composition your
metabolic rate is actually the same
after even prolonged chronic not just
dieting the outright starvation as
before and these results have been
replicated we reanalyze data of the
biosphere experiments same thing several
more studies of chronic and over feeding
cycles same thing we also looked at data
of malnourished individuals and this is
perhaps the most striking point of our
data set we looked at the literature on
anorexia nervosa patients and we find
that even in that case when body
composition has returned from you know
just ultra malnourishment self
starvation really clinical situations
there is actually no evidence of
metabolic damage in fact in this is
probably something genetic but we found
a trend for the US
at an erection of other patients once
they have recovered the original body
composition their basal metabolic rate
tended to be higher than before a
drastic fat loss we also looked at two
papers which are the only literature we
have basically on body bowlers in
contest prep and using the same effort
we find that once you correct for body
composition there's actually no and
that's about like damage so this is
really important for the idea of reverse
dieting because we have to look at why
why does your metabolism increase after
I got time you okay so what is your
metabolism increase after the weight
loss period and we can look at these
factors mechanistically and then predict
how fast we should increase caloric
intake most of or at least a very large
part of the change in your energy
expenditure is simply due to a basal
metabolic rate which is very strongly
tied to your body composition and in
particular your lean body mass because
fat mass in itself has a very marginal
effect on energy expenditure compared to
lean body mass especially compared to
for gammas so body composition is pretty
fixed if you increase it faster your
metabolism will increase faster if you
peez slowly your metabolism will
increase more slowly second factor is
the firming effect of food which is
basically the energy or you can view it
as the energy your body expends while
processing food energy so if you're
affirming the fact the food is 10% we do
hundreds calories your body burns 10
calories and harvesting the energy from
that food this is directly and acutely
proportional to your energy intake so if
you increase energy intake by 5,000
calories or 2,000 calories it doesn't
matter your firming effect food
percentage is generally the same so this
is acute and we have no control over
this other than setting calorie intake
it won't affect your metabolism
otherwise or in a chronic or permanent
fashion subdue the acute effect the most
interesting aspect of your metabolism is
probably adapted from a Genesis and lane
right leak whoa
research showing adapted former Genesis
which is basically doing the decrease in
metabolic rate beyond that predicted by
your body composition can in fact be
permanent and it is if you maintain the
linear body composition so if you stay
in contest shaped your metabolism will
stay suppressed you have little control
over this now we also in our paper we
reviewed the literature on the effect of
energy intake on adapted former Genesis
and basal metabolic rate and this is
quite interesting I think they found
that adaptive thermogenesis can be
measured during both under and over
feeding in as little as a day and
generates one to three days before
measurement instruments can detect the
difference in your energy expenditure
and even for the more prolonged a
patient's like fibroids or mole which is
mostly linked to body composition or
sympathetic nervous activity which
regulates needs York non-exercise
activity thermogenesis that we talked
about before these things at most take
eight to fourteen days to recover and
the more acute changes are believed to
be due to changes in insulin secretion
heart rate creatinine clearance negative
fluid balance and water clearance rates
so these are the more small-scale stuff
and that recovers almost instantaneously
the reason that it's not really
instantaneous is probably a limitation
of our measurement instruments and the
longer adaptations again are in at most
two weeks they clear so after you return
to your maintenance energy intake even
if your body complex doesn't change you
have reverted these negative metabolic
adaptations and then you are back to the
point where your energy expenditure is
almost directly mathematically
computable if you take into account your
current body composition and the thermic
effect of food the factors that regulate
energy expenditure your metabolism so
basically mechanics
security speaking we can say that after
a diet what you should not do and what I
think we reverse dieting has a lot of
Merit is revert back to your original
maintenance index so say someone starts
a diet at 3,000 calories maintenance
intake typical 80 kilogram Neil
bodybuilder and over 2,000 calories what
some people do and where I think the
reverse dieting shines is that they
think that is still our maintenance
intake it is not because you're you have
lost probably lean body mass but
certainly body weight your energy intake
is lower so the firming effect the food
is lower you can by looking at these
mechanistic factors you can predict that
your energy expenditure will be lower
than before in our predictable fashion
so once you're at the points what you
should not do is go back to 3000
calories I think that's my maintenance
intake so that's where I go what you
should do is you can go straight back to
maintenance or I generally have people
go basically straight into a surplus but
with a conservative estimate that often
ends up being maintenance for one week
or at most two weeks before I increase
calorie intake shorter you should take
into account that you get them to the
level that you want them to be which is
usually a mouth surplus or maintenance
taking into account the changes in their
body composition and then which is
probably quite similar to what Lane
Horton said the usually in practice that
means you start with our more drastic
increase in calorie intake after contest
prep and after that it builds more
slowly alright okay I think that covers
on my off time and I cover what I wanted
to cover
ok that was great thank you men oh um so
now we'll let Peter do some talking all
right thanks Jeff I think I'm I'm on I
guess I'm on the same page with I think
most of us I think it sounds like we're
in agreement on a lot of the big things
I think one big thing to keep in mind at
least in my opinion is is context of
when you're reversing you know someone
who's coming out of stage lean you don't
want to reverse them slowly because
as we've discussed there there really
isn't a point of keeping someone that
lean all it's doing is Dreiling the
amount of time it's to extend the amount
of time needed to get them feeling
normal again and be able to make
progress but someone who's you know not
dieting to stage levels of lean who
maybe is just a general pot person who
dies done on stage lean uh you know
isn't feeling the detrimental effects
doesn't necessarily want to gain a whole
lot of fat back I'm alright with pushing
them a little bit slower but again we're
for the purpose of this talk we're you
know this argument or debate
I think we're focusing on stage lean and
so you know I I think that initially you
do need to bump you know calories up to
get the person feeling normal you know a
decent bump in food production and
cardio to get you know get them closer
to maintenance and and then work food up
at a rate that you know kind of balances
them feeling normal with not letting
body weight gain go out of control
because you know as everyone so far is
discussed you know the last thing you
want to do is take someone like mono
said who is eating you know 3,000
calories a day pre-cut you know ends up
at 2,000 calories a day and you know
jumps right back to 3,000 or even more
you know what one thing that's very
common is just the uncontrolled binge
that turns into just eating whatever you
want for a while and the body fat
overshooting that that it's been talked
about so far and that's that's what you
want to avoid and so you know I I'm on
board with with most things everyone
else's has said you know and and the
rate at which I reverse someone kind of
after that initial bump is going to be
dependent upon a few things one's going
to be how far you know where can they
sit comfortably where do they feel
normal
how much muscle mass do they or how much
how much weight and and muscle do they
want to try to add in the offseason how
long is their offseason you know how
much room weight wise do we have to work
with before they might be getting too
heavy and need to cut again and just
psychologically can they handle you know
mentally gaining and I still try to push
them as fast as they'll allow me to push
but but you know some people mentally
it's hard for them to stay on track
after reversing and so it's a matter of
just let's let's reverse faster let's
gain weight back quicker let's get you
feeling normal and then let's slow this
down to a more reasonable rate others
tend to you know psychologically not be
able to handle that as much and so it's
it's let's bump you closer to
maintenance and you know increase you
know more slowly and assuming that
they're able to be compliant and you're
not seeing kind of like Lane said is
assuming they're able to be compliant
you're not seeing a lot of the
psychological issues associated with
that I'm okay with that but again if it
starts affecting their health or their
their mental physical health we got to
increase faster and you know ultimately
my goal for someone is to get them
feeling normal but still control how
much they gain in the process so that
you have room to actually sit in a
surplus for a while in a very slight
surplus maybe and make progress you know
the last thing I want to see out of
someone is for them to binge their way
back up to their pre-cut weight and then
you know where do you go from there you
know a lot of people would want to cut
again right away and that's in my
opinion a terrible idea because then you
get that as Lane was talking about that
gain restrict gain restrict cycle and
that that at least in animal models does
seem to increase fat gain over time and
and so we want to avoid that and so if
we can get a person if I can get a
person feeling normal
you know and then increase at the rate
at which they'll let me increase that's
appropriate for them in their situations
so again it's not a one-size-fits-all
you know that's that's kind of my goal
and I think one take-home from all this
to that I think we'd all agree on is
that you know once you do start feeling
normal you know you want to stay in a
state where you feel normal and you're
not dieting for a majority of your
training career you know that's where
you're actually making progress you're
not making progress when you diet
you're not making these huge
transformations in your physique you're
pretty much especially in the late
stages of prep just trying to hold on
you know especially if you're a natural
it's just a matter of trying to hold on
to what you can in those late stages and
so you know
really if you graph out your entire
training career and I know
Alberto Nunez has done this and I saw
that and did it for my own career and
saw the same thing where you look at you
know how many months have you spent
dieting versus not significantly more
should be not and and I think you know
this is one REIT one of the many reasons
why but that's kind of a side note in
kind of a different topic but I think
you know just some some things up I'm
I'm on board I think I don't think we're
all that different ameno I know we're
sitting on opposite sides of this debate
and there might be some nuanced details
we differ in but it sounds like big
picture we really are on the same page
with things in terms of getting someone
to feel normal again after a show and
then you know based on the individual in
their situations start pushing food up
at a rate appropriate for the situation
all right guys thank you so much for
your opening statements and rebuttals so
I'm pleased to see that there's a lot of
agreement amongst you guys and I can't
say that I'm really surprised so what I
want to do though is really cut to I
think like the heart of the disagreement
here which seems to be one of degree and
not principle so I think that all of you
guys more or less agree that it's not a
good idea to be ultra conservative and
ultra slow and prevent fat gain on
principle but it rather should be more a
people you mind muting your mic story
but it should be more so a matter of the
athletes preferences and their
personality and so on so it seems like
Meno has probably the most assertive
position he's seems to be saying that
you should bump them up to their old
maintenance right away whereas perhaps
Elaine and Peter wait sorry not their
old they're their new their new
maintenance okay yeah I thought you
actually told me that's one of my main
criticisms for people that say just go
back to your maintenance I said well if
it was your maintenance then you
wouldn't gain weight by definition so
that's a huge thing that some people
miss I'm glad meadow touched on that
because that's a that's a huge
difference so I guess what I find
puzzling about that is if you're just
going to go to your current maintenance
then presumably your body composition
shouldn't change so how is it that
you're expecting to improve the body
composition or gain fat which
is actually seems to be the goal from
your point of view manner right so what
I actually do is I try I have a
conservative estimate of the surplus I
want limit and usually it ends up being
very close to maintenance or maintenance
for the first week and that makes sure
that any negative metabolic adaptations
will have been reversed or at least the
ones not conditional on energy intake or
and so far as you can up regulate that
or body composition and then basically
the next week I start increasing and
they'll be in a surplus and they'll be
gaining weight or at least usually they
will be so yes I think definitely the
goal is to get them in their surplus and
gaining weight quite rapidly within two
week time frame to be precise and I
think a good question for 4-lane that I
have and I think I will clear up a lot
of the confusions I'm getting the
impression that a lot of people
associate your name then with reverse
dieting and they basically take the
meaning of reverse dieting as literal so
basically that means that a six-month
contest prep means a six-month reverse
dieting phase before you're well bulking
again or however you want to call it so
is that what you define as reverse
dieting is that your method a reverse
dieting I just is very very general in
my in my terms like I said it just
depends on the person and what their
goals are what they want to do I think
that you know if you're willing to
tolerate more body fat gain then you can
go back to feeling normal faster and get
your metabolic rate up faster the
question is the question is always on
this hand will the trade-off for how
much body fat I gain be worth what I get
metabolically and it took answers yes
then it totally makes sense if the
answer is no which is wise like I said
the data on weight cycling and what I've
seen with some people who tend to the
way they tend to do is this is been
immediately restrict again binge
immediately restrict again I think
that's about the worst way you can go
about it so part of her verse dieting
that I started not that I start sorry
actually I don't even think I'm not in
the first person use that term I think
Berto was the first person I saw use it
it as far as metabolic damage I I
sincerely regret using that term that
was this popular term that was put out I
think name guy named Scott Abel and
because it was the popular term I used
it and then suffered the wrath of
various people and so the gold yeah he's
nice guy that guy he's nice guy oh I
know I know yeah so um I think I was
suffered his wrath regardless but in any
case I think that you always have I
think so the weight cycling is something
that concerns me and one of the reasons
that I started having people do this
reversed I was just to get them
consistent and try to get them doing
something that they could try to have a
good way for them to think about adding
calories and because for a lot of people
this idea that you're going to add
calories is completely counterintuitive
and you know people say well isn't that
bad for me isn't that bad for me and
it's like well not necessarily the other
thing I wanted to bring up was you know
if you look at the data for weight loss
it's extraordinarily grim in terms of
who actually can maintain weight loss
I mean it's if you want to be depressed
look at the data on weight loss and who
can maintain weight loss for three plus
years so I also think about this not
just in terms of competitors I see think
about this more for okay what do we do
with obese people right so somebody who
needs to lose a hundred pounds something
like that um if they lose a hundred
pounds they're going to have reduced
metabolic rate reduced you know all
these issues do we just take them back
up okay we just take them the back up
very quickly right or do or do they have
to stay in the deaf
for the four four four prolonged period
now I would argue that at a certain
point your metabolism adapts and you
will eventually reach unless you're just
on complete starvation you'll reach a
point where you're met you do not lose
more weight so by by definition that is
a new maintenance um I don't know too
many people who would live who would
want to live on 1200 calories they the
rest of their life for 1500 calories
they to rest their life and so I have
again there's no research on this I'm
wanting to put more research out I'm
wanting to fund some studies so we can
get some answers for this because the
end today I don't care what the I don't
yes I care about being right I'm not I'm
not gonna sit here and tell you I don't
care about being right of course I do
I'll jump up and down in my living room
when I'm right but I don't care more
about being right than I care about
getting the right answer so I just want
to get the right answer because I want
to do the right thing okay uh I have a
quick question yeah so it seemed it
seems like Meno made the case that the
physiological aspect of reverse dieting
is a little bit of a fool's errand since
the adaptations to to dieting are
completely predicated upon the body
composition of the person so metal when
you say body composition are you
referring to restoring lean body mass or
are you referring to going back to the
actual body fat percentage that they
were before the diet start what I
actually was going to ask was do you
think that this is a psychological
conversation and is there any
physiological reason to actually slowly
increase calories does that make a
difference in the absence of changes in
body composition is my question so
there's there's there's I can only tell
you what I've observed I have had and
this hasn't been the case for everyone
by by any means but I have had clients
who have gotten their calories up to an
amount of calories that could not be
explained by the amount of lean body
mass they added I mean Katie Rutherford
would be
person I worked with that I would be a
great example of that to where she got
up she to where her maintenance changed
so drastically and yes she probably put
on three four pounds of lean body mass
but it simply wouldn't explain what we
were observing now she an outlier is
that something we can look at I don't
know man how what do you think well so
the question is what my explanation
would be for someone they gained an
amount of exercise expenditure because I
didn't sorry to jump in where you talk
were you eating it a chance to answer
were you talking about
lean body mass restoration or restoring
of the the actual body fat percentage
before they started dieting both so you
need to take both into account that's
the one thing that our reanalysis of
datasets makes it new is that you you
need to take both into account so and
that that serves as a proxy for organ
mass as well but lean body mass is most
important and we actually run a lot of
analysis just using lean body mass and
you get pretty close with just lean body
mass but as for your question no I've
seen the same I mean I have numerous
clients where you increase where we were
able to increase energy intake beyond
the level that they were on before or
that they would just get ridiculously
fat on usually that is indeed the case
of prolonged lean bulk or diet however
you want to call it however I think that
that is almost always explainable by
increases in muscle mass and yes just
the increase of also mass won't lead to
a high predictive increase in metabolic
rate but we know that there is very high
inter individual variability in fact the
highest factor of inter-individual
variability in human metabolic rate is
how adaptive someone's metabolism is so
the adaptive from a genesis component
itself and firming effective food all
this stuff if you get a sample of you
know 50 people and you bump up their
energy intake by 2,000 calories all of
them some people will just get
ridiculously fat others will basically
their metabolism
increase all the way up to that level
and there that will almost be their
maintenance so that's something you
should definitely take into account so
yes I believe that is very much possible
okay if I can't jump back in and I'll
promise 30 seconds um great point
and I think that I have seen people who
have I feel acted by a term I call them
adaptive metabolisms typically so I can
almost predict not always some people
who reverse up really well drop down
really well too but I I can see somebody
who's really struggling to come down
that they're kind of sticking really
frequently a lot of times they'll do
really well with low-calorie increases
because they'll kind of adapt very well
in the opposite direction to they seem
to their body seem to almost resist
change 1 or resist change in either
direction and I usually have to I
usually find I have to be a little bit
more aggressive with with calorie
changes that I can't just do small
adjustments like I usually do I have to
get a little bit more aggressive so that
would support what you're saying min oh
yeah I agree 100% and my experience and
I think the literature indication as
well as that when you have an adaptive
firm with Jenna adaptive metabolism it
goes both ways so you know people like
to mellow in or do they like to be
Monaco and I can think I have such an
adaptive metabolism you know when I go
on a diet I have to get really low in
calories but I'm actually one of those
individuals I need to go to 2,000 or
below to each photoshoot condition
assuming a pretty sedentary lifestyle
and I can build or at least I could book
on well over 4,000 calories so the
difference and the difference in body
composition is not great for me anymore
at all between be bulking in being in
photoshoot condition so that's a 2,000
calorie gap and that's just because my
metabolism is so adaptive and I think
that's the case for most people that day
you can be screwed both ways basically
that's the price so Eric I have a
question for you
yep so you you mentioned in your opening
statement about having someone return to
their low end setpoint can you describe
what it is you mean by that
how it is you go about keeping someone
at their low-end and is the goal to keep
them then at their low-end until their
next prep or what are your thoughts on
that good question because that's
actually not what I meant and I probably
should have said if I didn't
settling point because as we've kind of
discussed with regards to setpoint
whether that actually exists what the
actual mechanics of it I think in
pragmatic terms really what we're
talking about is what point that when
their body fat increases and also their
lean body mass recovers are they no
longer food focused or Monalisa pressed
and then a basically a poor place to to
start a liitle in bulk or offseason
whatever you want to call it so the goal
of getting to that low end of the
settling point is just basically saying
hey here's a target for us to get to to
start the off season rather than saying
we're going to slowly slowly increase
calories and and stay as lean as
possible while increasing food I think
while you mentioned that a lot of our
disagreements are probably in degrees
rather than principle I do agree with
what people think the principle of
reverse dieting is which is to add as
much food as possible while staying as
lean as possible and I think that
unfortunately caters to people's
neuroses and for people who are very
uncomfortable gaining fat post-show and
who have body image struggles that
becomes an excuse to maintain a behavior
which is unhealthy so I I think why I'm
relatively outspoken in the way I say
the goal is to gain fat is to really try
to turn that on its heads people
understand that right I don't I
shouldn't be in contest shape unless I'm
on stage so anyway to answer your
question directly I like to see people
getting up to say 5 percent over their
stage weight within two to four weeks so
if you competed at 180 pounds or you
know 82 kilos or something like that
you're up 4 kilos or plug doing math
wrong here yeah you're up four kilos or
close to 10 pounds within a month post
show at least and in more and there's
not necessarily bad but the goal is to
get a little under the set point say ok
good we've got out of the cold
Oh danger zone and now we can take a
more measured approach and we should get
get heavier you know based on how house
in your next season is how fat we we
need to get how struggle how much of a
struggle you have dieting down etc
mm-hmm so my follow-up question then
would be if the goal is to get to a
certain body composition that's healthy
and feels good and has the athlete
performing well and recovering and so on
why the two week buffer period or why
any buffer period why not give the
athlete an ad libitum control on their
diet
let them eat what they want let the body
fat come on and then once they get to
that point which you're calling say the
low end setpoint or somewhere in the
middle of they're settling point or what
have you then really encourage them to
say you got the binging out of your
system let's now control for caloric
intake and move on from there Lee and I
see you shaking your head so I'm gonna
say probably the same thing Elaine would
sure but if you look at actually like
the clinical treatment of anorexia it's
not just eat whatever you want
you know the reason is is because just
I'm trying to say this nicely
you're not saying after after after a
show you know you don't have hunger
signals that are functioning and there
is a lag for those to return to normal
and some of some times even when the
physiological markers return to normal
your behavioral changes haven't returned
to normal if they were even normal in
the first place that's remember you snot
you're someone who decided to get on
stage in a speedo and cover yourself and
Tanner and shave yourself you're we're
not normal people yeah exactly
sacrifice to win right so um nonetheless
the point being that you you can and
will overshoot some people a few
approaches as a coach with that attitude
some people will do just fine with that
they'll get another system in a week
they'll be 15 pounds over stage weight
and then they'll get back to normal to
give you a personal example in 2007 my
reverse diet plan was a list of
restaurants that was it right and I was
up 48 pounds in two months before I
started to feel unhung Guri and normal
again so I had what he ate Nick forty
eight pounds in two months
yeah I went from 178 pounds onstage to
226 two months later and that was a free
eating plan that eventually very quickly
became oh my god I'm getting way too
fast I need to pull back and then I
couldn't pull back behaviorally so in in
yeah in theory awesome if you were to
regain all that control just from a few
days of going nuts that'd be great but
that's unfortunately not what happens so
what I actually do in practice is I tell
people enjoy your night well it's saying
they're not them any more shows in the
season assuming that Saturday night
enjoy it do whatever you want just don't
throw up kind of thing and then and then
Sunday I give them some loose structure
you know here are you know have three
square meals don't eat between meals but
eat what you want go to restaurant three
times a day is fine and then on Monday I
give them some kind of structured
numbers but they are more flexible
numbers and they're higher numbers
because bodybuilders crave structure so
if you don't give them any structure
they tend to go off the deep end in most
cases mm-hmm and I'll let you talking
just just two seconds but I just want to
kind of clarify when I say ad libitum
eating what I really mean is is what's
being called an intuitive approach where
you have constraints on your eating but
they aren't tracking based so you're not
actually tracking but you have the
requirement to eat for physiological
rather than psychological reasons so
you're not going to have someone going
50 pounds over their stage weight if
they're purely eating for physiological
reasons I I would argue um I would agree
but when the rubber hits the road you've
got to tell someone what to do
yeah and you know I could do that now
absolutely no problem I did in 2011
I looked up one day and I was only 9
pounds over stage wait four months
post-show and I was like I'm more
interested in pizza than my wife and
she's naked this is stupid I'm gonna get
fatter
I had the control I had the experience
because I've been competing for you know
five years to have a quote unquote
intuitive approach but what I think we
forget because all of us are experienced
competitors is that and it's easy to
remember when you have clients is that
the the stages of
neuroticism that you had said aware
neuroses would have to get through to
get to a place where you could
intuitively eat was predicated on you
doing things wrong for a long time so
you can't lose the perspective and tell
your clients hey hey don't worry about
it be like me and just just you know
have some constraints and eat eat as you
feel post-show because if it's their
first season they're gonna lose their
[ __ ] yeah yeah I'm in agreement man I'll
go ahead yeah what I'd like to add is to
both Wayne and Eric is that one of the
most overrated concepts I think in
nutrition is this is hippie ID that you
should intuitively eat or listen to your
body and your emotions I mean the whole
reason we have an opposite the epidemic
is because people listen to their
emotions that's why they're fat and
basically what we are doing and the
whole essence of the method I created
bayesian body building is predicated on
the belief that with rational thought we
can overcome our emotional limitations
and learn to control our physiology in a
way that is superior to that our
emotions will intuitively let us mm-hmm
so again the idea with intuitive eating
is not to fall to the whims of your
emotions but rather to not do that right
I mean in the in the way that I'm
describing it right but I obviously
would agree in I write and not moderate
anymore but yeah listen to the right
signals that goes yeah Eric go ahead
yeah I agree with minnow and I think it
a great example it you know like I said
before bodybuilders are not normal you
know we're we are very different than
the rest of society where we're losing
the quote unquote fitness middle-class
or if you just live your life you will
be obese and the people who are not
obese are the ones who are actively
doing things for the rational thought to
try to reduce the energy intake or
increase energy expenditure however the
end result should be to try to adopt new
behaviors that you can Auto regulate
your life and maintain like a healthy
place I think sometimes we get to we get
to if it fits your macros or some
version of that and we think that's the
end goal I do think long
for a body but in the offseason you
should get to a point where you do just
intuitively eat and that results in the
things that you used to track and create
a lot of regiment to get to but to get
there it does require a purposeful
behavior adjustment and time period of
doing that so and into the same approach
regardless of whether you're you know
obese or a bodybuilder just it looks a
lot different you know sure a
bodybuilder there might be points in a
in a diet where you're trying to hit
within plus or minus five or ten grams
and all three macronutrients but a it
might be as simple as for an obese
person just going I'm gonna adopt these
new behaviors I'm going to start
understanding there are calories in
foods and that I have to budget my
energy intake like I do my bank account
and then eventually that becomes
automatic but I totally agree with may
know that it we intuitive eating is
predicated on a behavior change in the
first place so yeah I mean you seem like
you're dying to speak yeah but I think
Peter wants to say something I won't let
him go cuz he's been quiet for a while
I just gave up the microphone that has
never happened before dr. Fitch you
should be very very honored Thank You
Lane um yeah so I guess my thought along
the same lines is I don't know if you
guys take a similar approach but I
generally try to loosen up what someone
is doing in terms of tracking as their
offseason goes also so what I mean by
that is maybe as we're reversing we
still have macros for them to hit
because again you give someone
I mean I'm four weeks out from a show
you tell me to eat whatever I want right
now and it's not going to go well and so
um you know so I haven't tracked macros
initially but as they start feeling more
normal as we start getting to this point
where they're in a better spot
psychologically maybe we switch to like
a wider macro range or maybe we just
change to like a calorie range is like a
protein minimum a fiber minimum or maybe
for some people like Eric was saying we
get to a point where it's more intuitive
but I don't know about you guys but I
find some people just really can't
handle the intuitive side you still have
to have some sort of structure for them
it doesn't seem I don't know maybe it's
just that they haven't tracked for long
enough or psychologically they're not in
a good spot but it really does seem like
some people need at least some sort of
structure but I still try to loosen up
with that structure is in the office
because when it comes time to dye it
again you know you want to be ready to
dye it like when you're prepping for a
show you know it's it's you know what a
four six eight month you know commitment
depending on where your body fat is when
you're starting and how fast you're
losing and where you have to get down to
then the last thing you want is to just
be like I don't want to do this at the
start like you want to be a mentally
when you start a prep that you're
willing to die it and I can tell you
right after a show you're not but giving
yourself an offseason maybe having a
loser tracking method if you can handle
it can allow you to get to that point so
that you can have a longer more
sustained career mm-hmm yeah that's
that's that's great that's really well
said here I think on that note I want to
make a few points and I promise I'll
keep my short as possible but um to
Peter's point and my friend dr. Cory
Probst she had a really great statement
I think it makes sense because people
think Olay is the flexible dieting guy
the if a FET your macros guy you got to
track down to the grandbabies no I don't
do that okay as Cory said self-control
is fatiguing and that is I thought I
think that's a hundred percent correct
if you're always trying to be
neurotically tracking everything to them
the gram I mean you're gonna you're
going to have the same effect as
basically eating clean binging eating
clean binging I mean it's gonna be the
same thing it's just you're changing
your neurosis of where it is so
typically what I do post diet and I've
told people is kind of similar Eric does
I say that night listen go out eat till
you feel physically full and then stop
and we all know that you do know the
difference we and physical fullness and
you know that there's a difference when
being physically full or or hunger and
the actual being compelled to eat
there's a difference and as far as
intuitive eating goes people think I'm
not a fan of intuitive eating
I actually think intuitive eating is
great if you can do it but I talked with
dr. Megan Kowloon day on our on our
podcast and basically what she said is
anybody who's had eating disorder
there's evidence that they probably
never get back to a point where they can
intuitive eat that it's just their
signals are so disrupted and how their
Rayne is wired that it's just not going
to they're always going to need some
kind of structure to keep them from
falling back into those kind of areas of
extreme because it's either going to be
extreme overeating or extreme under
eating depending on how things are going
to more points I'm going to make is some
going back to the actual topic reverse
dieting the first one is a lot of people
will say on that note they'll say well
Layne if you're saying add like let's
say you're being conservative and adding
10 grams of carbs and 2 grams of fat and
week how can you actually add that to
your diet like how can you add that like
2 grams of fat is nothing and the point
to be considered is that yes within food
labels there's a bigger air than what
you're getting from adding 2 grams of
fat to your diet so you have to look I
call these macro clouds just like
electron clouds you can never predict
exactly where an electron is going to be
because of quantum theory but we have an
idea of where it is based on the cloud
and probability Eric I know you love
this so yes I just brought in quantum
theory into reverse dieting but let's
say if we add those two grams and we do
it over 20 weeks now we have made a
substantial difference right so you're
what you're looking for is to slowly
move that kind of cloud of macros up ok
so some days I tell people if you're
within 5 grams of every single one of
the macros that is a hundred percent
compliance because there is no such
thing as hitting things down to the
macro just because of how much error is
inherent in food labels so but we have
to we have to understand that you know
even when you're perfect you're not
perfect and so just being kind of in
general in that area is important and
then the one last thing I'll put into
you you know you mentioned Jeff well why
not just have somebody regain weight
really really quickly I think the first
thing to that is use you you can regain
body fat really quickly but you can't
regain lean body mass very quickly and
Deleuze showed that you're the
hyperphagia chrous Ponce and kind of a
lot of these adaptations that take place
don't return back to normal until your
lean body mass is back to normal so I
would say regain body fat at a pace that
matches you regain so that they when
they meet they're meeting together as a
pose to your body fat getting up real
quick and then your lean body mass
taking much more time to get back up and
then also the again this has only been
shown in rats but it has kind of matched
what I've observed in some people who
really wait cycle a lot and that they
tend to be able to maintain weight on
less calories and that they have they
now sit at a higher body fat level that
they're just their bodies more
comfortable with that higher body fat
level after they've gone through weight
cycling and so that that's a concern for
me I want to be able to keep people at a
whatever their setpoint is to not have
that change because nobody's setpoint
is 400 pounds right like nobody's
setpoint is 40 percent body fat
something changes whether it be
physiologically or psychologically or I
think probably both to bring them there
and so what I want to avoid is just
rapid regain and we don't know you know
again one study in rats I just really
like the study because I thought it was
very very cool it's by McLean by the way
if anybody wants to look it up
but I just my concern is I don't want to
gain somebody gained body fat so fast
that possibly causes that increase in
fat cell differentiation and possibly
changes their their setpoint because
that would be a major problem yeah okay
so Lane first I just want to say that
I'm gonna link that podcast episode in
the show notes because it sounds really
fascinating how do you hear an expert
speak on eating disorders and intuitive
eating so for our listeners I will link
that there and then just to I guess
clarify what I'm trying to say here and
because we're limited on time maybe we
can have a longer discussion later or
something but I think that if we're
ending up in a place where you have a
certain body fat set point it seems
irrelevant to me from the position of
someone who doesn't really care from a
psychological perspective if there's a
period of time where they look a little
bit fluffier if they're then going to
end up in a place where they have gained
muscle because we're all trying to get
to the same place
where you have someone at a reasonable
body fat percentage and they're also
making progress in terms of adding lean
body mass so for me from a psychological
perspective I feel as though if we can
allow that fat gain to come on a little
bit more quickly even though that the
lbm might be behind a little bit then
that would allow them to psychologically
recover and then also be able to just
train harder and adding more lean body
mass so six months down the road we're
in exactly the same place given that
it's someone who is comfortable with you
know allowing that fat to come out more
quickly from the beginning and to Eric's
earlier points someone who probably has
experience and isn't going to be likely
to overshoot coming out of the diet so
important respond but the important
thing to realize is that we all see
things through different prisms and we
all have different perspectives and your
perspective everybody's own perspective
always makes sense to them right and so
you might look at somebody saying why
the hell would you go slow like just get
back to that but for some people putting
on body fat quickly is a trigger for
them to want to diet back down
immediately yeah and when I get that
person they start to get that weight
cycling sort of thing that is for me the
worst outcome that can happen so I'm out
if you were my client Jeff and you said
hey I I do not care about being a little
bit fluffier sweet here thing man like
that's exactly what I would say and as
long as you're getting to a point where
you feel good at the end of the day I
mean I'm gonna sound very min I want to
sound very hippie-ish
but I just care if my clients are happy
if you're happy at 20% body fat by god
be 20% body fat give a [ __ ] do it do
what you want I'm a libertarian do what
you would but uh you know it's for a lot
of people that you know they aren't
happy with that and so trying to come up
with kind of this that middle ground for
them is kind of where I'm at yeah that's
that's an awesome point and of course
agree so uh I feel as though there's a
lot of agreement on the table
so that's good to see does anyone else
have any questions for any of the the
other panelists before we wrap things up
yeah I do I like to add a little context
to what Eric said Eric when you said you
were more interested in pizza than sex
what kind of pizza were you talking
about the question any pizza bro any
pizza and may not seen my wife so
thatthat should that should tell you how
bad it can get you know I'm saying track
it so I hope that was clear area I I
have a measuring bar for when I I feel
like I know when people back to normal
so I asked the ash this to somebody else
in the gym today I said how long does it
take you to prepare your breakfast like
what do you what are you talking about
I'm like it takes you longer than 30
minutes to prepare your breakfast you
are not back to normal because I know
when I'm in that delusion that that
deranged day I'll get up and I'm like
putting this together and I'm putting
that together and I'm making sure
everything's just right that's it then
now when I wake up I'm like okay what's
the fastest way I can get this done and
get to work you know so that's cut my
measuring bars how longs it take you to
make breakfast I
I can relate how about you at Peter
right now about our 45 oh uh yeah I'm
one of those guys who all the way
through grad school I would just like
slam oatmeal and protein with some water
so I could just get to work right away
in the morning and during prep I mean
now I make like elaborate egg dishes
with like sauteed vegetables in them and
whatnot early in the morning so yeah I'm
good one thing I actually just thought
of is a one thing that I did want to
comment on actually and maybe I'll have
Eric comment on this because it's
something that Layne noted that in your
example you had a female diet on or she
was on a hundred cow or a hundred carbs
a day rather you increased her body
weight from 120 up to 130 while
increasing our carbs only to 165 then
you reversed her carbs up to 315 while
maintaining 130 pounds body weight then
the next time you dieted her down to
stage weight she got even lighter to 108
pounds Generosa and her cars were higher
I should push she wasn't stage lean when
she came to me so we were she was she
was kind of felt like she really had
trouble losing body fat but she was
already on low calories what do we do
so that's correct really well so my
question would be is there value in
increasing calories in this way in a
controlled in math article manner in the
offseason while maintaining you know a
low-end setpoint or what have you sir so
yeah I mean I think it probably depends
on one the individual because I have had
like I said I had I had a she's IPP
bikini proud I want to say her name but
she was she came to me and she was
maintaining her body weight and about
130 grams of carbs and 45 grams of fat
per day and I forget her protein intake
um and we got hurt she lost this is
gonna sound crazy but I'm not kidding
you she lost 10 pounds going up too
slowly I think we ended up at 350 grams
of carbs a day and 80 grams of fat
that's what the biggest outliers I've
ever seen so everyone can you may be
good but we started dieting her down and
this was somebody who's very restricted
before we're talking about under a
thousand calories day over four hours of
activity like all the terrible coaching
horror stories you hear we started her
dieting her down she did not lose a
single pound going down to under 100
grams of carbs a day it was the craziest
thing I've ever seen handle with yeah
what's the stupid question I mean do I
think there's value and trying to add
add calories at a low end setpoint yeah
yeah well at first I wanted to say that
I've I think we've probably all seen
some crazy outliers like like that and
I've had people the same way where they
lose weight while you add food or all
these things and it goes back to my
opening statement sometimes we're
inheriting some very very bad cases you
know where people have come from a
background where they are quote unquote
very suppressed when they come to you so
a lot of times you're just getting a
jerk I maybe even that as wild now stab
in back no this kid in Lyle love you
buddy
but um don't wait it up yeah just
wasteful happen hi Lana
anyway yeah I think a lot of the times
what's happening there is you're getting
someone back to where they would be
normally and then not in this place
where they're they're totally jacked up
so I'm not sure that is a rationale for
saying that should be the goal for
everyone however I would say that's kind
of just what you do in our off season
like if I'm if I'm working with someone
I want them to gain at a certain rate
you know because I don't want to get
because if based on their training age
and and their body size of what I think
is appropriate for them to be able to
put on muscle mass and anytime I can get
away with adding 510 grams of carbs or
fat I do it because then it's more food
I think the real question is is how
persistent are the increases in calories
that we can get in the offseason in
terms of does that translate into what
you're going to diet them down on during
contest prep and I've experienced the
same thing that some other people are
saying is that some people it does seem
to translate into higher calories and
prep but for others like myself I'm
exactly the same thing that may know
described like I can I can eat over
three that well okay I'm 32 now but back
in my old off seasons when I was in my
20s I could be around 4,000 calories and
slowly gaining weight but then you know
Lane might remember in 2009 I was doing
like five hit intervals seven list
sessions and my average calorie intake
on my low days was like 1,800 to get
yeah half a pound of weight loss per
week after we've been stalled for three
months at 190 pounds you know so I'm one
of those food it doesn't it doesn't seem
to stay you know can I ask Meno a quick
question um what do you think is it is
accounting for that swing or like the
adaptive metabolism is it just
individual differences in the
adaptiveness of their NEET levels or is
it something else
mostly yes it seems that most of the
adaptive forma Genesis is neat and
interestingly many people are inclined
to point to the fibroids and more
directly metabolically related measures
physiology but it actually seems that
the nerve
system regulates a lot of your energy
expenditure is there is there any way of
consciously altering that so for example
if Eric's meat is being massively
suppressed because his brain likes to do
that to him
can he just add in more cardio say than
the next person or consciously try to
even be a little more active throughout
the day and do you think that would Ops
offset the adaptation at all either
Erika or anyone I'll take that one a few
s on mine sure you got to be you got to
be careful like because for example you
you could say hey I want you to get a
step counter make sure you get 10,000
steps a day you know we're not gonna be
able to change the fact your muscle
efficiency goes down your subconscious
physical activity goes down can't change
that stuff but maybe you should get a
step counter some people will run with
that until it becomes an unhealthy
behavior where it's just one more thing
or their entire life now because I mean
they're already living meal to meal
right it's already like okay every four
hours I've got to hit my macros now now
it's 24/7 now it's MI being active so
they're sitting watching TV going wait I
should be fidgeting and I've actually
seen competitors get in that mind state
where the whole day is about am I losing
fat and I think that can be just a huge
energy suck and drain out of their
membrane motivation so I think you have
to create a some structure for it and
systematize it so that they can still
auto regulate it like a big thing I say
you know these days with how shredded we
have to get to be on stage and be
competitive we're looking at four to
eight month preps like Peter said we've
got to find a way for it to become
mostly automatic so we only have to
really dig dig dig when it gets crazy
hard so if you found eight you know if
in two weeks or when we're seeing these
down regulations and need you're
thinking okay I got to burn calories
you're going to burn out super quick so
you've got to find some way that it is
not a constant drain on the psychology
of them having to think about how to do
that but but in theory yes you could you
could offset Nate by adding neat but
some of the adaptations to need it's not
just activity yeah I think that's that's
a big thing people I don't have a
problem saying that reductionism meat is
actually metabolic adaptation because if
your skeletal muscle gets more efficient
if you're you know subconscious physical
activity goes down the mechanism doesn't
really matter the
this is that something you can't control
that is affecting your TDE is going down
whether it's actually BMR or not you
know so you got to be careful I don't
want people to think that neat
adaptations are purely just like now
you're a slug you're always sitting down
all that stuff like I noticed so people
might know it medicine me dance or do
some silly things and videos I come from
like a hip hop background right so I
listen to like rap and all kinds of
nonsense and I was in the car and in
2011 and I was listening my favorite
song and nothing was happening I was
just driving thinking I realized I was
like no my head is always at least
bobbing like I I don't know how to not
dance to music but all of a sudden that
behavior changed from starving myself so
it's it's a it gets you everywhere
I think which is something that people
don't realize yeah I think the other
thing too is like as Eric mentioned look
at how much activity he was doing
exercise wise like it mean to do binge
eating really make that much difference
on top of you know doing three hours of
activity a day I mean it you know I mean
does it make a difference sure but in a
practical sense I mean compared to what
you're already doing doesn't really make
that big of a difference so but even
Eric I mean I think you would you would
it you would agree that even though
you're going to probably have to get
down to the same level regardless and
we've agreed that some people some
people do get a benefit from that where
they can diet in higher calories you
still see benefit to being able to eat
more in an offseason
maintain on higher calories during an
offseason to eat more I would say you
know I held just cuz more foods always
fun at least for me I'm not one of these
people who's everybody is different I've
had people say Lane I don't like all
this food is there anything we can do
and it's like and I look at them like
okay well you're weird but um you know
I'm like you know if you really really
have it have it that hard of a table go
eat something that's more calorie dense
you know but um I think that there's
still value there it probably just isn't
as apparent in terms of the metabolic
outcomes as somebody who we can't get up
higher and then they can dye it down on
a higher amount of calories and I think
the other thing too is again that
back into coaching being an art form
finding out which clients are outliers
where they're outliers at or do they fit
right in the middle of the Gaussian
distribution and then exploiting that to
the best we can right because we can
know what suck because remember Sciences
just means on data right you are not a
mean you are an individual data point so
if we know something about your
individual data point based on previous
experience and this is why I like to
work people in the offseason before I
take them into contests based on my
experience I'm going to try and exploit
whatever metabolic outcome that we've
observed to hopefully put you in the
best possible position to do the to do
as good as we possibly can in the
healthiest way possible yeah I would
agree with that and I would say though
that it's worth a shot
right so let's say you you upregulate
need as much as you can on the off
season and maybe well maybe it won't
have an impact on what you can diet on
but it's least worth a shot right like
why not you know and however I would say
that if we're going to talk about what
is the most effective tools in our
Arsenal as coaches to keep calories as
high as possible during a diet to make
the process easier I would say things
like diet breaks nonlinear calorie
distributions across the week
potentially your quote unquote refeeds
are probably going to be more important
than how did two years ago your your
through the six month period after your
show go unless you did something like
right back in a diet dieting or have
that cyclical you know yeah yeah I have
people refeed do higher calorie days but
I mean this is going to go into a whole
nother and peter has actually written
the paper for my website on this but
I've been pretty underwhelmed with the
metabolic effects of refeeding I mean it
just seems like yes you get a bump of
metabolism but it just goes right back
down as soon as your calories come back
down I I have people do them just more
so for psychological effect than for
actual physiological effect but yeah
that could be a topic for a completely
different day
yeah there's there and there's so little
data on it in the context of of how we
actually refeed most of the data that's
on it is
kind of intermittent calorie restriction
where people are maybe in a deficit two
days a week in a fairly severe deficit
and then maybe maintenance for the other
five and so we don't really have great
studies you know on refeeding or diet
breaks or maybe taking a mini reverse
died in the middle of your prep or you
know there's there's a lot of methods
that coaches and you know implement that
we really don't have a lot of data on
other than anecdotally so I'll make sure
that I link that article once it goes
live in the show notes as well and well
actually it's in the members only area
section oh okay well we all enjoy
balling Cobb um men oh I noticed that
you mentioned something about a one to
two day time time frame in your opening
statement would you like to just comment
on that briefly about the the effects of
refeeding right okay in the interest of
time yeah I will instead refer you to
the interview I did with Sigma nutrition
radio it's on my website and it's the
first question what are my thoughts on
refeeding I can say I largely agree with
Leigh Norton okay awesome
all right guys I'm gonna wrap it up here
I just want to thank all of you
gentlemen so much for your time and for
coming on the show it was a real
pleasure getting to listen to and chat
with some of you guys so instead of
plugging all your social media here I
will just note or rather annotate all of
your guys
social medias and websites and so on in
the show notes so listeners can find you
guys there so to our listeners thank you
so much for listening to another episode
the ice cream for Pierre's podcast I
hope that you learn something and we
will see you in the next episode
I was surprised there is a there was
more agreement than I'd like thought
going in but that's good that's using
what happens when you get science right
for you that fits together you know no
it's not okay
most of the disagreement is in what
everybody's for everybody else said
something you know I know we're sitting
on opposite sides of this debate and
there might be some nuanced details we
differ in but it sounds like big picture
we really are on the same page of things
no I mean people love to determine
English pull us against each other
they're like you know Lane says this
meadow says this you know let's fly