[Music]
[Applause]
hey folks documentary of Renaissance
period ization welcome to the exercise
technique and correction series we're
gonna be taking a bunch of popular
exercises and if you have any you want
us to do please put them in the comments
and we're gonna be going through
analyzing techniques especially for the
perspective of mistakes common mistakes
people make on the exercises for
hypertrophy training and then we're
gonna try to solve each one of these
problems and give you the tools to do
your best possible job to get us Jack as
humanly possible because folks what else
is there the stimulus to fatigue ratio
in the gym in the real world we've got
other videos on our PE doing a bunch of
math and trying to figure it on a
technical level but in the gym that's
where you do most of the assessment for
the stimulus to fatigue ratio so first
of all what is the stimulus to fatigue
ratio it's the ratio of how much muscle
growth an exercise or a certain
technique of an exerciser stimulating
relative to how much fatigue it's
summing up the more stimulus we can have
the more muscle growth we can have the
less fatigue we can have first of all we
can be less fatigued and second of all
you can just do that much more training
and get that much more growth because
the amount of total fatigue you can
tolerate is limited so if you have
exercises and techniques that have a
high gray show of stimulus to a low
ratio fatigue you can do more of them
they're more sustainable and you can get
better overall muscle growth so let's
talk about four three proxies the three
factors we use in the gym to roughly
judge stimulus and then we'll talk about
the three we use to roughly judge
fatigue and tie it all in together and
once you're done watching this video
you'll be able to see any other video
demonstrating techniques you'll be able
to take away the good stuff from the
technique videos of which we'll have a
bunch for you eventually but all the
technique stuff is a little bit
personalized this is how you determine
if the technique is good for you if it's
causing you a lot of stimulus and the
lowest amount of possible fatigue so
let's get right into it
stimulus first our first proxy of
stimulus and this is necessarily the
most important one just one of three
equally important is the mind muscle
connection when we say my muscle
connection we don't just mean like
chin of movement or like okay I have a
bicep and I'm using it fine who cares
that doesn't make you Jack do you don't
stay at home and move your biceps and be
like yeah definitely it's moving that
means I'm getting jacked no the mind
muscle connection of a context muscle
growth means one of two things and
sometimes both for very heavy weights
usually in the five to ten rep range
close to failure there has to be a
perception of a ton of tension being
generated by and transmitted through the
target muscle you want to grow so for
example if I'm doing a bicep curl you
guys see these guns if I'm doing a bicep
curl and it's super heavy weight I have
to feel a ton of tension going through
the bicep as I do the movement one of
the reasons why range of motion helps is
at the stretch a lot of times your
ability to generate tension and have it
really caused growth is really high and
you can feel that deep in a stretch with
a benchpress you can also feel the pecs
working so on and so forth so if you're
doing a bicep curl and you want the
biceps to grow and you're doing it heavy
you feel a ton of tension in your
forearms maybe some in your shoulders
but you really don't feel a ton in your
bicep you can't be honest and say that
it might not be stimulating bicep growth
as much as it could be what about high
reps sets of twenty to thirty when
you're really banging them out yeah
you're gonna feel some tension but it's
never gonna feel like a lot because it's
lightweight it's 20 30 rep range weight
in that case we can see we have a high
mind muscle connection when we feel the
burn a whole lot in the target muscles
so if you're doing a set of 25 or 30 and
the dumbbell curl for example it's gonna
be my exercise for demo here for the
whole rest of the time if you're doing a
super high rep set close to failure like
it should be towards the end if you've
got a burn here your forearms you got a
burn in your delts or even you know the
side of your shoulders or something like
that maybe even your traps from holding
a dumbbell but you don't have a deeper
and even the bicep you're targeting
that's not the greatest thing in the
world for a great workout in the target
muscle with heavy weights you want to
perceived muscle ripping tension like
holy crap imagine doing a deep leg press
what your quads feel like are oh my god
they're I can for sure tell something's
happening and for high reps it's okay if
you don't perceive a ton of tension any
one time because the weight is low but
what you definitely want is a perception
of oh my god my biceps are burning off
my body you want to drop the weight at
the end of set
get the metabolites out of my muscles
they're hurting me that's a good thing
in the target muscle if an exercise or
certain way of doing it doesn't allow
you to feel the burn or the tension even
the target muscle you got to look for
either better exercises or another way
of doing it maybe I should grab the
dumbbell like this and you're doing
biceps you don't really feel it a ton
your biceps maybe if you grab it like
this and it tries to rotate internally
and you peek it at the top with your
pinky that actually involve some of the
supination effects the bicep maybe for
you that'll really make you feel the
bicep much more in one of those two ways
or maybe both moderate reps sets of 10
to 20 you'll feel some combination of
high tension and the metabolites burn to
the extent that you feel either or both
of them that's a great thing and if you
don't you might not be onto something
very good next so that's point number
one for stimulus next stimulus is really
super straightforward it's the pump how
much does the exercise or the technique
give you a pump in the target muscle if
you're doing some kind of weird new curl
that's like this you gotta like twist
the dumbbell and some after four or five
sets someone's like you got a bicep pump
and you're like not really that's not a
great sign but if you figured out a
technique or an exercise that gets you a
huge pump after several sets the fewer
sets that takes you get a pump the
better you're probably on to some good
muscle growth so if an exercise gives
you a great pump you're probably on to
something a quick thing is like well
what about heavy weights they don't
really give you a pump they do if you're
predominantly fast twitch muscle fiber
in that area very likely so a lot of
times you get a better pump in your
chest when it's really fast which by
doing sets of 8 and 10 in the bench
press and dumbbell press then you would
by doing sets of 30 in the cable fly
which for some of you but just not doing
anything but make your pecs tired so you
don't have to go for the pump at all
times if you have a high level of
tension perception the pump is just part
of the equation but the better the pump
usually everything else being equal the
more muscle you're probably gonna
stimulate growth and the fewer sets you
can do that in the better those are two
factors so far for the stimulus of
muscle growth the third and final proxy
for stimulus is muscle disruption to the
target muscle ruin my muscle disruption
three things
after a hard workout even during the
hard workout your muscles that you're
targeting especially towards the end
should feel strange something should be
off okay if you do a bunch of barbell
curls or dumbbell curls and you don't
get a huge stimulus in the bicep and
someone's like how do you buy some is
feeling you're like it's totally fine
then there's a good chance you didn't
stimulate a whole lot of growth but if
after a bicep workout someone's like hey
how do your biceps you're like I don't
know man I feel sort of strange they're
kind of wobbly shaky a little bit the
muscle feels weird that's probably a
really really good thing
point sub point number two I'm a
stimulus of what is considered a muscle
disruption if you experience local
target muscle weakness right like if
you're trying to go down the stairs you
just did quads and you're like oh my god
it's hard to go down the stairs hard to
go up the stairs that's probably a good
thing if you do a super hard quad
workout and you could hop up the stairs
normally it probably wasn't that hard
probably wasn't at stim ative lastly
this doesn't have to happen is some
degree of muscle soreness we don't mean
Dom's we mean after a quad workout for
example after bicep workout you're
brushing your teeth and you're like
something that just doesn't feel right
it feels like maybe a little bit of
connective tissue kind of feels sort of
crackly you know feels tight that's just
a very mild form of soreness or could be
less soreness at the extreme ends of the
tissue or somewhere in the middle and it
can range all the way up to delayed
onset muscle soreness pretty profound
painful to the touch you just have to be
delayed onset muscle soreness but it
should probably be like your muscle
doesn't feel 100% ours and or days after
if you can check all those three boxes
great but even just some of them is good
so if we can check those three boxes of
stimulus we have a mind muscle
connection which means hi perception of
tension and/or burn we have a pump and
the muscle has clearly been disrupted to
the extent that happens that's great for
stimulus but hold on we still have half
the equation left fatigue fatigue isn't
a great thing because it prevents us
from able to put in more stimulus every
time we stimulate in a gym it comes with
a certain fatigue cost our goal is to
minimize the fatigue cost without
touching the stimulus that's a really
important point because if we just go to
the least fatiguing exercises or ways of
doing things you'd be in here doing
curls like this with no range
no wait they like sweet no fatigue great
but you didn't get any stimulus either
so fatigue is okay and in fact sometimes
it has to come with the training
especially in hard core movements but
there shouldn't be any excessive fatigue
how do we measure fatigue also three
ways first one joint and connective
tissue disruption or perception of
damage so if you're doing bicep curls
and every single rep your elbow hurts
and every single other repet it gets
worse and worse knee lock off ah
thumbs up with my elbow and someone's
like don't worry about brother just the
cost of being the boss yeah I don't know
if it's really sustainable right so if
you find out that curling like this
really hurts your elbows but curling
like that is super totally awesome for
elbows and doesn't feel like a thing if
the stimulus is equivalent between them
you want to go to what hurts your joints
and connective tissues less can we don't
come into the gym to hurt our joints
sometimes the joints won't feel amazing
during training and after training
that's okay but our number one
priorities do there's a little as
possible anytime you're figuring your
squat stance with your deadlift stance
with your benchpress grips pull-ups
anything and everything you have to
watch for your joints and connective
tissues to make sure you pick the grips
that are you know the most charitable to
them second way to judge fatigue we have
joint and connective tissue pain or or
distress the less less of that the
better the second one is rating of
perceived exertion if we have two
exercises that are equally stimulative
but one is way harder to do than the
other that systemic fatigue is gonna
spill over and affect all of your other
training is not a good thing
psychological fatigue is absolutely a
type of systemic fatigue so if you could
do full range of motion squats which
aren't terribly difficult they really
mess up your quads that really hard to
do because it's not a ton of weight on
the bar you don't have to super-psycho
up okay that's this much stimulus and
you know this much fatigue what if you
do like partial stand squads with like
600 pounds stuff the bar doesn't even
move until you psych up every set drains
you like crazy the perceived exertion is
just on or unreal if it's worth the
stimulus that's great do your Metro's do
your deadlifts do your presses do the
hard that drains the out of
you but it's gotta be worth the stimulus
if you can't check the boss'll the boxes
of tons of tension tons
burn tons of pomp and tons of muscle
disruption if just your joints hurt in
just your brain is that you can't even
tell what you trained not a great
exercise lastly another measure of
systemic fatigue is a given exercise
that you do for a muscle group how much
does it affect strength levels of an
unrelated muscle group for example if I
do a set of rack deadlifts for my back
crazy amount of weight really shitty
technique I get a certain amount of
stimulus for my back ok sweet and a ton
of fatigue after I do those rack
deadlifts someone could be look alright
it's time to train chest or it's time to
Train you know your quads or something
like that something that was minimally
or not involved in the actual movement
you did
what is your performance going to be
like on that movement that's the big
question if you can do a set four sets
of barbell bent rows get a great back
pump jump in the chest training and not
chest out no problem with almost no
decrease in performance that's great
that's a very little spillover of
fatigue you're growing your whole body
no problem but if you do a set of shitty
rack deadlifts with poor technique put a
trillion pounds on the bar completely
drained afterwards and your performance
on chest suffers a ton that's an
indicator of high systemic fatigue which
is gonna mess up the rest of your
program even if you want to keep
training that muscle group later it's
already super tired you just not again
getting a lot done so the whole
conclusion here is as much of the three
factors of stimulus so we can have the
more the better the less of the fatigue
factors we can have without sacrificing
extinguish factors the better because an
exercise like squatting or barbell
pressing bench pressing bent row those
exercises a lot of times are very
fatiguing but they're also super super
stimulative when you choose your
exercises go with the ones that have the
most stimulus and the least relative
fatigue and any time you try to
customize your technique on an exercise
which should be always because it's for
you that you're doing the exercise
anytime you customize technique you
should be looking for the technique that
gives you the most stimulus and the
least fatigue and all of the factors we
described the one that gives you the
best tension the best burn the best
pumps messes up the target muscle the
most hurts your joints and connective
tissues the least
doesn't drain you for no good reason and
leaves you able to a pretty good job at
other unrelated muscle groups later if
you can get all those factors into one
those exercises are the best those
techniques are the best and any time you
see any technique tips including the
ones will be offering on this channel
make sure to try them but pick the ones
that work best for you and make your
stimulus to fatigue ratio as high as it
can possibly be
boy did I overdo that last one you are
SFR folks thank you so much for tuning
in enjoy technique videos enjoy the
sample workouts and draw the lectures
get bigger and stronger because that's
fun see you next time