eating 400 g of protein per day when you
weigh 200 is like sort of the analogy
there is are like bringing like 10 nukes
to Dinosaur
Planet Overkill and there's definitely a
cost physical cost there's a diarrhea
cost to that you that much protein your
poop starts to look interesting and
there's just no clear benefit now will
you always need a 120 mm Cannon to kill
a T-Rex and some stegosaurus or whatever
trying to kill you they're zombie
dinosaurs of course no a 50 cal might do
just fine but maybe jams and maybe the
dinosaur still running at you maybe
there's three of them you killed one and
two you barely killed the third one eats
you out of your Jeep or whatever so if
you have tank cannons it's it's it's a
little bit overkilled just a little but
it's a really good insurance policy
weirdest tangent analogy maybe have ever
made