how heavy should you go for Mass versus
strength versus Power by the end of this
video I'll have broken down the results
of dozens of studies to give you the
science-based
answer welcome back Dr mil wolf here PhD
in sports science with wolf coaching
different people train for different
goals me I just trained through the soul
live without it but D I hear you saying
I only train to maximize shareholder
value and because I'm forced to do so
and I have insert X or Y goal in mind I
hear you CPR Jone here's what to do
fortunately big man Paul Swinton has
performed a meta aggression on several
hundreds of studies on exactly this
topic to find out how heavy should you
lift for different goals now I hear you
saying why did you just call a
researcher big man well because if ever
you call any sports scientist a pencil
neck again I see you in my comments Paul
Swinton will straight up show up at your
house MOG 405 for 10 close grip bench
and then leave and you will be mged and
you will never indulge in such
indiscretions again as to call Sports
scientists pencil neck feel me where was
I oh yes how heav to LIF for different
goals well Paul Swinton colleagues
looked at 295 studies and analyzed them
to see how heavy should people lift to
maximize strength power Etc essentially
when looking at all of these studies was
there an intensity or a percentage of
your one rep max that maximized
improvements in strength power jumping
sprinting Etc first good news resistance
training interventions AKA lifting
weights did increase strength power
jumping abilities sprinting abilities
and even agility so lifting weights is
good news for a variety of goals the
largest improvements were seen for
strength outcomes and that makes sense
because strength is a relatively
unskilled thing for the most part and
there is less of a specificity component
as opposed to something like jumping or
sprinting which has much more of a
skilled component sprinting in
particular has a pretty meaningful
technical component which means that
transference from lifting weights and
getting stronger in the gym to how well
you sprint isn't as strong as for
something like just pure strength
another caveat is that very few of these
studies looked at agility outcomes But
ultimately who cares about agility or
freaks all I care about is strength AK
how much I can lift muscle and finally
flexibility you feel me insert Jason
Genova clip straight out of the hospital
baby it's John
Cena first let's look at strength and
basically for strength the heavier you
go the better and this applied all the
way to like 90 to 100% of your Wonder
Max with that being said there was a
slight inflection point around 70% where
additional benefits of going heavier and
heavier for how much strength you gained
started to slow down and this makes
sense specificity is very important and
if you're looking to get maximally
strong in short duration expressions of
strength like for example a 100 max if
you're a powera going heavier is more
specific to your outcome of Interest it
is more similar to what you're training
for essentially train as you mean to
compete so if you're training for
maximum strength most of your training
should be pretty heavy however it should
likely also be submaximal and based on
some results from Robinson and
colleagues looking at the relationship
between how close to failure you go and
strength gains it looks like you
essentially want to go as heavy as
possible
but you also want to be submaximal and
never go too close to failure for
strength maybe unless you're trying to
get a little bigger in the off season or
maybe unless you're right before
competition and you want to practice the
skill of grinding out a heavy lift next
up we have sprinting it seems like for
sprinting gains going heavier also seems
beneficial now I don't really care about
sprinting so I'm going to move past this
but it's worth mentioning next up we
have jumping specifically with jumping
we kind of see the opposite of a
strength where going a little bit
lighter is beneficial and specifically
the best improvements in pumping
capabilities appear to be seen around 30
to 50% of your One Max as the authors
point out this likely has to do with
what loads maximize power output during
for example the squat jump exercise it
seems like relatively low loads of say
between 30 and 50% of your max at the
most maximize power output during that
exercise and because jumping involves
very high power outputs at fast
contraction velocities we want to
roughly mimic that within the gy again
following the principle of specificity
and importantly though keep in mind this
recommendation is as a percentage of
your max which means that if you've
never lifted weights and you go from say
a squat drop Max of 100 kg or 225 lb to
a squad drump Max of 140 that weight you
should be using in the gym also
increases the percentage stays the same
but as you get stronger the absolute
load on the bar should increase but to
summarize between 30 to 50% of your max
for jumping improvements is really
effective and finally we have power for
power it seems like going moderately
heavy is better run 50 to 60% of your
Max and this also makes sense in many
power exercises as the authors point out
power output is maximized somewhere in
the neighborhood of 30 to 70% of your
max so if you're looking to get more
powerful than 30 to 70% or maybe 50 to
60 on average is going to be a great
ballar to start with and finally we have
the reason you're probably here and
that's hypertrophy now I have a whole
video on the topic of how heavy should
you be going how many reps should you be
doing that I'll link above but let me
break down the quick concise takeaway
points from the rep range research the
data on how heavy to go to maximize
muscle building was synthesized in a
review paper by sh feling colleagues in
2021 in this paper they point out that
the best intensity to use while lifting
weights in the gym is likely between
around 30% of your Max and 85% of your
max they essentially establish a bottom
threshold of maximally effective
intensities and a top threshold of
maximumly effective intensities based on
some of the research out there for
instance we have a few studies now
looking looking at sets of fewer than
five Reps versus sets of more than five
reps and generally doing fewer than five
reps seems to reduce hypertrophy a
little bit compared to the same number
of sets but just doing at least five
reps per set similarly we have a few
studies comparing more moderate
intensities of say 40 to 80% of your max
to lower intensi say between 20 or 15
and 40% of your Max and generally worse
hypertrophy is seen when going below 30%
of your max Within These studies for
instance a study by lasus and called
compared 20% to 40% 60% to 80% of your
Max and its effects on hypertrophy and
generally found slightly worse
hypertrophy with 20% as opposed to 80%
conversely in a study by Mitchell and
colleagues where they compared 30% of
your max to 80% of your max in new
lateral leg extensions they found
similar hypertrophy and So based on a
relatively limited amount of studies it
seems like around 30% is the lightest
you would want to go on a per set basis
to maximize hypertrophy importantly most
people training for muscle mass gains
don't really think in terms of
percentage of your owner Maxs you're
probably not testing your owner backx
very often so in that case let me give
you some equivalents of what 30% of your
max means and 85% of your max means
according to a paper by new Coles on
average though there is some variability
depending on the X size being performed
the person performing it Etc with 30% of
your max you can do around 50 reps 5 Z
reps conversely with 85% of your max you
can do around five reps and so all else
being equal provided you're pushing
sufficiently close to failure even with
those High High Reps that are often
quite difficult doing sets of between 5
and 50 reps is going to be roughly
equally effective for hypertrophy
importantly there might be a benefit in
terms of a hypertrophy to combining
different rep ranges and not just
sticking to one so while you might be
tempted to just do sets of six that is
likely counter advised an in-house met
analysis by Zach Robinson showed that
there might be a slight benefit in terms
of muscle growth to including a variety
of rep ranges versus just one if nothing
else most people enjoy using a variety
of rep prism not just always going heavy
or light for hypertrophy training with
that being said let me give you a few
use cases and cases where it might not
be wise to use heavier work and lighter
work for hypertrophy first going super
light when you're training for muscle
mass is pretty miserable and you might
find that you find it difficult to reach
quite as close to failure and that's
supported by research our own research
group performed a scoping review finding
that most people are pretty accurate at
gauging how close to failure they are
until they go much above around 12 reps
per set and so for most people going
super light and doing a ton of reps
they'll find it difficult to go quite as
close to failure and going close to
failure is relatively important when it
comes to building mass for instance a
recent meta regression by Robinson and
colleagues found that in a given set the
closer you go to failure the more muscle
mass it builds because of this reason I
recommend most people training for
muscle mass go relatively heavy most of
the time between say 5 and 12 reps
however you should still be performing
some of your training a little bit
lighter maybe in the 10 to 30 rep range
maybe even higher sometimes with that
being said let me give you a few use
cases for when you may want to go a
little bit lighter when training for
muscle mass first as I mentioned some of
your training should still be pretty
light if you want to maximize
hypertrophy as there is some evidence
suggesting it's more beneficial to
combine different rep ranges go heavier
on Sund dayss lighter on Sundays versus
just always going heavy or always going
light second when you're dealing with an
injury or pain from going pretty heavy
you might find that you can get more
training in by going a little bit
lighter and you get less pain doing so
third sometimes you don't have a choice
if you're traveling and you're training
with body weight and you're doing
push-up for example you might find you
need to do 30 to 50 reps to get close to
failure and getting close to failure is
important for hypertrophy and finally
preference Some people prefer training
heavier Some people prefer training
lighter the good news is with muscle
mass you can use a variety of rep
Rangers and still see a really solid
effect building bigger muscles is not
that specific of an adaptation as
compared to say strength power sprinting
jumping Etc the only thing I'm specific
about is that if you don't have 20in
arms get off my channel immediately
there can only be one King pencil and
that's me that is the video gave you
recommendations for how heavy to go for
strength power muscle mass sprinting
jumping I really did it all if you
enjoyed the video please leave a like
comment subscribe let me know what else
you want to see me cover now you might
be saying okay Dr mil wolf you got the
PHD in sport Science you know how heavy
to go I don't want to be thinking about
that stuff well in just a few months you
won't have to anymore we've been working
on a training app called myo adapt for
the last few years it's designed to do
everything a great evidence space coach
would do for you but that's something
you can have in your pocket on your
phone at a fraction of the price of most
coaches it does all the thinking for you
adjust the wait for you week to week
make sure you get a variety of rep
ranges in make sure you're picking the
right rep ranges for the right exercises
and to be honest my team and I have been
working on this for years and we're
confident in saying there is nothing
like it out there it's going to write
you an individualized training program
based on your goals and adjust your
training week to week to make sure
you're continuing to make as much
progress as possible with several phds
and sports signs having designed the app
you're getting the most Cutting Edge
information there is and more
importantly you don't have to think
about this stuff anymore I've been
training with it myself and I've been
enjoying just not having to think about
it anymore it's been a pleasure so if
you'd like to get notified when it gets
released check out naod app.com to get
emailed when it finally comes out and if
you sign up for it early you'll lock in
at a lower price than anyone else if
you'd like me to coach you check out the
link above and we can make that happen
in the meantime have a fantastic day
train heavy train light train moderate
and I'll see you guys next time peace