and hey what you could see Chris do is
do lengthen partials at the end of the
set when he couldn't quite get a full
rep anymore we do have a new study that
compared in the calvs one leg doing calf
raises and simply ending the set when
they couldn't get another full rep to
another leg doing Cal phases as well but
in this case extending the set with
partials kind of like Chris is doing
here and until he couldn't even get
another Lin partial and from before the
training intervention to after the
training intervention the leg that did
the partials at the end as well grew
about 50% more muscle and so while this
is one study and it's the only study on
the topic I'm aware of it does lend
quence to the idea that hey if you're
doing a 4er motion set you can do some
partials at the end and probably see
more hypertrophy these findings are
still unpublished but those are the
preliminary findings that you get
courtesy of wolf coaching
[Applause]