hey guys so something I've been asked
quite often now especially on Instagram
where Robin and I are posting pics of
sushi all the time is how do I go about
tracking that and especially I get asked
this a lot one of my prep because for
those of you guys who have followed our
competition seasons will have noticed
that pretty much every week through the
course of our contest prep we were
eating sushi on our refeed days Robin
just clarified that it was in fact every
week that we ate sushi through the
course of our prep so I'm gonna give you
guys four tips for tracking sushi when
on a contest prep or if you're just
tracking macros closely for whatever
reason first one is choose low-fat rolls
and the reason for this is that if
restaurants are adding in mayo and other
high-fat ingredients this can contribute
to the caloric content pretty quickly
and this can add up and become
significant and can create a pretty big
margin of error if even the fat is off
by you know 5 grams that's suddenly 45
calories that you aren't accounting for
so choose low-fat rolls like California
rolls sweet potato rolls other vegetable
rolls tuna anything that doesn't have a
high fat content the second tip is to go
to the same restaurant every time and
the reason for this is that you can be
consistent throughout the course of your
prep so even if the macros that are in
the sushi aren't exactly what you have
in my Fitness Pal or wherever you're
getting the values from at least you're
being consistent over time because the
particular restaurant tends to prepare
them in the same way every time so you
know that you're getting a
initially the same macros even if you
don't know exactly what those macros are
third tip is to only eat sushi on your
refeed days especially if you have low
carbs to deal with and the reason for
this is that on refeed days you'll just
have a little more wiggle room and if
you are off by a little bit
it isn't as big of a deal in the grand
scheme of things fourth tip is to just
find macros either on my Fitness Pal or
on Google or from wherever and stick to
those so use the same ones over time and
this is just to serve as a reminder that
it is consistency over time throughout
the course of a prep that leads to
success not a specific magic macro ratio
or a specific set macronutrient total
for you what's more important is that
you're progressing and losing fat over
time and you're doing this consistently
so even if you don't know the exact
macro is that are in the sushi that
you're eating if you're being consistent
over time and trusting and using the
same values this isn't going to have any
significant effect especially if you
keep the first three tips in mind and I
just want to do a quick recap on why it
is accuracy that we should be concerned
with when tracking macros and not so
much precision and the reason for this
is that first of all the macros that you
are using are sort of arbitrary to begin
with and this is whether you set them on
your own through trial of trial and
error Robin and I just want to give you
guys a quick reminder of why it's
important to focus on that accuracy of
your tracking and not necessarily the
precision especially not to an extreme
degree and I'll just put a link to a
video that I did a while back on this
topic but essentially when you track
your macronutrients or when you set your
macronutrients it's sort of arbitrary to
begin with and this is true whether you
set them on your own based on trial and
error or a coach sets them for you or
you use an online calculator
it isn't like you know exactly what
macros you need it's sort of an
arbitrary decision that you come to over
time also food labels are not as precise
as you think they're in fact I think the
food labels only have to report
nutritional content within a 20% margin
of error so these things aren't known
quantities of very specific values and
thirdly you don't know the energy
outside of the equation you aren't
tracking very precisely the energy that
you're expending in a day so to be
extremely precise with only one side of
that equation while not being precise at
all with the other side of the equation
is sort of futile in my opinion now if
your coach does have it set so that he
wants you to avoid certain foods or
avoid eating out I think there is a case
to be made for this because sometimes
there can be such a discrepancy between
the the macro nutrient values on online
sources and the actual content in the
food that you're getting that it can
kind of contribute to throwing off a
prep a little bit especially in the
later stages so if you'd rather stick to
foods that you're very confident in
knowing the nutritional content of then
I'll leave that entirely up to you
alright guys I hope that you enjoyed the
video don't forget to like the video and
subscribe if you haven't already thank
you for watching
you