[Music]
[Music]
top layer like please scraped off and
then like the ocean was icy more
impressive is that is not broken
because I'm a pro I've actually good
morning everyone so if F&E I made it to
Sarasota I were just here for the
weekend for at our Airbnb I just want to
have a clean for more high that's yet
when you come in this is what cart looks
like we are career teal green door very
Florida looking men in charge kitchen
area breakfast making area where should
we my breakfast is the living room area
to beach there's one bedroom in here
they do opposing update in here in a
minute at the other bedroom bed and this
is the bathroom and in this connects to
the other bedrooms and repeat infinitely
I have two two packages that I want to
show you guys I bought this new drone
it's not the one I wanted I wanted a DJI
Mavic but they didn't have it in stock
so I just picked up this one for the
weekend I also got package calm calm
glasses USA calm excited to partner with
crosses you stay calm for this video
forward five pairs and frames from these
guys I'm impressed
see laxative that's actually really nice
this isn't emilio retro blue yes you
look quite Leslie pretty sweet so these
are the clear the Meuse black clear lens
pick these are how cool to the blue
frame with the porn sites Nirvana
is a great balance gold aviator style
texting either pathetic as I figured I
would do is I want you guys are
proposing updates before we go to the
beach and I'm going to try on all the
glasses and have shown you them as IOT
sandals I want it I actually don't want
to that is good if you look happy relax
oh those are money I think those are my
favorite these are risky anyways I went
oh they're good yeah they look great
there first I like it I actually really
like it without coming they're really
good though yeah a little better
I like those a lie so dope okay I want
to quickly tell you guys about glasses
usa.com you can get a complete pair of
glasses starting out like 48 bucks and a
free basic description one thing that I
really liked was their virtual mirror we
can just upload a pic of yourself and
virtually try on the glasses online and
because you guys are watching this video
there's a special offer for your first
pair which I've linked to in the
description okay
and it is perfect weather for the travel
in our Airbnb says our Airbnb over here
just seashells never seen that before
I'm going to come back tonight and
figure out how to use the drone now we
just want to like get applied and get to
the beach what else you see you look at
this girl now we're on our way to the
beach so check me you guys wonder
they're also just look at check out this
house like this is so beautiful the
water here is like so green blue
whatever that color is is my favorite
color
yeah it's a Rolls Royce same this place
is like Instagram gold so many nice
backdrop car show
[Music]
laughing also very good this is my main
course grilled chicken burger with what
looks like some like fried onions on top
and these are called speaker fries I've
never tried this before I don't know if
they're like a super normal thing or not
what I've never seen in Canada does be
clapping in the process there's more
push in the middle salad we just
finished up with food at Tommy Bahama's
the chicken appetizer things we're
probably my favorite the Yuki fry the
soup was really good Yuki fries were
really good they were a little bit
because of the skull you've got we're
going back to the Airbnb now and then
sitting so we got an engine and we're
going to have some pre-workout PE
science prolific signed officially the
skinny science as a sponsored athlete so
I'm extremely excited with it all so
that means that I have a discount code
available we'll save you 30 percent
which is absolutely massive and the code
is just my name's which is Jeff my rise
code is Jeff ten IPE science code is
Jeff so we just made it to the gym good
ready to hit that bench workout Stefan's
benching say cube
and my work up to arrow maybe something
you decently heavy today we'll see
hopefully I'll get three three plates on
and so I can do with that so I was
technically skies once I get to my last
wall outside seventy-five I'll wrap my
wrist up my wrists stay a little bit
more vertical so they don't send back as
much it actually creates a moment term
so it's a bars in your palm here there's
a slight distance which means where the
applications of forces and the joint for
the axis of rotation so this is prior
mechanically undesirable it's much more
efficient of your hands like this and
the direction of force goes directly
down on that joint you don't have to do
any work as a risk to keep the bar
straight so it makes it a lot easier to
keep more of a neutral wrist position
there's also I find it a little bit
safer I find my wrist to come out for a
little bit after benching please help me
really sturdy
tell me some write down now dice on the
corner with the lace gloves got the base
in my flex of five oh damn you conscious
don't your head off the play so let me
tell you there let me just go take a
little it's gonna bei out
I don't want 32 fitting in pesos
somebody covered your burger get the
backlight cuz we got a little bit of
tango
[Music]
[Music]
all right so they just turned off the
lights on guess that's our cue to leave
this we conclude the workout with 1402 -
I'm hungry
yeah whoo this lighting Oh ooh ooh this
is even better
Oh should work out in the dark Wow damn
good these were the smaller one I really
like her down this and like for the hell
of a bunch of different kinds of
factories
[Music]
we're heading to a restaurant Zambia
restaurant today
these are the crab cakes the best
appetizer
maybe I've ever had salmon yellow rice
and some mixing vegetable grouper Henry
and this is called good right that's
good right tell me I were just
discussing differences in height
appetite is regulated by companies that
would actually be very struggling if you
can be more than your business other
honestly I think about it honestly don't
just say yes this is a delicious meal
I didn't quite know specifically it
doesn't just hit 100,000 subscribers on
YouTube I'm so excited about this I just
don't know how to thank you guys enough
for all of your continued support as the
channel has grown really quickly see I
just absolutely thrilled about how
everything is going if you guys like
this video please leave me a favor and
help keep the channel growing by giving
it a thumbs up I have a lot of really
cool content coming stuff that nobody
else is doing on YouTube to my knowledge
so I'm really excited about that thank
you guys once again for watching I'll
see you in the next video
[Music]