some people will bench press Guillotine
style where they take a higher position
on the chest and they let their elbows
come up they feel a huge stretch in the
pecs their shoulders feel amazing no
problem correct answer other folks will
touch a little bit below the nipple line
actually on their abdomen and they will
tuck their elbows on the way down you'll
see this from shed pressing back in the
day from equip powerlifting if that is
what hits your pecs the most and it
makes your elbows and shoulders feel
nice and comfy and
safe beautiful right answer what I don't
want you guys to get caught up in is
people people on the internet who say
this is bad because biomechanics I don't
know where the they say that
because if you go out here notice my
pecs are getting more stretched as I
pull out there's lots of people saying
you got to tuck in the elbows to do more
chest that's backwards