hey hey welcome back RP plus RP you dr.
James Hoffman here and today we're gonna
be talking about another really
interesting topic peeking and tapering
for sport now I'm gonna give you my
lecture on this but what I would
encourage you to do is if you are
somebody who is actively competing in
sport and has gone through this process
of peeking and tapering before
definitely definitely definitely
consider purchasing the textbook called
tapering and peeking for I believe
optimum performance or optimal
performance by Inigo Mujica amazing
amazing amazing textbook tons and tons
of research on this topic and that's
primarily where a lot of the information
that I have gathered has come from as
well so let's get right into it
what is peaking and tapering well today
we're going to kind of outline what some
of these things are there's not always a
clear-cut definition we're gonna go
through the main physiological
psychological and performance-based
benefits I'll give you some examples of
what this can look like and you know
obviously it's going to be different
from sport to sport person to person but
just kind of a real quick simple example
and then I'll give you some key points
some take-home messages about tapering
that I think you should know so let's go
on to the first one
what is a taper now this is one of those
things unfortunately if you comb through
a different scientific literature if you
comb through different books and
articles there's not always a clear
definition and if you look on the slide
there's a number of definitions that are
used here and I just like to put them
out there just to show that sometimes
there's not always a consensus and not
always a really really clear-cut
definition to some of these things so
one of the common themes if you really
comb through a lot of these definitions
is a reduction in the training volume a
maintenance or possibly an increase in
the training intensity and a
predetermined time point at which these
things are occurring so one of the
really interesting things about tapering
is essentially it's a series of events
where we are really trying to get our
athlete as primed for performance as
humanly possible and the way that we do
that
is through good periodization practices
and face potentiation but really the
kind of the icing on the cake the
culminating factor really becomes what
we do with some of our training
variables particularly the training
volume and training intensity and doing
a good taper essentially will allow us
to take our athlete who's been training
maybe four years four months doing
really really hard training for a long
time they have generated lots and lots
of fitness along the way but
unfortunately they're not always able to
express that fitness to its fullest
capacity simply because of the
concurrent fatigue effects of training
so one of the major goals of a taper is
essentially to keep our athletes
training but bring their volume of
training down so low that they are
actually able to dissipate as much
fatigue as possible while holding on to
the fitness that they have generated so
it's kind of a weird dichotomy and this
is something that will make a lot of
sense if you've heard Mike speak on the
volume landmarks up discussion which
this will be very helpful in this
discussion as well so again not always a
clear-cut definition but we see some
common themes right there's a timeline
and there is some manipulations that
we're going to be doing to the training
volume in training intensity so
essentially if we're thinking about a
taper the taper is again that pinnacle
culminating step in maximizing athletes
preparedness for competition the taper
is going to help express all that
previously dormant Fitness which either
is to suppress from the effects of
fatigue or just have not had a chance an
opportunity to manifest themselves yet
now all of that pre generated Fitness is
going to be maximally expressed at a
specific point in time so we call this
process tapering and peaking now for
powerlifting and weightlifting sometimes
you'll see some different ways of doing
that for endurance sport you'll see some
different ways of doing that and
certainly for team sports you'll see
some different ways of doing that but
this is a common theme that we see all
across those and they can be applied
slightly differently from sport to sport
but essentially what we're trying to do
is get our athlete maximally prepared
for competition by dropping out as much
of their training fatigue
as we can so you can see how the picture
over there Johnny Johnny Hendrickson
George st. Pierre a couple of my
favorite fighters I like to watch UFC so
again we're trying to get them prepared
at a certain point and time now one of
the things you want to think about when
you're setting up your annual plan is
when do I actually need my athletes
prepare for competition you don't want
to be the gym hero right who hits the
huge numbers and huge performances in
the gym and then when they actually
comes when game day comes around all of
a sudden there are nobody right they're
not doing anything and conversely you
want to make sure that you know that
when they actually are competing they're
doing well and when they're supposed to
be fatigued like when they're training
really hard that they are training
really hard and getting fatigued right
so there's kind of a dichotomy in a
relationship that we want them peaked at
the correct time now what does peaking
imply peaking implies kind of reaching
the top right as far as it will go
what's something else you got to
consider when you hit somebody to reach
their peak well what's the next step
what's the next process that happens
after the peak the valley right they go
back down so one of the problems you can
have too is you might accidentally peak
your athlete out prematurely too early
so for example you might decide to do a
tapering or a peeking protocol during
the playoffs and they might blow a team
like a football team or a soccer team
out of the water and the playoffs and
that's really cool but what's gonna
happen during the championship game
right there's nowhere to go but down so
there's a timeline that we have to
consider and make sure that we are
getting them peaked at the appropriate
time because we can blow it right they
can be not peaked for competition or and
then not perform well or they could peak
after all sorts of problems right so
we're considering a timeline here and
that's of course why we have the annual
plan and why you guys have watched me do
all those videos on annual plans at this
point right well I had enough I
understand so let's go on to the next
one things to consider when you're
setting up a tapering protocol for your
athletes to compete right obviously we
have to reduce the training load now
what a lot of people forget is that we
have to reduce the training load from
all sources most people only think about
time spent in the weight room but you
can imagine lots of sports are
multifaceted I
and involved in rugby you can imagine
rugby involves sport practice it
involves scrimmaging involves
conditioning involves speed power
agility change of direction it involves
weight training and also all sorts of
things right so if I'm only considering
their weight training stuff I will be
doing them a massive disservice
throughout their taper because they're
still doing a lot of other stuff so we
have to consider a reduction of the
training load from all sources so
everything that goes into MRV we are
considering right we of course are
managing fatigue because they are still
going to be training at this time one of
the problems that you see with some
tapering protocols is that they are
actually too easy in the sense that they
actually stop training all together
where they say alright I got two weeks
before the competition or the big event
I'm chi'lan all right they basically go
into active rest we don't want to do
that we still need to make sure that
we're actually training and holding on
to our fitness because we can actually
understand actually start adaptive decay
before the competition which is no good
either right so we want to make sure
we're still training hard still managing
fatigue we want to make sure we're
managing the physiological outcomes that
we want there are specific things as
determined in our needs analysis that we
were training for to be successful right
we had power speed characteristics
strength characteristics endurance
characteristics all sorts of stuff so we
want to make sure that we are taking
steps to address all those different
adaptations or address all those
different performance parameters and
making sure that we are adjusting the
volume intensities frequencies of those
things specifically right we're going to
consider the type of taper there are
some different ways to kind of go about
it we're going to consider how long the
taper is going to last that was a good
one and we're gonna consider again what
are the major performance goals of the
taper are we trying to decrease our time
trial time are we trying to hit a huge
total PR are we trying to have more
repetitions at certain velocity zones
for their soccer match things like that
what are the major outcomes that we want
to see from the as a result of doing a
good taper right so let's keep going now
the taper again is that performance
enhancement that occurs as the result of
what we call the recovery of
physiological capacities that were
impaired by past training so that's a
really fancy way of saying right
we had dormant Fitness that we have been
training for months possibly years and
we have not been able to express it yet
simply because we have been concurrently
training the whole time and that has
lied dormant we maybe not have had a
chance to express things like maximum
power output movement speed or really
hitting our gnarly gnarly race pace
something like that right so the way
that we do that is again by trying to
maximally reduce the accumulated
physiological and psychological
stressors of daily training dieting and
just of sport and life in general now
one of the really neat things about
doing a taper and those of you who have
heard me talk about recovery before this
is kind of another side benefit one of
the cool things that happens as a result
of doing the taper is a progressive
reduction in the training volume right
which we're going to get to in a little
bit one of the big benefits of that is
that it helps restore trained
intolerance and kind of helps alleviate
some of the plateauing effects of doing
high-volume trainings in the long term
so one of the big benefits of doing a
taper aside from actually maximal
expressing fitness is actually restoring
your training tolerance so that when you
go back to doing hard training later on
you can continue seeing gains and we
don't see that plateauing effect as
aggressively so we have kind of a
built-in fatigue management but we also
have kind of a anti plateauing effect a
progressive effect over time simply by
reducing the volume of training which is
pretty neat so it allows you to kind of
peak out and it also allows you to
benefit from that same hard training
that you go back to in the long term and
in the future so very very good strategy
now some of you might be thinking like
okay it sounds great
sounds like a lot of potential benefit
do I need to peak and taper well we're
going to get to that a little bit later
but one of the things you want to
consider right off the bat is doing a
taper sounds really awesome there is
always a question of how much time do I
want to take away from doing really hard
overload training to make long-term
gains so one of the problems that we see
a lot and I'm not trying to pick on any
particular groups but the one that I see
a lot is the CrossFit athlete who
decides they need to do a tape
protocol every other month for some
random like New Jersey competition or
some random feeling competition right
that really doesn't have any major
impact on how they stand in their
community right so one of the problems
that you run into with tapering is yes
it is a progressive reduction in things
like the training load and that's great
for performing well but it's not great
for making long-term gains so we want to
pick and choose when we taper wisely
it's not something we necessarily want
to do all the time we're probably going
to save it as a tool in our tool kit for
really really important things like
Championships regional or like national
level competitions things that we nearly
really want to perform at our best right
if you're at like the South Jersey open
for whatever is that really a big deal
probably not it's probably a fun a
social event that's totally cool do you
need to start taking away weeks and
weeks of hard training for that event I
would make a case and say probably not
you could probably get a very good
benefit of doing like a D load or
something like that
instead of doing a full taper and
protocol food for thought so now let's
get into is what are some of the major
benefits of doing a taper protocol for
competition if you look on the slide
first we have here physiological
benefits of tapering there are a number
of different biomarkers that we can look
at to indicate that either recovery or
performance enhancement is occurring so
we don't necessarily need to go through
all of these a couple that are
noteworthy right one of the first couple
ones that we can see usually right off
the bat are decreases in blood CK levels
CK is creatine kinase it's an enzyme
found in the muscle and it's something
that gets secreted into the blood when
there's a lot of structural damage to
the muscle tissue so literally when the
muscle tissue gets ripped open and
ripped apart from hard training some of
the contents of the cell start to eke
out and it makes its way into the blood
stream right CK is one of those things
we can measure it and say you know what
CK is usually prevalent when lots of
structural damage has occurred it's not
necessarily a cause and effect type
relationship it's more it's indirect at
best but it's useful nonetheless so one
of the things that we usually see us
during the taper CK goes down which is
an indicator that physical stress has
gone down we can start to see some
hormonal markers things like cortisol
and testosterone can change now
if you comb through the literature it's
not always clear but there seems to be
at least a trend and in my opinion in
the overall literature that shows that
either an increase in testosterone a
decrease in cortisol or some combination
of those two things are leading to an
improvement in recovery so typically
when we see elevations in cortisol or
when cortisol is relatively high
compared to testosterone that is
indicative that the athlete is in a
stressed state which is okay during
training not great during competition
conversely when testosterone is high and
cortisol is low or when testosterone is
just high in general usually that's
indicative of them being in an anabolic
state right now again not cause and
effect but pretty reliable so we can
actually start to look at things like
testosterone cortisone or the ratio of
those two things and we can usually see
some positive changes somewhere not
always but a lot of the time we can see
some major major major changes in our he
Matata
I can't say that word hematological
factors things like red cell volume
hematocrit reticulocytes right so a lot
of our cardiovascular factors start to
improve so we can actually see like
improvements in the actual Bloods
ability to deliver oxygen things like
that so some really really cool stuff if
you look at things like this is on the
next slide sorry I didn't warn you ahead
of time if you look at things like max
heart rate and submaximal heart rate if
you look at the result of tapering it's
very inconsistent so it would be
incorrect to say that tapering will
consistently have a positive effect on
achieving a max heart rate or having a
lower sub max heart rate for any given
type of endurance
type event or submaximal event right
that would be incorrect based on the
literature the available literature it
seems to be inconsistent at best
sometimes there's a positive result
meaning like somebody was able to
achieve a higher max heart rate or
somebody was able to achieve a lower
heart rate at the same workload that
they usually are at which is cool is
that always the case no it's very tit
for tat so what we're going to say is
for cardiovascular aside from blood
markers for for max heart rate and sub
max heart rate pretty inconsistent so no
clear benefit at the moment there but we
can see are some very very large
improvement
in a lot of our metabolic markers so a
couple things that are very very
noteworthy under metabolic things like
vo2 max very very consistently seem to
creep up maybe not a ton but definitely
a little bit which will be an indication
that their ability to take in oxygen and
use it for energy has gone up so very
very good for endurance sports for
strength power sports maybe maybe not
for field sports it can be useful for
like you know weightlifting powerlifting
you know basically not that useful
unless you have a hard time following
yourself up otherwise not a big deal we
can see some increases in efficiency and
economy meaning we can actually measure
how much energy is being expended to
perform a given task and if we do a
tapering protocol and do it again we can
find that per that same task that person
will actually expend less energy to do
it pretty cool so the same amount of
actual work cost less energy for us
really cool right we can see some actual
changes in enzyme activity for a lot of
our different bio energetic pathways so
things that I convolve in glycolysis or
so your respiration can become more
prevalent or more active indicating that
those processes are kind of in overdrive
and doing really really well we can
actually see some cool changes in
lactate and this is one of those ones
that kind of gets a little exercise faz
really quick we can actually see
increases in peak blood lactate which
might sound negative but for a strength
power sport that would actually be a
very very positive effect meaning hey
you can tolerate higher levels of peak
lactate but also you can generate higher
levels of peak lactate how do you do
that well somebody who is very very well
trained in the glycolytic pathway is
meaning having to do really really high
intensity work now can do even more
right so this would be a great
adaptation for somebody who is in like a
pure strength power sport for example
like a short distance sprinter now they
can actually generate more lactate
meaning do higher intensity work than
they could before or at least more of it
than they could do before so that's cool
it might sound negative but it's
actually positive for our strength power
athletes and then we can actually see
decreases and submaximal blood lactate
which is a positive adaptation for our
endurance athletes so we say okay run at
7 miles an hour for 30 minutes and we
can look at on average kind of what the
lactate situation is after a taper what
we can do is say ok we're on at 7
miles-an-hour again we can do that same
analysis and what we find is on average
blood lactate will be a little bit less
which would be an indication that they
are maybe not relying quite as heavily
on carbohydrate or at the very least the
relative intensity of the exercise has
gone down for them in some capacity
which is pretty cool right and then one
that I think is noteworthy that a lot of
people make me don't fully understand
and this is something that we've
addressed on our webinars more than a
few times at the current time is an
issue of calorie balance so one of the
cool things that you can consider during
the tapering period is that you are
reducing their training load very
similar to what you would do in a deal
oh right no brainer they're what we
generally do is tell the athletes to
keep eating whatever they've been eating
right keep an eye so caloric state at
this point they should have already been
isocaloric so we should have already
kind of established what that means for
them and we are not going to change that
at this point and what's going to happen
when they move into the taper well their
training volume is going to
progressively go down right but their
training calories are going to stay the
same now you might think like that
sounds bad right aren't they going to
get fat not really what we're really
gonna see is a positive positive
positive fatigue management effect where
we're gonna make sure that that extra
little now that they knew they were
isocaloric and now that their training
has gone down they might be slightly
hyper caloric that will allow them to
refill lost glycogen from months months
weeks and weeks of hard training so now
they might get a little slight boost in
their calories as a result of just
staying isocaloric and reducing their
training volume that's actually a good
thing so long as they're not gaining
weight they're actually were pleading a
lot of to lost glycogen so there's a big
huge fatigue management benefit there
that's actually measurable as well so
really really cool let's go on to the
next one now as you can see on this one
we have he man and I think he man is
probably the best way to describing what
happens here at the actual muscle fiber
level so this is where some really cool
exercise physiology findings can occur
so one of the first few things that we
actually see that's a huge benefit to
strength power sport during the taper as
we progressively reduce the training
volume is we see a conversion of many
muscle fibers to a type 2 X state which
is again that big strong explosive
muscle fibers state right not always we
know and we don't
see all fibers moving that way but we
can see many fibers that are in like
that undetermined like unclassified zone
we'll start switching over and many that
have kind of started to drift over will
drift back towards type 2 X so now the
muscles that I have is moving back to a
more explosive and forceful state and
that's simply from reducing the training
volume you didn't have to do anything
right all you had to do is train less
and that happens which is pretty cool
then we can actually see the cross
sectional area for a lot of those fiber
types will actually increase for both
type 2 and type 1 muscle fibers so the
actual cross that actually get bigger
right will actually see some acute
hypertrophy as a result of bringing the
training volume down and then
culminating up with all these things we
started to see some really crazy stuff
happening one of the things that we can
see is increases in peak force of about
30 percent which is kind of a common
number that you see now that doesn't
mean that you're gonna add 30 percent on
to your bench press but the actual
twitch characteristics that like
electrical stimulate stimulation and
tension characteristics of the muscle
fiber can go up about 30 percent which
is huge I mean that's huge can you
imagine if you could just gain 30
percent in like gross strength for like
a powerlifting me obviously it doesn't
work that way
but that would be pretty incredible so
at the muscle fiber level that's a huge
increase thirty percent increase in the
amount of tension essentially at which
tension that they can generate and the
intrinsic ability for it to shorten at a
faster rate goes up somewhere around 60
/ 7 percent in a lot of cases they've
measured I mean that's huge right one of
the biggest limiting factors to movement
speed and explosiveness is the intrinsic
muscle shortening velocity right and one
of the results of actually taking
fatigue down by reducing the training
volume is now you're actually allowing
the muscle to move fast
right before you couldn't move it fast
just because you were training and and
speed characteristics power
characteristics are so sensitive to
fatigue but you take that fatigue away
and now you can actually see that muscle
moving as quickly as it can right which
is really really cool so the actual
shortening velocity goes up you can
imagine now I've said we're getting more
type 2 X hour muscle fibers are getting
bigger they're actually generating more
force and they're moving faster so what
does that obviously gonna mean and what
is that going to lead to
huge huge huge increases in absolute
fiber power output some have been
measured upwards of two hundred and
fifty percent if that doesn't blow your
mind you might as well just turn this
off at this point you just use quit RP
you at this because that's a huge that's
so cool
250% now again that doesn't mean but you
can sprint 250% faster or jump 250%
higher we're talking about the intrinsic
ability of the muscle to be forceful and
fast right and it goes up quite a bit so
I like P man is a good example here
right you literally power up from the
tape it's incredible at what we can see
at the actual muscle fiber level in
terms of what is happening so there are
some very distinct physiological
benefits to doing a good tapering
protocol for competition let's look at
the next one in addition to physical
effects there are certainly
psychological effects and it's something
that we like to talk about you know I
don't think we we don't obviously like
Mike and myself and many of those people
at our PR physiologists we tend to focus
on physiology and maybe not speak on
psychology as much but that's not to say
that those factors aren't worthwhile and
aren't worth discussing as well and one
of the cool things that we see with the
taper are also distinct psychological
effects as well and just to name a few
not all-inclusive we start to see
decreases in perception of efforts so
people feel like they're not having to
work as hard we see decreases in mood
disturbances which is very common when
you're doing hard training and
overreaching right you get cranky and
you get moody totally normal and you
know Mike will attest that I get that
way of plenty of times when I'm stressed
out right so one of the big benefits of
tapering is that starts to go down or go
away we see decreases in perception of
fatigue so people start feeling less
tired less fatigue all the time we see
increases in things like vigor I love
that word and improvements in quality
and quantity of sleep so we can see kind
of a very very complete physical and now
psychological recovery effect which is
pretty cool right so last but not least
on this we can see on the next slide
performance benefits so obviously we've
outlined that there are physiological
benefits and there were sicom
psychological benefits and certainly
those almost always not always but
almost always translate into actual
performance benefits now you still have
to show up and you still have to perform
because you tapered doesn't mean that
magic is gonna happen right if you suck
you still suck right that's not gonna
change the taper just makes the
probability of your success go up by
increasing the physical traits that make
you successful right that's really what
we're dealing with here so what kind of
performance benefits will we expect to
see from doing a taper well typically
what have been shown our decreases in
time trial so if you're doing a long
like an endurance event your completion
time will go down and if you're doing
like a short distance like a sprint
either whether it's like 100 meters or a
40 meter or hurdle and then same thing
time trial length will go down meaning
you've completed the race faster we can
see increases in strength and things
like powerlifting weightlifting
strongman we see increases in speed like
absolute movement speed and then we can
actually see improvements and things
like jumping ability right and this can
be sport related or it can be like uh
like very traditional like track and
field style just like long jumps high
jumps things like that all across the
board so most performance measurements
will tend to go up with the advent of
GPS I would expect to add some things to
this list you know especially like um
distance he's covered during a match
number of accelerations per game number
of efforts things like that
unfortunately at least at the current
time I don't think that they've actually
taken that data and then compared it
with tapering effects just yet but I
would expect to see those pop up
hopefully in the near future so those
are just some obvious ones that we've
talked about let's keep it going
so we get it right tapering is probably
a pretty good idea if you are competing
in competitions that are meaningful
right that was kind of a preface that we
said there it's maybe not always in your
best interest to taper for competitions
that are whatever or fun or just meant
to be social right but for ones that
matter ones that affect our ranking or
our ability to go to regional national
World Championships and obviously things
like Olympics play a big role in this
right so how do we start setting up our
taper well there's a number of different
ways that we can do it all of them are
good right so you can see linear tapers
where the training is reduced in a very
systematic linear slope fashion
excuse me we can see exponential tapers
where the training load is reduced in a
systematic more exponential shape which
can either be slow or sudden and then we
can see some stepwise tapers which are
as the name implies shaped like a
staircase right where we kind of have a
pretty systematic very similar to linear
except it instead of smoothly going down
in a linear way and we take chunks of
our training loads off at a time and
continue on so typically we find as all
of them seem to be really beneficial but
the ones that are more progressive like
the the exponential tapers seem to work
a little bit better where we have a big
drop-off and kind of an exponential
asymptotic shape and then it kind of
levels off those seem to work really
really well however you can't go wrong
with all three all three seem to work
just fine if it's too confusing
you can just bring it down linear
stepwise and that's fine too either way
it works well okay
so we now have to start thinking about
how am I going to start modifying some
of my training variables the intensity
is a good place to start so when we
start reducing the overall training load
one of the problems that we went into is
the adaptive decay problem right we can
actually start to see reversibility of
our training adaptations if we are not
generating sufficient overloads we know
that overloads primarily going to be
coming from volume and intensity volume
being a really really big factor if we
take that volume away we might not be
able to maintain that previously gained
fitness well it turns out there's kind
of a cool interesting little way around
that and the way that we actually
maintain that dormant or fitness that
we're trying to express is by
maintaining and in some cases actually
increasing the intensity throughout the
duration of the taper we can maintain
enough of an overload to keep our
maintenance characteristics simply
through intensity for a short period of
time now this is not something that is
indefinitely sustained meaning you can't
just do super super intense training and
expect not to D train eventually but in
the short term this strategy works very
very well so essentially what we're
going to be doing throughout the taper
is really really reducing our training
volume possibly below normal maintenance
levels depending on how we set it up
right if we're
low maintenance by default we're gonna
start d training right however if we
maintain high intensity and possibly
even increase the intensity throughout
it will kind of expand the window in
which we can maintain our fitness before
we start to actually do adaptive decay
so we're kind of I'm trying to think of
a good analogy but essentially we're
just expanding out the time that we can
kind of get away with this right we're
on a time ticking time-bomb right we're
going to start D training sooner or
later but the intensity allows us to
just hold on a little bit longer than we
normally could so the short version
we're going to at the very least
maintain the previous intensity of
training probably more likely we're
actually going to increase it a little
bit if possible throughout the duration
of the taper which is pretty cool ok for
volume we've already kind of talked
about why I'm a little bit we said the
training load has to come down there's
no way around it there's a lot of things
you can screw up in the taper and it's
not a huge deal the volume is basically
the one thing you cannot screw up
because that is the big deal although
everything else is negotiable the volume
is non-negotiable so what we have to do
is actually reduce the training volume
from all sources right and this is going
to be a big drop they've actually looked
at some dose-response relationships for
the taper in terms of how much training
should be reduced and they found that
not reduced there's a there's not enough
meaning if you don't reduce the training
volume enough you don't get the
expression effect that we want and you
can actually reduce the training volume
too much and we don't see that nice
performance benefit we probably start
seeing adaptive decay and they've
actually found a kind of a sweet spot
seems to be somewhere around 41 to 60
percent of the pre taper training volume
right so roughly half of what you were
doing in the previous measure cycles
leading up into this event right so this
comes from all components of training
not just what you're doing in the weight
room so all the sprinting conditioning
sport practice scrimmaging you name it
if it goes into our MRV calculation it
gets reduced by roughly 50
percent that's huge that's a lot and it
can be kind of scary for some people
because they feel like whoa I'm not
doing anything this is so abysmally low
am I even training anymore
well that's not the point right the
point is we're actually taking your
volume down because we know the volume
is going to have the biggest
relationship to the how much fatigue was
generated right so in this case we're
taking that training boiling them down
very very low to maximally alleviate
that fatigue and now Express all that
Fitness that we've been culminating for
months and months and months right so
the training volume needs to go down by
roughly 50% of the pre taper Training
voice it's a lot but we know that by
maintaining the intensity we will be
able to stretch out how long we can hold
on to that fitness let's go on to the
next one many people ask about the
frequency of training should you alter
your frequency of training typically
there is kind of a dichotomy here for
those who are maybe beginners to more
moderately trained we can recommend a
reduction in the training frequency
somewhere around 30 to 50 percent of pre
taper training frequency meaning the
number of times per week that they show
up for training first those who are more
well trained we're talking people who've
been training for like 10 years or more
there's probably a good reason to
actually maintain the current whatever
frequency and whatever regiment they
were doing before keep it the same and
just reduce the volume of training done
in each one of those sessions there is a
good argument that there is some
neuromuscular component to that where
they might not maintain the feel and the
technique for highly technical movements
of their sport so you can imagine if you
have somebody who's a weightlifter and
you say alright you know basically don't
snatch for two weeks or maybe snatch one
time for two weeks they're gonna panic
right because they need to maintain that
motor control and that feel for the
movement under load right so for more
well trained folks we're generally gonna
say maintain the normal frequency
maintain the normal regiment and just
reduce the training volume for those who
are less trained and were moderately
trained we can play with the frequency
if we want but there's nothing wrong
with maintaining the same frequency of
training so long as the volume is
adjusted so I think there's some wiggle
room there thirty to fifty percent
frequency reductions have been
but I would I would say maybe not
necessary okay let's go on to the next
one in terms of the duration of the
taper there is not a clear consensus in
terms of how long the taper should last
now I'm going to give you some
recommendations based on my observation
and understanding of the literature but
I will preface this by saying this is my
evidence-based opinion there is not a
clear consensus on how long the taper
should last that being said most
athletes that we work with in the
spectrum of you know a day to day work
probably around two weeks is a very good
place to start this is for most moderate
trained intermediate level athletes now
we can see a tapering benefit in as
little as five days and sometimes they
can last upwards of five weeks that's
why we've said it's inconsistent it's
there's no consensus it can you the
benefit can last for a long time it can
happen almost immediately and there's a
lot of wiggle room in between so what we
usually say is for most athletes kind of
intermediates moderately trained
athletes somewhere around two weeks is a
good safe zone in terms of the actual
duration of the taper now what we find
is that the training age is probably the
biggest confounder here so those who are
more trained and I would also say more
muscled will require longer tapering
periods simply due to the amount of
homeostatic disruption that their
training generates right so for those
who are relatively new sport new to
training training less than a couple
years you can actually get an equal
benefit of just doing something like a D
load for a week or so and that's good
enough right they don't actually have to
do a super crazy full tapering protocol
for their competition right which is
actually kind of cool and it's I wish
that that would apply to more people but
unfortunately it doesn't because the the
less trained people they simply just
don't disrupt their own self as much
they're not as strong or as powerful as
faster as enduring so they bounce back
really really easy from training because
the trainings not that hard yet which is
fine right it would be nice if the rest
of us could do that but we can't because
we take more recovery time but what
would be the benefit well the benefit
would be less time away from training
right because we said we have to take
our training volume down to maintenance
or below essentially that's time away
from training that's time I'm not
getting better right so it's actually
kind of a beneficial for the for the
beginner athlete for more moderately
training intermediate athletes we'd say
somewhere around two weeks for really
really well trained people we're talking
about like ten years or more of training
they might benefit for upwards of three
weeks and this is particularly true for
our strength athletes and then also for
like short distance sprinting type
events people who are really really
powerful but certainly for our strength
athletes we're talking like powerlifting
weightlifting strongman and then those
who are at the top of their game
particularly for strength sports might
require three weeks or more to actually
sufficiently recover from that training
now like I said most of us including
your boy here fall into that two week
range and that's a really really safe
place to start if you check out our book
scientific principles of strength
training there's actually a really
really handy chart for tapering and
peaking considerations for powerlifting
that helps you narrow down where you
actually fall into that so that's
another good reference if you're looking
for something aside from the movie cue
book all right let's move on to the next
one a couple things you have to bring
down again the training volume from all
sources and I've said that a lot of
times but it's one of the things that
people forget the most right so we're
thinking about volume loads from their
weight training we're thinking about the
duration of time doing sport practice
the frequency might be affected as well
so if we're changing the frequency that
means we might have to adjust the
volumes on certain days to make sure
we're getting the same weekly volume
right we know that the total volume
reduction should be around 41 to 60% of
pre taper training volume it should be
brought down progressively not
necessarily like in huge chunks though
that asymptotic shake excuse me
asymptotic shape seems to work really
really well
but linear our stepwise are also good
we're gonna maintain the intensity
possibly increase it and that can be
kind of where the art of coaching comes
into play because we know that as the
intensity of the exercise Rises so too
does the fatigue and possible risk of
injury as well right so we want to make
sure we're managing those things well so
at the very least we're keeping the
intensity roughly equal to what it was
prior to the taper possibly going up if
Tom
we're only gonna bring down the
intensity probably for the last one or
two sessions prior to the competition so
we're saying the intensity is generally
going to be maintained or increased
throughout except for that Thursday
before the Saturday match right the last
one or two sessions before that
competition then we're gonna bring down
the intensity just to make sure that we
are addressing any lingering or
remaining micro trauma to the muscle or
to the connective tissue the intensity
plays a huge role in micro trauma
management so we're maintaining the
intensity throughout and then we're just
making sure that any little bumps
bruises sprains strains are being
addressed when we finally take the
intensity down in the last one or two
sessions prior to that competition and
this is at the very very butt end of the
taper right and then for most folks
that's gonna be roughly two weeks except
for a really really big muscular
strength sport athletes like our power
lifters weight lifters strongmen who
might take three weeks or more depending
on how big they are you can imagine
somebody like Eddy hall or Chad Wesley
Smith right they're the ones who are
gonna take more than three three weeks
or more not somebody like myself or
people that you would see in the gym on
a normal basis right okay what's going
on the next one so here's just kind of
an example of what this would look like
in the weight room now granted this is a
very simplified example don't
necessarily take it at face value but
here's one that I have used or kind of
used as a basis of foundation and modify
so if we're doing a two-week taper
here's kind of what we're gonna see the
first week is going to be primarily just
a volume reduction meaning now we're
starting to work on bringing the total
training volume down so that means we're
going to either reduce the reps the sets
or some combination of those two things
right if we were working in a phase
potentiated manner like maybe for a
strength power sport like rugby or
soccer or something like that what were
we doing before we went to the table
where we're probably in our specific
prep phase maybe you're in one of our
competitive phases they were probably
doing either maximal strength or power
speed type work so I think kind of a
safe starting point would be if we were
pre tapering if we were doing something
like three by threes right it's pretty
safe bet we would eventually transition
in the taper into doing something like a
three by two or two by three
either way right we've brought the
volume down pretty substantially and
we're gonna maintain the relative
intensity so if we were at 85% of 3x3
now we're at 85% of 3 by 2 or something
very similar to that or 2 by 3 either
ones fine so the first week we're just
bringing that volume down nothing too
fancy right the week number 2 we're
going to actually split it up into two
chunks again so week number two we're
going to have a first half which is
going to be like either Monday through
Wednesday or Monday if you Thursday
something like that and this would be
like for a Saturday competition that
first half we're going to reduce the
sets and/or reps again so we went from
3x3 in the pre taper the first week we
went to maybe three by two or two by
three and then now in the first half of
the second week we're going to take that
three by two or two by three and we're
going to move maybe to like two by two
so we reduce the sets and reps again now
you might be looking at this like you
only reduced it by one side or one rep
but you have to consider right we're
talking about the pre taper training
volume so if you were doing 3x3 removing
one rapper one set is actually a very
large reduction in the training load
because you weren't actually doing that
much to start with so it actually fits
into our model very well so now we're
doing something like two by two and of
course we're maintaining the relative
intensity throughout the second half is
kind of the icing on the cake or the
cherry on top right so we're gonna start
reducing the volume and then this time
we're going to take the intensity down
as well so that two by two that we were
doing and the first half the week maybe
goes to like a 2 by 1 or 1 by 2 and now
we're gonna drop off the intensity by
the relative intensity by about 15 to
20% again to address any of that
lingering micro-trauma
so that last workout is laughable right
we're saying like this is like really
really easy
beyond D load easy this should be
something really really silly really
really easy right and I just actually
watched Alex Harrison when we were
students together at ETSU do some of
this stuff with some with that maybe
himself but I certainly with some of his
athletes and they would come in and do
these just like pitifully light workouts
right and people were like what are you
doing but they had throwers who were
competing actively competing like that
weekend are very shortly thereafter so
they would come in and maybe just do
submit dipoles or something really
really easy just do like one or two sets
of like handful or EPS and they were out
and that's a really good example of what
this looks like in the real world so
again it's not that we're trying to
under train
it's that we are trying to drop out the
accumulated fatigue and the only way
that we can do that is generally by
reducing the training volume the
intensity will linger a little bit up
until the last one or two sessions to
again address any micro trauma that's
still hanging around so let's go to that
last slide here we know that the taper
can have a profound effect on
performance it has a number of cool
things to the physiology to the
psychology and that generally translates
to improved performance right we also
know it's really important for
maintaining our tolerance to training in
the long term so continuing to make
gains when we get back to heart training
we know that there are some fine points
like in terms of frequency or maybe the
intensity manipulations or what
exercises or what days per week are we
working at there's lots and lots of
things you can play with the only thing
that you cannot screw up is you have to
reduce the training volume and again it
has to come from all sources not just
the weight room not just on the practice
field not just the conditioning right
all sources have to come down by about
41 to 60 percent so roughly half it's a
lot other than that there's a lot of
wiggle room right in terms of how long
it lasts what style whether you do
exponential or stepwise or taper whether
you change the frequency whether you
maintain or increase the intensity those
are things that you can wiggle around
and the art of coaching comes into play
here
the volume has to come down and again I
would encourage you to think about it
critically there is a clear benefit to
tapering right which is usually an
improvement in performance however
there's also a clear cost and that is
time away from training right so it's
probably not in one's benefit to taper
truly do a full tapering protocol
probably more than two or three times
per year and I would say three times
being like that's a lot what are you
doing you probably have to be in a sport
with multiple seasons like track and
field or rugby or maybe like strongman
if you're doing multiple events for that
to actually be beneficial for most of us
we need to think about picking and
choosing our battles wisely and this is
something that I've said multiple times
and now you're forced to listen to me
say it because it's on camera right pick
and choose your battles wisely you want
to spend as much time training and
getting
better bigger faster stronger more
fatigue resistant leaner better-looking
naked as much as you can write tapering
takes time away from that use it as like
the ace up your sleeve when you have a
really important competition that's
coming up don't do it for competitions
that don't matter
you're just robbing yourself of training
time in the long term
right so taper for competitions that
have an effect on your standing within
your organization or your sport not for
like South Philly Open Pizza time
beer-chugging kind of stuff right all
right guys that's my rant on tapering I
hope you enjoyed think about it and
think about how you could incorporate
that into some of your annual plans that
you've probably been working on at this
point all right I'm out for today or PU
rp+
thank you so much for tuning in and I
hope you enjoy