hey guys doctor is Rafael here for
Renaissance period ization and I'm here
to talk to you guys today about
nutritional priorities for body
composition that is if you want optimal
body composition of the most muscle and
leaseback
what should your nutritional priorities
be where should you start with your
nutrition
and what's most important and what's
least important
generally speaking or to change body
composition we have to make sure that
our diet is right there are trainings
right that our lifestyle is right
basically how much sleep you get all
stressed out who are things of that
nature and also there are supplements of
course today we're going to focus on
diet in just a very very basic sense
that is if you want to make changes to
your diet to enhance your body
composition what changes should you make
first what changes should you need least
or what changes really don't amount to
anything at all so let's take a look at
the first number one most important
variable that decides whether or not you
lose fat or gain muscle is your calorie
intake calories are number one if your
calories are high enough you will gain
muscle they're too low that really won't
happen if your calories are too high you
won't lose fat but if they're low enough
fat loss will occur this is the most
important feature of any and every diet
designed to alter body composition
number two most important in that order
feature of a diet is a macronutrient
amounts for example are you getting in
enough protein probably the most
important question if you're not you're
gonna be at a loss of muscle for getting
it enough that's really good and you're
gonna be optimally saturating your blood
with amino acids they're going to be
supporting the muscle growth process and
preventing muscle loss and additionally
carbs and fats are also considerating
number three after you've taken care of
your calories and calories out and a
for-sure matter
I'm out you look at nutrient timing it's
considerably less powerful of an
effector but it still counts for quite a
bit so for nutrient timing are you
eating with carbohydrates or on your
workout window
are you eating protein meals spread
evenly throughout the day those sorts of
questions tend to be more important
there but in the grand scheme of things
nutrient timing is not your top two
approaches they shouldn't be the first
thing to change at a time last at least
is food composition
what kind of glycemic index
carbohydrates are you consuming are you
consuming the proper ratio of healthy
fats or monounsaturated fats saturated
fats where your protein source is coming
from are you a vegetarian or me eating
plenty of meat eggs etc those questions
are dead last in our nutritional
parities that is if you're consuming
enough calories to grow muscle for
example if you're consuming enough
protein carbs and fats and if your
timing is correct food composition
doesn't really amount to a whole lot it
absolutely makes a difference but that
difference is small so graphically
represented calories in calories out
accounts for maybe 40 percent or
something like that of the total
variance of diet success after you
coorporate your macros that's already a
huge fraction of dieting success or
total dieting outcome funding for body
composition taken care of right there
nutrient tiny counts are quite a bit but
still a small fraction and food
compositions you can tell us barely
notice above up there so if you want the
best approach to dieting work your way
from the bottom of this list all the way
to the top if you get the basics right
the details don't matter a whole lot
just a couple of real-world tips to sort
of leave you guys off if your calories
are correct that is for example if your
calories are lower than you need for
maintenance
you will lose that and you will lose
weight which is one of the reasons like
intermittent fasting which I'm not a
huge fan of tends to work for a lot of
people it doesn't work great but it
works okay because if you intermittently
fast your calendar to get a really low
end you're gonna lose that plain answer
number two if you're getting enough
protein carbs and fats in the right
amounts then you are already a really
big step of the way to a very good diet
which is why if it fits your macros
approach works relatively well certainly
I would say better than intermittent
fasting though now timing is important
especially for Syrians and athletes John
Meadows a mountain dog diet is a good
example of a diet that addresses every
single one of these components all the
way through nutrient timing and it works
extremely well it tends to be a more
complicated diet so it's not just for
your average person starting out but if
you're a serious athlete you would have
to consider timing and last but not
least all other features of a diet are
the details so if you worrying about
whether or not you're getting a protein
sources from too much egg sources and
not enough they're sources you're
probably worrying about in my new detail
if you're a serious competitor maybe
that's a concern but if you're just
trying to put on muscle of burn some fat
you had better make sure your calories
your macros and your timing are set in
stone before you worry about the details
thanks a lot for listening we'll see you
guys next time