intermittent fasting has made staying
lean and building muscle effortless
effortless a wild exaggeration all you
have to do is just not eat most of the
day that's easy right to blunt my Hunger
I'll drink Sparkling
Water all right 2 to 3 hours later I'll
drink black coffee not sure why it's do
to 3 hours later could just be right
away but
whatever I'm bat man yo Scott what's
this is it already three hours later CU
she just brought us black coffee he's
like bitch the f it's only been 20
minutes she's like okay Gregory get that
fucking coffee out of my face look at
how he's looking at it too he's like
what the fuck it's boosted my work
productivity and it's given me the
freedom to eat like a king every
day my douchebag ometer is climbing and
starting to do this kind of thing with
the oh my God eat like a king Kings
Don't Count Their calories my friend you
still count that shit