we are recording in progress folks it's
dr james and dr mike answering your
questions dr mike how's it going
yo it is going quite well
i am in my
last week of hard training
and next week i compete in a
bodybuilding show
people have told me i have to bring
underwear and i do a dance and i get
tanned and people watch me and they
cheer i like all that so i'm there
very cool i saw that charlie uh charlie
vaughn
philadelphia is over there with you guys
charlie and jared there we're we're
filming all kinds of full rom stuff
so uh it's gonna be good
very cool very cool all righty well
let's get to some questions
yes and
first stupid face oh that's great what a
great place to pause that
0279 is the name of the man with the
plan test in my patience
all right got it
asks is it normal to be resting three
minutes between sets of 10 to 20 lateral
raises strangely a restaurant
between sets of five to ten exercises
like weighted pull-ups and i'm good to
go again but resting any shorter flower
rays results in drops dropping off too
much like from 18 to under 10. uh thank
you and keep the good work it's a pity i
didn't find this channel when i started
training years ago it's a pity when we
didn't have this channel when you
started training years ago um
it's totally fine guys remember the four
factor rest model is
when you feel like you can produce a lot
of force when your cardiovascular system
isn't interfering anymore like you're
not super fucking out of breath and
going nuts
and when you
are the target muscle is actually
limiting factor instead of another
muscle
and if you can get at least five reps
and five quality reps per set but if you
check all those factors any amount of
rest within there is generally good
there if you wanna
you know start poking it you know little
tiny differences you can probably find
them
so if you ask yourself is it normal to
be resting the xyz amount of time
between xyz exercise and set number are
the boxes checked yes
okay are you resting much longer than
after you've boxed checked like you're
totally good to go and you rest another
three minutes
then it's totally fine you probably
still get a great stimulus but you're
just pissing way time in the gym so
james and i kind of fans of as soon as
your rest time has checked all four
boxes maybe another 30 seconds or a
minute after to really get those reps in
the next setup after that you're kind of
fucking pissing your time away um and we
want to get you in and out of the gym
not like as fast as possible because you
hate being in the gym but just like if
there's not really a compelling reason
it's like this you go to the store you
probably want to find the like in the
car and you put the gps in you probably
want to find the fastest way to get to
the jeep to the store like that's what
usually the gps tells you now that
doesn't mean that if you're like with
like a new girl you're dating and you
guys are going to the store to pick up
snacks and you go back to your place to
watch tv that doesn't mean you hate
being in the car with her it might be a
great conversation you might be wishing
i wish this car ride lasted forever but
like it's in your freedom to make the
car ride last as long as possible but
you still want to know what the fastest
way to store is however if the gps tells
you to go this crazy roundabout way you
may be like why am i doing this like
people say you've got to rest five
minutes between sets of squats what if
i'm ready in one well you gotta rest
five well that just doesn't work like
that so if you're checking all the boxes
and if you're not resting a ton of extra
time after then you're totally good to
go and
from a personal perspective
a lot of times on exercises
they're in a five to ten rep range
they're so fast twitch and they take so
little time that the systemic burden
isn't that high especially if it's a
smaller muscle group like um weighted
pull-ups i literally take two big
breaths after and i'm like i feel fine
um deadlifts i take 50 breaths per
minute after for about three minutes and
vomit blood and then i need another 10
minutes to get myself off the floor so
whatever it is and everyone's different
like you could have really big shoulders
and lift a lot of weight for your
lateral raises and relative to the rest
of you and that means you may need to
rest longer and it's kind of strange uh
it's all personal and if you check in
the four boxes you're good to go james
yeah i laugh at this question because i
think we all have like a muscle group
that's odd like that for me it's biceps
like most people can blast out biceps
boom boom boom for me
no joke i'm the same way james bicep
girls take the fuck out of me like i'm
not even that strong to buy something
and they hurt so much it's awful
yeah so um i agree with mike there um as
long as it's checking the boxes you're
good to go one thing to think about that
i often use in my training not just for
these muscles but other muscles too is
you could have you know if you're
training i'm presumably you're probably
training you know delts a couple times a
week hopefully maybe even more like
three to four you can have one session
where you're doing lateral raises where
the rest is very complete so you might
take you might kind of embellish just a
little bit extra like mike said take
maybe after the boxes are checked take
another 30 seconds that would be like
embellishing on the rest you have very
complete rest and then on another
session you might do it like with a
lighter weight and actually have a
slightly more incomplete rest and that's
something that i do a lot where if i
really wanted to catch my breath i might
take like three minutes um and i'll do
that on lateral raises one time per week
and then on a different day whether it's
i'm doing lateral raises again i might
do a different variation like seated or
you know standing or super rom or
whatever i might do it with a
constrained rest time where i say okay
i'm gonna two minutes max and then i
just go go go two minutes is not like
incomplete truly incomplete rest but
it's more incomplete than my like full
desired rest so that's just something
you can play around with and have kind
of like heavy light variations
throughout the week
absolutely
next up is earth savior who's actually
just below right below easy-peasy thank
you for saving the earth by the way
eric davey asks would you both recommend
if you fail to match or beat wraps on
one exercise for two consecutive weeks
but all other exercises for that given
muscle group are still improving or what
would you both recommend
if that's happening is it best to just
delay that one exercise then restart its
progression the following week while
continuing to progress in all other
exercises as normal would you only
assume that you've hit your mrv for a
given muscle group if you've got to go
on the majority of exercises in the
target group yes yes that second part of
this absolutely yes
thank you about so much i hope you both
continue to do these q as for as long as
you both shall live whether you mentally
on this earth or elsewhere uh well it's
okay um if you're just not progressing
and you fail to match or beat reps on an
exercise a lot of the reason for that is
you were too aggressive in the rir's for
that exercise and then you can deload
that exercise for just one session take
like a one session deload where you just
do basically like 50 of the load 50
percent of the sets for percent of the
reps and then come back and restart the
progression at a more reasonable thing
don't worry about all your old pr's just
try to hit new ones slowly but surely
that would be my best advice james
yeah i'm going to pick you back off that
one because i have the same thought so
typically when this situation comes up
it's because you were too aggressive
with your rars meaning you were going
harder than you probably should have
been which is fine it happens uh another
situation also rar related can be when
you're kind of going too
passively where you're like
like i really strained on that one i'm
not matching reps because that's now
like now that's like an rer of two and i
was supposed to hit four and they're
like ah maybe you were being too too uh
under dosing it from the start and now
you're kind of being like too um
tentative might be too too much on the
fatigue management side not enough on
the hard training side so both it can go
in both directions i would say
if i was to point at something like
i would funnel it towards rir whether it
was too aggressive or too
conservative
i don't think that you're truly hitting
your mrv if all of your other muscle
groups are improving because that just
doesn't make sense you would you would
truly feel it across all other exercises
it would be
so this is what something that mike and
i have said for many years and i think
it's worth reiterating like when you
breach your muscle mrv there's really
not a question you know it so it's one
of those where like if you if you're not
sure
probably the answer is probably not
because once you really hit your mrv on
like something like a chest in
particular you go to unwrap the bar or
the dumbbells on a bench press and
you're just like no yeah fuck this
there's a secondary effect that's very
interesting if you've reached mrv
for a first exercise you you're already
over mrv you still show up to the gym
you don't know first exercise you may
muster up way more willpower and we more
move to actually match your beat reps
and then you start and it takes
everything out of you you start your
second exercise and your potentiation
weight feels like you can only do it for
two reps and you've got a failure you
try your set the last time last week you
did nine and you get five in the bar
falls and you're like okay yeah so but
technically you didn't underperform on
every exercise well you had to go to
hell in high water to save one and that
cost you so much with the other like
you're fucking done so
that's that
yeah it's kind of one of those you'll
know situations yeah either either
you're having to like summon thor's
hammer to do anything or you just you
just can't do anything yep
next up forest
fitness oh another another consistent
deliverer of excellent questions
all right got it holy question
hi doc's wishing you both a safe and
happy holiday season my question is this
to what extent if any does standing
slash being in one's feet a lot
interfere with leg hypertrophy i work
from home and have an adequate sit stand
desk in my computer i try to stand as
much possible when i use a computer in
order to avoid a potential negative
health effects from extended periods of
sitting okay so i'll just tell you
straight up i'm in a bit of a mood today
so i'll be more curt
that is here we go almost every single
one of those sitting studies is
correlatory and fucking full of dog shit
what you need to do is move around often
and have a high calorie expenditure
every day if you sit when you're tired
or you sit when you're at work to
concentrate it doesn't mean fucking hill
of beans difference in your overall
fucking health the anti-city brigade is
for who don't get any a goddamn exercise
yes i have a personal vendetta against
the standing desk because i can't
concentrate when i'm standing i do no
good work when i'm standing and a lot of
people it takes more sort of
psychological energy to stand and sit
and then you actually can't do really
good work if you like your standing desk
great
but because standing absolutely costs
you actually axial fatigue the entire
time
it will sap away from potential leg
hypertrophy doesn't mean you're gonna
lose muscle but your ability to gain it
for most people not everyone is going to
be substantial let me finish reading the
question james and i'll let you cover
what i've missed um
i said it also because my lower back
tends to bother me when i sit a lot okay
so validates in that case however after
i've been standing for a while one plus
hour jesus christ i've noticed my legs
start to feel somewhat stiff and
slightly achy almost a very minor pumped
feeling this feeling usually dissipates
fairly quickly once i sit down and give
my legs a break i'm really trying to
prioritize development currently so i'm
wondering if the standing that i'm doing
and the results resulting effects i'm
noticing might be costing me any
marginal gains absolutely they are by
providing conflicting more endurance
type like stimulus absolutely that's the
case i also axial fatigue also
psychological fatigue i realize that for
most people this probably wouldn't be
worth considering you know you want to
grow muscle so you're not most people
but i'm quite interested in optimality
so we'd love to hear your thoughts and
advice on the subject thanks again for
all the great content great question
forrest nash i assume that's your name
his name is like frank something or
other just
um so yeah it's probably a thing and uh
what i would do is i would do standing
desk for a whole week like normal and
then do your weekly live workouts and
then next week i would prioritize more
sitting as long as your back doesn't
hurt finding comfy positions stand when
you need to sit when you need to and see
how that same leg workout feels and i
would do that alternating style every
few weeks and see if you can notice a
pattern that would be the real way to
tell my prediction
is sitting down as much better arnold
quote um for recovery way back in the
day he said if you're standing sit if
you're sitting lay down
um dr mike stone who is james and i phd
professor and mentor if you saw
weightlifters of his especially but
really of any team standing in a
weightlifting meet between attempts he
would bring them a chair and ask them to
sit down or offer them to sit down
because as standing fucking takes it out
of you like imagine going to a theme
park you don't even walk around a lot
you stand in front of rides you stand at
the airport in a line dude this shit
zaps my ass so god damn bad it's
difficult to put into words james and i
before kobe used to travel out for
seminars we'd like to do a lot of
airport stuff where we'd stand a lot and
share like that we'd get to a gym that
same day that we travel like
internationally and sometimes if we had
leg workouts there'd be a lot of leg
extensions and some lag process and some
curls ain't nobody doing compound shit
like crazy squats or heavy weight
because you're fucked it's a big big
deal it might not be a big personal deal
for everyone but if you have to ask the
question it's worth investigating that
that way that i just described james
yeah very good answer i actually wanted
to piggyback off of your earlier rant so
like uh when mike and i worked at temple
we had some cars that's where it's from
james uh well yeah so we had some
colleagues and i i inadvertently
remember that sign do you remember that
sign
which sign i don't remember it was a
fucking sign up a temple that literally
had like a skeleton at his desk and he
was like sitting is bad for you don't
sit oh yeah there was a sign in our
office
the offices all had seats i was like
we're not supposed to come to work like
what the fuck is going on so i james
myself really bad at temple once because
we had a couple colleagues and i'll just
remain nameless at the time um and they
were super stoked about
like fitness trackers basically like
fitbits and um
you know ergonomic desks where you could
stand and they're like this is so great
for health i was like and this was me
like just being me and i wasn't trying
to be a dick but i i ended up being a
dick on accident and i was like
you realize that we're like an exercise
science department here we're not
this isn't like
we're actually supposed to be
programming real exercise for people
like they should be lifting weights and
doing cardio not trying to like minimize
death risks like this is ridiculous
right and they kind of they kind of look
like health school they were so pumped
they were like this is great right and i
was like no you guys are stupid kind of
and they because they asked us they
asked you that you
then i kind of had to back down because
i was like alphaing them a little bit
and i didn't mean to i was just like oh
that's the thing where like for those of
us who come from an exercise or sport
background that's kind of dumb the thing
is like our department had a variety of
people for some reason who were in an
exercise science department that had no
relationship with exercise so to me i
was just looking at them like what the
fuck are you doing and they were like
this is great
i was like no it's not uh anyways yeah i
agree with mike this the standing stuff
um for somebody like yourself
who has aspirations of you know lofty
physique goals jacktitude you don't have
to worry about like the health
correlates with sitting you're already
way above and beyond mitigating any type
of
yeah who are not active so as mike
already said so you can just kind of
throw that out the window now you might
find you might find in situations where
like you're cutting
where you are taking measures to
increase your step count or just general
kind of neat and that much
doesn't do but maybe to like a minor
extent or it might be more more like go
and
take more steps so like for example what
mel will do my wife um she does this
like really interesting thing where um
she does a lot of meetings throughout
the day just like dr mike does and she
does the zoom on her phone so that she
can just pace around our house i do that
all the time yeah and so that's an easy
way of like increasing your step count
and just staying on your feet burning
energy same idea there right that that
you might you might choose strategies
like that so that you could be expending
more energy without having to just do
lots of cardio stuff like that but other
than that you can just kind of throw
that away you just i would say if you
want to build your legs you probably
want to be training as hard as you can
which and then
minimizing the stress on your legs and
your lower back as much as you can
during non-training times
when i first heard about a standing desk
i almost passed out because i was like
this infuriating level of
uh what people think it does versus what
it actually does
danny kerr is up next
danny
got it there he is
danny asks how would you tell if you're
losing muscle on a cut i understand the
need for progressive overload and volume
and intensity drawing a cut
your strength will naturally go down due
to less body mass how do you account for
this decrease and adjust your training
without confusing the strength decreases
on rv systemic fatigue i think i
remember you talking about the 20 to 30
rep range while cutting due to injury
prevention less strength drop-offs body
mass falls as is the case
uh thanks docs um a slightly different
tangent there danny towards the end but
i'll take a stab at an answer for you
there's a few ways here are some of the
faster ways
you should be deloading during your cut
during which you should be at
maintenance galleries
and if after the deload
your lifts are still down significantly
you may be losing muscle because then
fatigue really shouldn't be a factor
here's another one
if your pressing goes down especially
like a bench and stuff some of that body
mass related poor leverages that's
understandable
if your pull-ups go down or are stagnant
even though you're losing weight
bad news if your vertical pulling goes
down bad news if your squatting goes
down bad news because you're losing
weight your squat should at least be
stable even if your squat is stable it
kind of means you're getting weaker and
we'll say that's fatigue if you lose
literal weight off the squat comes off
unless your gut got way smaller and
you're just squatting notably deeper
even still that would be somewhat of a
concern and usually it's not like 5 or
10 pounds it's like 25 pounds 30 pounds
you kind of start looking like a
different lifter
yes and here's more evidence
all around all kinds of lifts are
falling off
that is bad news you when you get your
best pumps even though you look sharper
you look notably smaller why did i say
that it's cutting you're supposed to
look smaller
in cutting you can actually look as big
or bigger uh if you guys check the
instagram
picture i uploaded well this will be
released in a few days but a few days
back i was 222 pounds end of a cut
all-time best appearance i looked
fucking enormous the biggest i've ever
looked even though i'm the smallest i've
been in almost a year
when you're cutting
you look more jacked in the mirror to
yourself if you look visibly small small
bad news and at the end of the day the
worst way to find out but the most
confirmatory way is after the cut is
over and you've had about two weeks
after the cut to really eat rebound
glycogen if you're still notably weaker
like for example before the cut you were
benching let's say 275 for reps and
towards the end of the cut you were
struggling to bench like the same reps
were like 225 to 245.
two weeks have gone by after the cut and
you working back up through the 250s
and same with pull-ups and same with
squat
you probably lost muscle because the way
you can tell once glycogen is back once
fatigue is gone you can rule those out
and your performance should damn near be
back to normal so did you lose muscle
then yeah the answer is probably yes
james anything else uh you think i
missed there about how to tell muscle
loss yeah and this is kind of similar to
the mrv
breaching issue um having been in a
situation where i've done that to myself
it was painfully obvious that like
something was going on where i was not
only was my performance like noticeably
dropping on certain things
but i was miserable like so like your
internal regulation on that you start
getting negative feedback like a
motherfucker right when you start losing
muscle and so that's one of the things
that i think it's like
you can do it and usually like if you
are doing a cut even if you're doing a
good job you might lose like a just a
very minuscule amount of muscle that
comes back once you start eating
normally very almost negligible and
that's not uncommon um but when you
actually lose like a substantial amount
of muscle as a result of just poor diet
or training or some combination of both
like man you know it and you're just you
feel like ass and then you go to lift
stuff and you just feel so weak as mike
said you you kind of come off as a
different lifter
what i did want to do is tie into that
last um kind of point he made there
about the 20 to 30 rep range
one thing that we do recommend during a
cut
is to start biasing some of your rep
ranges to that moderate and higher
especially towards the end of the cut
towards that higher um repetition range
simply because it's just very difficult
to maintain the strength in that you can
you can do it and there are some
movements you should actually keep in
that five to ten rep range for sure but
when you're looking at your program as a
whole
during a cut we kind of would say bias
towards those mid to
upper rep ranges because it's easier to
maintain performance overall trying to
lift you know sets of six on squats and
bench when you're really deep into
cutting it just gets really fucking hard
i've done your acute fatigue will
prevent you from doing a whole lot there
yeah exactly whereas like you can really
hang in on those mid to higher rep
ranges so kind of in the other direction
if you're massing we say hey it's
probably not a bad idea to lean a little
bit on the heavier side of course you
always pick which ranges are your best
sfr producing ranges but when you say
like when you're massive maybe lean a
little heavier and when you're cutting
lean a little bit lighter just because
it's easy to um have these fatigue
effects um just blunting your
performance a little bit so it's
hard to track as he said in the question
so uh my my general response would be
like you kind of know i mean like it's
one of those things like once you once
you're there you know there's no
question you'll be like damn i fucked up
the problem is it's too late once you're
there and you kind of check that box
like all you all you can do is go back
to the drawing board and say like okay
how did i do my cardio how did i do my
inspiration
and maybe i can fix it next time the
good news is even if you get there
it's pretty easy to bounce back
regaining is easy yeah
roll
up next i'm sorry sorry
just one example like one one left that
you like the two that for me that was
like so painfully obvious that i lost
muscle bench it's kind of hard to tell
because bench like just if you track
bench over time what you'll find is like
when you're heavier your bench goes up
and when you're lighter it goes down
like that's just kind of a normal
pattern for most people but like when
you
could you know for me i would do sets of
10 to 12 and i don't do this anymore
obviously uh deadlift at like 405. uh
and then you go to pick up like 365 as
one of your warm-ups and you're
your like a little bit you're like right
and you're like god what happened you
lost muscle
boom
[Laughter]
joel phillips
right below actually
got it
hi docs you always seem to recommend
modifications to calorie intakes of 10
to 20 or 250 kcal rather than smaller
ones due to user counting special
measurement errors wouldn't
modifications of 50 or 100 ka cal still
be relatively accurate after averaging
up the caloric intake over a week or
more
changes of 200 kcal or more just seem to
be too much for many of the situations
i'm in
and seem to put me at a point where i'm
gaining slash losing slightly too
quickly
yes i strain to understand the second
part of that question
yeah that that seems a little bit funny
i think generally that and i'll michael
clean this up as we go here but the
reason why we give that recommendation
is because it's it's better to be safe
than sorry right you rather make
progress than no progress now i have a
hard time imagining if you're making a
change of 200 calories per day that all
of a sudden you're gaining or losing too
quickly like that recommendation is
commonly used across a variety of
different nutrition not even half a
pound per week yeah it's
something seems a little bit odd there
now like to answer the first part like
can you still be accurate with like
changes of 50 to 100 um it's feasible
but in practice in practice mike and i
generally find that no it's just it's
within the gray noise of just everyday
meal prepping and stuff like that and
could you could feasibly make those
types of adjustments
and over time they would start to have
an effect the problem is that most
people aren't accurate enough to do that
and then they're sitting there fussing
with trying to make these very my new
changes but making no progress so we
would say error on the side of progress
over no progress which usually means a
slightly bigger bite in calories but at
this point like 200 250 which is like a
very baseline like go up or do down by
250 a day is that's not much it's really
not yeah i have a hard time imagining a
situation where you're like oh i added
250 and now i'm like getting super fat
like
yeah that's kind of trippy uh another
thing is
because there's wooden modifications of
150-100 kcal be relatively accurate
after averaging out intake over a week
or more i think the answer there is or
more
and if you spend two weeks trying to
figure out if you're at a surplus and it
turns out the answer after two weeks no
you really under did yourself for two
weeks man
arguably especially as a natural trainee
especially as an advanced trainee it can
mean the difference between you gain
significant muscle that you get to keep
forever in those two weeks versus you
getting diddly dick as james would say
fuck that dude fuck that let's take a
look at the other case scenario you do
200 calories a week 250 a week surplus
and you gain all the muscle you had
coming to you but you gained a little
bit more fat than you wanted getting rid
of fat while keeping the muscle is the
easiest goddamn thing in the world in
almost every case unless you're pushing
a contest bodybuilding whatever which
we're not doing
it's not a problem
the other thing is a fucking problem
like
it it's it's almost like i don't know
this is a stupid analogy but like if you
have some kind of tool
that's designed to go in the water and
catch crabs for you not those kinds of
crabs fellas
actual food crabs although you could
definitely technically eat uh gyarados
not those dust boot crabs that's moving
crabs
if the tool is really really small
and it would have to grab the crab
exactly by a leg or his body to get him
there is a good chance each poke and you
to the water's murky he gets you fucking
no crabs
if you have a big ass
thing like this
you're probably catching a crab or two
each time downside you might catch a lot
of water that's heavy to pick up but you
can always pour that water out
some with the other tool per grab is a
lot of times you get nothing and like
fuck that it's like well you know why
don't you use a bigger tool like well
then i'd have to pull up a bunch of
water and the responsibility the analogy
as well then i'd gain more fat so what
you gain you're a little fluffier after
six weeks
take two weeks of fucking easy mini
cutting and it's gone and you have all
your muscle to keep that like
a the desire to increase calories by
tiny amounts
in almost every case and i'm not saying
it's the case in yours joel you maybe
the exception is at the root cause fat
phobia
fat phobia i just don't want to get any
any different kind of fat if i look any
fatter i'm done
and that's how you get checked
that's all i got james and the good news
is like it's it's it's good to err on
the side of progress and then you can
always play around with it like once you
know like okay 250 you know from my
baseline got the job going and then you
know maybe i came out a little pudgier
at the end than i wanted to try 200 next
time yes that one goes right there and
you can just play with it and feedback
feed forward over time
beautiful
the kids guy is up next
the kid
all right
i need a good rapper persona for myself
a kid is always a great rapper name i
think the kid is one word
got it
there we go
all right
the kids guy says hi docs i've heard dr
mike mentioned that although minimal
although minimal eating more
carbohydrates compared to fats can be
more beneficial because of its
anti-catabolic properties although i'm
not diagnosed with diabetes my blood
sugar has been on the high range every
time i've done a blood test should i be
aware of my carbohydrate intake would a
high fat low carb diet be better for me
so the answer is probably not
um most americans get to be diabetic
without consuming excessive amounts of
carbs they actually consume excessive
amounts of carbs and fats which is say
calories
the classic rat the induction model of
diabetes is to feed the rats how that is
it increased amount of saturated fat
it's not even carbohydrate over feeding
they just give them more fats and the
rats get fat and they fucking get
diabetes if your body rate isn't in a
normal range if you're relatively lean
and you're physically active
you just
mixed out
95 of your diabetes risk
there is a debate about that five
percent of whether higher carbs or lower
fats are the trick and i tell you right
now from my view of literature i've
studied this relatively in depth it is
absolutely not clear to me that more
carbs and less fats make you any more
likely to be diabetic and as a matter of
fact vegans that do it the right way
old-school vegans who eat mostly natural
foods and they're sorry mostly
unprocessed foods are natural jesus
and folks that are endurance athletes uh
they just really don't have very high
rates of diabetes and no higher rates
certainly than people who eat keto but
eat a bunch of fucking food
so um
really i wouldn't worry about it what i
would do
independently if the answer to this
question which my answer would be like i
don't think it's a big deal
i would do two things one if i would try
a diet of less carbohydrates and more
healthy fats poly and monounsaturated
fats primarily
then get your blood test for blood sugar
see if that really is improved the
matter if it has by the way keep the
calories the same then maybe yeah that
increases you know there's a lot of
personal genomic variants and some
people really do to respond differently
to carbohydrates at the margins and
differently to fats and maybe a higher
fat diet is best for you you could be
the other way around we eat a high fat
diet your blood will come back worse
right so that i would definitely try and
another thing i would do is i would talk
to your doctor about on being on the
high range and ask him if that's a
concern and ask the doctor what could be
done about it because maybe the doc's
like yeah but this is a little higher
than we like to see for your age and
maybe he'll say you should get a little
leaner maybe be more active maybe give
you a glp one agonist or something like
that to control your blood sugar
something uh to that extent but
definitely talk with your doctor about
that uh but
at face value more carbs fewer fats
absolutely is not any more um
diabetogenic than any other kind of
macro split assuming you're consuming
sufficient protein in a relatively
physical reaction
i like that word diabetesgenic um
diabetes it's a wilford bromogenic yeah
yeah so i agree with dr mike here i
would just check with your doctor
because they might say like meh yeah if
you if you're like have a healthy body
composition you exercise regularly and
you're not eating a lot of junk food
they might see that and be like yeah
you're on the high side but you seem to
be living an otherwise healthy lifestyle
so no real major concerns if you're
you know maybe over fat they might say
like maybe lose some weight come back
see us and then we'll see how that goes
and if you're like not doing you know
rigorous exercise that's usually one of
the first things they'll look at with
things like blood pressure and high
glucose they'll say like why don't you
get like on a lifting and cardio program
see how that goes and we'll check it
again so it's one of those like if
you're somebody who doesn't do a ton of
exercise maybe you lift or you
you like thinking about lifting you just
don't have a ton of time to do it maybe
entertain adding a little bit of cardio
or a little bit more lifting if you can
find the time something like that and
that's usually a pretty good place to
start
um
i got a shout out peter carros here
who's enjoying my posters in the
background yeah
buddy okami peter why don't you like my
poster you need something you need
something in that room to spice it up we
can't that's the studio room where we
film youtube
yeah um
cool very cool uh ali al momen
[Music]
elmo
al moment
all right hi docs it's repeatedly stated
that rep speed and time under tension
are very minor variables and that should
be the focus of hypertrophy training in
fact there's more benefit to pushing the
concentric heart as fast as possible
because the additional force recruits
more faster than much muscle fibers uh
just more fibers in general
on the other hand it's also stated that
poor execution and technique quality are
the most common mistakes and the primary
reasons for lack of progress
probably not the most primary but
certainly something to consider
and therefore should be the primary
focus that take precedence over chasing
weight eagle lifting sure we're chasing
the log book pr's progressive over
cheating
i cannot consolidate these two sides
because they seem quite contradictory
we'll consolidate them for you no
worries specifically i find is by the
way it's absolutely possible to
consolidate things they're not quite
contradictory they're just different
ends of a pole so you pick the middle
middle end of the range there
specifically i find the only way to
ensure very high technique quality
eliminating momentum cheating
and all unintentional cutting of rom
either ends is to slow down the reps
especially with the concentric and to
add a decent isometric pause at the
bottom of every rep
of course performing these slow and
controlled reps which pauses
significantly reduces the weights used
as well as the force generated on the
concentric
okay resulting in an incidental shift in
priorities to wrap speed and time under
tension over weight slash reps so the
question is so mind you it's been stated
accurately that that stuff doesn't
matter and doesn't take away from your
hypertrophy i think there's no
contradiction i think he's caught up on
the idea of like having as forceful as a
concentric as possible which which the
research shows is
that
that point
is to talk people out of doing super
slow concentric and eccentric on purpose
it's to say look there may be a benefit
a small tiny benefit of going a little
bit faster on the concentric it does not
say that ultra speed concentrics are
marginally or even at all
more beneficial than just normal
concentrics right especially and i know
mike's gonna probably hammer this home
like if you are trying to move as fast
as possible at the expense of like a
more sfr focus technique
then it's probably a net negative at
that point right so it's like if you
could if you could do it in a way that
is controlled you have a really good
mind muscle connection you feel the
tension and you get a lot of stimulus
out of it versus going like
like every single rep you know i would
say the the
the sfr focused one's probably going to
win out even over the more explosive
technique yes absolutely
so the question is how can upspeed be a
minor factor while simultaneously being
the primary driver for the most crucial
factor for technique quality goes i can
i can absolutely clear this up it's not
a contradiction
rep speed is a minor factor so long as
it doesn't fuck your technique so within
the range of rep speeds you can do and
still pull off good technique
recipe doesn't matter
so as long as you have good technique
you're good to go
right it's like if
you know if you're cooking if you're
making cakes at a regular party
for regular people and all the cakes are
delicious it doesn't matter what the
macros are nobody gives a flying fuck
but if you scoot the macros to be really
a protein than heavy and really low fats
and locally see the carbs and people
hate the cake you fucked up the first
rule of baking cakes is cakes are
supposed to be delicious if you fuck
it's like protein bars james like all
the best protein bars on the market
today like quest first rule about quest
it's a fucking pretty goddamn good as
far as protein bars go and then people
care about the macros but there are
protein bars back in the day that were
so goddamn bad it didn't matter how good
the macros were if people eat protein
bar a lot of times they could eat
chicken breast if they didn't want the
fucking taste so it's like first taste
and then whatever
here's another thing like 1990s pure
protein bars oh yeah oh my god rave
reviews the worst ever made of actual
chalk
um
uh car pricing and quality for luxury
brands if the car is a quality car you
charge 250k you charge 350k nobody gives
a fuck rich people want to pay 350k
if the quality sucks it just fucking
matter what you charge for you're like
hey i got a luxury car it's not such
good quality but it costs 50k like guess
what dumbass you don't have a luxury car
so
the thing is technique you're right is
always supreme techniques number one
within the technique being good any rep
speed along that
is good
and as the rep speeds get either really
slow or really more like really fast
technique starts to break down and
there's an inflection point to shift
there where your sfr falls
your technique is great great great
great great your rep speed is higher so
maybe you know the technique's a little
worse but the rep speed's a little more
forceful and it's just about even but at
some point the technique is so bad that
the rep speed increase at marginal as it
is in potentially improving hypertrophy
doesn't save you anymore and that's
really the take-home i hope that makes
sense
uh does that make sense to you james am
i mean
that was a great explanation if i could
do like the layperson version of that
ali you could kind of think of this as
being very liberating on this issue
because really
if you're just chasing sfr inducing
technique
you really don't have to worry about the
the rep speed at all on the concentric
or the eccentric and the only times
where that becomes an issue is on the
tail ends of ridiculousness where you're
trying to just like javelin things all
the time or you're just going so
obnoxiously slow it's outside the realm
of productive training so the idea being
like for every movement that you do
chase the technique and tempo where you
think you're getting the best sfr that
might be a little bit slower on some
things and maybe a little bit faster on
other things it doesn't matter so long
as you're not on those ridiculous ends
of the spectrum of way faster way slow
yes dude ali actually used to say i
didn't even read the sentence yet i used
the same term he goes in is there such a
thing as too high a quality i.e an
inflection point after which the
additional quality in technique i assume
technique quality improvement is not
worth the further weight slash reps lost
many things so ali you you said it and
james said it
and i'll say it this way it is a
measurable thing if you simply use the
sfr proxy calculator from our scientific
principles of training our preferred for
training book and by the way it's
available for free on a ton of youtube
videos advanced hypertrophy concepts and
tools um we show you how to calculate
sfr in numbers if you want and then you
can say like okay my pump was rated x my
fucking soreness was rated y my uh joint
perception of you know damage is rated z
and the highest ratings win so uh
charlie jung actually of king phil rum
he had a thing where he started to get
really really uh interested in really
like a high high level technique because
he thought like he was okay here's how
this really started he started to like
press so much weight that he was like
dude i'm scared my knees are gonna snap
right the fuck off because it felt
really weird i mean he's like pressing
with a completely full range of motion
for a sense of 10 to 15 80 pounds
something unreal you just don't see like
you know people say oh like press a
thousand pounds shut the fuck up no you
don't right he really was
and he was like he started to slow the
reps down and he's like his pumps went
to shit his soreness went to shit his
progression went to shit and after a
while he talked to me he's like dude am
i doing this wrong i'm like yeah man
it's okay you use a little athleticism a
little sponge you're a fast witch guy
you're an athlete move that fucking
weight just don't do anything stupid
like having really bad technique and
make sure he pumps and soreness and
stuff for good he went back to that he's
like oh my god my training is so much
fucking better now
and like when jared and i train with
charlie sometimes his technique
externally doesn't look as crisp as ours
nobody looks as crisp as jared's but
like it works because sfr why's that's
his highest technique and that's the
thing and another just a real quick
diagram
james and i get uh every now and again
messages and videos from people like hey
can you look at my squat they can james
get this for clients um what's up what's
wrong with my squad and we look at it
and really call phds and support science
unbelievable squats great and like i
don't know i feel like i'm tipping
forward too much or maybe i'm not using
my quads but what the fuck is wrong with
you it's a great way i can't tell
motherfucker you're fine and we're
nitpicky assholes some people are just
like getting way into their heads the
technique needs to be perfect it needs
to be effective if you get on the leg
press you go through a relatively full
range of motion you know ball or fucking
quad pump debilitating fucking soreness
and your knees feel fine motherfucker
that's the right answer that's it
yeah 100 and then ollie just to give
bolster your your point here a little
bit um this is where like physique
sports and like strength and power
sports
verge off whereas in physique sports
what you're trying to do is stimulate
the sfr to the best of your ability
which is what we just said whereas in
strength sports and power sports yes
you're actually trying to generate as
much force as possible so taking weight
off the bar or moving more slowly is
really not an option you have to either
be moving faster increasing the weight
and or some combination of both so
that's where you kind of see this
divergence of like physique sports
versus kind of traditional strength and
power sports
um
real quick off off that record
just like you did a little bit james
matt c
uh asks below there dr mike do you like
madara
right here oh sweet james you know i
have no idea who that is until now i
assume you knew who it was you would
love this guy he's he's
like the
he's the bad boy in naruto
he just
there's i oh man i just i want to go off
on this one because there's like a
couple scenes that i know i know you and
i know like this would give you
goosebumps he just like
fucks ever like people think they're the
top dogs in naruto like everyone's like
i'm the bad motherfucker this guy shows
up and just like
wipes out like armies by himself when we
hang out next i'd love to see it yeah
there's there's only like a thousand
episodes to get through so
you'll just have to fast forward through
that shit i'll show you some of the good
scenes you'll love it he's kind of has
like the vegeta vibe it's kind of
excellent i love that vibe
all right uh our perennial top voted
henrik anderson is ready
to be answered
now that i screwed up
there you go
henrik asks for small muscle groups such
as dels cavs biceps etc which are
predominantly slow twitch uh more slow
twitch maybe not predominantly more slow
twitch than average are my reps and
other intensity techniques superior to
straight sets or just for variation so
the two-part answer
uh one part is i suspect they are
by a small margin for most people
the second part is i know this sounds
like we're beating a fucking dead horse
it's not just for variation it's sfr
your personal sfr if you do biceps and
you do my reps and you get a fucking
unreal sfr that's the right answer if
you do biceps and you do straight sets
and you get a sweet sfr you try my reps
you're like ah just make me tired then
that's not the right answer
so because these are all tools that are
very easy to implement we don't want to
tell you yeah yeah these are all my reps
and the testing techniques that's what's
going to get you to grow
that is like i would say our 55 to 45
vote on probably do you notice that's
not a very big vote the real variance
the real application comes to the
individual so try both uh and i think
that
that's probably your best and and then
after a while maybe not that long you'll
realize yeah straight sets for cabs are
dumb as fuck i love my reps but straight
sure biceps fucking fucked me up and my
reps just don't do a whole lot
james that point at the end was really
good because what you'll find is that
even within the same person you might
have different responses across muscles
so like for for myself like but my reps
for biceps doesn't do shit for me it
just makes me like really exhausted uh
whereas my reps for calves like does
wonders i don't really train calves much
anymore on the occasion that i do that's
the way i prefer to do it because it
gets the job done so you have to play
around with it and even within yourself
you have to kind of play it with
different different muscles will respond
to different techniques and rep ranges
and all the all the stuff and that's why
we say sfr and i know it's kind of feels
like a cop out at times but that that
idea
really does encompass so many of the
things that that lead to productive
training in hypertrophy training but
also can be extrapolated to other forms
of training as well so it's a good
answer unfortunately even though it
sounds like a compound
andrew tybee is up next
got him
all right
oh andrew
oh here we go this is james's thing hey
docs where is the line between so-called
junk volume and legitimate workout i'll
spare you the the long explanation which
you'll also get there is no line it's a
spectrum
things can be more or less chunky
basically i have a crazy schedule when i
get to the gym i can only get around
three to five sets across three to four
exercises i usually stick to compound
movements and add in supersets to get
more volume good idea so often
supplement with a few sets of dumbbell
curls i have at home something like two
to three exercises four or five cents
it's supplemental volume worth it in
your case fuck yes because you're not
getting enough volume anywhere else and
because you're probably fresh doing
those girls would i be better off going
to bed at 8 30 p.m and hitting the gym
at amish time probably not unless you're
a really morning person morning training
blows dick because you're super tired
and fucks your sleep up is there a joke
that i'm not catching there what's amish
time or is it just how much time is like
the amish wake up at like an
inordinately early day amish people are
on uh what's his name's time jocko
willing type shit where it's like
2 45 a.m i'm getting after it every time
i check i'm like jesus christ man this
is kind of not sleeve i love that guy he
was on joe rogan last week he was good
he's great and way too out there for me
as far as like shit i can do um he goes
thanks fellas love uh the practical uh
scientific obs content yeah james any
clean up on that one what do you have to
add
yeah no so i'm trying to just so he's
basically saying like uh is the
doing a couple exercises at home worth
it or should i just focus on my
lifestyle and maximizing
um
what i what i can do at the gym i think
that given that um recovery is probably
not a limiting factor in your case just
because you're not training
a ton you know understanding what you're
doing sounds great and your situation
makes perfect sense so no judgment there
but since you're probably not training
to your fullest capacity
focusing on like getting the extra sleep
or the extra just lifestyle recovery
benefits probably isn't going to pay
huge dividends if you can get a few
extra sets in at home when you have some
free time i think that's a good way to
go as long as you're kind of checking
the usual mev mav type boxes that we
always recommend for everything i think
you're good to go and you know if you
have some dumbbells at home you can do
you can train arms you can train doubts
you can you can get fancy with legs if
you want to like there are things you
can do at home if you have the extra
time so i don't i don't see a problem
with it all yeah
um junk volume by the way is quite easy
to define
it is
when and to what extent you are so tired
that your system is limiting your
performance not the local muscle unless
the stimulus is low so if you are
getting those curls in and you're
getting great pumps great tension and
everything you feel good quite energetic
for them fuck it it's great great volume
um if you come home after you know 12
hours of work and you're curling nominal
weights and you can't even feel the
muscle and you're just like killed you
got the pink ones going and you're like
i don't feel this at all
all right our last question for today
comes from
oh sean mctiernan
who's sean this is ireland
oak well that is a very irish name isn't
it
amazing it's like my god
plan oh it's fucking clan mcdonald in it
i love it i love you ireland
take it take it all the best ways
sean asks when massing i believe i've
heard dr mike say you shouldn't lose
visible abs uh yeah okay we'll take that
photo it is this might sound stupid but
does this refer to being able to see
your abs when you flex them yes only
flexed only flexed only flexed because i
do not have visible labs unless i flex
them without a ton of food in my stomach
that's the case for almost everyone or
if it's early in the morning before
eating and i'm going to calorie deficit
to feel depleted
uh
what are some good indicators to tell if
one is over fat to the point where they
should start not not start messing phase
or perhaps even stop while in the midst
of them one big one is are you so fat
that your exercise execution and
performance and cardio are starting to
limit your ability to get the muscle
like if you have such a big gut that
like pressing is hard you're done
massing um if you have so much fat that
you're gassing out on leg presses and
squats as opposed to hitting the actual
muscles you're probably done massing if
you can't see your abs flexed you're
probably done massing
um james any before we get to the second
part of the question do you have any
other ones just for fun i'll devil's
advocate i i largely agree but i think
you could also potentially go a
different route when you are
relatively
when you're running like if you've been
training reasonably for a long time and
now you're actually starting to get more
serious about putting your nutrition and
training stuff together into like
evidence-based training and you're
you're running your first couple masses
i would say don't be afraid to
put on a little bit more weight than you
expected there are so there is kind of a
the first couple ones it's good to get a
feel a little trial and error and then
refine it as you go again progress over
no progress is always good and i think
like um
[Music]
even if you get over fat the first
couple times the amount of progress you
get is really good and the amount of fat
or the effort it takes to lose the fat
is not that much so um i think it's okay
the reason i say that is because as you
mentioned in one of the earlier
questions this is one of those like fat
foam this is like danger leading very
dangerously into the fat phobia type
situation
mike and i have gotten plenty fat
uh when we have i got too fast it fucked
got my body forever yeah i i had like an
epic i remember alex harrison who works
for rp did one of my um the side
skinfold and he just gave me that look
like dude what are you doing and i was
like okay bro i'm a fucking man he's
like yeah have fun with that um
you know i definitely wouldn't recommend
going to some of the lengths that we
have but i can tell you that some of the
best
some of the best training and the most
memorable training i have had is when i
was a little more importantly than i
wanted to be but god damn was i getting
some good work done so don't be afraid
to go there like it's one of those
things like if you're running your first
one to three masses
i would feel a little apprehensive as a
coach if you were like coach i can't see
my abs but like all of your lifts are
like going through the roof and you're
clearly getting beefier making good
progress i'd be like yeah
[Music]
let's just keep going with what you're
doing don't let everything off
yeah as long as you're not like just
sloppy and like you know going up like
four pant sizes or something like that
like yeah that's getting to be a bit of
a problem but for the most part like uh
i don't know i'm having a hard time with
this one because
there is there are reasonable limits for
sure like there are some limits as mike
was saying about like what is too fat or
when you should stop but i also feel
that like most people use that as an
excuse to not do hard training or to do
a true mass phase they just want to stay
kind of like in the limbo between like
leanness and
slightly less leanness i guess
so i don't know i struggle with that one
mike do you
tidy that one up for me because i don't
know
i think if you're fat
going yeah you know going through that
it just makes me cringe a little bit
when i see people who are making really
good progress but they're so caught up
on the fat gain part you know what i
mean we're just like dude just let it
roll you're doing great yeah if you
still have some veins if you can still
see your abs when they're flexed
i say keep going is totally fine if you
actually lose sight of your abs while
they're flexed in many cases i would say
stop you're going to have loose skin
you're going to have extra fat cells
it's going to be a pain in the ass to
cut the weight off but a lot of people
are in really quite quite good shape and
they're like oh i'm done masking it's
like why like you can still gain another
5-10 pounds no problem it'd be totally
great um so don't err on either side of
that stick to the middle
and then so he ends it with i want to
run a masking phase for my first
intelligently structured approach to
weight gain ever around the start of the
new year but i i find with all the
holidays and everything going on around
this time of year
it can be pretty hard to just maintain
weight i'm already up two to three
pounds for my weight that i cut down 10
to 11 weeks ago well that's okay your
man's phase just started during the
holidays totally fine
you just uh aim for less total weight
gain over the january february march and
you're good to go
sometimes i get clients who are kind of
like they're pretty savvy with what they
want to get out of their diet and
training stuff and sometimes we'll hit
like an awkward period in the year where
i'm like hey it's kind of like the
holiday times do you want to think about
doing a mass or cut or whatever and
sometimes they'll not be sure but one
thing is for sure right like around the
holiday times
having some hypertrophy training is
always a good idea right whether it's
for maintaining just your general health
and fitness or if you're gonna go ham
and eat a lot of ham you might as well
get some muscle out of it right like
that's completely fine so like when uh
dr mike and some other people are gonna
come out and visit us soon
i'm uh kind of approaching the end of my
one of my long macro cycles so i'm going
to take an active rest period but by the
time they get here i know we're going to
be eating all sorts of bullshit so i'm
going to be training my fucking ass off
just trying to go there yeah just so we
don't get super fat and maybe maybe you
get fatter than i planned on but i'll
probably gain some muscle too and that's
cool side benefits so um at the very
least like during the holiday season
like like uh our friend sean's
describing i think it's great to go
ahead and go hard on the training if
you're kind of especially if you're not
really sure like if you're like i don't
know should i wait should i not just go
fucking train and if you eat a little
too much it's okay you'll get buffer
trade off
yep
james is that was that your phone i
heard that a lot funny enough
did you really damn
yeah i've actually been um having i'm
setting out like a new habit for myself
i've been having some uh sleep problems
because i'm a stomach sleeper and i've
been waking up and my back has been
cramping really bad
and i've been playing around with
mattress and box frame just nothing
seems to help and then i was like let me
give some stretching and try and i've
been doing about 15 minutes of
stretching per day and it was like
instant
change like immediately just not waking
up with back cramps so yeah it worked
yeah i had to i had to that's what my
alarm was going off because i was like
don't forget to stretch um and i just do
like 15 minutes a day nothing crazy just
like just mostly hip and back stuff and
it works
i slept wrong on my neck and i hurt my
neck to the point where i was having
like
um in my shoulder and like pain in my
arm like
like that's how much like my
sternocleidomastoid inflamed was like i
was like oh my god do i have a spinal
injury my wife supports my doctor she's
like no i'm like fuck so i had to sleep
in like awkward positions for a few days
like you know positions like your body
wants to roll over on that side it's
gonna be so good but you can't because
your neck's gonna be fucking broken
she's like oh this is in the middle of
cutting where it sleep sucks anyway and
i'm like ah but it's just like it's
almost completely resolved now and i
thought it's way out and i'm like thank
fucking god i never take anything for
granted neck is one of those things
where it's like the pain isn't terrible
but it's just like omnipresent and
prevents you from doing everything where
it's like if you had like the doctor
pain scale uh you know like one to ten
you're like that's like a five but it's
like a five that's always fucking
annoying the shit out of me i can't do
anything
god
did you watch uh we're at the bullshit
stage of this one i think um yes you
watch the um
the the oxy cotton doc uh that little
series oh man i just watched that with
mel was really good what's it called
it's based on the book uh dope sick dope
sick
it looks at the how like oxycontin
became like this crazy thing people love
those goddamn pills man
dude
i don't it's it's really feel nice and
warm inside
i won't spoil it but it was like clearly
clearly there was targeting like
specific demographics of people who
clearly abused it yeah
uh how are we doing on questions are we
done for this one we're done
okay let's see today's december 1st so
we'll do another one before the holidays
really are in full effect maybe even get
another one in when you guys are around
i think you and i can make time to
fucking get one in during the fucking
holidays i always have time to get one
in yeah we'll get a new air
all right well folks
thank you so much for the questions as
always we have some
consistent deliverers of good questions
i like that we got a good strain going
of a few people who always man always
good ones and we have plenty of other
people who are also asking great ones
just a friendly reminder if you scroll
through the most recent q a
go through and just start uploading ones
that you think are really good and
interesting even if like they weren't
the exact question that you want if you
just see one and you're like hey yeah
that's actually a pretty cool question
just go ahead yeah that's a good one
fuck it and
selfishly because it helps mike and i
sort out which ones that people think
are the best questions for for this uh
week or every other week so go ahead and
just upload some and then if there's one
that's
burning you have a burning desire to
know and it just wasn't addressed drop
it in there and hopefully other people
will pay it forward and and upvote it as
well and we can get to it
any housekeeping stuff dr mike i know
you guys say james and then youtube will
randomly sort them so that we have to
manually find them anyway you know it's
been like a an ongoing struggle uh any
housekeeping you've got all sorts of
pictures i see how many pictures do you
post per day god damn i can't even i've
been trying to post more because this
motherfucker lost his instagram guys
follow me
dr mike israel on instagram it's my new
insta it's already up to 22 000
followers but goddammit i had 185k still
trying to get the old one back seems
unlikely give me a follow i'm keeping
this account anyway um so i'm trying to
post more pictures because i'm in kind
of like a ridiculous shape week and a
half hour from the show so soon you guys
will find out how i did at masters usa
is hopefully i just you know bring a
good package the judges will put me
rover and continue on the journey of
getting more jacked um
and that's it a big big big announcement
relevant to those of you who hypertrophy
train um
and
diet or beginning getting jacked that's
coming in late december so keep an eye
out that's all i can say for now
mysterious yeah so guys check out dr
mike's paint he's got some great
great uh pictures going lately he's got
that nice gym lighting set up and
everything too
wow
yeah charlie's not good jared's looking
good you guys are all like looking good
at the same time and i'm over here just
trying not to be too fat so oh please
you got your momma's a hero back there
how can you not call it i know all right
i like to
sometimes of the year i like to embrace
my inner job other times i have to
tone it back a little bit
all right folks we're gonna wrap this
one up thanks so much for your questions
and we will see you again next time