welcome back now real Dr Milo wolf here
with wolf coaching and today we are
reacting to Ryan humiston and his takes
on range of motion as you may or may not
know my PhD was actually exactly on
range of motion so it always warms my
heart a little bit when I see
influencers talking about range of
motion today let's see whether these
takes warm my heart or break my heart
ever since I was a little girl I've been
searching for the most efficient way to
build muscle because we all know it's a
slow efficient muscle growth is good
process I mean you could do what I've
always done which is just wear so I'm
not sure about Ryan humston but I think
he might be on steroids right like I'm
not going to say it for sure but I think
he might be on PDS not saying anything
about his credibility or anything else
but if he's on steroids I think that
gives him a different rate of progress
compared to us mere mortals that are not
enhanced so just something to note
smaller and smaller shirts but that too
has has his
drawbacks people stare at your here's
what we know so far hypertrophy is a
direct result of either mechanical
tension metabolic stress or muscle
damage another he gets points for
understanding the three mechanisms that
have been hypothesized recruitment
whether using light or heavy
weight that's true as well you can use
lighter or heavier weights for
hypertrophy also the method you use to
stimulate the muscle does not matter
whether you use free weights or machines
and C that's true too he's killing it
he's hitting at all right now Dam
sighting research one thing there's not
a consensus on is if we should train a
muscle always at length and if the
answer's yes then should we monif
looking jaed right now parts of that are
actually at longer length it's confusing
let's get into it to help shed some nice
barbecue going to need to look at some
recent case studies in a 2021 case study
they took a bunch of untrained adults
all right pause these are not case
studies these are randomized controll
trials case studies or take one person
and you watch them do their thing right
that could be for example a bodybuilder
who's competing for preparing for a show
you could watch how his hormones change
over the course of his preparation that
would be a case study where you don't
really change anything you simply
observe these are randomized control
trials which are actually one of the
more valid pieces of evidence basically
you have randomized control trials and
then you have metanalyses or systematic
reviews that take all of those
randomized control trials and summarize
them but let's not pretend what he's
talking about here is a case study cuz
it's really not
[Music]
I think we have a skitt more
Hanzo and compared them doing a lying
leg curl versus a seated leg curl after
12 weeks the seated hamstring curl was
the clear winner it showed significant
increases in hypertrophy the classic myo
stud muscles if you look at the total
volume of the muscles the seated
hamstring curls caus them to increase by
14.1% compare that to the lying leg
curls which was 99.3% which I know
doesn't sound like a lot but that's a
one and a half fold increase imagine if
you just so there's a couple issues with
what he's doing here number one he's
just looking at the percentage increase
in both groups that's something we call
magnitude based inferences in statistics
it's not ideal let's should put it that
way the second thing is he's not even
measuring or mentioning rather variance
or basically how much of a difference
was there between participants in these
studies cuz if we see that there's a 50%
difference but there's a huge spread in
how responded you could just say well
yeah sure there was a difference but it
could just be because the results are
all over the [ __ ] place right so
couple issues with he presenting it but
I get it's supposed to be brief Snappy
YouTube [ __ ] right comment like
subscribe reach down grab your balls and
one of them was one and a half times
bigger that's that's a problem if you're
wondering why I'm sweating I agree with
this it's 50% of growth difference is
absolutely notable but when you dig a
Little Deeper you realize holy hell this
is a lot more impactful than I thought
it was because that was just looking at
the percentage change across all three
muscles when you look at the individual
muscles you see that the semitendinosis
and semi
mro semiosis yeah it's a hard word
smaller but still significant increases
but the real change came from the
girthier and larger muscle the biceps
the percentage change was
14.4 well rather it was the bicep
femoris long head the short head saw
about the same growth and that makes
sense because the short head of the
hamstrings ha doesn't actually insert
the hip and so whether you're doing
seated or lying like curls it'll get the
same growth but yeah the long head does
insert the hip so when you're seated
it's more lengthened which is more
growth producing 2.2 fold increase I
don't even need the ball example to
explain to you why that's such a big
deal if you pulled your pants down and
your ball was 2.2 times bigger you might
even have that's adorable sling now this
study is not without its limitations it
was done on untrained people and
normally that's a huge negative for me
but this study was so welld designed
that I think we can still apply it to
own training because they didn't so
here's an issue with just blanket
ignoring untrained studies mechanisms
and muscle physiology are broadly the
same between more trained participants
and more untrained participants in fact
I'd go so far as to say unless you have
a really solid difference as to why
you'd expect trained lifters to be
different from untrained lifters in this
regard you shouldn't just be throwing
out the untrained studies altogether
there's a lot of solid Reasons from a
research perspective to include
untrained subjects for one they're
usually easier to recruit you try
getting committed bodybuilders into the
lab to stop training in the gym and to
just train in the lab twice a week for 3
sets each it's just not going to happen
you also see bigger improvements in
muscle size and strength in untrained
lifters and so if you're trying to
measure differences if you don't see a
benefit from pre- to post because
someone's been training for 10 years
it's going to get kind of hard to see
where there's differences between say a
partial range emotion or a full range of
motion so train lifters can be really
helpful in this regard if you're
ignoring studies on account of Simply
their being some untrained subjects
please don't they didn't just split the
population into two and had one group do
lying and one do seated and compare the
results they had them dedicated leg
within participants en that way there
was no genetic differences and they
would compare the results of the
individual they also randomized so it's
not just genetic differences he has a
good pointer it's also nutritional
differences it's also differences in
sleep it's also differences in stress
it's a lot of different things by using
within participant design you usually
sacrifice some ecological validity right
right like no one really trains one
hamstring one way and the other
hamstring a different way right they
usually do they might do single like
training but it'll be the same exercise
same range of motion Etc so it's a
little bit less valid in terms of how
you train in the real world however it
equalizes it removes a lot of variants
and so it makes for a really solid study
right you either need fewer people to
come to the same robustness of
conclusion or you can get the same
people and have much more robust
conclusions about is there a difference
between the seated light curl and the L
light which leg was going to be chosen
for each exercise that way somebody's
dominant leg wouldn't be factored into
the results and these results are
attributed to the fact that the
hamstring muscles are more at length
during the seated leg curl which makes
sense the more you think about it
because when you get done doing a long
leg curl you could just lay there and
take a nap when you're done with the
seated you want to get out of there as
quick as you possibly can so given the
good visuals now was fascinating as that
was so I think I'm not sure if he's
going to go into detail here he missed
out a lot of results here specifically
he only talked about three muscles
semitendinosis semiosis and the biceps
femoris long head he didn't mention that
for the short head as I mentioned
earlier there were no differences in
growth and this makes sense it doesn't
insert the hip so it shouldn't be
impacted by a seed or L like curl he
also didn't mention the gillus and the
sororus muscle both of these muscles
just like the hamstrings Flex the knee
so they get trained during a leg curl
however unlike the hamstrings they are
hip flexors not extensors and so as a
result when your hips are extended like
during a lying leg curl they're more
lengthened than when they're flexed like
during a seated leg curl and so by the
same Principle as why we saw the
hamstrings minus the short head get
greater growth in the seated light curl
we would expect greater growth from the
lying like C in the sororus and gillus
on account of being trained at longer
muscle lengths and indeed that's exactly
what they saw and so this study really
provides a comprehensive strong support
for longer muscle length training being
better for hypotrophy but it appears you
missed that so I just thought I'd give
you some context as perhaps the world
number one expert on range of motion I
don't know is something I'm definitely
going to utilize in my training going
forward they had to do with hamstrings
nobody really gets excited about
hamstrings what we do get excited about
triceps this he's going to mention Theo
study
Ori study now neutral just means that
their shoulder was at 0 de they also
made sure that their elbow was at 90°
and then went down to zeroed just a very
structured range of motion with the
other arm they had him do an overhead
cable extension where the shoulder was
at 180° this time and again elbow went
from 90 to
zero that didn't feel great so really
the only difference is the shoulder is
putting those Tri what's worth noting
here by the way is that in the push down
condition they weren't getting a full
stretch they also weren't getting a full
stretch in the overhead extension
condition they weren't really fully
letting the elbow Flex in either one of
those conditions so we are comparing
different musings for the long head but
for the lateral and medial head of the
triceps they don't insert the shoulder
so whether whether your arm is by your
side or overhead doesn't impact its
length the long head is more lengthened
during an overhead extension versus a
push down tricep Muses at length and you
can try this at home I'm sure you're
sitting there watching this way you take
a [ __ ] just put your elbow to your ear
and you'll feel the stretch it's true
smell it too so how much of a difference
does that make you stinky [ __ ]
actually a lot the overhead version
increased the long head by 28.5 okay
this is the Mayo study it seems yep my
study again that's a 1 and half fold
increase that's a lot again use variants
if you can but so again it's in more of
a lengthened position as you can track
through the movement but what doesn't
make see the reason why effect sizes are
not the same as percentage differences
is because they actually take variance
into account like how differently did
people improve pre- to poost if you just
look at percentages you can often get
the wrong idea so don't be like Ryan
here actually look at variance as well
or effect sizes cuz they actually
incorporate ital and lateral head
increased by 1.4 as well because they
don't cross at the shoulder joint so
this shouldn't really stretch them any
more or less but what I think it is is
most people just suck at doing tricep
extensions and they usually get their
shoulders or their traps involved so by
increasing just makes it so the tricep
has to do the work doesn't matter which
head they all have to work harder and I
think Ryan's interpretation here is
plausible but also unlikely I've read
the study front to back multiple times I
couldn't tell you why we saw better
growth in the lateral medial head in the
overhead condition could be a variety of
reasons none of them are really that
convincing so I'm willing in the light
of all the other evidence like around 25
studies on range of motion to chalk it
up to just a false positive finding
which happens when you have a relatively
smaller sample size and some degree of
variance right but it's possible
something else is a play here I just
don't know it could be that Ryan's right
keeps you from screwing it up so is it
that simple Case Closed just look for
ways to put a muscle at length and
contract it no the outlier is the
incline dumbbell curl because when I
tested this with the EMG device oh boy
we go years of my life now there could
be other reasons why you boy tension or
just having that weight on stretch could
cause growth but I'm not the only one oh
boy we're doing so well until now Ryan
but now you just had to mention EMG and
then say Force instead of electrical
amplitude or whatever else EMG is not a
good way to determine which exercise to
do for hypertrophy it's been called into
question numerous times it's time to
stop using EMG for hypertrophy but hey
at least until now the video was solid I
figured out this is probably not the
best exercise for your long head and in
in my own anecdotal experience this is
the most growth and Peak I've ever seen
on my bicep since I stopped doing the
incline dumbbell curls and found ways to
actively overstretch my short head and
contract my long head simply meaning i'
so I think incline curls can actually be
pretty solid there has been one study
comparing the incline curl in untrained
women to the preacher curl and saw no
major differences maybe differences lean
slightly in favor of the preacher Cur
for bicep growth overall but basically
what I think you can do with the curl to
make it a pretty decent exercise is to
Simply do lengthen partials the
resistance curve of the incline curl is
such that there's really no tension at
the bottom and the tension gets higher
and higher the lift gets harder and
harder as you contract if you do
lengthen partial you can at least
somewhat circumvent that issue by simply
using a little bit more weight and only
working in that lengthened position that
really good stretch for the long head
are there better exercises out there yes
but the incline curl isn't the worst
exercise ever and it's certainly not on
the basis of EMG differences I've put my
shoulder in external rotation and did
weird ass curls and the long head of the
biceps is the only muscle I found where
this concept just doesn't seem to work
as well but every single other muscle
from calves to lats to triceps is more
beneficial to train at length so do it
now there's something else I wanted to
talk about that's very closely related
to this and it has to to respond to this
real quick we don't have evidence of any
muscle group really not responding to
longer muscle length training being
better for hypertrophy than shorter
muscle length training to do with how
you fail in an exercise you suck at
failing most people end of set the same
way they grind out that last rep force
it to the very top slam the weight I
know what he's going to say sit I know
what you're seeing Ry hard a bunch of
thick women until their next set the
flaw on assuming that your muscle has
been taken to complete failure just
because you can't go through a full
range emotion assumes that the what's
with the self-deprecating about being
fat and sweaty and stinky this is a bit
odd they did a study where again they
took a bunch of women why do they mostly
get women I'm just going to assume these
oh boy women so I feel more confident
about the results they Ryan I know
you're joking here but there's actually
a very real thing in science where women
are very underrepresented in science
partly potentially I'm not sure about
this don't cancel me over this partly
potentially cuz they're hard to recruit
but women are very underrepresented just
because you happen tode two three
studies that are in women doesn't mean
women are like the main demographic by
any means one of their arms they did the
initial range of motion the other arm
the other half of the range of motion
the results they had greater increases
in Cross stud dist end closest to your
elbow from the curls that were strictly
in that initial range of motion I'm
almost to the point of belly button
sweat so what does that mean to you it
means that Regional hypertrophy where
the muscle grows is dependent upon the
range of motion Andor the initial range
of motion is when the muscle is
more miles and act and interaction and
increase mechan so instead of trying to
just hump up that last rep when you're
unable
so man no hate but you can tell Ryan
isn't really in this space there's a few
things here right yes you do typically
see greater distal hypertrophy for the
biceps for example that' be closer to
the Elbow distal really just refers to
the part of a muscle that's closer to
its insertion site or further away from
the center point of the body around the
navl yes with longer muscle length
training you usually see greater distal
hypertrophy however there is likely not
necessarily more actin myosin overlap at
longer muscle LS potentially there is
greater mechanical tension overall as
you lengthen a muscle something called
passive tension builds up you can kind
of think about it as a rubber band when
you lengthen a rubber band it kind of
like starts resisting you right and it
wants to return to its resting length
muscles are much the same way they build
up passive tension as you lengthen them
and so when you're training at long
muscle lengths one potential mechanism
is that you're lengthening it getting
greater passive tension and so greater
overall tension which is active tension
which is how much force you produce
while lifting plus passive tension
that's one possible explanation but it
probably doesn't have to do with AC
Mouse unable to take it through a full
range of motion just cut the range down
squeeze out a few 3/4 reps then half
reps once you can't do those anymore and
then quarter reps the idea is you're
getting more time under tension and more
mechanical tension and this is how Ryan
here is describing length and suets said
than done on which is doing a full range
of motion set and when you can't get a
full range of motion rep anymore just do
length and partials or partial reps in
that lengthen stretch position I don't
think this is the best approach there's
a few reasons for this number one no
studies ever actually examine this
directly so while it stands for reason
it could help who knows number two most
Studies have directly looked at length
and partials as a tool and on its own
right so comparing length and partials
just doing half reps in that stretch
position to doing full range of motion
reps and generally length and partials
out perform for range of motion for
hypertrophy so I wouldn't advocate for a
lengthened superet where just do do
partials at the end over lengthened
partials given all of our evidence
pretty much is on lengthened partials
themselves as a standalone range of
motion for the whole set finally timer
retention is wildly misunderstood you
shouldn't be training to maximize timer
retention something like hack squads so
what did we learn here today when
possible train every muscle at length
except the long head of your biceps that
leads to inefficient miles and AC and
coupling also change your definition no
the point is the long head of the bicep
stuff is off damage throughout that
muscle as possible so do a bunch of
shitty half reps at the end of every set
as always programs are linked below all
days so that was me reacting to Ryan
Hon's takes on range of motion and
understanding of longer muscle length
training this video was decent he
certainly got a few things wrong but he
did refer to the science right like he
SED a few papers did his best to explain
them didn't do the best job ever but did
an okay job ever it's better than not
setting papers at all all right what
I'll say also is that his understanding
of EMG AC my Etc it leaves something to
be desired I think on the whole he gets
like a a seven out of 10 honestly he
understood studies reasonably well and
at least he cited them which is more
than a lot of influences on YouTube I'm
going to be honest right but he did
misunderstand a few pretty important
points and he also had this odd thing
with sweaty and fat people so bit weird
anyways that was the video if you like
the video please comment like subscribe
and I'll see you guys my favorite
subscribers in that next one peace