okay what's going on everyone so in this
video I'm again in dialogue with Ben
carpenter and for those of you guys who
may have missed part one Ben is an
extremely intelligent guy and he's been
working in the supplement industry for
over seven or eight years now I'm so he
understands as well as anyone how the
industry works especially on the back
end and he's a guy who's been putting
out science-based content on the
Internet
quite a while before I ever started
doing that I'm so he's someone that I
really trust in this conversation like
the last one was a totally unscripted
unprompted dialogue between us times we
weren't able to cover everything there
is to cover abouts arms but we really
tried to focus on what is the most
actionable and most practical so without
further ado I really hope you guys find
this conversation to be helpful and
informative do you know anything about
Psalms I III know I know some like I
it's not something that I tend to
research a lot because it's not
something that I take so from the
selfish perspective I don't look into it
there's much so I look into things that
interest me personally I am skeptical of
the way that some people are using them
so for example people that claim they
have good safety data but then use more
than the dose that was used in research
studies and also sums would fall and
something that I would considered
sketchy manufacturing if a supplement
companies is selling an ingredient which
they're not legally allowed to sell
we're talking a subtle and hopefully not
research chemical company I would
personally wonder if they're following
quality control to the letter sums are
something that there has been a testing
analysis there were products that had
Psalms on the label that tested that
they are they didn't contain that
compound
well they contained an alternative
compound or a combination of the two
there was some that had the right
ingredient but in a dose that didn't
match what was on the label okay so I'm
here editing this video and I just
wanted to point out to you guys that
this is all pulling from a 2017
investigation published in the Journal
of the American Medical Association when
they purchased 44 products off the
internet
that were marketed as serums and ran
them through a lab analysis only 52% of
the 44 products that were being sold as
SARS actually contained a single SARM in
them and when you look at the actual
data some of these are just ridiculous
of one of these products claimed to
contain 10 milligrams of a certain
substance but only actually contains 0.1
to 1 milligrams of it now I just wanted
to highlight where all of these facts
were coming from now back to the video
what exactly are they so it I'm gonna
answer my own question on this one but
it stands for selective androgen
receptor modulators there I think
advertised as being like steroids and
that they promote some of the same
effects of steroids without as many side
effects apparently because they act on
similar receptors but just aren't the
same chemically is there any evidence
suggesting that they are actually
effective in terms of building muscle
from from a bodybuilding perspective
I don't class them as as the Holy Grail
is what they're marketed as I think
anything that has medical literature on
it or is being under investigation for
medical purposes is exciting but my
personal belief is that even if
something has let's say an Atlanta
catabolic effect and it's being used to
prevent muscle wasting disorders or
something like that I don't necessarily
believe that you can just take a much
higher dose and it will act as an
anabolic to the extreme that people
claim the other thing is that because
companies are selling them and often
getting away with selling them it's very
very easy to market because if you go
online and Google type legal salads
mm-hmm it is a shitstorm of people
trying to sell the holy grail of product
yeah yes like you want to buy steroids
but you're not really get them from you
can buy sons which you know are anabolic
as well that you can just buy them from
your local supplement shop right so I
think from a marketing perspective a lot
of people have jumped on the bandwagon
because they're exciting and they don't
feel that they have the same risks as
you know so mobile who wants to inject s
foster right so they are they are
illegal is that right they are not
they're not only mate
not for for a supplement company to sell
it no no so I had like full research
purposes right hasn't it it's just
probably why they're so sketchy
um they I know they are banned in most
drug tested organizations they're at
least in the in the WMV F so that's why
I haven't looked into them quite so much
because I'm not allowed to take them but
I don't think that there's a whole lot
of really high quality evidence in
support of them for muscle building
purposes just based on what I've seen
like my very quick scan of the
literature I feel like they're overhyped
and it kind of reminds me of so back
when I was like in high school and just
first getting interested in bodybuilding
all the hype was around this new product
m1t meth one testosterone it was
supposed to be like steroid so you get
the same results of steroids but it's
not really a steroid and it doesn't have
the same side effects it turns out it
actually had pretty nasty side effects
and then as far as I could tell it kind
of came out of popularity now that kind
of reminds me of this arms thing like
they're supposed to have the effects of
steroids without actually being steroids
my personal view is that if something is
promising to do something
physiologically to you that creates very
aggressive muscle growth I would expect
it to have a higher incidence of side
effects I know people want to use them
as a kind of safe muscle builder my own
personal view is that is like extreme
muscle builder extremely safe big one so
that was all that I had for you we're
actually starting to run at a time here
guys we've gotta head back to the expo I
just want to say thanks to Ben for
coming on the channel like I said I've
been following him for several years now
and he puts out really excellent
science-based content not just about
supplements actually I don't know if
I've really heard you speak about
supplements all that much if I were in
our own dialogue so it's one of those
things that I think people if you work
for a couple you talk about too much
people can question your motives so I
tend to avoid anything where people are
suspicious of me so I I don't talk about
a lot I like I love to look about right
so this is nice right so I'll have a
channel link below if you guys would
like to check it out also his Instagram
is full of nice shirtless photos I want
to check that out
thank you guys for watching I don't
forget to like the video if you liked it
subscribe to the channel if you do
happen to be new and I'll see you guys
all here in the next video