how much protein should you eat per day
to maximize muscle growth well the
latest research analyzing 49 studies
found that you really only need 0.7
grams of protein per pound of body
weight so if you weigh 175 pounds or 80
kilos 130 grams of protein per day will
max out your gains and going beyond that
as quote no further benefit on gains now
if you're in a caloric deficit for fat
loss or you want to be extra safe going
as high as one gram per pound May
provide some extra anabolic insurance
but is probably Overkill and if you're
overweight you should use your goal
weight instead of your current weight
how do you space your protein out is
less important but eating three to six
high protein meals is better than just
one or two meals per day try to eat some
protein within a five hour window around
your workout and amino acid supplements
don't seem to work as long as you're
eating enough protein protein sources
shouldn't really matter as long as you
hit your daily total and you should
count protein from all food sources but
since animal proteins are usually higher
in leucine than vegan proteins you might
want to add a few extra grams of protein
to vegan meals