and when the thigh is roughly parallel
you maximize torque at that bottom
position so torque on the glute is
maximized kind of at parallel depth with
squats and lunges and things like that
and if you go deeper the deeper you go
torque starts diminishing so at long
muscle length should we be aiming to
achieve maximum stretch or maximum
torque I tend to think nowadays that
maximum torque is more important we have
a study by zabita cording colleagues
comparing the incline curl to the prur
we're essentially an exercise where
we're prioritizing muscle length at the
expense of tension to an exercise where
we're prioritizing tension over muscle
length and the exercise where tension
was prioritized it seem to lead to more
favorable growth overall so it seems
that when Peak torque is already set up
to occur at relatively long muscle
lengths stretching at least the biceps
within this context in this one study to
be even more lengthened didn't seem to
increase hypertrophy and so when given
the choice between increasing muscle
length even further or increasing the
torque at that muscle length I would
typically go for torque I think torque
might be a little bit more important too
early to say for sure but that is my
suspicion when you do walking lunges
with a long stride or just reverse
lunges you can have a vertical Shin
angle