okay so in this video I'm going to be
speaking with dr. Stefan DNA Stefan has
a PhD in neuroscience and he's done
research in areas related to the
neuroscience of body fatness for 12
years he's published many peer-reviewed
articles and scientific journals in
areas related to obesity and the brain
and he's the author of the book the
hungry brain which argues that it's
actually our ancient instinctive brain
circuits playing a survival game that's
causing us to overeat in the modern food
environment not necessarily a lack of
willpower or an incorrect understanding
of what to eat now many of you may know
that Stefan was recently on the Joe
Rogan experience podcast where he was
debating what is actually causing us to
get fat and I think we elaborate on that
discussion over here so we talked about
the calories in calories out model of
weight gain we discuss whether or not a
calorie is a calorie for weight loss
purposes and we talked about the role of
carbohydrates in sugars in the obesity
epidemic and how a lot of this is
regulated in the brain we do cover a lot
of ground in just over an hour and I
think this is a conversation that you
guys are really going to learn a lot
from so without further adieu I hope you
guys really enjoy this discussion about
fat gain models of obesity and the brain
with dr. Stephan DNA so guys I'm here
with Stefan G&A Stefan thanks for coming
on I really appreciate it my pleasure
so for the context of the viewers this
is being recorded about a week after you
were on the Joe Rogan experience podcast
where you debated Gary Taubes so we're
gonna do something of a response to that
but I think what I want to do with this
is cool with you is just really quickly
recap how it was that that debate was
set up and then we can kind of move
forward with what I think are the more
interesting areas that you guys touched
yeah absolutely so initially Joe had
Gary on to do the solo interview and I
think a lot of people who had read my
work that is critical of Gary's work saw
that and they recommended that he
interview me and so I got in touch with
Joe and we talked about it a little bit
and then basically it fell by the
wayside for a while but what caused it
to come up again
this guy named Kevin bass on Twitter
just started really agitating and saying
that Joe essentially had a low car bias
and that everything he had about
carbohydrate on the show was very
negative and that it would be nice if he
had some balance and had some more
evidence-based people on the show I'm
not saying every one that he had was not
evidence-based but I would say some of
them were not evidence-based and so he
started agitating and he did this really
interesting analysis I'm still not sure
how he did this how he pulled it off but
he like transcribed every word that
every person had said in all of Joe's
interviews and did an analysis on it
showing how many times they had brought
up carbohydrate and whether that was
positive or negative and essentially it
was all negative almost all of it was
negative and so yeah and so once Kevin
did that it really to Joe's credit it
really got his attention and he said hey
maybe I should start having a little
more balance here and so eventually that
led to an invitation for me to come on
the show and I think Joe has been
enjoying the debate format and so it
turned into an invitation for me to
debate Gary and you know obviously that
kind of a scenario kind of gets more
attention and gets people more fired up
than just having somebody on solo right
I got you so I listened to the whole
thing so I don't expect everyone
listening to have done that but in case
you have I think we'll still build on
what was discussed over there and
clarify some stuff up front I just like
to do my best in like 30 seconds to kind
of summarize both of your guys positions
and you can correct me if I get anything
wrong so essentially as I understand it
Gary's position is that you have good
calories and bad calories and the bad
calories are basically carbohydrates and
in particular refined carbohydrates and
sugars and it's their consumption that
is causing us to get really fat and
calories don't matter all that much
at least matter significantly less than
carbohydrates do for getting fat and I
feel like that's actually like a pretty
accurate representation of what he has
to say you can correct me after but
that's pretty much the gist of it and
then I think your position is that
calories actually matter a lot in fact
they're the main thing that's driving
the obesity epidemic and what is causing
us to get fat in general and then your
background is in neuroscience so you've
kind of taken a slant where you say that
well
the brains that we're working with
haven't yet evolved enough for us to be
able to handle our modern food
environment where you just have this
huge abundance of very delicious but
also very high calorie foods and that's
basically causing us to overeat on it
and that's the reason we're getting fat
and you say carbs play some role in it
but they're not the main driver is that
up front kind of accurate yeah I think
that's pretty accurate I would I would
maybe modify two things there one of
them is with Gary's model he essentially
doesn't think calories matter really at
all I mean I think he would concede that
like you know if you're eating no
calories then that matters or if you're
eating like super duper starvation level
calories then maybe that matters but I
think in general he just thinks that
thinking about calories or having that
as a mechanism is just irrelevant so
then with my model I think there's
another element of it that's important
to understand and that's that obesity or
leanness differences in body fatness are
not just caused by passive differences
in calorie intake so it's not like we're
just you know one day waking up in the
morning and saying hey I feel like
eating more calories today there's
actually regulatory changes that are
occurring and how the brain regulates
body fatness that allow the obese state
to occur and maintain it once it has
occurred and so and this is where my
model partially overlaps with gay
is Gary's model is that we agree that
people with obesity are not just lean
people who are eating more calories
there's actually a regulatory change
that happens in the biological pathways
that regulate body fatness and we can
talk about how exactly that happens
later but the difference is that in my
model those pathways are acting via
calories primarily calorie intake so
that's the main way in which the brain
regulates body fatness is by regulating
your calorie intake and so my point is
simply that it's not a passive process
it's not just however much we decide to
eat that these things are regulated via
the brain circuits that regulate body
fatness and determine our appetite and
our cravings and those types of things
would you say that your position is the
mainstream scientific consensus
positioned like our position do most
scientists agree with you or Gary so you
know I hesitate to use the word
consensus because getting scientists to
agree on things is like herding cats but
I would say that at least within my
field that studies obesity from a kind
of energy balance and neuroscience
perspective that yes that is the
predominant view and that I would say
that not just in my more narrow field
but in the broader obesity field in
general there are very few people who
accept Gary's model and I would say you
can find some you know for example David
Ludwig is a researcher at Harvard who
agrees with Gary's model almost verbatim
but I'm not aware of anyone else really
that does there are other people who
agree with like different versions of
the model like Robert Lustig but his is
more centered around the brain there are
other researchers who think insulin is
important like Jim Johnson but he's not
really buying in to Gary's idea
specifically so I think there are really
very very few people within the
scientific community that really buy
into Gary's
and I think people don't necessarily get
that impression in the public from
outside the scientific community because
the people who do believe it are super
super vocal so they're making a lot more
noise than the people who don't and also
when you look at popular health and
nutrition writers they many of them do
buy into Gary's model and so I think
people get the impression that there's
this like raging scientific debate about
this in the scientific community but
really there's not I mean I don't think
there's hardly anybody who thinks
calories don't matter and the reason for
that is because the evidence very
strongly suggests that they do matter
yeah at least in my circle of the
Internet this seems like such a fringe
position that it's just mocked endlessly
so coming into this debate it's just
like from my perspective it almost feels
like you know you turn on CNN and you
have one guy who's denying climate
change on the one side and then another
guy you have like Bill Nye on the other
side and it's like kind of obvious from
a scientific perspective who you're
listening to there but I think it shows
that disassociation between what might
be mainstream in the scientific
community is not necessarily mainstream
in the general public at this moment on
this issue so I think it's a good thing
that you got to go on Joe's podcast and
talk about this stuff but yeah just to
tip my own hand it's I was familiar with
a few of those guys that you mentioned
but it from my position actually before
we came on the call here I was reading
your bio and I noticed that you're the
director or maybe a research assistant
for the examine Research digest and yeah
I'm friends with Kamala I've interviewed
him too good time so we've got a few
mutual friends there and just being
familiar with this work it just feels
like this is really not a
very credible position within the
scientific community but as you said I
guess maybe there are there is some
disagreement but people who believe this
are in the minority you would say yeah
absolutely and I I really don't think it
is a credible position at least as
articulated by Gary I mean and I hope
that came across pretty clearly in the
debate yeah so I think that pretty much
at every turn when you actually sit down
and ask the question you know what
predictions does this hypothesis make
and how can we test those predictions
which that that's just the scientific
method what I just described when you
actually do that and you look at the
things that have tested those
predictions I mean you you find over and
over again that those predictions are
not supported and I mean we could talk
about some of those things I talked
about some of them in the debate but I
mean at some point you can't just keep
saying that all the evidence is garbage
and you can't keep complexify on your
hypothesis to you know allow it to
escape refutation at some point you have
to say okay well this is just not
fitting the evidence that well I need to
find another hypothesis and I think that
we're long past that point so as I was
listening to the debate one of the
things that I noticed didn't come up a
whole lot was the calories in calories
out model of obesity so is this
something that you subscribe to yeah
that's a good question and actually I'm
gonna I'm gonna turn the question around
on you a little bit because this
calories in calories out thing is a
concept that people refer to a lot but
it can mean several different things and
so I'm never quite sure what people mean
when they say that so would you tell me
what you mean when you ask that well I
think it's the difference between well
let me just put it this way if you eat
more calories than you expend then
you'll gain weight if you expend more
than you eat then you'll lose weight and
ultimately changes in weight come back
to energy balance that's as simple as I
can put it forward and I I think it's
for
yeah and I think when you put it in that
way
I don't think Gary would deny that
either because he I mean I he
acknowledges the first law of
thermodynamics that which is that energy
can neither be created nor destroyed and
if you accept that then you can't deny
that if more energy is entering your
body and less is leaving then the energy
content of your body is increasing you
know so I think he actually accepts that
I think what he would say is that energy
intake and energy expenditure are
independent from one another and so our
sorry our dependent so your energy
expenditure depends on what you're
eating so for example you know if you
ate extra calories from fat maybe your
body would just burn it off your energy
expenditure would increase to compensate
you burn it off and then it wouldn't end
up in your fat tissue versus overeating
carbohydrate and you know your insulin
goes up the energy goes into your fat
tissue and your energy expenditure
doesn't change or maybe even goes down
so I think that's kind of how he would
conceptualize it now of course that's
not actually what happens when you run
the experiments but I think that's
that's what he would argue so he's not
arguing against the laws of physics but
he's arguing that what we're eating the
types of calories that were eating can
affect the energy outside of the
equation such that fat is not
accumulating in in fat tissue mm-hmm it
seems a little bit hypocritical though
for him to say on the one hand that
calories don't matter for weight change
yet calories in versus calories out is
what determines weight change I mean I
feel like he's got these conflicting
statements and that's why I felt like if
you could just ask him the question you
know if you eat and I actually don't
know if he would sign off on the
calories in calories out model because
he's more or less said you know in this
example with his brother that you know
his brother over ate by just as many
calories as him and didn't gain any fat
and you know he gained a bunch of fat
eating
same amount or forget exactly how the
example went but there are all these
instances where he seems to cut almost
directly against the calories in
calories out model so from my
perspective it would have been very
clear if you could have just like for
you to say yes the cap the difference
between calories in versus calories out
is ultimately what's driving weight
change and this is determined mostly at
the level of the brain
if Gary could sign off on the calories
in calories out part then you could get
you know move a little bit forward more
easily with the the insulin and fat cell
regulation stuff it seems like that's
the most fundamental thing that you guys
need to either agree on or disagree on
well I think he he has this kind of he's
looking at it from a very different
angle so for him the calories in and the
calories out are not driving anything
those are the outcome of what's
happening at the level of the fat cell
and so that's kind of how he would
respond to that and so for his brother
in him you know assuming they were
eating identical number of calories
which we really have no idea and neither
does he
maybe he would say that because his
brother had less of a capacity to store
fat and his fat cells the extra energy
was burned off and not stored as fat so
his energy expenditure was higher I
think that's kind of how he would
conceptualize and again I'm not
defending this idea I'm just trying to
explain what I think he would say
mmm-hmm so as a matter of you know
communicating this stuff to the public
do you think that it is a good idea to
tell people that you should focus on you
know eating less and moving more if you
want to lose weight in that sense is the
calories and calories out model a good
one yeah so I think this is exactly I
think the this question plus your last
question kind of puts its finger on
where the confusion lies because when
people say calories and calories out
sometimes they mean you know the
question of whether energy balance
determines body fatness we
it does and sometimes they mean is it
all just about you know how much you
decide to eat or move and is counting
calories the best way to affect your
body fatness and so that's kind of the
perspective of the second question
you're asking which is the eat less move
more question and and no I don't think
that for most people that probably is
the best way to affect their body
fatness and you know I know that your
your audience is a very physical fitness
oriented audience and so I think there
are probably more people who are
successful with kind of calorie counting
quantitative approach I know that's
fairly popular in the in the physical
fitness community but I think for the
average person they're just not they
don't have they don't want to engage
with it at that intense of a level they
just want to eat until they're full and
stop eating and not be fat basically and
so and you know you can't blame them
like that's how the human brain has
interacted with food for as long as the
human brain has existed you know our
ancestors didn't have Excel spreadsheets
where they were marking down how many
calories they were eating and marking
down how many calories they were burning
they had regulatory systems in their
brains that would respond to signals of
energy status in the body and food cues
around them in the environment and
naturally regulate their body fatness to
the right level and so and generally you
know those populations ancestrally
probably had very low levels of obesity
and so personally I prefer as a kind of
like blanket general recommendation for
the average person I prefer to try to
construct a food environment and a diet
and a lifestyle for them that allows
their brains to naturally regulate them
to the right calorie intake and to the
right body fatness to meet their goals
and so and again I'm not at all I'm not
at all dismissing or discounting the
value of actually counting and tracking
calorie intake and expenditure I think
if that's something that works for
that's great I have nothing negative to
say about that if it's working for you
but I think for the average person
that's not the approach that's gonna get
them the greatest or the most
sustainable results not because calories
don't matter but simply because that
direct approach is for the average
person not the most effective one for
actually regulating your energy balance
yeah so I guess there's there's two
things there so one is what is in fact
driving changes in body weight and body
fat and then the other thing is how do
you practically implement that so people
actually lose body fat in the real world
so I personally think it's important to
tell people that it's actually probably
in a practical sense much simpler than
you think it is because you'll hear
people like Gary talk about insulin and
leptin and all this stuff that sounds
very confusing and they have to avoid
carbs and they have to cut sugar and so
on and so forth whereas if you had
scientifically credible people saying it
ultimately does come down to calories in
versus calories out then you could
design a plan whether it be tracking
calories or modifying the food
environment or a meal plan or whatever
that could work but the underlying
science that's driving the positive body
composition change would be well
understood you see yeah yeah absolutely
and I agree with that completely and I
mean that's that's my perspective that
the energy balance equation is really
the most powerful driver of the changes
we're looking for when we're looking for
changes in body fatness however you know
once it comes to implementing that how
do you change energy balance that's
where it necessarily has to become more
complex and I actually think this is one
of the places where a low carbohydrate
diet the low carbohydrate diet really
succeeds is in its simplicity because
that's something where you can say hey
basically this one food substance or
this narrow subset of food substances is
the thing you need to focus on get rid
of that and you're automatically
improving your energy balance and so I
think it's actually very simple
both for people to understand the model
and to implement practically and I think
that's actually one of the advantages of
it but there are many ways to affect
energy balance and you know low
carbohydrate eating is a valid tool for
doing that but I think there are other
valid tools and personally I mean my
view is I'd rather not restrict I'd
rather not greatly restrict a
macronutrient macronutrient unless I
really have to I'd rather give my body
all the macronutrients abundantly as
long as I can control my calorie intake
appropriately in that context but I mean
it does you know when you're giving your
brain everything at once
in terms of macronutrients it becomes
harder to control your calorie intake so
people who are right in the middle of
the spectrum where they're eating lots
of carbohydrate lots of fat and lots of
protein that's the place where it's
going to be more challenging to control
your calorie intake and so you might
have to leverage other strategies
whether it is actively counting your
calorie intake or eating a lower calorie
density diet or eating a less palatable
diet or restricting your eating window
or you know some combination of those
things I want to get to quickly the
brain related stuff in food environment
related stuff but before we move on to
that I I know that there will be some
people listening who will still be very
skeptical of the just energy balance in
general because it's not really well
accepted in the mainstream people either
think it isn't true because clearly
there are cases where you'll gain weight
even if you're not eating much like say
if you're stressed or whatever and
people are notoriously bad at knowing
how many calories they're actually
consuming so there are all sorts of ways
that this can seem to be obviously false
when in fact the literature tells us
otherwise so needless to say there are
definitely calories and calories out and
energy balance skeptics out there and in
a conversation like this it's difficult
to communicate how this model can be
correct but yet still not capture
everything there is to know about losing
fat and how everything works at every
level so how do you deal with scape that
sort of skepticism how do you go about
trying to convince people that it is
energy balance that's driving changes in
body weight and body fat yeah I mean all
I can do is point them to the studies I
mean the the problem is that energy
balance is actually fairly challenging
to measure and so whether you're a
person trying to track your calories or
whether you're researcher asking people
how much they ate it's actually really
hard to get accurate answers and so to
get accurate answers you have to look at
data that was generated using accurate
methods those methods do exist but you
have to go looking for them and
essentially when you look at when you
look at calorie intake in people of
different levels of body fatness using
accurate methods and I'm talking about
things like respirometer II that
measures respiratory gases to measure
calorie expenditure if you if you can
accurately measure someone's calorie
expenditure and they're not and their
weight isn't changing then you know what
their energy intake is as well just
that's you know first law of
thermodynamics conservation of energy
and so those are the studies that have
most accurately measured calorie intake
and what you see is that as body fatness
increases calorie intake goes up and
basically it goes from lean level up by
about 10% to someone who is overweight
but not obese up to about 20% for a
person who just has mild obesity and
then all the way up to 35% for someone
who has very pronounced obesity and so
and it's not because they have more fat
it's because they're Zack they actually
have more lean mass so the more fat you
accumulate the more lean mass your body
has as well and that's the more
metabolically active tissue that drives
up your both your calorie expenditure
and your calorie intake so you're at a
new equilibrium where you're eating more
and burning more and that describes
obesity
and this is this is very well
characterized this is not controversial
within the scientific literature once
you correct for height and sex and
physical activity level what I just
described is is what you see
so there's definitely an increase in
calorie intake that accounts for that
increase in body fatness and we know if
you take a person with obesity who's
eating 30% more calories and you
restrict their calorie intake by 30%
they start losing fat so it's not a
coincidence that they're eating more
calories and they have higher body
fatness the higher calorie intake is
causing the higher body fatness but
again it requires that regulatory change
in the brain that we can talk about
because if you overfeed lean people a
lot of them will just burn off the extra
calories okay so that's one piece of it
the second piece of it is that you can
feed people either excess calories or
reduce calories or you can keep them on
maintenance diets and you can feed them
different amounts of carbohydrate and
fat in those contexts and what you find
is that the amount of carbohydrate
versus fat makes almost no difference to
their body fatness it's really the
number of calories so for example if you
over feed people using only carbohydrate
or only fat you see the exact same
amount of fat gain with the carbohydrate
in the fat if you under feed people you
see very similar fat loss so it's it
really comes back down to the calories
and not the carbohydrate or the fat that
said I do need to note and I think this
is very important that not everyone will
gain the same amount of fat from the
same number of calories over fed so as I
alluded to a moment ago some people can
take those extra calories and they'll
just burn it off whereas other people
every single one of those extra calories
will go straight into their fat tissue
and so that's one of the reasons why
some people are fatter than others some
people if they overeat it doesn't even
make them fatter or I should say
everyone will gain fat but some people
gain a lot less fat than others so some
people can just burn off most of the
excess whereas other people will store
every single extra calorie so yeah so
there so it's more complicated
than just calories but it is ultimately
driven by calories so about the research
where if you over feed people
predominantly from increases in fat
versus predominantly increases in
carbohydrate you see on average similar
levels of fat gain does that then imply
that a calorie is a calorie as far as
weight and fat gain is concerned yeah to
a close approximation it does and I know
this is like this is like the boring
unpopular thing that everyone wants to
disprove but it's the thing that has not
been disproven by a number of studies to
date it just you know if you the the
best evidence we have I would say is a
meta-analysis that was conducted by
Kevin Hall of metabolic Ward studies
these are studies where they put people
in a very they put people in a research
setting where they can absolutely
control every morsel of food that's
going into their mouths and then they
feed them different amounts of
carbohydrate or fat the same number of
calories and when you bring together all
the studies that have done this it's 20
studies so far what you see is that it
makes almost no difference whether
people are eating carbohydrate versus
fat when calories are held constant and
in fact the there was a difference it
was a statistically significant
difference but very small that actually
favored the carbohydrate so eating the
higher carbohydrate diet actually led to
slightly less fat gain than eating the
higher fat diet but the difference is so
small that effectively it's it's
negligible so you know the idea of a
calorie is a calorie is not yes you know
there 100.000 percent identical in all
scenarios it's more like for all
practical purposes they're the same so I
just want to note too that I don't want
to say that macronutrients don't matter
at all they do matter obviously when
people go on a low carbohydrate diet
they lose fat when people go on a
low-fat diet they tend to lose fat so
it's not that it doesn't matter in a
real-life scenario but the mechanism by
which it matters is that it reduces your
calorie intake it reduces your
spontaneous calorie and
so when you eliminate that effect in
very tightly controlled conditions you
don't see any effect on body fatness
however in real life where calorie
intake can very freely you do see a
reduction in calorie intake and fat loss
right I think one point that a lot of
people are a calorie is a calorie
skeptics get hung up on his protein
because of its thermic effect which i
think does have a small but yet still
negligible effect when you measure it
what's your stance on protein and that
is the thermic effect of protein enough
to offset equivalent making all calories
equivalent essentially yeah it's an
interesting question and you would think
I mean you really the thermic effect of
protein is actually pretty substantial
off the top of my head it's something
like 20 or 25 percent of the calories go
away through this thermic effect so it's
actually a pretty substantial effect and
so you would expect it to have some
effect on energy balance and body
fatness but when it's been tested
empirically it actually doesn't seem to
make that big of a difference and I
don't know maybe the experiments just
haven't been sensitive enough but what
I've seen has suggested that it really
doesn't seem to make that much of a
difference I think that in really
controlled metabolic word type
situations it doesn't matter but when
you're in free living conditions higher
protein generally does work better even
when calorie match just because of its
satiety effect but again that's just
affecting the energy in side of the
equation so it doesn't get you outside
the rules yeah exactly and I mean
protein is the most powerful
macronutrient in that regard in terms of
its impact on calorie intake so for me
if if someone's asking me for advice on
how to control their calorie intake and
body composition increasing protein
intake is going to be one of the first
things I say so just going back to the
hall paper from what I remember even
though in the aggregate you saw no
significant difference between
increasing fats versus increasing carbs
in terms of fat gain
actually you saw a slight difference in
favor of increasing carbs in that carpet
increasing carbs led to slightly less
vacuum and increasing fasted but still
on the individual level you saw I think
a lot of variability between individuals
in the sense that some individuals seem
to do and may be better with you know
restricting or rather they seem to do
better with adding carbs whereas others
seem to do better with adding fats so do
you think that rather than maybe give
the advice that it doesn't matter if you
use if you restrict fats or restrict
carbs maybe say you know self experiment
and see what diet is going to allow you
to restrict better yeah so I mean
there's two different things here so the
the hall meta-analysis didn't look at
individual data and I'm actually not
familiar with the individual data on
that underlies the studies and that
meta-analysis but I mean I'm sure if you
looked at it there would be variability
the question is is that random error or
are some people actually responding
differently and I don't know the answer
to that but I would suspect that at
least some component of it would be
people responding differently so it
wouldn't surprise me at all if there
were actually some individuals that you
know could eat the exact same number of
calories from carbohydrate versus fat
and gain different amounts of body fat
so you know I don't think the research
definitively demonstrates that there's
no individuals where that might happen
what it says is that on average that
doesn't happen or at least doesn't
happen to a to a large degree but the
second thing you know the second thing
is what happens in the free living
studies and I think this is more
relevant to what you're saying so we
have for example the diet fit study that
was conducted by Chris Gardner's group
at Stanford in this study they put
people on low carbohydrate versus low
fat diets neither diet was calorie
controlled in other words they weren't
asking people to eat a certain number of
calories it was just eat to satiety both
diets were intended to be very healthy
so based on unrefined foods what the low
fat diet wasn't like you know snack
wells
you know snack Wells and fruit juice
diet it was intended to be composed out
of whole unrefined foods and so was the
low carb diet and what they found was at
the end of a year both groups lost
approximately the same amount of weight
in a free-living situation so I think
the the low-fat diet group lost 12
pounds the low-carb diet group lost 13
pounds and that was not even close to
statistically significant that
difference between the two but if you
look at the individual responses the
spread was huge and this is what you see
in almost every study the individual
differences are much larger than the
than the differences between
interventions the average differences
between interventions and so they they
did publish the individual data in this
study and you can look at those graphs
and on both diets there were a few
people who lost tons of weight you know
and then there were a few people who
gained weight on both diets but both the
graphs look the same so the distribution
of people who gained versus lost looked
the same and if you averaged it all
together you get 12 or 13 pounds but
that doesn't and and again we don't know
the thing is it's complicated you don't
know why those people lost so much
weight you don't know why some of those
people gained weight maybe the people
who gained weight didn't do the diet or
they just started you know eating really
poorly all of a sudden and just because
they were randomized to that group
doesn't mean they ate according to that
group and then the people who lost a ton
of weight I don't know maybe they got
cancer or something so you don't really
know why that happened but on the other
hand I think it is at least plausible to
speculate and I think this is almost
certainly true that different people
respond differently to that actually
really do respond differently to those
two different diets and perhaps to a
variety of different diets and I mean
certainly anecdotally this is true
you'll have people say you know I what
you hear most often is you'll you'll
hear people say hey I tried a low-fat
diet like they were recommending in the
1990s and it really didn't do it for me
I was gaining weight and then I tried
low-carb and it helped me out a lot and
now I'm not gaining weight I also
regular
get emails from people who say I was on
low-carb and I read your work and it
allowed me to kind of realize that maybe
the entire world doesn't revolve around
low-carb and I tried actually going
low-fat and it stopped my weight gain
and now I'm finally losing weight again
so there are people on both ends who I
think just have better responses to one
or the other it's hard to say how much
of it is biology versus how they're
implementing the diets versus other
stuff going on in their lives but I mean
I would be I would be willing to bet
that there's at least some biology
involved in that yeah so the one point
is that different people might respond
differently to either reducing fat in
the diet or reducing carbohydrate in the
diet the other point is that even if you
gave a bunch of people the same diet
you'd see very different levels of
weight loss or weight gain as well so
how do you explain that why is it that
some people get fat on 2000 or let's say
some people get fat on 3000 calories and
some people don't gain any weight at all
yeah so there's there's a genetic
component to that definitely so there
have been studies done on this where
they over feed identical twins so they
get like I forget exactly how many were
involved but this researcher Claude
Bouchard did these studies he got
something like a dozen different pairs
of identical twins and then he overfed
them and what he found is that the twin
within pairs they gained almost the
exact same amount of weight and they
gained it in the same places so if one
twin gained ten pounds and gained it in
the belly the other twin gained ten
pounds and gained it in the belly
so however when they compared across
twins what they saw was that it could be
very different so one pair of twins
might have gained ten pounds the other
pair might have gained three pounds and
you know one gained it in the belly and
the other pair gained it subcutaneous
all over their bodies under the skin so
there's definitely a strong genetic
component to that and beyond that we
don't really know a whole lot about it
but
essentially some people are able to up
regulate their energy expenditure their
calorie expenditure how many calories
they're burning and that burns off the
excess fat and I think or the excess
calories I should say and I think that
probably relates to these systems in the
brain that regulate body fatness these
systems we know that they they don't
like you losing weight that's why weight
loss is hard and they don't in in most
people they don't really like you
gaining weight really fast either so you
see this in overfeeding studies where
you give people a bunch of extra
calories a lot of people will start
burning off the excess and when you stop
over feeding them their appetite goes
down and they basically go back to the
weight they were before in just a couple
of weeks and so it's like this
regulatory response that's trying to
keep them at a stable weight and we know
a lot about the brain circuits that that
mediate this response yeah so basically
some people you can think of it like a
thermostat you have this so the
thermostat in your house it has a set
point right so you might have your set
point at 70 degrees when the temperature
goes below that it kicks in heat to
bring you back up to 70 when it goes
above that it kicks on the AC to bring
you back down to 70 it's called a
negative feedback loop it's a basic
engineering term we have tons of
negative feedback loops in the body that
regulate all sorts of things like
temperature and blood pressure and a lot
of different things one of them is body
fatness and so when your body fatness
starts to decline you get all these
compensatory mechanisms that kick in
that collectively I call the starvation
response so your hunger goes up it takes
more food for you to feel full at a meal
you get more cravings you're more
reactive to food queues and your
metabolic rate goes down conversely if
you overeat a lot in a short period of
time you get a compensatory response in
the other direction that that helps
protect you against fat gain it's not
perfect you do gain some fat but the key
thing is that the thing that defends
against fat gain the mechanisms that
defend against fat gain are not as
effective and not and they're much more
variable between individuals so almost
everyone will have a strong starvation
response if they lose a lot of body fat
but some people will not have much of a
response from gaining fat so their body
is like man I don't really care about
that whereas if they were losing fat
that it would care a lot and you would
get hungry and feel you know tired and
sluggish etc yes so I think it relates
probably to how our how our brains are
wired in terms of how we respond to
changes in energy balance but we have a
lot to learn about that and you know
there's there's very little that you can
measure in a person beforehand that will
tell you how they will respond to a
calorie excess so this is something
that's been studied quite a bit the only
thing that I know of off the top of my
head that has been shown to predict
whether people will gain fat or not when
they overeat is their level of physical
fitness so people who are more
physically fit that's correlated with a
greater ability to burn off excess
calories when you over consume them but
it's an area that we really don't know a
whole lot more about I'm sure there's a
lot of genetics behind it for sure one
thing that a few other guests and I've
talked about it on the channel a bit is
neat so non-exercise activity
thermogenesis and it seems like some
people you could over feed them by a
thousand calories and they'll just
fidget a thousand extra calories off
throughout the day and it doesn't stick
at all whereas other people will almost
have all those thousand calories go
straight into adipose yeah that's right
yeah and thanks for bringing that up
because that's another point that I that
I didn't mention but that's relevant
yeah that some studies have suggested
that that ability to burn off the extra
calories is through neat non-exercise
activity thermogenesis as you said
basically a fancy word for fidgeting but
I think it's important to emphasize too
that this is non conscious it's not like
people are like oh I'm overeating I
should fidget more and burn
more calories and you know changed my
posture all the time this is a non
conscious response that the brain is
activating to maintain energy balance
yeah you're you're not completely
screwed though if you don't have this
favorable needs adaptation response just
I feel like if you did make a conscious
effort to move around a little bit more
it would do you think it would help you
a bit yeah better than no I mean you
could make a conscious decision to go
for a jog or some weights I mean yeah I
mean if you want to increase your energy
expenditure there are many ways that you
could consciously choose to do so yeah
it is funny though when people say I
think I'm gonna you know increase mine
eat try to burn more calories it's like
I think neat by definition actually I'm
not sure if this is true or not but I
the way it's usually used in the
literature is subconscious but if you
just spell out the acronym it's anything
that isn't formal exercise but yet still
burns calories yeah I I don't think the
non conscious aspect of it is part of
the definition right so what I want to
do is talk about obesity in particular
what is it about the brains of obese
people that cause them to gain weight at
a faster rate than non obese people
essentially yeah that's a good question
and I think there are probably multiple
reasons for this so if we look at the
genetics of obesity what we see is that
genes that make some people fatter than
others tend to revolve around brain
function and some of those genes relate
to the circuits that we have identified
in my field that regulate body fatness
but I mean if you think about it there
are a lot of different ways that brain
activity could contribute to excess body
fatness you could either be wired to
have a higher appetite you could be
wired to find food more seductive more
pleasurable so you eat more of it you
could Wyatt you could be wired to have
less executive control and so when
you're feeling tempted you have a hard
time saying no you could be wired to
have a lower level of calorie
expenditure
or your body fat regulatory circuits
could be wired to give you a higher body
fat setpoint or make it easier for an
unhealthy diet and lifestyle to increase
your setpoint over time and so there are
many potential paths to gaining fat but
I think which ones are most important in
different individuals will probably vary
right so what do you that and some
people will think that you're just kind
of in the totally wrong direction with
this and a lot of people I find
especially recently are really quick to
blame this on something very particular
such as sugar sugar is really a big
culprit at the moment in the public
consciousness and I realized this when I
did a video saying that sugar probably
isn't the villain that everyone is
making it out to be I heard from all
these people I'm sure you have as well
so I actually think I'd like to hear
your opinion on sugar and what role you
think it plays in this whole equation
yeah sure so you know first of all I'm
not a fan of refined sugar I don't think
anybody needs to be eating a lot of it
but I also don't think it's Beelzebub I
think that the recent focus on it is in
a sense it's good you know people are
eating less sugar but it's also a
distraction because sugar is one factor
in a more complex equation that's
affecting our appetite and body fatness
and this is one of the things that I
object to about Gary's perspective is
essentially he is saying and and by the
way I'm not putting words in his mouth
at all this is quite literally what he
argued very explicitly in the case
against sugar that only sugar matters or
it's overwhelmingly the primary the
primary determinant of obesity and
chronic disease and that calorie intake
physical activity dietary fat intake are
basically irrelevant
so that I think is a dangerous
perspective because it's saying it's
putting all of the focus on one factor
in taking all of the focus away from
these other factors that actually do
matter especially when it comes to
health so you know the issue with sugar
is that it is refined it's an empty
calorie because of the high level of
fructose and contains and the fact that
fructose is metabolized almost
exclusively in the liver it overloads
deliver with energy and can promote
liver insulin resistance and metabolic
abnormalities and that that's actually
an area that Gary and I at least
partially agree on sugar does have some
harmful effects that are independent of
its calorie intake but those seem to
manifest at higher levels of intake you
know putting a couple teaspoons of sugar
in your coffee is really not gonna cause
that to happen but I think the most for
me the the biggest deal with sugar is it
just makes us eat more you know sugar
tastes great so you put it on foods it
contains calories it increases the
seductiveness of those foods I mean
think about you know ice cream for
example ice cream to me is one of the
absolute most seductive foods like for
me it's almost drug like eating ice
cream how amazing it tastes and but what
is ice cream without sweetness it
probably would taste good sure but
you're not gonna eat hundreds of
calories out of it after a large meal
and same for if you remove the fat if it
was completely fat-free ice cream you
probably wouldn't want to eat that after
a large meal at least me for me you know
the fat and the sugar together is really
the combination that is is where it's at
but yeah I guess what I would say is I'm
not here to argue that sugar is harmless
but what I am here to argue is that
there are other things that matter too
and so for example if we look at
physical activity physical activity has
a huge effect on insulin sensitivity and
insulin sensitivity is one of the
primary drivers of chronic disease risk
especially diabetes but also
cardiovascular disease
public answer and a wide variety of
other common ailments so you know if you
think that insulin resistance matters if
you think that diabetes risk matters
then you should be getting physical
activity on most days and the evidence
is very clear on this if you look at
athletes they have very high insulin
sensitivity if you take those same
athletes with high insulin sensitivity
and you make them sedentary for 10 days
suddenly their insulin sensitivity drops
quite a bit and then similarly you take
someone who's sedentary and get them to
exercise more and their insulin
sensitivity goes up furthermore we have
large like huge well-conducted
multi-year randomized controlled trials
showing that increasing levels of
exercise prevents the occurrence of
diabetes so I'm not talking about
biomarkers I'm not talking about animal
studies I'm talking about randomized
controlled trials with real diabetes
endpoints showing that exercise can
reduce the risk by something like 45 to
75 percent so huge effects and you see
the same thing with with dietary fat you
put people on a drug called called
orlistat
that reduces dietary fat absorption in
the gut by 30% so it's not even that
large of a change in dietary fat
absorption well that reduces diabetes
risk by a lot it's like something like
35 or 45 percent I don't remember the
exact figure something in that range and
then you can give people a carbo's which
is which reduces carbohydrate absorption
and you see something very similar so
anyway that you affect energy balance
whether it's through physical activity
or reducing fat intake or reducing
carbohydrate intake or just an overall
low-calorie diet these things have all
been tested in large well conducted
years long randomized controlled trials
with a real diabetes endpoints and they
all reduce diabetes risk and so anything
you do that affects your energy balance
such that you're taking in less energy
and you're losing fat even if it's not a
lot of loss even if you're not losing a
lot of fat
that is enough to substantially protect
against diabetes and so I just want
people to know the full picture I don't
want them to eat more sugar I don't want
them to stop restricting their sugar
intake at least refined sugar but I just
want them to know that it's not just
about sugar there are these other really
really important factors out there that
you should understand and you should be
leveraging if you want the best
effectiveness that you can get mm-hmm I
think when it comes to insulin
resistance and avoiding diabetes the
best things you can do are live active
healthy lifestyle like you said and
maintain a good body composition and
then pick the right parents because that
genetics play a big role there as well
whereas I feel like many people in the
mainstream public sphere would say that
you should reduce sugar because sugar
reducing sugar is a good idea if you
have diabetes but doesn't necessarily
mean it's independently causative of it
would you agree it may be independently
causative to some degree I mean in the
sense that it can increase liver insulin
resistance in a manner that's at least
somewhat independent of his calorie
value so I don't want to say it's
completely dependent on you know its
calorie value and the body fatness that
the fact that it increases our calorie
intake and body fatness but I would say
that certainly I would say that I have
little doubt that the primary causes of
diabetes just to put it simply our
excess body fatness physical inactivity
and genetics I think if you look at the
overall picture that's what the
literature suggests and is sugar playing
some role independently of those factors
yeah could be a little bit but I think
that those are the really the biggies
fair fair getting back to sugar in
obesity I noticed on Rogen's podcast you
showed I think some Ann Haynes data
basically showing that sugar rates have
just dropped off progressively since the
80s or 90s
but yet obesity rates have increased
since then so it's clear that they're
actually not even correlated let alone
causally related that was a similar case
that I made in my video except I used
Australia the same exact trend is you
see the exact same trend over there
how can people not acknowledge that I
mean that if they're not even correlated
if one is going down and one is going up
how can you still make the case that
sugar is is the main factor yeah I think
it becomes pretty difficult but people
have found a number of ways to continue
believing what they want to believe so
gary is argued maybe there's a threshold
effect if you get above a certain amount
then beyond that it doesn't matter or
maybe there is an intergenerational
effect where we're actually experiencing
the negative effects of our
grandmother's or mothers eating sugar
and so it doesn't really matter how much
we're eating some people would say well
maybe the people who are reducing sugar
intake are the people who are lean
anyway and it's you know the people who
have obesity are eating the same amount
these are all ideas that I'm not aware
of any evidence to support but you know
there are ways that people have kind of
continued believing what they want to
believe but I think that the more
important thing is you know it's not
it's not an ironclad piece of evidence
seeing that sugar has gone down by 15 to
23 percent since 1999 in the US and
seeing that obesity has gone up you know
it's not an ironclad piece of evidence
I'll agree with that but I would say
that it's it's a fairly strong piece of
evidence especially when considered in
the context of all the other evidence
pointing in the same direction for
examples like you mentioned similar
trends happening in another number of
other countries
there's Australia there's the UK sugar
intakes been going down for about half a
century in the UK it's gone down by
about 22%
and that covers the entire period of the
obesity epidemic in the UK so I mean and
and then there's other evidence from
other lines of Investigation and you put
it all together and you can either have
a really complicated hypothesis that
explains away all these things that
don't you know conform to your model or
you can have a really simple model that
says that sugars not the primary cause
of fat gain and then everything makes
sense so that's kind of my perspective
on it but you know I also want to
emphasize that the fact that sugar and
obesity are going in the opposite
direction right now that doesn't mean
that sugar is not involved in causing
obesity because if your model is that
sugar is a factor among other factors
then you don't necessarily expect to see
a great correlation because there could
be other things changing that confound
that it's not what it really refutes is
more the idea that sugar is the primary
cause of obesity if there's if sugar is
the primary cause there's got to be a
correlation or else that's pretty tough
to explain with the model yeah so I've
got two other questions for you and then
we'll wrap it up the first is especially
given your extensive background in
neuroscience what's your opinion on
sugars addictive qualities you talked
about how people tend to over consume on
it too you would you go as far as to say
it's addictive yeah I mean I think there
are certain foods it's it's tough it's
controversial whether or not we can
apply the word addiction to foods in in
the you know strict sense of how the
research community and the medical
communities would use the word addiction
you know that has a pretty strict
definition but I think it's clear it's
absolutely clear that some people have
addictive like behaviors that they use
around certain foods and so you you know
some people's eating behavior in regard
to certain types of foods is certainly
addiction like it looks a lot like the
types of behaviors
that someone would have around an
addictive drug or gambling problem or
something like that and so I think
everybody agrees on that in the research
community that whether or not you can
truly call it addiction you can at least
call it addiction like behavior now what
types of foods does this apply to the
most common foods that drive addiction
like behaviors when they survey people
and these are very similar to the foods
that people report craving the most it's
bait I mean addiction is basically a
strong craving the most the foods that
people report having a diction like
behaviors toward and cravings toward the
most are generally combinations of
carbohydrate and fat some of those will
contain sugar sugar and fat like ice
cream or baked goods chocolate is
actually the most commonly craved food
and then also savory foods that don't
contain sugar but maybe they do contain
carbohydrate and fat things like french
fries and pizza those are also really
commonly craved popcorn unsavory snacks
of that nature and so when we look at
the commonality here what we see is not
sugar what we see is the combination of
carbohydrate and fat especially when you
throw in some other things that spike
our dopamine like salt and glutamate
which is that umami flavor and nice
textures and flavors and things like
that so that's really where it's at as
far as the brain is concerned and those
are the foods that really drive
addiction or addiction like behaviors
and very strong cravings that are hard
to control and it's really all about
dopamine these are foods that have
properties that spike dopamine in the
brain very strongly and probably the
reason why chocolate is the most
commonly creative food is that not only
does it have a lot of fat and a lot of
sugar it also contains a drug called di
bromine that activates the dopamine
system in the brain and so you have this
convergence of all these different
factors in chocolate that really get the
dopamine going and
DR heightened motivational states toward
eating and you know if your motivational
state is strong enough we call it
addiction that's really what addiction
is it's a result of dopamine spiking too
much in the brain too much motivation
you prioritize those behaviors too
highly and it causes harmful effects in
your life and so to get back around to
your question is sugar addictive I would
say that sugar is part of the picture of
foods that stimulate us too much and you
know I think colloquially sure we could
call that addiction whether you would
really diagnose it as addiction in a
clinical sense is controversial I would
say probably yes for some people but
that's my opinion but are you gonna sit
there and be addicted to a bowl of sugar
on your table if it's just plain sugar
no if you look at the studies foods that
are just high in sugar and not high in
fat and other things some people do have
addiction like behaviors toward those
things but it's a lot less common than
the types of foods that I was talking
about earlier like chocolate and pizza
and ice cream and the things that are
really not just sugar they're combining
together different dopamine spiking
nutrients mm-hmm I think that's that's
really well said I'd pretty much totally
agree with you on that one as most of
the points you've made so to kind of
wrap this up what would be your say main
takeaway like it for someone who maybe
has this predisposition toward fat gain
they may be overweight and there's all
this noise out there and it's hard to
know exactly what to latch on to what do
you think is the most important thing
for avoiding obesity maintaining a
healthy body weight etc what's your kind
of main finishing package yeah so the
first thing I would say is that you know
don't beat yourself up we have 75% of
differences in body fatness
in a country like the modern US are
attributable to genetic differences
different people are dealt a different
hand
in terms of their challenges in life and
one of the ways in which were dealt
different hands is in how hard it is for
us to keep our body fat level down and
that relates in large part to how your
brain is wired but it's not necessarily
about conscious choices that you're
making a lot of it is non conscious
brain activity that sets your appetite
and your cravings and how you respond to
food cues and many other things so these
are you know non conscious brain
circuits that we inherited from our
ancestors that are not designed for the
modern world and they're doing what
they're supposed to do they're doing
what they evolved to do it's just not
playing well with the modern food
environment in the modern lifestyle
environment so that's the first thing is
just don't beat yourself up just
understand that this is your body and
your brain that's just designed to do
this but it's just not really playing
well with the environment that you find
yourself in but at the same time you
have to try to find some kind of
solution for that if you want to control
your body composition if you're someone
who is susceptible to fat gain and so I
think the first thing that it's really
important to do is to control your food
environment so you you know the brain is
very reactive to what's in our
environment and once you've eaten the
food and you've got your dopamine
spiking the next time you encounter
queues that remind your brain of that
food whether it's the site or the smell
or even just knowing it's in your in
your closet those things will get your
dopamine spiking again and will put you
back into that motivational state that
you're gonna have to struggle against so
it's really important to have a support
of the food environment around you both
at home and at work you don't want to
have tempting foods on the counter you
don't want to have anything especially
you don't want to have anything visible
that's not a food that is supporting
your goals so you don't want to have
tempting things so for example in my
kitchen
I've got raw fresh fruit usually
something you have to peel like a banana
or an orange so there's a little work
there's a little effort barrier involved
peanuts in the shells that are
salted so it's not like that tempting if
I'm hungry yell you know in salted
peanuts but if I'm not hungry I won't
eat it and I have to work a little bit
for it I have to shell those peanuts so
that's just some ideas if you walk into
my kitchen there's not like cookies or
soda or really any kind of tempting food
on the counter or visible anywhere and
if and there's not a ton of snack food
in general so controlling your food
environment I think is really really
important not only does it make it
harder for you to deviate from the foods
that support you but you actually won't
even crave those foods you won't want
them as much because your brain not
consciously understands that they aren't
even available so that craving will not
even be generated in most instances and
so that's one thing second thing I think
is really helpful is just eating a
simple whole food diet eating food
that's more similar to how our ancestors
ate unrefined lower calorie density
foods so you're avoiding refined flours
and I would say flour foods in general
probably not a bad idea to avoid if
you're trying to control your body
composition added sugars added fats you
know you want to get your carbohydrates
and your fats and your proteins from
whole foods that you're making from
single ingredients in your kitchen and
you know not necessarily getting fancy
and trying to make it all delicious but
just eating these very simple whole
foods like our ancestors would eat and
that has some properties like increased
satiety and more moderate palatability
that helps us regulate our calorie
intake more effectively and feel
satisfied with fewer calories another
thing I would say is increase your
protein intake that's kind of a
no-brainer it helps reduce your calorie
intake and it helps support your muscle
mass as you're losing body fat another
thing that I would say is to get regular
physical activity and try to get plenty
of sleep and regulate your level of
stress and then finally you know I don't
want to leave out because I know some
people find this effective is you can
also consider
reducing your carbohydrate intake or
reducing your fat intake if those other
strategies haven't worked for you so if
you're eating a whole food diet and
you're exercising regularly and you're
eating a higher protein lower calorie
density diet and it's just not quite
getting there - getting you to your goal
then you could consider adding on that
extra level of carbohydrate restriction
or fat restriction yeah absolutely love
that answer and it's really refreshing
to hear because in my corner of the
internet a lot of people will focus I
think almost reductively on tracking
your calories track your macros as you
kind of said at the beginning people and
these like almost obsessive fitness
fears tend to really get very analytical
with it and then project that on to
people who might not want to track
calories macros or whatever so I think
that hell even people who are really
obsessed with going to the gym having
this focus on not only the calories but
also the types of foods that you're
eating is important because it might be
a really simple way for you to just
modify your behavior and eat a better
diet as a result without having all the
extra steps so I really like that on
your last point of reducing carbs or fat
one thing I've recommended in the past
was it's kind of weird but alternating
carbs and fats meal to meal so you never
combine them because it's when as you
said you know when you combine them the
foods just start to taste so much better
and you're so much likely to go back for
a bigger serving so it's just splitting
them out doesn't do anything magical
from like an insulin perspective but it
just will help you eat less almost
automatically
anyway Stefan it's been a great chat I'd
love to chat again sometime maybe we
could go more down the rabbit hole of
like the brain circuit stuff in a little
more detail people would like to hear
that but I really appreciate your time I
know you're a busy guy and maybe you can
let people know where they can find you
oh I was going to say one thing I'm
actually meant to say this at the
beginning in the Joe Rogan debate you
talked about how you had a reference
list on your website of everything so as
you were going through your points you
were kind of referring people to like
reference 24 or whatever and I think you
really under plain your reference list
because it's not just I was expecting it
to be like
number and a name of the study but it's
a summary of everything with multiple
references in each bullet point so it's
almost like a wiki of everything you've
talked about so it's a fantastic
resource and I'll have that linked below
if people would like to check it out but
other than that where it where's that
people can find more Camille
yeah I appreciate that yeah there's
there's probably a couple hundred
references yeah in that post yeah it's
on my website Stefon Guillen a.com or if
you don't feel like spelling my name
it's whole health source arg that'll
take you to the same place my book is
the hungry brain and that is a general
audience book on the neuroscience of
overeating and body fatness and I'm
pretty active on Twitter my Twitter
handle is at wh source and one last
thing I want to tell people about is a
new organization slash website that I
just created
it's called red pen reviews and we post
the most informative consistent and
unbiased health and nutrition book
reviews that you can find anywhere
awesome I'll look forward to checking
that out and yeah for anyone listening
I'll have all of the relevant links down
below including the studies that we
talked about and I'll have that full
database that you've got on your website
there as well so thanks again so much
for your time for everybody listening
don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if
you enjoyed the video subscribe if you
haven't already and I'll see you guys
next time
[Music]