[Music]
hi guys I'm Lori Shaw with Renaissance
period ization we're gonna do a
wonderful beef recipe that is super easy
today so this is sort of like a slow
cooker concept where it's a kind of set
it and forget it except we're just gonna
use a lower temperature oven with this
meat for about an hour and a half so
these are beef foil packs super easy
very few ingredients you just want to
get pretty thick pieces of lean beef so
we're just gonna use some beef base
which is going to have really strong
meaty flavors and you're just going to
press that into the meat we don't need a
ton but what you have you really want it
to stick to the beef and just on top
spine there's not a whole lot because
this is a huge cut very concentrated
sodium ingredient so you don't want a
lot of it but a little bit's gonna go a
long way and then this is just a cream
of mushroom concentrated soup pack just
put that all over make sure all the
meats covered you don't want to leave
any parts out because then it's just
gonna be in the oven doing nothing we
want it to be covered with this so that
it's absorbing flavors and getting
tender and mixing with all the flavors
in the pack and this is one of the
recipes from the Renaissance beef our
second 100 recipe cookbook that we have
so this is one of my favorite beef
recipes from there and I'm a beef person
I like meat
alright so the next key to this is gonna
be to fold it up really tight this isn't
one that you kind of want to like tent
the foil you want to pack this baby in
here together so wrap it up really tight
so when you have openings at all when
you wrap something make sure they're all
pointed up so you're not gonna fold
edges down fold them up so that if it
does leak in your oven it doesn't have
it's not gonna be a direct hit to the
bottom of your oven put it on a pan just
for stability and just in case it does
leak and pop it in the oven for an hour
and a half all right so while our beef
is cooking away doing wonderful things
in the oven we're gonna get a really
tasty veggie side dish ready to go with
it so this is also from Renaissance
feast this is caramelized onions and
leeks so we're gonna get a pan going
over medium-high heat put a tablespoon
of extra virgin olive oil in there swirl
that around so you don't have any bare
spots on the pan for stuff to stick
let's add those in in the meantime we're
gonna go ahead and get the dressing
ready so we are going to add in another
tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil
this is some unsweetened apple sauce
we've got some apple cider vinegar and
lemon juice so you got some sweet some
tart a lot of flavor in this add that in
then whisk it up really good I add in
some salt and pepper for sure and this
is ready to go as soon as our onions do
their thing they're popping and cracking
over here colors coming out really
nicely it's time to add our leeks and if
you don't cook with leeks or eat leeks I
would really suggest you try them I'm
not a huge onion person but I really
like shallots and I really like leeks
because they are just a milder version
of an
so if you'd really don't like onions I
would give leeks and maybe shallots a
try go ahead and bring my bowl over with
this dressing that we made earlier and
Abbey's right into here toss them around
and while everything's good and hot
we're gonna add in a bunch of fresh
spinach and just kind of like push it
down into there into the heat because
that's what's going to cause it to wilt
and that's what you want we didn't add
it while the pan was on the heat so it's
just gonna steam and wilt from the
residual heat off of this so just kind
of Nestle it down in there and a beefs
ready so this is going to be just an
amazing side veggie phenomenal all right
so that's ready right there on the plate
so that's it so you're gonna have this
amazing tender beef from those beautiful
vegetables right there on the side
[Music]