you might be making a mistake with how
many reps you do per set common gym lore
suggests the hypertrophy rep range is
between 8 and 12 reps and that's why
you'll see maximum muscle building but
three studies suggest that if you're
using at least 30% of your max you're
good and that can be around 50 reps per
set the one caveat is that you need to
go sufficiently close to failure High
rep work can be great when you're
training around pain when you're
traveling and don't have much weight
available or just your own body weight
and other circumstances conversely going
too heavy is no good either three
studies suggest that going below five
reps on a set per set basis is going to
be worse for muscle building
interestingly some evidence does suggest
there's a slight benefit to combining
different rep ranges across the week so
try a heavier day on Monday a more
moderate day on Wednesday and a lighter
day on Friday but stick mostly in the 5
to 15 rep range for practicality the
hypertrophy rep range is really as big
as 5 to 50 reps and that's why