hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization let's talk about eight of
some of the most common mistakes in Fat
Loss dieting you don't want to make them
you don't want your clients to make them
you don't want your friends to make them
let's talk about them talk about why
they're mistakes and just be sure to
note them and avoid them
number one these aren't necessarily an
order of how common they are but they're
all pretty fucking common
massive upfront deficit
right
yeah
it's fun to do a crazy diet
and not eat hardly anything
except massive deficits up front
wildly increase the diet fatigue and
cause the rest of the diet to be pure
hell
you're Ultra hungry Ultra sleep deprived
Ultra crazy Ultra weak because you nasty
cut in that deficit early in addition
for those of us who are not as used to
dieting or for those of us who still
have probability of falling off the
wagon a huge deficit up front is kind of
like a weeder class in college like
biochem most people will just fail
because they probably shouldn't be in
the major we don't want that to be the
thing with dieting we want most people
to succeed so we don't want a crazy
deficit up front just a nice normal
deficit something that lets you lose
between half a percent or percent of
your body weight per week none of this
two percent per week bullshit
big mistake
next one number two
people who don't set a weight or
duration goal it's totally fine to say
I'm going to do this diet I'm going to
do a good deficit for 10 or 12 weeks
amazing it's also fine to be like I'm
gonna lose 20 pounds I think it's going
to take me about 12 to 14 weeks plus or
minus but as soon as I lose 20 pounds
I'm done I go to maintenance phase I let
all that diet fatigue uh heal and then I
go again or I live in maintenance
if you don't have a weight or duration
goal
how the fuck do you know when to stop
and how do you know when to prevent
yourself from going so far that you get
into that crazy rebound and get super
fat again it's tough also if you don't
have a duration or a goal
you won't have what I've sort of turned
before the light at the end of the
tunnel effect where if you're on pound
15
you've lost 15 pounds out of the 20 and
it's getting that you wanted and it's
getting really really hard to lose
weight and really psychologically
burdensome you can always look at the
light at the end of the tunnel and be
like motherfucker I'm only five fucking
pounds away from this shit let's get
this fucking money let's do it right but
if you've lost 15 pounds and you come to
work tired hungry and your boss is like
Jim you're looking good how much more
weight you have to lose you're like I
don't know
he's like Jesus Christ what keeps you up
every day are you fucking kidding me how
do you even motivate yourself
uh-huh right if you are in a really
tough situation which you will get into
in almost every fat loss diet towards
the end
having an end is such an amazing
motivating thing be it in two weeks I'm
done or be it in five pounds I'm done
you don't wanna
push that aside and be like Dad never
fucking ends bro it doesn't work out
well for almost everyone really easy to
get demotivated and really easy to get
to losing for so long or losing so much
weight that your body's mechanisms that
bring you back up get really fired up
and overwhelm you and then you lost 20
pounds regain 10 that sucks you don't
want to be in that perspective
this is such a big deal the weight and
duration goal
that in the RP diet coach app which you
could be using now for 15 bucks a month
or whatever it costs and great diet
coach in your pocket but you play too
much
um in the app we have distinct duration
and
weight loss combination goals to say
Okay I want to lose X I want to lose 10
pounds in eight weeks I'm going to lose
14 pounds in 12 weeks whatever you tell
us and we tell you how difficult it's
going to be right because you don't want
to bite off more than you can chew and
one thing we have had requests for in
the app by a few people not too many is
like is there a mode where I just start
dieting and there's no like duration or
there's no weight goal and we're just
like
I think our software Engineers could
make that update in like 10 minutes but
like
why
it's crazy you don't want to go down a
never-ending diet alley it's a bad idea
and people do it they do it all the time
don't do it don't just start a diet know
when the diet is coming to an end so you
can do a good job checklist and switch
to me
Point number three people make mistakes
is free meals cheat meals or free days
or cheat days or in most cases a fucking
stupid idea because what they do is
allow you to eat just enough tasty food
to get your really fucking crazy more
and then it cuts it off and goes back to
suffering if you're gonna suffer just
fucking dig in just dig in and do it and
then after a while you're eating mostly
bland diet foods anyway you kind of
forget how the good stuff tastes that's
a fucking good thing okay I'm gonna make
a real shitty shitty shitty fucking
analogy I'm sorry in advance if this
offends you nonetheless actually pretty
decent analogy on The Logical structure
if you decide for some strange reason
uh this mostly applies to the gentleman
as female sexuality is both complex and
eludes me entirely uh if you decide like
to have a no-wink period for like two
weeks okay two weeks no wanking your
body's like I'm gonna pay a thousand
dollars don't you go down there touching
yourself okay sweet what are you gonna
do are you gonna just try to like work
in school and sleep and shower and lift
and do your normal shit and just try to
just not think about the shit or are you
gonna like look at porn daily or every
three days I get 15 minutes to look at
porn but I don't jack off what do you
nuts you're just making a shit
full for yourself and honestly bro
that's the way cheat meals work in most
cases are there people who have a cheat
meal or a cheat day they don't go
overboard on it and then they're just
satisfied and then they go along yes but
those people are quite rare compared to
the most of us that a cheat meal or
cheat day just throws us the fuck off
our plan lastly
it's really really tough
to have a cheat meal or a cheat day
especially in which you don't eat so
many fucking calories over your
maintenance that you actually erase some
of the progress that you've made for
days and days and days beforehand I've
seen people
do a cheat once every five days three to
five days one meal meal go to all you
can eat buffet and erase almost all of
the deficit that they've had for five
days before how the fuck well if you're
fucking starving to death eating 3 000
calories in a Chinese buffet in one
sitting is actually quite reasonable
many people can do it I've fucking done
it before sabotage tons of stuff be like
what the hell man only one out of every
20 of my meals as a cheat meal yeah but
if the cheat's that bad it erases a
shitload of other deficit it's a bad
idea it's a bad idea in almost all cases
don't do it you know insert joke about
how that relates to porn here yeah yeah
all right so
save if you want tasty Foods fucking
sweet so do we all save this shit for
maintenance right
lose your fat loss do your fat loss
minimal or no cheating
first half of your maintenance base for
several weeks for sure no cheating
because it's too much and it'll just
rebound you when your body feels really
good your mind feels really solid you've
had tons of clean food for a few weeks
you feel like you're super good have
some cookies have some pizza have some
whatever you'll have a few slices and be
like oh that was really great you won't
rebound like crazy and everything will
be wonderful so yes
cheat foods and all that stuff is
amazing it's the fucking this is joy of
life but don't do it during a diet
because it sabotages you like crazy
fourth mistake cutting out carbs right
away should have been mistake number one
because it's so fucking common but again
these are not an order of how common
they are cutting out carbs right away is
really sweet because it instantly drops
your body water and your body weight by
a shitload of weight five sometimes ten
pounds and it's great for that initial
inspiration the problem is after that
your weight loss starts to go real slow
a pound or two per week and that could
be demotivating if you don't cut your
carbs right away you just impose a
deficit it's a pound or two every week
and you're like hey hell yeah like I'm
still going at it you don't have to
wonder what the fuck you did wrong after
three weeks of the diet when the diet
stops working so yeah keto works for me
for a little while but then it doesn't I
don't know keto works the entire time
it's just the body water flux that you
detect as working which just really if
you start eating carbs again it unworks
itself when you gain 10 pounds in the
same few days so cutting carbs right
away is not a great idea because you
need carbohydrates to fill you up
they're very filling especially fruits
and veggies they give you tons of energy
to use your brain and your body
throughout the day cutting out carbs is
is also bad for athletic performance
it's bad for muscle retention so it's a
good idea to keep the carbs in and not
slash them right away uh because again
the only benefit of slashing carbs run
away in most cases is you know it's uh
you lose a lot of weight at first a lot
of weight and then I don't know I don't
know what happens after that but
everyone's always like oh I lose tons of
weight on keto for how many weeks like
Wow first couple and then what I just
fall off the wagon mm-hmm
now that's not to say that low carb
diets are bad you can do a low carb diet
but you expect the water weight loss to
be a water weight loss you don't get
super jazzed up a lot of oh my God I
lost five pounds this week who knows
what will happen next week two pounds oh
fuck
you should have seen that one coming
number five
not enough protein and or weights a lot
of people will do a fat loss diet but
it's really a weight loss diet or a
tissue loss diet because they don't eat
sufficient protein they don't train hard
with weights and train hard may even
mean two times a week full body weight
training and anything above you're
winning in that book some people just
don't train with weights at all so
they'll do a diet and they'll do some
yogurt Pilates or not even they'll just
do some jogging and then after a few
months people are like oh my God Cindy
you look like you're um
are you okay are you sick like what the
fuck man I just lost 15 pounds like oh
is that cause you're sick no God damn it
I'm doing a diet oh I see it's this
special diet because you're sick why the
fuck are you I'm sick what's because if
you lose a bunch of muscle and fat at
the same time
you look sick you don't want that so if
you train with weights and you eat
plenty of protein instead of just
getting smaller and more pathetic
looking you get leaner and more fucking
Superman looking so when that bitch at
work says some shit to you it better be
the right thing
like hey Susie I heard that you were
like you do one of these you heard what
she's like
please I have a family exactly you human
[Music]
man even if he doesn't do it it'll be
funny all right number six mistake is
over or under hyping meal frequency you
got two three types of people
normal people that eat anywhere between
several meals and multiple meals through
the day and they're totally good with it
and they don't think it's magical and
it's just a way to get in food and high
protein feeding and plenty of energy and
that's great and you got people on the
other side that are eating like nine
meals a day or eight meals a day and
stoking the metabolic fire even though
that's total fucking bullshit they're
ruining their lives trying to eat this
many meals of the day and it's not
sustainable and they end up burning out
you don't need to eat 17 fucking times a
day anything between three and six times
a day is totally great
on the other hand don't you worry I did
not forget you people I said it
intermittent fasters but intermittent
fasting is a totally fine way to diet
it's just one of the many effective
strategies to present a caloric deficit
and if it works for you amazing the
overhyping is the part where they're
like
um anything more than one meal per day
there's like evolutionarily not optimal
and it doesn't promote
autophagy yeah yeah that word makes me
sound smart I have this no future Rogan
episodes I sort of know what that word
maybe means and they'll just taught
everyone that fucking within a mile of
of of earshot they will tell about how
intermittent fasting is amazing one meal
a day or two meals a day and they'll
tell you about their fucking plan nobody
ever asked you motherfucker like would I
like do 16-2 shut the fuck up
motherfucker get out of my face eat your
meals if it's a few meals that's okay if
it's many meals that's okay meal
frequency is just not important to your
results in most cases especially at the
extremes it choose whatever is
sustainable for you and you're fucking
golden you don't have to try to convert
everyone to eating 18 times a day or
eating once every other day and by the
way you guys know um
which they call the siren from from the
myths of like the Greek myths the siren
is like a like a female that makes some
kind of wailing sound the drive Sailors
insane and then they crash their ships
or something like that the scientists
have researched this recently and they
actually found out that almost all the
sirens in the in the Greek Islands in
the Mediterranean turned out to just be
really intense intermittent fasting
advocates
and the sailors just went nuts eat one
meal a day autophagy this thing I was
like oh fuck I guess they didn't have
nine millimeters back then but if they
did you could shoot yourself faster uh
honestly if you had a sniper rifle you
could be like one meal a day huh
send that shit
am I saying that we should be sniper
rifling
creatures from 2500 years ago that are
Sirens that are talking about one meal a
day as being the best yes I am yes I am
and we're gonna be on record for that
shit in any case eat your fucking meals
don't worry too much because here's the
thing a lot of people get so invested
into one of these two strategies they
don't even see that they could have
things differently like I've had people
be like hey man I can't diet on vacation
okay I I understand it's family friends
fun they're like no no I need to eat my
six meals a day and on vacation only
four so what's even the point what the
fuck
you'll be just fine I'm like no no no no
no I need to start a metabolic fire I
need the constant protein feedings
otherwise absolute bullshit and you have
other people that you know they'll be on
a good diet things will be working and
they'll come to you as your coach and
they'll say Hey listen
this guy at work says if I'm eating more
than one meal a day I'm just like really
wrecking my metabolism and it's bad for
all longevity also and stuff get the
fuck out of my face that's a whole bunch
of bullshit
seventh mistake
this is a crazy one this is one I
wouldn't know it was a mistake unless we
had tons of clients at RP we actually
have a huge client Forum on Facebook
it's over a hundred thousand of our past
and current clients
um it's called the RP clients group you
may be able to actually get in there and
just submit your your invitation and a
lot of people there asking questions for
the first time in their dieting career
and this question kept coming up so much
we put it in our how-to diet documents
when you get an RP diet it's actually if
you download the RP diet coach app it's
in the FAQ uh and here it is
we tell you when you begin a diet that
is totally okay for you to continue to
do the following things chew gum have
any amount of caffeine that you deem is
appropriate and have any amount of diet
soda that you deem as appropriate people
seem to always think that you have to
cut out gum that's right gum chewing
caffeine and diet soda and a couple of
other things there are condiments
sometimes like mustard and shit like
that to get all crazy about
totally understandable why because a lot
of people who are starting fat loss
diets are doing fat loss diets hear a
bunch of shit from other people that are
doing fat loss diets and a bunch of
people are carrying this mythology the
diets and cleanses are the same thing
like if you want a fucking Namaste
cleanse your fucking body whatever
you're into Hollywood do too many drugs
sure you can cut out gum caffeine diet
soda and the rest of your life for a few
weeks and then come out the other end
cleansed you can't actually do that
because cleanses are also fucking
bullshit and don't do anything
why do people think that cutting out gum
caffeine and diet soda are diet
enhancers because they're looking at it
from a moralistic sense instead of of a
physiological sense it's a moralistic
perspective is a diet is a cleansing
time normally I do the things I like now
I get into the Spartan lifestyle where
it's not things I like and that's true
as far as the food goes but they say
okay so then for sure I can't have all
the other things I like including gum
caffeine and diet soda but gum doesn't
have any fucking calories caffeine burns
fat and keeps your hunger in check and
diet soda if even if it doesn't have
caffeine it's just a harmless drink that
is nice and it doesn't affect anything
at all no you don't have to remove these
things from mid height and if you keep
them in your diet your diet can be that
much more enjoyable and sustainable so
let me want to tell you that you can't
have these things and if they're telling
you Hey listen you really shouldn't be
having gum on a diet make sure that
while they're telling you this you're
taking out strips of gum and putting
them in your mouth
um
you want some gum that usually gets
people to go away but then afterwards
you're like oh
do you guys ever swallow your gum
Scott is that a good idea to do you're
an expert on gum swallowing no it's a
good copier speaker it can get caught in
your sphincter and that's all the
medicine I've ever needed to know
lastly Point number
I couldn't keep it down for that one
that's because I have gum in my
sphincter cough every now and again
lastly
and this is a huge problem in many diets
beginner diets fat loss diets all kinds
of diets no interest in our
understanding of Maintenance strategies
the huge thing with fat loss diets is
this
the vast majority of people that will
ever do a fat loss diet will rebound out
of it and gain back almost all or all
the weight or even more weight than they
lost predictable scientifically
established for a generation now
in order to prevent this from happening
you need to understand that at the end
of a fat loss diet your body is in a
very precarious position
all of the hormones and neural patterns
and everything that try to make you
regain the weight are maximum your diet
fatigue put another way is really high
in your chance of rebounding is crazy
what you need is a dedicated dieting
phase I know again still it's annoying
call to maintenance phase that slowly
reintroduces more and more healthy food
than the slowly reintroduces some junk
food and does this all while allowing
your metabolism and and your physical
activity to keep up to pace so that you
get down from 200 to 180 and then you
bump up a little body water 185 to 180
185 180 and that maintenance phase lasts
at least two-thirds as long as your fat
loss diet maybe as long
the end of that process you only weigh
180 to 185 you've kept almost all of
your weight off except now because you
took that maintenance phase without
having regained all the weight your body
hits a new settling point and it's
thinking ah you know everything's fine
here I'm not starving stuff your hunger
goes back relatively to normal your
energy levels are super high you are
ready to live life at balance without
eating a slice of pizza and blowing up
or you're ready to diet again and lose
even more fat that maintenance phase is
humongous it's super important and a lot
of people just have a really myopic or
really short perspective where they go
okay I just need to get to here and then
I'm good fat loss diet and then it's
over
fat loss diet and then maintenance you
have to cap it with a maintenance okay
um so it's a stupid analogy for this one
yeah if you work in like a germ lab and
you're doing research on super fucking
infectious diseases with the fucking
hood and all the fucking machines and
you're covered in the fucking biohazard
suit you don't just stop working at 5pm
M and close up the germ vile and then
Eric see you guys later you just walk
out with your biohazard suit take it off
with just random hands wipe your face in
your eyes and fuck off no
you do a really intense protocol that
may take some time you clean the suit
gets cleaned with you in it then the
suit gets peeled you get peeled out of
it by other people still in hazmat suits
and then they clean the fuck out of you
and then they test you for infection and
then you pass it and you go he's like oh
that's so stupid but I'm done working
for today why can't I just fuck off
because bad things will happen if you do
that you need a protocol to make sure
that after you are done with the germ
research you have a phase of time in
which you are prepared to go out into
the world just the same way after a fat
loss diet you got to be ready for the
next thing including living life in
balance and you can't do that unless
you've had a dedicated maintenance phase
you don't have to do a maintenance phase
you can just balloon back up to the old
way it used to be like everybody else
because you don't want to do that
you're going to heat All These Warnings
not make these mistakes and if you have
someone that's making these mistakes hey
shoot them uh shoot them a link to this
video
and uh
maybe they'll watch it two things will
happen one they'll get educated and not
make mistakes and two the algorithm will
give us more money and then I can buy
yet another
Lamborghini
and you know the collection's getting
large
but after a big enough collection you
start to be proud of it after my first
two or three Lambos I was like that's
nice I sort of like lost some some wind
in my sails but after the 19th and 20th
Lambo it feels like a really complete
stamp collection now I just want every
Lambo ever made that's right see you
guys next time