[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
the other boiled chicken okay have some
of this so guys we just got back from
the gym I'm gonna have a post-workout
meal I'll get myself some chicken rice
going with a bro meal and we talked to
you guys about that workout and a little
bit about the plans that I have upcoming
for 2019 with regard to diet so I'm
gonna get this ready eat a meal and I'll
keep you in a little
yeah especially when I film like
distracted spend I think about it I
don't like to drink that far because man
heard about me yeah and then I have to
stop filming I know right filming ruins
everything you guys it's been great
training together hey
it's true it's true I do have I do have
better workouts from the Trinity sure
especially lower body I feel like
because level with me is tripping this
4:30 already Jaco can't wait to be back
before it gets dark earlier Florida but
not this early it's like 6:30 good start
here we go
post McComb you know this little poverty
solid that's this that's a sad excuse of
it that's actually really accurate mmm
you got some true ah how you say okay so
guys gonna quickly take you through the
workout here I'll put the full workout
up here on the screen as it is in my
program and so you guys can screenshot
that if you want and run through it
yourself if you don't already have the
program so at first we did barbell bench
press three sets of four and honestly my
bench press was feeling really good
today I felt like I had a good groove I
feel like the D load is working well
everything is kind of like moving nice
there's no like clicking or like a
feeling of asymmetries and my joints or
anything is really great
good speed off the chest for 75% of my
1rm so I feel really really great about
that and I feel like I've really honed
in my technique I feel like my arch is
improving the mobility and my thoracic
spine is a little bit better and if you
do want to improve that the best thing I
would recommend doing is just getting a
foam roller
really rolling out your upper back
before doing the bench press making sure
that you're nice and loosened up do some
external rotations band pull apart it's
anything that's really going to help
with your mobility of the upper back
area after the bench press we moved on
to a complex of military press and push
press so you guys haven't seen this yet
because this videos gonna come up first
but last night were Sean and I just
finished filming the next technique
Tuesday on the overhead press so that
you'll see that the military press is
the same thing as the overhead press so
it's a very strict press where all of
the pressing motion is coming from your
shoulders and a little bit of upper
chest
so no movement at the lower body so do
four reps like that and then for the
final four reps we turned it into a push
press so basically you're allowing a
little bit more leg drive coming from
your knees and your hips so on the way
down you allow your knees to bend a
little bit and then you use that to
drive the bar up so this is kind of like
an extended set I think of this more as
an advanced technique so for people who
haven't done the military press our
overhead pressed before I wouldn't
recommend doing this kind of complex
first first you really want to master
that strict overhead press technique
where you're really generating force off
the upper chest but once you get to a
certain point I feel like this can be a
nice intensity technique okay after that
we did slow eccentric dips so for here
we're doing a three second lowering
phase and then an explosive concentric
as usual so I used a 60 pound dumbbell
and did that for three sets of eight and
those felt really good when you really
focus on the eccentric you can feel
really good stretch in the pecs and the
front delts so I love that exercise you
just want to make sure that you're not
going past your comfort range in terms
of shoulder mobility you don't want to
go too deep on those after that we moved
on to the tricep press down and here you
notice an isolation exercise you really
want to focus on squeezing your triceps
to move the weight don't get too much
over the bar and start to turn it into
like an actual chest or delt exercise
you kind of want to maintain a little
bit more of an upright posture and
really squeeze your triceps to move the
weight down okay so after that we moved
on to a lean away cable lateral raise so
the Egyptian lateral raise and with this
one I got a really good lean probably
more than usual and I pulled the cable
or the handle of the cable up until my
arm was parallel with the floor that's
really what you want to end the range of
motion and lateral raises are an
interesting exercise because there'll
come a point where you can't really
overload anymore in terms of weight and
your form will just inevitably break
down so you want to find novel ways to
overload by say changing the tempo even
varying the exercise a little bit doing
things like keeping a little bit more
constant tension progressively so for me
rather than letting the cable come all
the way down under my legs I kind of cut
the range of motion a little bit short -
when my arm is just by my side and then
reverse it and come back up again so
those are little things that you can do
to keep it interesting
keep it progressing but not get to the
point where you're just forced to use
bad technique on a lateral raise then we
finished off the whole workout with a
plank
so for these we're doing three sets of
30 second holds to make it a little bit
more challenging I did what's called a
long leaver posterior pelvic tilt plank
so it basically just requires two
modifications you want to move your
elbows just slightly forward so that
they're under your eyes and this will
increase the leaper it'll basically make
it harder and then also you want to
squeeze your gluts which is gonna force
him into posterior pelvic tilt it'll
kind of help pull tension into your abs
so it actually makes a normal front
plank so much harder if you do them this
way and by the end of it I was speaking
pretty hard how the step is actually
been training their abs so much more
directly than me and she didn't seem to
have too much of a problem with them so
that was a whole workout hopefully you
guys liked it and hopefully you liked
that edit Rashawn has been doing some
awesome work for the channel and i'll
link his channel down there below he
does some cool edits over on his channel
as well and also I'll have linked down
below the gym that were filming at for
the whole technique Tuesday series and
for these blogs body and soul here in
Kelowna if you are in the Okanagan area
this gym is amazing it's not too busy
it's got great lighting lots of good
equipment and I'm appreciative of them
actually letting us film so make sure
you check that out if you're in the area
now Sean and I are gonna go shoot some
hoops so we'll check in with you guys
over at the wines yet I know you guys
can't smell in the car right now but
there's a very strong scent of chicken
fingers in here
rashon decided to get some pregame d
cube the goods the goods and that
reminded me that i forgot to give you
guys the diet talks I was gonna update
you on what my plan is nutritionally so
I'm actually going to roll a physique
update up here from when we were in the
gym I did a little bit of posing just
you guys can get an idea of where my
body composition is that right now I
think I'm pretty lean I'm 160 pounds but
I feel like in the last couple weeks
over Christmas I actually did something
kind of interesting height I
intentionally decreased my protein
intake but increased my carb and fat
intake which might sound weird I mean I
didn't track his track and meticulously
or anything but I think what it's done
is it's allowed my muscle glycogen an
intramuscular triglyceride to fill out
and it actually pushes out on the skin
or I think I have more of a tighter
appearance now than I did before and
that only works if you're already pretty
frequently I would say under 10% 12%
type thing which I would say I probably
am now so anyway that that's something
I've been noticing in my physique for a
while so my plan now moving forward is
to run short three to four week mini
cuts where I'm gonna try to tighten up a
little bit more but will inevitably
flatten out followed by I'm gonna guess
one to two week overfeeding periods
where I bring the protein down and
increase the fats and carbs now I'm
gonna see how that goes I feel like in
my experience that's been always the
best way for me to maintain a nice tight
physique without depleting myself not
hurting my performance too much and then
still having somewhat of a full look now
I'm sorry I might actually talk about
that in more detail in another video how
I'm actually gonna set that up and if I
go through with it what I think of that
but rather than do you know a bear mode
approach right now or enter a true bulk
I'm gonna continue to try to tighten up
and still get you know try to get that
full appearance about trying this kind
of like
and anyway because it's intoxicating I
know but it was chicken and rice chicken
fingers so with you guys
[Music]
and I will show the paper you're gonna
put it up so many people here so what
we're gonna do you're gonna do the
thousand dollar bet but when you get
back to Florida in Jacksonville it's
going down it'll be it'll be a big it's
gonna be a big game we're gonna get a
reference on camera I know it's gonna
you know it's gonna win all right so
guys comment below who you think is
gonna win
come on rashon for Jeff okay this legend
should give you some idea of what you're
working let's go come on let's see what
you got this is it
they stand the block boom