the vertical leg press is one of the
most dog pieces of equipment ever
invented sets you up in such a way that
rounds your back as much as possible and
gives you a simultaneously minimum KNE
flexion which means it hits the quads
not so much and it predisposes your back
to stressing and straining a lot now if
you're using this as a back
strengthening exercise it's actually not
that bad especially if you ease into it
if you're using it as a leg
strengthening and leg hypertrophy
exercise it's terrible and I would just
never use it this is as low as you can
go on this machine I mean he's sinking
it his knees are touching hising chest
he can't go any lower by Design this
machine sucks and this is absolutely not
an affront to Arsenal who makes this
machine there are tons of vertical like
press machines as far as anyone's I've
ever actually seen they all suck this
machine sucks look at that knee angle
that I'm willing to be marginal and
reasonable on most things this is not
one of them