all right what is going on everyone so
today I'd like to talk about some new
research on diet brakes so in case
you're not familiar a diet break is
basically a dieting strategy and I think
that this was first popularized by Lyle
McDonald in his book the guide to
flexible dieting and if you guys haven't
heard of that or read it I'd recommend
giving it a quick read through my link
it down there in the description but
Wiles work is fantastic and this book is
no exception and he based his dieting
guidelines in this book of an earlier
2003 paper from wing and Jeffrey and
basically they found that whether you
diet someone for 20 weeks straight so
they're just on basically the same
deficit for 20 weeks or if you give them
a 6 week diet break in the middle of the
20 weeks or if you give them three
evenly spaced 2 week diet breaks at the
end of the 20 weeks you'll basically see
the same weight loss or at least that's
what they found in that study and this
was initially really surprising to these
researchers because they were
implementing these diet breaks to sort
of induce weight gain in the subject so
what they speculated was that maybe
these diet breaks are helpful in terms
of long term sustainability and long
term weight loss um so from 2003 until
now there hasn't really been any other
studies that have looked into this but
this year we got a new paper from burn
and colleagues and basically they took
36 obese men and they split them into
one of two groups so the first group
basically just dieted straight for 16
weeks on the same caloric deficit so
they were on a 33 percent caloric
deficit or in other words they were
eating 67% of their maintenance calories
simple example let's say they'd maintain
their weight on 3,000 calories they
would diet on 67% of that so 2,000
calories per day for 16 weeks straight
and that was Group 1 group 2 used
periodic diet breaks so every two weeks
they would do a two week diet break at
maintenance calories so just running
with the same example they would diet on
2,000 calories for two weeks and then do
3,000 calories for two weeks
2,000 for two weeks 3,000 for two weeks
and then they've repeated that for 30
total weeks and the reason why the
dieting period was longer
in group two is because the researchers
wanted to control for total net caloric
deficit and the only way they could do
that and still implement the maintenance
periods in the diet rate group was to
have them diet for a longer period of
time so just keep it brief how the
bottom line was that the second group
with the diet breaks ended up losing 50
percent more fat than the continuous
dieting group and they didn't lose any
more muscle mass than the other group
and they actually only lost 50 percent
as much resting energy expenditure or in
other words the resting energy
expenditure only dropped by about half
as much as the continuous diet in group
so as you can see in this graph
metabolism slowed in both groups
initially but it sort of rebounded in
the diet break group so that by week 16
there was a pretty big difference
between the two with the diet break
group having on average significantly
faster metabolism so these results are
extremely impressive not only do you
lose more fat
now you also sort of spare metabolism by
utilizing these diet breaks and I think
that the metabolic benefits of diet
breaks are particularly important
especially for long term sustainability
insofar as it allows the dieter to sort
of eat more food and having a faster
metabolism is always a good thing
when it comes to fat loss and I think
that this idea is supported in this
study because when they did a six-month
follow-up after the dieting period was
over the disparity between the diet
break group and the continuous dieting
group had actually widened even more so
now at this point the group that did the
diet breaks were seeing eighty to ninety
percent better fat loss than the
continuous caloric restriction group and
this is just because the continuous
dieting group basically regained more
weight after the diet event now even
though these results are really
impressive and I think that they should
encourage people to use diet breaks I
don't think that a diet break is a
be-all end-all tactic for dieting
success one potential downside is that
they usually require longer dieting
period so even in this study for example
the subjects that we're doing the two
week diet breaks were dieting for a
total length of 30
weeks that's seven months of diet and a
lot of people who may have some deadline
to meet or perhaps they're dieting for
some specific event may not want to diet
for seven months just to get ready for
it and I don't think that this is
necessary and my personal coaching
experience I've seen a lot of success
with shorter more aggressive approaches
without diet breaks and certainly you
can get your results more quickly if
taking this path however if you do take
this path you run the risk of
potentially be gaining more weight after
the diet has ended so you have to be
careful to be a little bit more
controlled in that post diet period and
you also may not experience the same
metabolic benefits as if you use the the
diet breaks the whole idea of a diet
break may sound very appealing you get
to spend two weeks just sort of eating
more than if you were just dieting
however going from a 33 percent deficit
to maintenance calories isn't all that
much of a break and even though I use an
example where you had a 3,000 calorie
maintenance many people especially women
have a much lower maintenance than this
so going from 33% deficit to maintenance
might only be a bump of 400 or 500 extra
calories per day which may not feel like
all that much of a diet break and it
might prolong the diet longer then it
feels like it's not worth it at that
point if that makes sense and even
during these sort of diet break periods
you're still tracking your intake you're
still not eating anything or as much as
you want and you're basically just
eating at maintenance and prolonging the
diet while doing so but with that said
this new research has definitely opened
my eyes and convinced me to a greater
extent of the utility of diet breaks and
I think that short of people who are
dieting for a specific event or just
want to get the weight off may be as
quickly as possible
interspersing these 1 to 2 week diet
breaks throughout your diet is a good
way to not only get better results but
also sustainable results and we now have
accumulating evidence to support this
idea which has already been shown to be
very successful in the field so I think
it'd be interesting to see this study
rep
katadyn non obese populations or maybe
in resistance trained lien folks to see
if the the same results hold true here
and I think it also be interesting to
see the study replicated in women I've
personally found utilizing diet breaks
for women who are dieting to be really
useful but we need to see that study to
be sure so hopefully someone picks that
up so we can find that out but for now I
would hypothesize that you would still
see very similar results in lean
resistance trained people and also in
women now on the other hand one to two
day short term acute refeed days seem to
be very popular perhaps more popular
than the full-blown one to two week diet
break however I personally haven't been
quite as impressed with the data on
those acute daily refeeds however I
still think they may have merit but
that's a topic for another video if you
guys would like to hear me cover that I
can use comment below and I'll be sure
to do that in a future video that's it
for this one this whole video was based
off of an article by Eric Helms in this
month's issue of mass you guys have
heard me singing his praises here a lot
and that's because I really do think
it's the best academic resource out
there for condensing all the scientific
literature that there is on exercise
science and nutrition down to the most
practical stuff that you need to know as
an athlete coach fitness content creator
or what have you so if you guys aren't
yet subscribed I'd recommend checking
out the link in the description and you
can read up on a little bit more about
it there it does come highly recommend
it so thanks for watching guys that's it
for this one if you haven't seen my quad
a science explained video yet I can give
that one a watch I'll put it up here
next to my head somewhere for whatever
reason YouTube decided that this video
wasn't suitable for advertisers and I
think that that sort of negatively
impacted its visibility which is a
little bit frustrating so if you guys
haven't seen it yet go give it a watch
and so you don't miss out on seeing the
content that I'm putting out make sure
you hit the notification bell so that
you're not affected by this YouTube
visibility thing with the advertisements
that's that's going on right now um so
yeah like a video if you liked it thank
you guys so much for watching and I'll
see you very soon