[Music]
okay welcome everyone to the second
episode of myth-busting where every
Monday we'll take some common fitness or
nutrition myth look at where that myth
got started and why it's actually wrong
based on an objective look at current
scientific literature so this week we're
going to take a closer look at the idea
that you should consume protein within
30 to 60 minutes following a workout so
this is the so-called anabolic window so
first where did this myth come from so
for a long time bodybuilders have
consumed protein powders or high protein
foods after trade and the theory says
that since weight training is a damaging
process to muscle creating micro tears
and so on then it makes sense that you
should repair that muscle and flick-on
the anabolic switch as it were as
quickly as possible after training now
taken to the extreme some bodybuilders
will argue that if you miss your protein
feeding within that hour after your
workout then you more or less wasted
that entire workout because you miss the
anabolic window and I will say that this
isn't just bro science the anabolic
window has found its place and the
scientific peer-reviewed literature as a
legitimate hypothesis in 2002 lemon and
colleagues spoke of a limited anabolic
window of opportunity for a post-workout
anabolism in the 2013 review from Ivy
and Ferguson made a big deal out of
nutrient timing suggesting that when
carbs and protein are ingested in the
minutes post exercise glucose and amino
acids initiate the shift to an anabolic
state and the authors recommend getting
your post-workout nutrients in within 45
minutes of training and this is based on
a good chunk of evidence they cited a
total of 134 papers in their review so
maybe there is something to this myth
after all but Before we jump to any
conclusions let's look at where it might
have gone wrong so where did it go wrong
well the very same year the ivy paper
was published in the american journal of
lifestyle medicine brad Schoenfeld Alan
Aragon and Jim Krieger published a
meta-analysis analysing 20 studies that
met a strict inclusion criteria and lo
and behold after crunching all the data
it turns out a quote small to moderate
effect was seen for protein timing on
bean masking however what changed the
game was a sub analysis which showed
that the majority of the hypertrophic
differences noted in the timing studies
including many of those in the IV review
could be explained entirely by
princess in total daily protein intake
so basically many of the studies touting
a positive effect of nutrient timing
simply had the subjects in the
post-workout group eating more total
protein for the day and this led the
authors to conclude that the results
would seem to refute the commonly held
belief that the timing of protein intake
and the immediate pre and post-workout
period is critical to muscular
adaptation but there is a little bit
more to it than that
we've known as early as 1997 that weight
training alone results in a long lasting
elevation in muscle protein synthesis
for at least 48 hours after training and
just look at this figure from a 2014
review out of McMaster University what
we're seeing here is that resistance
training stimulates a prolonged
elevation of muscle protein synthesis
that can remain elevated for at least 48
hours after training and the initial
spike in sensitivity to amino acids
appears to be about two and a half to
three hours much broader of a window
than the previously proposed 45 minutes
Schoenfeld also notes in a later 2017
paper the interval for protein intake
may be as wide as several hours or
perhaps more after a training bout
depending on when the pre-workout meal
was consumed and I think that this is an
important point if amino acids are still
in the system from the pre-workout meal
the specific timing of the post-workout
meal is clearly of less critical
importance and for this reason
Schoenfeld and others have proposed that
there's a roughly four to six hour
window around the training session so
let's say you eat your pre-workout meal
one hour before training and then you
train for an hour you'd still have you
know three or four hours in the
post-workout period to still hit the
window on the other hand if you have in
the Train fasted or maybe you haven't
eaten for two to three hours before your
workout then it'd be more important to
get that post-workout protein in faster
and you might want to get it in within
that first hour or so after training so
for some more clarity on this a 2017
position stand from the International
Society of Sports Nutrition recommends
post exercise ingestion of protein
immediately to two hours following
training but they also suggest that the
pragmatic recommendation is to feed as
soon as possible after the workout since
not eating doesn't offer any benefit
forever trophy so coming full circle I
think my biggest gripe with the anabolic
window is that people view it as exact
we that a window that's closing and once
it's closed after a half an hour hour or
two hours then you missed that
opportunity for games but we know it
simply doesn't work like that
we know that weight training Prime's the
muscle to be more sensitive to amino
acids for at least 24 to 48 hours after
training and in the context of
sufficient total daily protein intake
the specific timing of post-workout
protein matters much less and rather
than think of post-workout anabolic
signaling as an on/off switch where you
can either flick it on within that first
hour following training or it just
remains off I like to instead think of
it as a sort of turned on where you can
turn it up to varying degrees based on
how you dose and how you time your
protein feedings but if you happen to
miss time or under dose them a little
bit you can still get that dial turned
most of the way up and still make a
great deal of progress okay so that's
gonna wrap up the protein part of this
video I will say there's an enormous
body of literature that I completely
skipped on the timing of carbohydrates
around the workout in short let's just
assume that the primary goal here is to
build muscle and in that case I don't
think that time in carbohydrate in the
post-workout period really matters that
much at all
I provided protein is being consumed and
it's being consumed on its own then
that's plenty
first eating carbs on their own for the
sake of replenishing glycogen after a
workout is futile because high-intensity
resistance exercise with moderate volume
has only been shown to reduce glycogen
stores by 36 to 39 percent anyway which
can very easily be replenished after the
workout assuming some amount of
carbohydrate is being eaten within that
24 hours following training and I think
eating carbs for the sake of spiking
insulin is equally futile because the
amount of an insulin spike that you need
to see to suppress muscle protein
breakdown can be accomplished through
just eating protein alone or through a
simple mixed meal so in my opinion
slamming a high glycemic carbs or some
other similar product post-workout isn't
gonna do much for hypertrophy other than
provide empty calories okay so that's
going to conclude this one guys as
you'll see this isn't really a
cut-and-dry issue and I wouldn't say
that the myth is completely busted on
this one instead what I would say is it
probably depends on you and your
individual goals if you're an advanced
level athlete who's looking to
gain every morsel of muscle that you
possibly can then it might be smart for
you to consume protein as quickly as you
can
after your workout if on the other hand
you're just someone who's looking to
improve your muscle mass and perhaps
improve your overall size and shape and
I don't think that your priority should
necessarily be placed on hitting that
anabolic window of opportunity instead
you should place more focus on eating
sufficient total daily protein intake
which is a video that I have on the way
and if you do happen to miss the so
called post-workout anabolic window of
opportunity you don't need to really
worry you can still make plenty of
progress so that's it guys thank you so
much for watching please leave me a like
if you liked the video please comment
below any myths you'd like to hear me
cover in a future myth busted a and if
you're reading through the comments
about the other myths that other people
have commented so that I can see them
better if you think that they'd be a
good topic subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I will see you guys all
next Monday