individualized training is [ __ ] is
BS yes I said it Dr pack here straight
out of big farmers lab where I went and
I said hey guys did you thank the phds
today for giving you all that good
research and you did your own research
as well I guess phds work at
pharmaceutical companies I don't know I
was drunk and very high and when I went
to the big Pharma headquarters could
have been a local supermarket where the
security guard tackled me and threw me
out could have been big Pharma I'm not
really sure I do not recall where I was
or where I am at the moment all I'm
seeing is cameras and I'm rolling with
it cuz you know the grind don't stop all
that to say individualized training is
highly highly overrated it's not
necessarily [ __ ] I click baited you
at the beginning you lost your mind
turned off the video commented and now
you look like a
fool because you didn't wait an extra 10
seconds for for me to say the good old
disclaimers but the idea that you're
some form of a special snowflake that
needs the super individualized Placebo
mumbo jumbo jargon program that is based
on your hand size which tells you your
genetics and your wrist circumference or
Fiber type distribution or your
leverages or whatever is BS the amount
of individualization that the average
lifter needs and keep in mind
individualization for highlevel strength
athletes and bodybuilders that are
competitive bodybuilders to an extent
totally understandable totally fine and
it's part of the game of being a
competitive athlete and then athlete Buy
in and so on and so forth all those play
a role in coaching such an athlete or
being such an athlete so we're going to
put those aside we're going to focus on
recreational lifters and also
individuals who want to get
substantially jacked not just you know
your average person who wants to be
strong and a fit so for those
individuals as long as you have a
training program that fits within your
schedule and takes in consideration your
recovery capabilities and obviously your
personal goals you are covered now you
may say but that's what
individualization is yes and I would
agree but if we look at the level of
manipulation and and and how different
those variables will be for most people
um it's it's unlikely that for the
majority of people think will look much
different so let's expand a bit starting
off with schedule like obviously you
need to have a program that fits your
schedule if you cannot adhere to the
program it's a shitty program cool
relatively easy to do again I've worked
with people that could only work out
once a week or wanted to work out seven
days a week those were rare usually most
people are somewhere in the 3 to five
range when it comes to training days
available so yeah figuring that out
relatively straightforward how many days
per week do you have available so many
days okay then then obviously you have
your personal goals do you just want to
grow muscle everywhere cool distribute
volume equally across all body parts if
there's a body part that you want to
focus more
on you um no I don't mean that I take it
back I apologize then attribute a bit
more volume to that or those body parts
recovery capabilities obviously will
inform training volume so you will know
relatively quickly whether you can
recover from insanely High training
volumes or whether you're doing too low
run the program for a couple of weeks
and adjust as needed literally all the
individualization that is needed if
you're trying to let's say optimize
hypertrophy and you're targeting each
muscle group with two exercises as long
as you're taking certain boxes you can
select any exercise that fits your
anthropometric characteristics or
whatever previous injuries and whatnot
but again that's very easy to follow you
can pick out the standard exercise that
literally everybody's doing and
everybody's recommending for example you
could do a back squat and leg extensions
for your quads if you see that the back
Squad it doesn't feel that great you
could do a hack Squad you could do a leg
press similar thing with literally every
other muscle group not that deep as long
as you make those few adjustments voila
you have your super individualized
program and as individualized as you
really needed to be the idea that you
need some magical rep rings for you
based on your fiber type or your
genetics and that you need to do
specific exercises that take your
morphology way too deep into
consideration and that you need to rest
a specific time because of how your body
metabolizes XY Z or whatever is is
purely BS and individualizing your
training program is much simpler than
most people think if you were to buy any
solid hypertrophy 3day 4 day 5day 6 Day
program simply by making the adjustments
that I just mentioned I.E seeing if
volume is too much or too little and
adjusting up and down for the muscle
groups that you want staying within the
evidence-based well no it's not
evidence-based in quotation marks it's
actually evidence-based guidelines of
like 10 to 20 sets if you want to
maximize growth and then adjusting the
exercises that don't feel great two
exercises that feel great you're covered
the majority of people would be totally
fine if we were to give them the same
program with those few relatively
General uh guidelines in order how to
adopt that program they would be more
than fine the idea that you need and
this is coming from somebody who's been
working as a full-time coach for years
now uh again worked with hundreds of
individuals all sorts of backgrounds
from high level athletes to Firefighters
to your average person the idea that you
need some magically individualized
program that you cannot come up with
yourself is a false idea now that does
not mean that you should not invest in a
coach cuz a coach could potentially help
you form that a bit faster save you a
bit of the trial and error with a few
things here and there but in reality a
good coach will do that we give you a
solid program and if you're just the
average person who wants to gain muscle
and get stronger or just to gain muscle
your 4-day program could look almost
identical to a person with your average
person uh circumstances and that's fine
um obviously if expressed that I want to
specifically do this one exercise cuz I
like it that needs to be baked in there
but again these are all Minor Details
that you can very easily figure out and
play with so the next time you worry or
you start worrying about whether your
program is individualized enough or if
it's specific to you just take a step
back see if it's taking all the basic
boxes see if it allows you to go to the
gym consistently progress over time and
if it fits your schedule you're not
feeling absolutely trashed or insanely
fresh after each session and you're
enjoying your workouts your program is
individualized enough that's it don't
forget to like subscribe comment and as
always remember that things are much
simpler than some people may have you
believe just keep
lifting keep it real I guess or fake or
whatever you like do whatever you like
just
laugh