for a serious effort at changing your
body composition at trying to get more
jacked and lean if you've had enough of
adult Fitness and you want to be that
guy at work that's and people are
talking about three to five times in the
gym per week each of them an hourish in
length hour to an hour and a half that's
what I'd call a serious effort so if I'm
in the elevator with someone and they
make the mistake of talking to me and
asking me about workout routines and how
they can get more jacked and they're
like yeah I've been seeing games blah
blah I'm going to ask the question of
how many times do you go to the gym per
week if they say two a be like you could
definitely benefit from going like three
or four but if they say four five any
addition of days beyond that outside of
an attempt at professional bodybuilding
just yields very small Returns on
investment it's what they're doing
within the session that you're going to
look at is that's what happens next if
they say oh I train 5 days a week my
next thing is to ask them a series of
other questions some of those questions
may not even be training related
automatically be like how much are you
sleeping and what's your diet like and
then you get the whole like well you
know ever since I started fing my
secretary I sleep a lot less and I'm
like hey my man but you could do less of
that grow more muscle