close to fail biggest ROM of the stretch
most volume most metabolites those are
all things that have been proven in the
literature to be correlative or
causative of hypertrophy and they all
correlate really well with a pump and
the pump itself causes growth and it
correlates with a ton of other things so
it's a pretty good proxy measure so if
you get a great pump from a workout is
it a guarantee that you're going to
cause muscle growth no but if you have
one workout that for let's say your
quads causes almost no pump and another
one that causes a psycho pump the psycho
pump one probably gonna cause more
muscle growth nine times out of ten so
if you know how to detect a pump and you
know how to perfect the pump you're
probably well on your way to engineering
a system of training in which you can
not guarantee but increase the
probability of the growth isn't going to