hey guys dr. Marquez Ratelle here for
rp+
and rpu the first lecture of the course
on fundamental training principles that
guide all training program design so
this course is introduction to the
training principles just to give you
guys kind of a grand tour of what the
super in-depth course is going to be
talking about lots of lectures pushing
about 10 lectures in this course and we
are gonna be getting really really into
depth this video just kind of an
introduction as to where we're gonna be
headed so I'm gonna talk about what this
course is about I talked about why it's
important to have this course in our
curriculum and it's super-important it's
gonna become very very apparent to you
why it's so important we're gonna go
through each one of the major training
principles just give you a quick brief
description so you have not going in
blind because a lot of the other
lectures are both principle by principle
each principle gets one lecture of its
own so you guys are gonna get a feel for
okay what are we getting into as far as
what the training principles really are
and we're gonna talk a little bit about
how the principles rank compared to each
other because it turns out they're not
all of equivalent importance to training
program design it's got to be very very
clear about which ones are super
important which ones are pretty
important which ones maybe are just
details for more advanced athletes to
focus on and lastly we're gonna be
closing at all for the discussion of how
periodization plays into this whole
process so first of all what is this
course about it's about the most
fundamental basic principles of training
and these principles are derived from
the subjects that feed into this higher
level of course so the principles are
all derived from sport physiology from
biomechanics from motor behavior all of
the basics about human bodies and how
they operate in the framework of
exercise and training that information
is what leads us to derive the training
principles the training principles
weren't so much made up as they were
discard
based on how bodies actually respond to
the training process and respond better
and or worse depending on our goals
really really really cool thing about
the training principles is that the ones
we'll be listing for you the fundamental
training principles of which by our
count there are seven but who's room for
interpretation as there could be more
fewer depending on if you include sub
principals basically with any kind of
interpretation it's about ten basic
ideas about how training works here's
the cool thing they apply to every
single sport there is not a single sport
or a physical ability like lifting
weights at the gym to try to get bigger
isn't a sport and there's bodybuilding
you might not be into that just running
to improve your cardiovascular fitness
isn't really a sport and just on the
treadmill at the gym anytime you try to
improve anything with regard to physical
ability whether it's a formal sport or
not it is governed entirely by the
training principles if you learn them
well that will allow you to
fundamentally be at home looking at any
training program for any sport and it
allows you to whatever sport or ever
ability you want to get better at
training or evaluating training you'll
be able to do that no matter what the
sport is no matter what the goal is
etc so the training principles are
really kind of guides that won't give
your training a couple of very
dependable features if you apply them to
your training program design they will
make your training more effective in a
shorter term weeks to months
absolutely they'll make sure you're
checking the boxes to keep your training
very effective they'll make it safer
both in the short term so you don't do
anything stupid and get hurt within the
next weeks or months and in the long
term especially over months and years of
training if you properly apply the
principles especially a fuel and we're
gonna get into later it keeps you safe
and healthy so you can continue to train
hard and make gains well into several
years from the point of which you learn
about them and another really cool thing
is sort of underestimated power of
applying the training principles is that
it makes your training more predictable
so if you hit a plateau there's less
mystery about why you hit the plateau
and there are a couple of easy recourses
two very likely solutions as opposed to
just being like well I'm not making
gains and I have no idea why and it
makes your training predictable insofar
as when you want to be your best when
you want to show off your best current
ability then you can go through a
peaking process designed by these
principles to be your best when you need
to and not a day or two or a week or two
before after for example if you have an
important competition where you want to
look good for a wedding or for an
anniversary or for a vacation it doesn't
even have to be a sport when you are
your best matters and if you're your
best three weeks after the cruise no
there's a photos say you know that you
were in ok shape but really you are in
great shape just mistimed it what about
a competition if you hit all your PRS on
a powerlifting lifts squat bench press
deadlift three weeks after the meet or
even two days after the meet nobody
cares because the meet is where the
competition comes that's what really
matters
so using the fundamental training
principles is great because it not only
makes you better it keeps you safer you
can allow you to time when exactly is
you want to show off the best of your
current ability and of course the
ultimate reason why these principles are
important it makes your training more
effective in the long term and we know
that the real big meaningful
improvements whether it be to physique
or strength or endurance or any other
technical quality that you have isn't a
long term so these principles by
allowing you to improve primarily in a
long-term and set that roadmap for you
that's where they pay their biggest
biggest difference and that's what this
course is about and I guess we sort of
answer this question to a large extent
but there's much more to say why are the
training principles important why is it
important to learn this well if they're
not just kind of descriptions of stuff
they hinted a much deeper physiology the
rules sort of on average ways in which
our bodies fundamentally operate because
they have distilled our bodies operation
into a
set of dependable principles they're
basically roadmaps for changing our
bodies how we want once you understand
the operation of a physical system and
the sort of average rules or ways in
which it works you can start to modify
in strategic places to get more of what
you want out of it does that mean you
can get anything you want out of it no
but does it mean you can get the most
out of it that that system is willing to
bend for you absolutely right so you
know if you're navigating through a city
without a map and you have to let's say
get across New York City from New Jersey
to Brooklyn you have to get across
Manhattan you don't have a map or a GPS
doesn't work then how long is it gonna
take you good god who knows you may
never get out to the right if you have a
map or GPS that tells you where you're
going and how to get there holy crab
that is awesome because it saves you a
ton of time and a ton of frustration and
makes your journey rather predictable
now what it doesn't do is a very good
analogy I think is if you have a map or
a GPS system that doesn't magically get
you from New Jersey to Brooklyn in 30
seconds
that's just not possible unless you have
a rocket or something like that so if
you're still driving a car you're still
bound to the rules of the road but at
least you can pick the roads which have
the fewest cars on them or GPS can do
that for you
at least you can use the roads with the
fastest speed limits at least you may be
able to use the bridges that are in the
right locations to cross where you want
instead of 10 miles up the road where
there's another bridge of the crosses
over so within the confines within the
rules of the system which is what the
training principles really are you
operate to the best of your ability now
if there's a lot of traffic that day if
you have a new crossing Manhattan on the
4th of July right around Labor Day is
that a really bad idea
totally but no matter what situation
you're in kind of an analogy for what
kind of genetics you have or how much
you have to work and how much fatigue
your job gives you an F years of
training you can use the training
principles to make the best out of that
situation so they're not a guide to
infinite gains they're a guy to the best
gains you can have given your
circumstances just like a map or a GPS
system is a guide to the best way to get
where you're going
given
circumstances so in the long-term is
where these things really pay off right
if you train sort of at random in the
short-term you might get some good gains
but in the long-term these things pay
off because they continue to have sort
of a recent citizen method to keep
getting new gains and if you follow
trainings I by the principles you're
least likely to get hurt which is a big
deal about long-term gains and of course
good for its own thing I don't think
anyone likes getting hurt and they apply
to all sports and physical attributes so
once you learn these training principles
when you go to one of our future courses
or more advanced courses like how to
design a powerlifting program we can
just speak to you with reference to this
is why and because of the principle of
overload and we don't have to explain to
you the principle of overload and
because you know that principle you can
understand exactly what we're talking
about right away
it's a guidebook it's a code book to
understand the language of training and
when you know that code and you will
after this course you're gonna speak the
language of training to everyone you're
gonna understand it you're gonna be able
to consume in interpret training related
information better and faster and more
completely with better results than you
ever thought was possible prior to
learning these principles here's the
thing if you're not writing your own
programs no big deal if you're just a
consumer of programs you purchase them
in some way or another either by buying
coaching or buying templates or buying a
program online or something like that
the our principles are still super
important because they're basically like
a shoppers guide if a program that you
look at violates some of the very major
ones that have a big influence of how
much game you you make probably not a
good idea to do that program but if a
program checks the list of pretty good
principles and applies to most of them
then you probably off to a pretty good
start on the details might be something
that you're more concerned with a leave
up to your coach now if you want to get
your best or if you want to help others
out through coaching or through personal
training or what-have-you
then these basic concepts do exactly
that and your knowledge of them is going
to take you very very far real quick
let's overview each one of the
principles coming up and just talk
really basically this is the shortest
definition you'll ever see how short is
it well put a dia this way it'll take
one or two minutes per principal today
for me to define them for you and in
future lectures each one of these gets
its own lecture something between 30
minutes and an hour and 15 long per
principle there's a lot to say here a
lot
and notice this what is a lot to say is
just about the structure of the
principle we're not even getting
specific on exactly how to apply them to
every single sport or even to one sport
in this course that's for later courses
right so what I'm about to give you is a
super brief summary but it contains the
basic element of truth the basic
structure of that principle it's exactly
at fundamental what it's telling us it's
telling us a lot more than this but this
is basically as boil down as we can get
it first principle specificity basically
says that your training should reflect
your needs and your goals that there's
no such thing as great training for
everyone and that the first question you
always have to ask in program design is
what is it exactly that we want to
achieve and then the entire rest of your
program bounded by and guided by the
principle of specificity should be
tailored to that goal and if your goal
changes you have to retail your program
there's no such thing as an all-around
amazing program for everyone
overload principle number two
fundamentally says something that I
think all of us already know but when
formally stated scientifically later in
these courses and especially in their
application derivatives later or you
talk about specific sports overload is
the principle that says that training
that makes us the best is going to be
progressively challenging which means
that only is it going to be hard
we'll define that later exactly what
that means there's plenty of objective
ways to define that but it's also going
to get harder with time which is a
critical element to getting your best
processed progress over the long term
fatigue management sort of takes
specificity an especially overload
overload says challenge the system
fatigue management says when you
challenge the system two things happen
one you get better fitness is accrued
and two you get tired and you get beat
up and parts of cells that are not
supposed to be in certain places go in
certain places
kind of like a kitchen but gets really
dirty and filthy after a whole day of
cooking a kitchen needs cleaning just
the same way your body needs time
special nutrition and special training
to reduce that level of fatigue that
you've built up so that you can once
again a cook engage in productive
training so fatigue management tells us
overload tells us about how to train
hard fatigue tells us how to recover
from that hard training properly so that
we can continue to train hard on the
future SRA stimulus recovery adaptation
is a mouthful of its own principle
basically says that there are sort of
two rather distinct physiological times
for most adaptations one is the time of
training when you are actively
disrupting the system and is the
stimulus for what the system is going to
eventually gain as more ability and the
other time is time of either easier
training or rest when those actual gains
and ability are realized right so it's
not the same time you don't actually get
stronger in the gym you don't you know
that you know you don't get immediately
better at technique right there the
first day you learn technique a matter
of fact the first day you learn
technique you could be like really
confused and someone's like hey show me
that technique you're like I don't even
remember you're talking about later we
know this happens during sleep a lot and
during rest and even during light
training those stimuli that you made
during the training are actually
realized when recovery occurs and when
adaptational so SRA really tells us that
training should be at some point in a
session rest session paradigm that the
way we're gonna look at all training is
not just do stuff and you'll get better
it's do stuff rest and recover adapt get
better do stuff again applying the
principle overload do a bit more right
so it's session recession rest session
rest
anytime you analyze a training program
it's got to have some pulsatilla T to it
otherwise just blast off all the time
and that can really interfere with
progress next principle is that a
variation variation basically tells us
that if we do something for way too long
and it's the same something the rate of
gain
return on gains that you get stretched a
plateau out know it might not completely
plateau out but it might especially for
beginners in advanced struck to assume a
curve that is not as high of a slope so
your gains rate can go down by properly
changing some programs not shocking the
body with just random stuff by
strategically varying the kind of
training that you're doing or the kind
of goal you can train in one way for a
while and that starts to work a little
less you can train in another and train
in another and train in another and
sequence your training so that your
training is never too fresh to be too
confusing to the body but never to scale
to get you into slowest rate of gain so
variation refreshes your body to
continue to make gains at the fastest
rates it's possible phase potentiation
is the idea so it's really a derivative
of variation though it's its own
principle because it has so much to say
that the way in which we vary is very
important and what phase potentiation
really says is the way in which you do
some quality at some point if you want
this quality you have to figure out what
kind of other qualities buttress and
support that quality and you have to
build them first because you want that
other quality to have something to stand
on right so the easiest example is of
power right power is the ability to
produce force quickly and we know that
speed training brings you up to within
very close to your maximal speed you can
make further games later but it's very
close to maximum within just a couple of
weeks of high velocity training but what
power training really what power
abilities really get their most variance
from is the force side of the equation
not the velocity the strength so
somewhat if you want to make the most
powerful athlete you have to make them
stronger and we know that just a couple
of weeks of strength training doesn't
cut it strength training is a long-term
situation so if we want the most
powerful individual and we want to train
them for actual power output which is
very fast high velocity stuff we have to
layer before that power training
underneath it strength training
and the next question is what is the
most fundamental change that happens to
the body that allows for strength to
increase in the answer to that is
muscularity the more muscle you have the
more your nervous system can use that
muscle to produce force so now we have a
tiered approach where we have a phase of
training that builds muscle then we take
that new muscle and we teach it to be
stronger using mostly nervous system
alterations that's a strength phase and
then we get into our power phase where
we teach that strong muscle to move fast
and then at the end of that we're much
higher in power than if we either
trained for power the entire time which
means we probably wouldn't have gotten
as big and strong as we could we would
have trained our velocity pretty well
but that doesn't pay huge dividends
because it's a very small change if we
just trained for strength we wouldn't be
as big as possible we would never get to
the highest strength we could and we
wouldn't have the highest net yield of
power at the end of that process and if
we just mish-mashed everything and
trained for everything at the same time
the nervous system doesn't do high power
movements super well if you're training
it to do a lot of high force movements
at the same time too many perhaps it's
too much fatigue or especially if you do
hypertrophy work which really just
teaches your body how to conserve energy
and move more slowly so if you try to do
them all at the same time you'll get
power increases in most people they'll
be like this high but if you phase
potentiate building on top of the
building blocks properly then you're
gonna get to the highest possible point
and there's tons of other examples and
other analogies from sport the last
principle of training in this quick
summary is a principle of
individualization so individualization
means that all of the principles should
be applied to every single individual
and this is why individualization is a
principle we like to list last every
single individual athlete needs a
slightly different amount of each
principle to be applied and the way in
which it is applied but it is last
because every single athlete needs all
of the principles to be their very best
so individualization is a modifier we
apply to all principles for example
somebody is an athlete that can tolerate
way more training and still recover and
still make gains than someone else then
the principle of individualization then
modifies the
full of fatigue man internment to say no
we usually manage fatigue pretty
aggressively in this particular training
situation but because this athlete is a
really good ability to recover we're
gonna be less aggressive for the fatigue
management and more aggressive overload
so individualization is absolutely a
very important training principle but it
simply modifies all the other ones no
one is exempt there's not a single
person walking around the earth who
wouldn't benefit from proper phase
potentiation or proper variation just
maybe more or less or the different way
to apply it
those are the fundamental seven training
principles and they have their own sub
principles for them and we'll talk about
it in the individual course here's the
thing the principles are not all of the
same power they're not all the same
power to change how much result you get
on your training and that ranking is
from top to bottom
so basically specificity is by far the
most important principle overload
shortly after fatigue management still
super important srn variation are pretty
important and phase potentiation not
super important and individualization
just kind of has to be done it doesn't
explain a lot of the variance in
performance what does that really mean
so it means that specificity is hugely
important it's kind of in its own realm
of importance
it almost underlies all the other
principles because if you think of the
principles as weapons that shoot better
training at a target specificity is the
actual ability to point that weapon at a
target if you shoot all of the best
training weapons and marathon running
training but you want it to be a power
lifter you're gonna be a really great
marathon runner and a shitty shitty
power lifter because it's the wrong
sport so specificity determines what it
is you get better at all of the other
principles determine how much you get
better which is why it's in a league of
its own in a preeminent importance so if
you see a program that messes up
specificity you can just stop looking at
the program right there and then because
it's gonna suck for whatever it is it
purports to do individualization just
modifies the application of the other
principles
it doesn't change their fundamentals
right as human beings we have much more
in common than different the basic rules
of physiological systems
are the same everyone accumulates
fatigue everyone requires overload to
programs at their best there's not a
single person that can violate the
principle of specificity so all the
principles are a little bit more
important than individualization people
tend to think well I'm super unique I
need my own different approach well it's
not very much of a different approach
it's just a little bit of a different
approach at the margins for example if
you want to bigger smaller tires on your
car or a steering wheel covered with
some kind of covering versus not nobody
would call us huge modifications to a
vehicle but that's kind of the level at
which individual difference our
individualization is applied to training
programs the we'll get into this much
more we get into principles themselves
but the important thing to remember
about the principle rankings is that
getting the first couple of principles
right is needed for beginners even if
you don't get them really the right
beginners grow with just any kind of
stimulus but it's very good for
beginners they'll get better progress if
you apply the first couple of principles
and it's critical for intermediates to
get the first couple right so if you're
really screwing up your specificity if
you're really screwing up your overload
if your fatigue management sucks as an
intermediate you risk not getting any
games at all but as long as you get
those three pretty well SRA and
variation phase potentiation etc those
principles might not be as important to
get completely correct certainly as a
beginner and probably as an intermediate
however when you're advanced you've
already had a fundamentally good program
to get you there and now the details
might start to matter especially on how
fast the gain rates occur so an advanced
person can just be scraping for gains or
getting pretty good ones and they'll be
getting pretty good ones more often than
not if they apply for sure the beginning
principles but also the latter ones like
face potentiation and a very keen
attention to individual difference so in
the grand scheme this all actually fits
in to the concept of periodization
periodization is that is defined as the
manipulation of training variables to
achieve three things increase
performance timed peaking be as good as
you can when you want and reduced rates
of injury so periodization is the
application of all of the principles in
a phase potentiated logically sequel
manner timed exactly to what you need to
be best and we could have titled this
course elements of periodization
fundamentals of periodization but it
would have been the same thing because
periodization is the method by which all
principles are applied and after this
course you'll know pure is asian just as
well folks super excited to get in these
lectures see you next time for lecture
two where we get into specificity and
we're gonna be real specific about it my
attempt to the joke it's early see you
guys next time
[Music]
you