hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization
sugar is bad for you
wait is it or is that
as Arnold would say bullshit sugar isn't
bad for you sugar is bad for you is
bullshit let's take a look at why so a
couple of things six to be specific
of course you already know me I have a
numbered list
few people who make the claim that sugar
is bad can actually chemically Define
what sugar is
profoundly few a tiny fraction
so are they talking about
monosaccharides are they talking about
disaccharides I I don't know most of
them don't even know what that is are
they talking about any of the following
sugars that are very common glucose
fructose galactose sucrose lactose
maltose with a vagus maltose
who knows people who say sugar is bad
for you almost always don't which is a
bad sign
how many people are against galactose
people will be like fructose man fucks
you up glucose is bad for you bro
destroys your kidneys galactose is like
the name of her
Overlord from space
galactos skyscraper
[Music]
this shit like that
Nobody Knows the fuck lactose is
why not it's a sugar shouldn't it kill
us all also interesting
another problem
almost all the people who say sugar is
bad for you um I take that back half is
the other half are insane ketos Outlets
low carb Insanity people and this one
half is sugar is bad but they still eat
whole grains well whole grains the
carbohydrate component is almost always
eventually starch and starch breaks down
in the blood into drum roll glucose
the fastest digesting of all sugars the
one that has the biggest effect on your
insulin
Yahoo folks so then starch is also bad
so then all grains are bad some people
are on that wagon going straight to hell
but a lot of people are like hold on I
don't even know what I know anymore
right
so maybe it's just some sugars maybe not
all of them
well fructose is definitely the most
vilified but even that's not bad for you
unless the quantities are massive and
wildly unrealistic and that's like the
worst one so all of a sudden the worst
one isn't that bad we have a problem
maybe sugar isn't actually bad for you
now why do people think sugar is bad for
you I promise it's not for no reason
right it's like someone who's afraid of
dogs often has like a decent not always
often as a decent reason again man when
I was six years old I wanted to befriend
this poodle that lived across the street
and it reached out my hand and he
fucking nabbed me man he was like ah and
I was like ah and I cried a lot
I fucking kid I I'm scared of dogs ever
since bro like I feel you decent reason
also um side note I hate poodles I
Freedom what is the purpose of a poodle
they're not cute don't start don't even
get in the comments with the shit they
look ridiculous
they bitch all the time there's nothing
a poodle won't whine about and poodles
hate me I've been over a few friends
houses they had poodles and they just
sit in the corner hey look what the fuck
is wrong with you you either fight me or
not they're weird they're anxious
allegedly they're smart what the fuck my
fuck I didn't buy a computer about a
fucking dog I don't need to be smart I'm
smart there's only
two smart people in my house gonna say
one but my wife's probably smarter than
me so like a dog a bulldog's a fine dog
Bulldogs are better than poodles that's
the last thing about it I'll say how's
that for a tangent get at me in the
comments here's the thing just like
people who've been bitten by dogs have a
sort of legit understandable reason why
they fear dogs people have an
understandable reason why they think
sugar causes health problems because a
lot of the people they've seen in life
who eat a bunch of sweet treats tend to
be over fat and unhealthy and they've
even had some instances in their life
perhaps maybe even currently where they
were or are eating lots of sweet treats
and they're less healthy than they used
to be and fatter they used to be and
they're like duh it's the sugar it's
totally believable however almost always
what people are doing is two things one
the sugar just lets it's so tasty that
it just lets them eat so many calories
that they eat more calories than they
burn and that's the real thing that if
you do it over a long time and you don't
train with weights you end up getting
over fat and metabolically unhealthy
if the extra calories from the sugar
it's not the sugar itself
right it's like someone dies from being
overworked in some kind of crazy like
prison labor camp or something you're
like what's the last thing he was doing
like he was walking with like a pile of
you know like tree branches they had him
chop and he just died right there be
like it's the walking that did it
walking kills like it's all the physical
activity summed up minus no food minus
No Rest that's the imbalance there and
it doesn't matter if he was walking or
if he was sitting down or if even he's
laying and fell asleep imagine like he
died in asleep you're like sleeps a
fucking silent killer bro like I don't
think that's what it is so it's not the
sugar itself that's getting you into
deep shit it's the fact that sugar is so
easy to eat if you eat a lot of it it
often gets you calories up so high that
there's way more calories than you burn
you accumulate fat accumulate fat
accumulate fat that leads to metabolics
regulation and all those other bad
things and then poor health
that's reason number one reason number
two is when people say oh it's the sugar
that got me fat they usually think they
mean sugar but a lot of times it's not
just sugar name a sugary food that you
love that you know is bad for your
health and has potentially get you fat I
promise you there's a very good chance
that the foods you name also have lots
of fat in them like people will be like
hey man you want a milkshake from
McDonald's they're really good they got
a new one out it's a cappuccino flavor
they're like oh yeah man I can't have
sugar like all right on do you want like
the 80 grams of fat in that thing still
like oh well also fat
so Donuts
chocolates
cakes ice creams did I mention Donuts
they are all stuffed with sugar for sure
but also a crapload of fat what is just
just sugar like pixie sticks
uh Scott's a video guy what's that candy
called Smarties or whatever the shit
that lets you pretend you're eating like
a dozen ecstasy pills at the same time
but I always did with that candy when I
was a kid it's hard to get fat off that
shit because that's pure sugar I mean
there's only so many containers of
Smarties you can eat until you're like
man fuck this but you can eat a lot of
ice cream the fat plus the sugar really
makes it super tasty you super crave it
even more and then it's also super high
calories because fat is a ton of
calories which the fat plus the sugar
that does most of the work so yeah sugar
can be super tasty and make you go over
calories just by itself
but a lot of times fat really helps and
another way to sort of demonstrate that
is like well fruit has tons of sugar and
a lot of people highly erroneously are
like well I don't eat fruit because of
sugar show me somebody they got fat and
unhealthy off of eating fruit can you
imagine you come into your doctor's
office he like knows a bunch of fucking
blood work and tests and shit like that
and scans and he's like
apples Jim apples are killing you you
know what good just kidding
your wife think about your wife
it doesn't happen now Donuts yeah Jim's
killing his you know I'm saying
relationship with his wife because of
donuts ice cream sure apples come on now
just Sugar by itself doesn't have a
punch now speaking of punch
there are ways to manage this situation
still have sugar but keep your risk for
getting over fat and unhealthy very low
one is generally avoid or minimize don't
avoid minimize and intelligently arrange
your consumption of Highly processed
high calorie high sugar and fat foods
like you know ice cream is the shit and
you should have it sometimes but if
you're on like a fat loss face to get
your weight down to a low level so you
can maintain have less ice cream or not
a lot or if you're going to have ice
cream have a few pints on the weekends
and on the week just eat like normal
healthy people food instead of just
eating ice cream all the fucking time
you know like adult shit that's a good
start another one the punch reference
coming back in a little late fruit
juices fruit juices are super tasty but
they Jam a crapload of calories into a
very easy to consume container and their
effect on your appetite after is minimal
so you can have like 150 calories of
orange juice and be like I can eat the
same size meal that I would if I didn't
have that 150 calories which begs the
question why the fuck are you doing that
well if you don't have a problem with
your weight or health hey sweet drink
all the orange juice you want but if you
do have trouble with your weight getting
too high and your health getting too
poor take the orange juice and ditch it
or have less than of it or have a low
calorie or calorie-free substitute tons
of that stuff going around and while I'm
on the subject
Faygo and if you don't have Faygo soda
I'm sorry for you
in Michigan we have this thing called
Faygo and it's called pop in Michigan
not soda I know it's a lot of Taken fago
diet orange
is like
if gods were making the greatest foods
ever and while they were chopping up
these god-like fruits some of the juice
leaked off the table of for Mount
Olympus and you you got some
that's what it would taste like
orange juice I haven't even heard of it
diet Bagel Orange
nothing natural about it which is the
best part but in any case Real Talk eat
less junk food eat less sweet treats
that make you super fat that have tons
of fats in them minimize your
consumption of fruit juices if you have
weight and health problems and then in
that context of moderation there's no
need to fear sugar at all there's
nothing chemically about it that fucks
your physiology that makes you super fat
it's just a matter of calorie intake a
matter of satiety how hungry something
makes you or how less hungry it makes
you and a matter of junk foods and
minimizing that hyper palatable food
folks is sugar really bad that's
bullshit and I'll see you next time with
another terrible Arnold impression bye