so if you want bigger biceps some
variation of doing this is probably good
and then to be honest that's maybe 80%
of the answer a lot of people will look
at let's say for quads they'll look at
hack squats they'll look at leg presses
they'll look at lunges and they'll look
at regular High bar squats and they'll
Vex themselves infinitely over the
question of which one of these is
superior which is kind of like asking
you know I need to get to Austin Texas
which airline should I take like you you
ask someone who works at the airport
like which airline's like really the one
I should be taking they're like I mean I
don't know all of them really get you
there there are subtle differences but
at least make sure the ticket says
Austin Texas so if the exercise hits
that muscle then you're good to go now
there are ways of seeing which exercises
hit the target muscle that you want so
this is something like tension the
perception of a lot of tension generated
or exposed in that muscle so if you're
doing chest flies and you feel a
crapload of stretch and pulling in the
chest that's probably good