my first scientific study is officially
published and it answers the question
what is optimal training technique
here's what we found out first range of
motion is the most important factor you
need to use a range of motion that gets
the muscle fully stretched you can do
that by using a full range of motion
with a deep stretch or by using long
length partials the second thing we
found was the optimal lifting Tempo each
rep you do should last 2 to 8 seconds
that means you could do anything from a
1 second positive and a 1 second
negative to a 1 second positive and a 7c
negative the specific Tempo doesn't seem
to matter as much as simply controlling
the negative and not just letting the
weight free fall and cheat reps do seem
like a bad idea but there's no study
comparing ego lifting to strict form
lifting yet that's the study we're going
to do next and I'll keep you guys posted
on the results