80% of the time try to eat more of these
highly filling nutritious foods and then
20% of the time allow yourself to eat
treats and more processed foods that
will help you avoid an overly
restrictive mindset I think an 8020 rule
is a great place to start but it's worth
mentioning that this isn't some sort of
science-based rule or that everyone
should follow exactly 820 for example
the closer you get to actually stepping
on stage as a bodybuilder at that point
you'll actually be living mostly by the
100 Z rule equally if you're very
overweight you might find that you can
lose weight just fine with the 60/40
approach the important thing is that
it's not just how processed the food is
but it's specifically a few things one
caloric density the more calorie dense a
food is and the less fiber it has the
less it's going to impact your hunger in
a positive way so generally during
dieting not only do you want to pick
mostly unprocessed foods but you
specifically want to pick foods that
have low calorie density and they have a
lot of fiber as both of those things
will promote satiation and reduce hunger
ultimately for many diets hunger is a
big issue so if you can follow these
things you'll set yourself up for
Success what I'd suggest is