all the way up all the way up lock it
out lock it out lock it out lock it out
rest breathe don't go anywhere breathe
don't go anywhere rest it's supposed to
be hard okay stop crying girl
[Music]
what me I'm Dr Mike is Rell of
Renaissance periodization this is Mr
Jared feather ifbb pro professional
bodybuilder and this is is Lulu Lulu who
also goes by
Lulu and she is a star studded human
being not only is she currently a law
student trying to look to them books
read them laws and shit like that get
all smart but also she is a combat
veteran for the United States Marine
Corps once a marine always a marine it
is a huge honor and pleasure to have you
on the channel huge thank thank you for
your service to keep us all free our way
of thaning you today however is going to
be by destroying your body in an unreal
glute and quad workout how do you feel
about this um I am scared but I'm
excited that's what I said to my parole
officer last night was it my PE officer
or 480 lb dominatrix who knows at this
point folks roll
camera Point your toes out a ton so
you're getting this deficit is coming
from your hips basically you're trying
to open your hips a ton so you're going
to point the toes out and wherever your
toes Point more more more more your
knees and hips go in that direction okay
you're probably going to grab a little
bit
closer M just right on the outsides and
then while you're down there think about
really pushing your hips open like this
yes exactly and then trying to keep this
the entire time as you come up it's
almost like a sumo squat where you're
trying to keep your hips under and use
the glutes intentionally pull the bar in
closer
hips open more even more even more big
chest the whole time bar close Stand Up
Lift Your Chest first chest comes up
with now knees
out pull that bar and super close I want
you to almost be completely ight before
you even stand up with your chest almost
completely ight exactly more hips open
hips open hips open uppr right upright
and now get the use the gles use the
CL bar close to your body knees out
chest up chest up up yes
down on the way down yep nice and slow
yep beautiful slow on the way down look
forward not down open even more knees
out knees out and rack that's it good we
can't say rack today Mike Why
YouTube because of that
rack knees knees gentle up strong let's
go
yes and then again one more let's go big
chest use the Boots stretch the boot
stretch the boots gentle up boots strong
stand up stand up stand up and then as
if you're going to do another one ult
slow slow big chest set it down nice and
slow hips push the hips forward knees
out hips forward knees out hit forward
Big Stretch that's it fuck yeah that was
a good set that's fucking hard you got
this stand up stand up stand up fuck
yeah lock it out and as if you're going
to do another one gently put it down
knees out KNE out expose those glutes
big chest Big Stretch in the glutes Big
Stretch Big Stretch Big Stretch Big
Stretch yeah shit yeah oh yeah that's
horrible that was great what is going to
let you lift more weight and get more
reps is a technique that separates away
from what is going to allow you to
achieve the aims of the exercise
so if you push your knees in if you let
your butt come up if you leverage with
your back you'll just be able to do more
weight and more reps but that's where
the trouble is you have to try to push
your performance as high as possible in
the context of keeping that Ultra strict
technique pull H up
yes one last one and you're done let's
get it
together open for fucking trying to grow
your groups more right let's go yes look
up look
up yeah fuck yeah and then as if another
slow get it together that was a fucking
chest up he's out Ultra slow it you milk
it yes fuing phenomenal beautiful holy
shit maybe one of the best sets ever
done on the channel I got to be
completely
honest God good shit the two-part lift
where you're like first I put my hips up
than the rest of my body yes good have a
little drink relax a little bit and then
we'll do the next exercise thank you
gl's getting a pump yeah like they're
still pumped super like I feel like
they're just throbbing right doing stuff
throbbing this is one of those movements
where you step away from the weight and
then you just get more of a pump as you
stand there that's exactly it's like a
lateral raise for me the blood has to
get there yeah you're just a really loud
person and you need to tone down how
loud you're speaking because it's
fucking annoying
[Music]
I'm not using this to help you up okay I
want that back leg to touch the
ground not so stand up on the box try to
step back and stretch this glute without
touching that foot to the ground as low
as you can and then slowly touch it
slowly touch to the ground with the foot
yeah like that and then come up on the
front leg mostly every step you come all
the way forward got to get that knee to
the ground bring the the leg off the
ground when you come up come up all the
way all the way so like this when you
straight here back and down watch his
back leg there and then my foot's coming
off the ground back leg comes up yes you
go perfect yeah so then you get to the
top and you can get a full stretch
[Music]
again for every single set here Lulu is
going to do as many reps as she is
capable of doing with good technique
with that 20 pound dumbbell in her hand
as soon as she's very near failure and
can no longer maintain her stable
technique we're going to ask her to drop
the dumbbell and proceed to do another
few reps unloaded let's push
[Music]
it P shot that leg good for you that's
it
rest oh
yeah that was evil I've seen some
pictures online I'm trying to date a
wellness girl for our viewers out there
trying to get with a wellness girl some
tips please help us out so for example
if I come up to you like yo D baby and I
do one of these is that good or if I'm
like oh hello and I can't look you nice
like I think you look great and I run
away is that what's going to get me in I
think both of those approaches are
immediately delete block um don't do
that all right but for real um well
first you got to have Cales Cals sorry
yeah you got to have calvs why did you
say sorry to me as if I don't have
calves don't answer that question okay
next um next you just have to be a
genuinely good human being with some
sort of goal and aspiration in life all
right see you
[Music]
later
slow yes good that's it rest good one
more round of that Jared good one more
control right there
yes up
strong yeah fuck yeah good relax rest
you're lost student I am I was sending
this girl texts she wouldn't respond so
I'm like okay she's playing hard to get
so I was like okay this is some Romeo
and Juliet type love for bitches be
setting up barriers for motherfuckers
jump over and I inferred come to my
house and sit in the dumpster for 5
hours waiting for me to get home from
work now she got home she I think in her
eyes found that romantic but then when
she tased me the police wouldn't file
charges against her they said that I was
naked in dumpster 5 hours am I entitled
to compensation you are not entitled to
any compensation in fact I would ask
that you you know go do some community
service around her was trying to do
community service for her you know what
I'm saying girl look like a community to
me you feel me all kinds of parts that
need serving anyway I'll see myself out
fuck you good idea how do you deal with
this uh you know it's it's been a long
11
[Music]
years slight pushing front leg front leg
none of this none of this none of this
none of this fuck yeah good good oh
they're so pumped good pumped yeah
yeah to quote myself God damn yeah I
damn ladies I know I'm not tall but also
I have a functionless penis hey a
fucking flexx you're coming in the gym
to talk to me fucking
Dragon what's going on you know there's
legit Scottish guys over there visiting
I didn't give them the accent I was like
and I couldn't do it but then they were
talking to me and I was like wow that's
the accent I'm doing it's like a dog
shit version of
Scottish the Welsh version is a dog shit
no my the
real get out of my face
[Music]
KN forward KNE forward more KN forward
more KNE forward
more keep going we got one good good
bottom
out KN forward KN forward big chest e on
the way up big chest there you go better
Jared want to do the 2/3 shit we never
done on the channel before that' be yeah
yeah some new shit L is real short and I
would know something about that because
God never allowed me to grow to my fulla
belt height so we have to make a couple
of adjustments you guys will see we lay
out parallel platform for her we're
going to do something extra special
length and partials have received a lot
of attention to literature lately they
seem like they work pretty well I want
you to come up only to this point the
2/3 point and then go right back down
until you're real close to failure will
say lock you'll lock it breathe a bit
and then we'll do more reps okay oh
great pause every rep at the bottom for
two whole seconds down come on slow slow
slow slow up
down slow forward slow chest up chest up
bullshit here chest up stand all the way
up all the way up all the way up lock it
out lock it out lock it out lock it out
rest breathe don't go anywhere breathe
don't go anywhere we need three more
good reps it's supposed to be hard okay
stop crying girl use your fucking fls
begin qu shooting your hips back use
your GL stop it knees forward right now
control no vas open open oh wait big
chest up we're looking at the ground
down chest slow slow
big chest slow big chest waight quads up
look up look up look up down you going
look
up
Expos quads slow up and lock all the way
up all the way up all the way up and R
[Applause]
fuck that was fucking awesome that was
horrible feel free yep to do that God
that's horrible what are those called
there Roger squat but those are just two
2/3 bottom end partials got
you so generally when I do like a hack
squat or some shit I'll do that cuz how
we had to do the pauses at the top we
call my rep pausing so it's just a clear
starting and stopping point of when
you're going to use those pauses so if
we use something like 2/3 lockout then
by the when you get to the top you know
that's when you're pausing and if
somebody's doing a two3 lock out and
they pause at the top when you told them
not to pause you know they're doing it
fucking wrong so it's just keeping in a
constant on the quads I'm getting a
really good pump and then when you get
to the top it's like a nice hard lock
out breathe and then you go back into it
two Lo out two lock
out the bottom look up slow e forward
slow slow look up look up there it is
down you got this all fucking day all
the way up lock it lock it breathe one
more set of three and you're done for
this
set watch four for the
pain up down last one forward more more
more more big chest yes there you go
look up up and lock go all the way all
the way
rat hell yeah hell yeah that's
terrifying last set down look up look up
look up slow controll KNE forward look
up up
down KN forward yes right there up all
the way all the way all the way all the
way breathe two more and you're done for
the whole day so let's get these right
you got to be perfect okay begin right
now forward and open open big chest more
slow more slow more slow more deeper big
chest look up up down down go KNE KNE
for KN ult slow for Ultra slow Ultra
slow up all the way finish finish finish
rack God damn all Dar it fucking
beautiful just
beautiful it oh my
God fuck that's horrible that's horrible
horrible isn't it your quads are real
fucked up
right yeah yeah hold on thoughts
terrible but that was really informative
and knowledgeable so thank you for the
torture of course of course usually
people don't think us they just try to
scream and call the FBI anyway folks
hope you got some tips out of this whole
situation and if uh you want to look
well get into Wellness you feel me see
you guys next time
[Music]