thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring
this video
[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting this Monday we're going
to be looking at the idea that breakfast
is the most important meal of the day
and so we'll look at the effect of
skipping breakfast on weight loss body
composition and just general health I'm
so first where did the idea that
breakfast is the most important meal
come from well good health magazine
published an article in nineteen
seventeen arguing outright that
breakfast is the most important meal of
the day and it shouldn't be eaten
hurriedly and all the family should
partake of it together of course no
actual scientific evidence was given to
suggest why it might be so important but
given that John Harvey Kellogg the
inventor of cornflakes was an editor for
good health at the time probably had a
lot to do with getting this idea out to
the general public plus I think in the
absence of evidence it does seem like a
pretty logical stance to take as
argument goes you want to eat food first
thing in the morning to sort of get the
nutrients and energy that your body
needs to get your day to start it off
right but before we test this hypothesis
against actual peer-reviewed scientific
literature I think it's important to
first clarify exactly what we mean by
breakfast I'm so literally speaking
breakfast simply means to break a fast
so technically speaking whenever your
first meal of the day is that would be
your breakfast but I don't think this is
a very practical definition so we're
going to use the definition established
by Betts and colleagues in 2016 and just
count breakfast as any meal containing
at least 50 calories eaten within two
hours of waking and I think a good place
to start and answering this question is
with a 2014 study from Betts and
colleagues where they investigated the
effect of skipping breakfast on
metabolism and as you can see here in
the graph there is no difference in
resting metabolic rate between the
groups this kind of puts to rest the
myth that eating breakfast sort of
Stokes the metabolic furnace and gets
your metabolism running for the day and
because diet-induced thermogenesis
occupies such a small sliver of total
daily energy expenditure the differences
here aren't likely to be significant
however just notice the gap in physical
activity thermogenesis as it turns out
the breakfast skipping group burns
significantly less calories through
physical activity this has been
described in other research as a sort of
compensatory feedback mechanism where
the body tries to defend
against a perceived energy deficit from
the fasting from breakfast skipping by
reducing physical activity so since
breakfast eaters tend to burn more
calories through physical activity on
the face of it this really does seem
like a point for eating breakfast and a
strike against fasting and it might be
but remember that this only covers the
energy out side of the equation we also
need to look at what happens on the
energy inside when you skip breakfast
so in other words does skipping
breakfast cause you to overeat later in
the day and the simple answer to this is
yes but not enough to offset the deficit
from actually skipping breakfast on this
same study from Betts Attell show that
when subjects skipped a 700 calorie
breakfast
they only over ate throughout the rest
of the day by a hundred and sixty-one
calories on average so the skippers
still ended up eating 539 calories less
than the folks eating the full breakfast
so now it seems like this is really a
point scored for the breakfast skippers
but you need to remember that while
breakfast skippers do tend to eat fewer
calories they also tend to burn fewer
calories so on balance there actually
isn't all that much difference between
breakfast skipping and breakfast edan
and this led the authors to conclude
later that taken collectively these
observations begin to explain why a
resolution to start skipping breakfast
may not predict the degree of weight
loss one might expect and as a practical
takeaway for weight loss I think that
your decision to eat or skip breakfast
should be tailored to your specific
needs and from my own coaching
perspective I've noticed that some
people will wake up with a really huge
appetite and in that case I think eating
breakfast would make sense to sort of
set your hunger at bay well being
careful to moderate your caloric intake
throughout the rest of the day
others myself included find their
appetite is actually quite low first
thing in the morning but then picks up
throughout the course of the day in that
case I think it also makes sense to sort
of work with your body and coordinate
the spacing of your meals in accordance
with your own hunger patterns
I sort of skewing your caloric intake to
be predominantly later in the day
ultimately for weight loss it should be
no surprise for regular viewers of this
channel in this series that net energy
balance is ultimately what's driving net
balance I'm so from a dieting
perspective he should be eating
according to a meal schedule that allows
you to adhere to and maintain a caloric
deficit the best but that is just simple
weight loss after all what about muscle
mass and body composition well in this
case there are two potential concerns
that I think I'd have well some folks
really do seem to perform well in the
gym while fasted in my coaching
experience I would say that more people
are stronger and more fatigue resistance
when they've eaten some sort of
pre-workout meal and as mentioned in the
BET's review if your morning will
involve physical exercise with
performance on that day being a priority
then consuming a carbohydrate rich
breakfast is the most important meal
however if you train later in the day or
fine training fasted works well for you
then breakfast is obviously going to be
much less important also I'd say from a
hypertrophy perspective skipping
breakfast might not be the most optimal
thing I think we just need more data on
this to know for sure but based on
muscle protein synthesis seem that
having four or five meals per day with
at least 20 grams of protein in each
meal is best of course if you say delay
breakfast only until noon and then have
your last meal just before bed you can
easily still get those four or five
meals in but if you begin to delay
breakfast further and further sort of
narrowing that eating window more and
more I think you do increase your risk
of missing your sort of maximum
potential for stimulating muscle protein
synthesis and granted this is a
developing area of research and there's
a lot to cover here so I'd recommend
listening to my interview with protein
research or yourn tromelin for more on
that but I think the bottom line is that
from a muscle building perspective
extreme delays and that first meal may
not be the most optimal but as long as
total daily protein intake is sufficient
so say point eight to one grams of
protein per pound how you spaced that
out probably has no measurable impact
and when it comes to general health and
I think as we'd expect other doesn't
seem to be a clear answer on whether
skipping breakfast is better or worse
than eating breakfast we do know that
epidemiological correlational research
has consistently associated infrequent
breakfast consumption
increased risk of adiposity diabetes and
cardiovascular disease a correlation
doesn't imply causation and habitual
breakfast consumers also tend to be
non-smokers consume less fat and alcohol
eat more fiber and micronutrients are
also more physically active so it
remains to be established whether daily
breakfast is a cause-and-effect or
simply a marker of a healthy lifestyle
I'd also imagine that it's possible that
skipping breakfast could result in a
lower intake of certain micronutrients
vitamins and minerals if they aren't
consumed later in the day but assuming
that nutrient intake is the same I'm of
the opinion that the health effects of
skipping breakfast probably don't extend
very far in either direction either
negative or positive as a quick aside I
don't think I'd recommend that children
are growing adolescents intentionally
skip breakfasts or any meal proper for
that matter and this is a recommendation
mirrored by the Canadian pediatric
society which discourages teenagers from
fasting and skipping meals and this is
as I see it to promote a healthy body
image and encourage a diet that focuses
on the inclusion of nutrient-rich foods
rather than the elimination of certain
foods or meals or mealtimes
but with that exception aside I think
the idea that breakfast is the most
important meal of the day
busted as a whole the research seems to
indicate that there is no difference in
weight change between breakfast eaters
and breakfast skippers and there hasn't
been any really convincing evidence of
any metabolic or health effects
documented in the literature from eating
breakfast and research that does show
evidence of reduced risk of diseases as
confounded by other variables like
subjects being more physically active
and not smoking and well I think the
extreme delay of that first meal may not
be the most optimal thing from a muscle
protein synthesis --nt as long as total
daily protein intake is sufficient I'm
so to conclude I would say that whether
or not you decide to eat breakfast
should be based on your own appetite
your schedule and basically just what
allows you to adhere to your diet as a
whole the best and apply your best
effort in the gym so that's it for this
one guys before we go I have to thank
Squarespace for sponsoring this video
I'm
my own new website through Squarespace
this month and it's looking pretty sweet
I'm so if you guys don't know
Squarespace is an all-in-one website
platform where you can custom create
your own website they have really
aesthetic designer templates and 24-hour
customer service which I found to be
pretty helpful and getting my new site
up and running I'm so if you guys would
like to get started with making your own
website or running your own online store
you can go to Squarespace comm forward
slash Nippert and that'll save you 10%
off your first purchase so thank you
Squarespace for sponsoring the video
thank you guys very much for watching
don't forget to subscribe if you happen
to be new I've got a new vlog on the way
here next Monday and then I'll be back
here again with another myth busting on
June 25th I'm so I'll see you guys all
then