there's nothing magical about compound
exercises like the squat and here's why
come back soon to be Dr Milo Warfare
from Wolf coaching and today straight
from the trap house we're discussing a
very recent hot off the process paper
about single joint or isolation
exercises versus multi-joint or compound
exercises for muscle growth you've heard
it I've heard it some people just think
there's something magical about compound
exercises like oh the bench press oof
the squat like yeah they can be fine
exercises but is there actually any
truth to that do you need to include
multi-joint or compound exercises
alternatively do you need to include
isolation exercises for muscle growth
this is where a recent met analysis by
avering colleagues of seven studies
comparing multi-joints or compound to
single joint or isolation work comes in
with the effects being looked at on
hypertrophy this was a meta-analysis of
seven studies that were volume equated
in other words if one group did three
sets of multi-joint work the other group
would do three sets of single drip work
for the same muscle groups involved what
did they find well is essentially there
was no difference in growth whether you
use multi-joint or single joint AKA
compound or isolation work didn't really
seem to matter when it came to muscle
hypertrophy there is some good news here
though they also looked at combining
compound and isolation exercises versus
just doing compound exercises or just
doing isolation exercises and in short
again whether you use a combination of
compound isolation just compounds or
just isolation at least in this met
analysis didn't seem to play a big role
or a rule at all in fact so if certain
compound exercises just hurt you and you
don't feel like doing compact exercises
at all or if you don't like doing single
drill exercises there's a good chance
that for a lot of muscle groups you're
not really missing out on too much with
that being said should we still include
compound and isolation work in our
programs the answer is a resounding yes
in my opinion first off as I mentioned
in my free weights versus machine video
there is a benefit to isolation
exercises a lot of compound exercises
will have stabilizing muscle groups be
involved heavily for example if all you
do for your hamstrings is already else
your lower back might become over
trained or overreached long before your
hamstrings get trained to their optimal
extent by including light curls AKA an
isolation exercise you're able to train
your hamstrings directly get them up to
an optimal trading dose without
overtraining your lower back even
further and so in certain cases
including some isolation work in your
program can really round it out as far
as development for certain muscle groups
or otherwise stabilizing muscle groups
can kind of just get too fatigued
otherwise next some muscle groups are
between hard and impossible to train
with just compound exercises so from a
physique perspective if all you do is
compound exercises you'd have some
pretty lagging areas that you could
easily remedy just by including some
isolation work I'll give you an example
the short head of the hamstrings the
short head of the bicep femoris does
nothing but knee flexion in other words
in order to train it you pretty much
don't have a choice but to do some sort
sort of like curl variation otherwise it
will not grow if all you did was already
else sure you would grow three heads of
the hamstrings but that last head the
short-haired bicep femoris it wouldn't
get any growth and so it is pretty
important to have some isolation working
there for those muscle groups that
otherwise just don't get trained very
well another reason to include isolation
work within your program is because if
all you do is compounds some compounds
just don't train muscle groups that well
for example if all you do say are
deadlifts rows some pull Downs some
pull-ups your upper traps that are
involved in elevation of the scapula may
just never get that much stimulus and so
if you keep doing just compounds for
years and years on land eventually you
may wind up having lagging traps as
compared to if you just included some
isolation work for your upper traps once
a week that would take care of a lot of
it equally and this is a bit more
individual certain movements and certain
compound exercises seem to really Target
certain muscle groups for certain people
but not others for example when I squat
I mostly feel my quads when I end a set
it's mostly because I feel as though my
quads failed first for certain people
one muscle group in a compound exercise
can at least absolutely feel like it's
failing first now it's difficult to say
for sure whether that means that only
that muscle group is getting an optimal
stimulus but it is possible and so I
would keep that in mind When selecting
only comfort exercises I think that if
you only feel one muscle group during
compound exercise for example your
glutes during the squat you may need to
include some quad work in your program
some quad isolation work like a light
extension like a reverse noise curl like
a squat in order to maximally grow
your quadriceps now that I've extored
the virtues of isolation work a lot
let's talk about some of the benefits of
compound exercises within your program
because if all you did was just listen
to what I just said you could go away
and say well I'm just going to do
isolation exercises only it's going to
be great no more joint pain the issue
there is compound exercises or really
time efficient isolation exercises not
so much so if you're someone who doesn't
have much time to train I would say
compound exercises are almost required
in order to make your best progress
compound exercises a lot of them like
for example the high bar squat like the
pull-up they do a really good job
training multiple Moss groups at once
for most people the squad for example
does a really good job of growing the
quads the actors the glutes the pull-up
does a really good job with the back
okay the lats for example the rear delts
the biceps and so compound exercises are
some of the most time efficient training
you could possibly do in the gym the
final reason to include both isolation
and compound work within your program is
because as I've previously been talking
about a lot for optimizing muscle growth
we do want a variety of wrap ranges
within your program as opposed to just
doing for example set to five or sets of
ten like that's a big red flag for me
when I see a program if a program only
has three bed hand three by ten three by
ten three by ten or three by twelve on
every exercise that's usually not
written by someone who knows what
they're doing because we want a variety
of rap Rangers from the program and
isolation exercises are suited to a
variety of references right but compound
exercises like the squat are really only
suited to relatively heavy rep ranges if
you go much above say 15 reps on the
squad for example you will find that you
get super out of breath before you get
anywhere close to muscular failure you
might end this set because of the burn
you might end the set because of how
breath out you are but you may not end
the set because of how close to failure
you are with regards to your quads or
your glutes and thus by doing Super High
Reps on compound work you may not be
getting an optimal stimulus for muscle
growth and this is where isolation work
comes in isolation work is a lot less
systemically fatiguing than compound
exercises and so by including it
specifically for higher rep ranges
you're able to not only get some of the
benefits I've spoken about before but
you're also able to get a wider variety
of effective rep ranges within your
program and thus get more muscle growth
that's the video I hope you learned
something today breaking down the most
recent heart of the presses met analysis
on isolation work versus compound work
if you learned something please comment
like subscribe maybe suggest a video and
I will see you guys my supporters in
that next one peace
a bit of a dab there at the end for you