go to a butcher right you go to the
Butcher and you say can I get a pound of
liver liver tastes like shit by the way
yeah it's full of all kinds of good
stuff but also it is the waste treatment
plant of the body so it could be good to
get in all kinds of not good stuff from
the liver liver is not some magical food
that makes you super healthy you can eat
most any part of the animal and as long
as it gets you your proteins and
essential fats you're golden no need to
eat a bunch of organ Meats they're awful
tasting in most cases you just don't get
out of them what liver King says you do
take a multivitamin eat lots of fruits
and veggies plenty of meats of whatever
kind you want you're fing sorted there's
no need to Deep dive into this weird
crevice of like I have to eat the goat
Hooves if I'm going to be super healthy
that's a whole lot ofing nonsense why
did ancestral people eat the whole
animal because they were fing starving
to death 100% of theing time godamn
it can I get six lbs of bone marrow no
motherfucker that's what I would say if
I was the Butcher and then I'd take
theing knife by the way I've seen you on
Tik to get the out of my goddamn butcher
shop you
little would throw it at him just close
to scare him