hey folks dr mike israetel here for
renaissance periodization today's
fitness myth number 12 if you're
counting at home by yourself with a pet
maybe a hamster why not
is
diet soda is bad for you spooky we're
actually recording this and i'll tell
you how far ahead we are in content
we're on the halloween time so even
saying diet soda is bad for you
trying to look around to see if vampires
and other such halloween-themed
creatures are around we're gonna go
through the claim itself we're gonna
talk about why it's probably wrong we're
gonna cut out some slack and get some
grains of truth going and then get you
guys on your way with best practices of
okay i got it but what do we do now so
here we go
the claim
is a big claim
it is that diet soda is bad for you and
that means it causes
obesity
maybe cancer maybe allergic reactions
maybe diabetes maybe sugar crashes
you name it somebody on the internet has
said that diet soda has caused it
and
this is especially supposed to occur by
a mechanism
of the artificial sweetener and there
are a few the one that must not be named
cannot be named if you've ever seen 13th
warrior with antonio banderas you get
that really off-the-wall reference
strange you never get off a wall
references here on this channel
aspartame i said it
take me on vampires take me away i go to
nutrition jail now um funny story one of
my friends was uh talking to a guy he
knew not his friend and he was drinking
diet soda and the guy's like yo i don't
drink that stuff and he's like why not
and the guy was like a sparta me man
and my friend was like word
up
a spark a me
so
drinking diet soda is bad clearly for a
bunch of reasons and it'll do a bunch of
really bad things
for you but apparently that's wrong and
that's a myth that's actually true it is
not true that diet soda is bad for you
how do we know this let's find out so
first
in hundreds and i mean hundreds of
studies
to paraphrase dr james hoffman from also
this channel
artificial sweeteners due pretty close
to diddly dick
they just don't do a whole lot in the
body they're mostly inert not completely
but mostly
they really don't do anything good they
really don't do anything bad they have
some byproducts like any other food and
byproducts usually don't do anything at
all
and that's the overwhelming majority of
the studies and then a tiny minority has
found some negative outcomes but as far
as i know there are no real serious
negative health outcomes
that have been replicated in multiple
studies so you'll see a few studies
saying that you know um aspartame causes
cancer and some of the famous ones
actually all the famous ones are from
the ramazzini foundation in italy
there's an internal studies only
they could not be replicated outside of
the institute bad news that means maybe
there's a make belief going on and then
actually other scientists made a request
for raw data to those institutions and
they never got the raw data which is
real bad news i mean maybe the data is
manufactured who knows but in any case
um it's like we're looking for ghosts
almost like you know the ghosts are
super scary and they're super there for
sure history channel show got all the
ghosts on the weird light in the camera
and this little orb seems like a ghost
when we turn the fucking lights on all
shit disappears like
where the fuck are all these ghosts so
aspartame and other artificial sweetener
downsides especially repeatable
significant downsides seem to just kind
of disappear when you really look into
them which is kind of probably
indicative that they're not really there
or certainly can't assume that they're
there
now we have another line of evidence
there are multiple
randomized control studies
in which
some folks get drink diet soda some
folks get to drink regular soda and they
compare uh sort of which group has what
kind of health and etc outcomes and uh
diet soda does not increase obesity nor
does it lead to any other detectable
health malady that we can report outside
of stuff that soda does too that has
nothing to do
with the sugar it's not so great for
your teeth because actually the
carbonation turns out it's not the ideal
for your teeth even if it's diet uh you
know which is like uh you know if you go
see your dentist as regular you should
and you really get them going it turns
out nothing's good for your teeth you
know brushing and flossing
they uh they do say that's good but
other than that it everything's bad so
it's not like diet sodas are some kind
of crazy super destructive thing for
your teeth it compares uh pretty
decently probably a little better for
you the regular soda because it's the
carbonation but minus the sugar in any
case it's not like it's a completely
inert beverage it does nothing but it
really does nothing to write home about
especially as compared to soda and
sparkling water and a ton of other stuff
so
there's more
when
multiple studies have been done
replacing regular soda with folks who
drink regular soda with diet soda this
often leads to very very significant
improvements in health and actually
weight it leads to weight loss because
diet soda has no calories some people
look if you drink like four cokes a day
for like little 20 ounce bottles of coke
i mean you're up into the
600 to 800 calorie range excess i mean
that's charitably a pound of fat per
week that you could be gaining or
maintaining you remove that and if you
don't adjust any of the other intake
you're losing some decent weight for
weeks and weeks and weeks and you really
change nothing except now the soda
tastes a little funky for a few days and
then a few days later you forget what
regular soda tastes like and you're
golden right
and
it is very little difference between
consuming diet soda
and consuming water because those
studies have also been done
group does regular soda group just diet
soda group does water that soda and
water compare very favorably to each
other and almost every health metric
uh just diet soda is more fun to drink
than water and i'll get back to this
later but really the only reason we
drink soda at all is for fun um
almost no one in the modern world drinks
soda for calories they do drink soda
calories in the developing world but
that's a different discussion they also
don't have an obesity problem so
now
elephant in the room a bit of double
layered pan there
is that some correlational studies show
that people who drink more diet soda
also tend to be more likely to be fat
and this is of course the antisoda
people anti-diet soda people have
trumped this up as we like see it causes
fat well problem number one is the
randomized control trials that last
several months show the opposite effect
i was curious like would it first it
makes you leaner and then it rebounds
you weird
but also
the most likely explanation is this is
not a causative phenomenon it's a
correlative phenomenon so what does that
mean it means you know if you see people
who have broken legs and they're using
crutches you could be like
they have these crutches and they have
broken legs too you know are crutches
out there hurting people is the crutch
causing the broken leg you come up to
someone with crutches and you're like i
can fix your broken legs like do it now
you just take their crutches away they
fall and break their leg again you're
like oh shit oh that was helping you i
gotcha the broken leg came first so i
think probably the best hypothesis out
there is that people get over fat they
start to concern themselves more with it
and then they start to drink diet soda
they don't change the rest of their
lives and they eat other junk foods to
make up for the calories they stay
fatter or maybe even lose a little bit
of weight but stay on average fatter
than they were before and then the
average population and then you get this
correlation of well a lot of the people
that you know drink diet soda are also
the ones that are fatter same exact
correlation can be drawn with people who
use anti-obesity drugs if you look at
the entire population of people that use
uh you know subutramine or any of the
glp1 agonists
tons of obesity drugs that are
prescribed in various countries by
various doctors uh you say wow you know
the people using these drugs are really
quite fat
are these drugs causing fatness it's
backwards they started using the drugs
because they were fat originally and
they probably less fat because they use
the drugs but still not completely you
know normal weight and that's how you
get this thing so crutches don't cross
broken legs and diet soda almost
certainly doesn't cause obesity
all right
that's so a lot of bs then
a few grains of truth few grains of
truth diet soda does not fill you up
okay
so you can absolutely drink as much diet
so as you want
and you can still eat tons of junk and
just be fatter anyway
diet soda doesn't fill you up because it
doesn't have any calories
and there's a slightly different
perceptive experience than drinking
regular soda and diet soda if you drink
a regular soda it does squash your
hunger just a little bit uh let's take
the caffeine aside sprite versus diet
sprite
drink a sprite and it has a bunch of
sugar it doesn't curb your hunger nearly
as much as that amount of carbohydrate
would be from whole food sources not
even close but it is some extent like if
you drink like eight sprites you're not
going to be hungry for a few hours
there's a lot of carbohydrate your blood
sugar is going to go up and your
hunger's going to be like i'm good with
diet soda you can drink eight sprites
eight diet sprites and you just pee a
lot and then you're just as hungry
because there's no food introduced so a
lot of people think oh diet soda is
great for combating potentially obesity
if i replace my soda they don't counter
the fact that oh wait but i'm still
hungry okay so you have to take care of
the rest of your diet so that's the
thing it's not some kind of magic fat
loss recipe
for some people probably the vast
minority but folks should look out for
this anyway
the very sweet flavor of a diet soda
this works with regular soda too except
it adds the calories the very sweet
flavor of diet soda makes them want more
things that taste and feel good you get
a diet coke going especially if you're
on a fat loss diet should it taste so
goddamn good you want another one and
maybe you want some more junk food you
guys ever have like sometimes there's
like a sugar salt pairing thing that
goes on especially if you're hungry and
cravy you have a diet coke and you're
like damn you know what i'm saying i
could feel some chips right now chips
would solve every fucking problem i had
my life diet soda
chips if you're from the europe or the
uk crisps
fucking serendipity
but the problem is now you're eating
chips okay so if diet soda especially on
diets makes you cravy it does me
then you can sort of just have just like
maybe one diet coke or you know during
the day or one diet sprite in the
evening or something and restrain
yourself or just last couple weeks of a
cut just stick to water and sparkling
water so you don't get that rebound
craving effect if you know yourself well
you got to take those precautions and
that's only logical
lastly and i alluded to this earlier
diet soda doesn't reliably cause fat
loss okay if you're having diet soda
there's caffeine in it it can promote
fat loss a little bit directly and a
little bit more through hunger
suppression through the caffeine but
just diet soda in general it's not like
it's some kind of magic fat loss thing
if you take your regular soda and reduce
it or eliminate it you replace it with
diet and the rest of your diet is whole
health food and nutritious where at
least you don't eat more crap to fill it
up it will cause fat loss but if you
take down your regular soda increase
your diet soda and you go i'm on diet
soda now baby i'm fucking immortal i'll
never get fat and you just start eating
a bunch of crap and people are like you
just ate like five ice cream bars are
you
sure you're doing the thing with that we
talked about for january with the weight
and you getting healthier like wow
no problem
i'm drinking diet
okay right
now this is to say that if you're
successfully pulling off even some kind
of substitution that's a good start
people will make fun of this kind of
like meme trope of someone pulling
through a mcdonald's uh fast food line
and being like you know i'll take the
double triple cheeseburger and the extra
super whopper fries i know it's burger
king and uh about a diet coke and you'd
be like really a diet coke with all that
you fucking idiot well you know if you
do a regular coke especially at the fast
food sizes you could be out like 200
calories and look if you do like two
fast food meals a day
that's 400 calories a day that you're
now just not getting in and if again you
don't raise your intake somewhere else
you can have just reducing just going
from regular soda to diet soda and you
can straight up lose pounds a week for
weeks on end i physically know people as
opposed to mentally know people that
have lost like 20 or 30 pounds the only
thing they changed was they eliminated
regular soda and they went to diet that
is assuming they didn't increase all of
the other food which clearly they didn't
but you have to as well so it doesn't
cause reliable fat loss but when people
are making choices to have diet soda
even
if they're eating a ton of other crap
we shouldn't i'm like you can make fun
of anyone i'm all for it
you know as long as you don't do it to
their face and piss them off but it's
funny when you know they order all this
junk and then diet soda but it's
marginally better you know marginally
better which which is which is great
right at least they're not doing as much
bad as they could be in that case
so best practices first
i'm going to put a fine point on this
i'll caveat it but here it goes stop
drinking regular soda okay
soda the purpose of drinking soda in
almost every case almost you're
certainly the exception mr future
commentator
that
uh we almost exclusively drink diet soda
in the modern developed world for
entertainment or soda of any kind
like it just feels nice like you don't
have it you don't show up you come home
and you're like fuck i'm hungry there's
no other food i'll have a coke what
you're not like shopping for food and i
better have a coke no
you know they're like oh my god my blood
sugar's low for no goddamn reason
remember almost if you're diabetic this
is a valid thing but most people aren't
you know oh my blood sugar's low better
have a coke like this is like 10 other
foods you can have does not involve
actual soda so we if we really sort of
sort of quiet our minds and really
ponder on why we have soda in the modern
world at least because in the developing
world it actually is a decent source of
calories super cheap
the answer is it's just fun it's fun to
fucking drink it's the same thing like
why do we have alcohol there's no like
real utility for alcohol in almost every
case except for this is fun to drink
right so if you can have just the same
amount of perceptual fun tastes damn
near the same same fizzy texture and
flavor god i love that shit i love diet
soda um
you can have all that with diet soda and
yes it doesn't taste the same legit i
almost promise you i have to say
scientific and not say for sure promise
you give it like a few days or a week
just make the hard cold turkey
transition from regular to diet
you will be like diet tastes just fine
right i promise and after a while
regular tastes weird right especially if
they get the sodas right i don't know
coca-cola whatever you people are doing
making the uh
scott the video guy what's that shit
called it's not diet coke coke zero
coke zero
is like we got like the computer
the microwave the refrigerator the
communication satellite the moderna
vaccine and the tip of the spear of
modern science
is coca-cola's recipe
for fucking coke zero cause it's so good
and it doesn't even taste like
artificial sweetener even to the people
who try for the first time they're like
damn i can tell but barely so you get
used to it and i trust me it's worth it
because then you can enjoy more food
eaten and drink less of your calories
which is a super easy way to drink
calories you get all the experiential
effects of soda without any of the
calorie downside it's just a thing so
for most people it's just regular soda
just yeah if you drink it in front of me
i'm not judging you but i'm like have
you ever thought about switching to diet
like well why like well every single
benefit and almost no cost sounds like a
good thing to me right
second thing to sum all this up diet
soda is super safe but you don't have to
drink it i made a post once on my
instagram about like diet soda being
safe and maybe 800 000 people commented
they're like well i'll just stick to
water thanks and i'm like i gotcha i
wasn't actually offering you a free diet
soda in the street so you don't have to
respond like that but on a serious note
uh yeah totally cool water's great any
kind of low calorie beverage when you
put calories in your beverages that
aren't super nutritious most sodas and
juices there's start to be some
trade-offs and with diet soda and water
and sparkling water and a bunch of those
others oh what else is good the ocean
spray
diet cranberry juice damn that shit is
fire as hell if i'm on fire if you ever
see me physically on fire pour that
child want water on any part of my body
and no fire retardant don't even get the
canister out
ocean spray calorie free shit or the
five calories shit although i want i
want a religious experience that's what
i'm amazing stuff and you don't have to
get all those extra calories in there if
you don't have a problem with your
weight and you like to enjoy
a regular soda or a caloric beverage
like an orange juice or something that's
totally cool but if you're remotely
struggling with your weight you're
remotely strong with your health this is
one of the easiest switches you could
ever make
if last point you know someone that
drinks regular soda
try to gently encourage them or ask them
about and maybe get them to try to drink
more diet or all diet soda
because it's probably better in almost
every way by a long shot
alright so now i can check this off uh
i've been paid by
big diet soda
thanks for the check every
week guys
see you next time for another myth