here how to train for muscle growth if
you don't have much time first you can
do as few as five hard sets a week per
muscle group and still make gains
secondly make sure you make each of
those sets count take each set very
close to failure or Beyond failure this
has been shown to cause more hypertrophy
on a pro set basis and it takes
essentially no additional time third
minimize warm-up time within your
sessions if you're spending half an hour
warming up for a session and you only
have 60 Minutes To Train that's half an
hour you could have been spending
training hard and making additional
muscle growth gains generally restrict
warm up sets to 1 to three at the most
per exercise finally make sure you use
techniques like antagonistic period
super sets drop sets or myor reps in
order to save time within your session
there's been studies on antagonistic
period suets where you suet for example
a bicep and tricep exercise and drop
sets which have shown the same
hypertrophy but cutting down time taken
to train by about 50 to 70%