the truth is that you shouldn't be
training to failure all the time if
you're looking to maximize muscle growth
but equally failure isn't something you
should always avoid here's exactly how
hard to train if you want to maximize
muscle building based on latest
scientific
evidence welcome back Dr mil wolf today
PhD in sport Science with wolf coaching
breaking down how hard to train to
maximize muscle growth your first
question heading into this video might
be should I be taking my sets to failure
or not the truth is that is not the most
helpful question instead we need to
reframe it in terms of how close to
failure you should be training instead
of Simply dichotomizing things into your
training to failure or you're not
training to failure it's more helpful to
look at things in terms of repetitions
in reserve how many more repetitions
could you have done with good technique
before you simply couldn't lift the
weight anymore that's where the concept
of repetitions in reserve comes in it's
simply something you can think about
when you're doing your sets if you think
could have done two more reps before
reaching failure you had two repetitions
in reserve on that set why is this
important well for one taking a set to
two repetitions in Reserve versus 10
repetitions in reserve will not have the
same effect for muscle building while
you're not hitting failure in either
case one of those two sets is going to
be more effective the one where you go
to two repetitions in reserve and
secondly this concept of repetitions and
Reserve is how we've looked at training
to failure versus not training to
failure in in the research to determine
exactly how close to failure you should
be training to maximize muscle building
and using exactly this concept of
repetitions and reserve a met regression
last year by Robinson and colleagues
looked at how the effectiveness of a
given set changes as you go closer and
closer to failure in other words you
have fewer and fewer repetitions in
reserve they looked at all the studies
where they were able to find out how
many repetitions in reserve were
participants training with amongst
different groups and when combining all
of those results from a variety of
studies here's what they found the
closer you take a setep to failure all
else being equal the more hypertrophy
that set will cause importantly these
results are somewhat at ODS with
previous research previous met analyses
had found potentially a small effect of
going all the way to failure versus not
going to failure but importantly these
previous review papers had the flaw of
Simply dichotomizing as I mentioned
earlier but all in all when you take
this review paper by Ren s and
colleagues alongside other review papers
performed in the past the picture
emerges that The Closer a set has taken
to failure the more have Pur absorbed so
take every set to failure that is the
video I will see you wait a minute no
that is not the video because while
taking a set closer to failure that does
seem to lead to more muscle growth on a
set poep basis taking a set closer to
failure also is more fatiguing and
because your body can only recover from
so much fatigue in a given training week
we want to make sure we're actually
getting sufficient bang for a buckit
we're not just getting a lot of fatigue
for not much additional stimulus because
yeah training closer to failure and to
failure is more fatiguing than training
further away from failure and that's
exactly what a study by Pera Blanco and
colleagues from a few years ago found in
this study they had participants train
with somewhere between their 4 to 12
repetition maximum essentially a lad
that they're able to lift for 4 to 12
reps in an allout effort before they hit
failure and essentially with a variety
of loads ranging from a full rep max to
a 12 rep max they have participants
perform both all out sets to failure and
sub maximal sets where they left
somewhere between two to six repetition
Reserve then after they had participants
performed these different tests they
also measured their fatigue in a variety
of ways for more physiological markers
of muscle damage for example like
creating kindes levels to more
performance-based outcomes like how much
weight they were able to lift at a
certain velocity which is tightly
correlated to your performance
day-to-day and therefore your recovery
indeed in sports science terms recovery
is typically defined as a return of
performance to Baseline pre- disruption
and basically training all the way to
failure caused a lot more fatigue both
in terms of physiological markers like
creating kyese and also in terms of
performance outcomes this was apparent
in both the bench press exercise and in
the squad lifters both experienced more
fatigue immediately after the session
when they trained to failure versus not
training to failure as well as 6 hours
after the session a day after the
session and even 2 days after the
session and so training to failure does
seem to be more fatiguing alongside also
being more stimulating for hyy now one
reservation I had in the past is that I
thought that training to failure might
be something you can get used used to in
other words when you first train to
failure you get really tired and gassed
out but then as you keep training to
failure week after week maybe it's
something you're used to and the
additional fatigue diminishes over time
your body has a set of mechanisms in
place that we've coined the repeated
bout effect to prevent excessive fatigue
when you're repeatedly exposed to the
same stimulus over and over again
however unfortunately you may not
actually get used to this over time that
is according to a recent study by ref
following colleagues using a within
particular ipant design where
participants trained one leg one way and
their other leg another way they were
comparing training all the way to
failure with one leg to training with
one to two repetitions in reserve with
the other leg for both legs they were
doing single-legged leg press followed
by single-legged leg extensions the only
difference was that one leg was training
all the way to failure and the other leg
keeping one to two repetitions in
reserve on all sets and this study had a
few interesting findings first when
training to failure the drop off in
performance from set one to the last set
of an exercise
was larger compared to when they didn't
train to failure in other words the
fatigue generated from training all the
way to failure impaired performance on
subsequent sets more compared to when
they just kept one to two reps in the
tank all those earlier sets and
importantly that additional fatigue
generated from set 1 to set three for
example maintained throughout the study
so at all points throughout the study
the leg that was trained failure had a
bigger drop off or bigger fatigue
essentially from set one to the last set
suggesting that failure isn't something
you can get used to altogether it is
still going to be more fatiguing even
after 8 weeks of training as it was in
this case in addition in this study they
broadly observed similar muscle growth
whether sets were taken to 1 to two reps
in reserve or all the way to failure
when you zoom in further into the
results I think there's a couple of
potential things you can also glean
number one the difference between one to
two repetitions in reserve and truly
going all the way to failure might be
too small to really be able to detect in
a relatively small sample going back to
the metanalysis by Robinson and
colleagues earlier we do expect more
muscle growth from a given set the
closer you go to failure however this
difference isn't going to be huge when
you're talking about a set taken to one
to two ups in reserve and a set taken to
failure and so in the context of this
study we may just not have had
sufficient statistical power to detect
any differences in muscle growth
secondly if you look at the muscle
growth results closely there is a
potential interesting finding here now
keep in mind in this study participants
started with a leg press followed by a
leg extension additionally the leg that
was being trained to failure experienced
larger fatigue than the like that was
being trained sub maximally so if
training to failure was causing so much
fatigue that it could actually impair
hypertrophy down the line we would
expect less muscle growth stemming from
the leg extension in the leg that was
training to failure by the time they got
to leg extensions they had already
performed leg press to failure and they
were quite fatigued and therefore we
might expect a leg extension to have
become less effective for hypertrophy
than if you just kept a few reps in the
tank earlier in the session and they may
or may not have found this so the like
press press is a much better exercise
for targeting the vastest muscles or the
vast eye muscles of the quadriceps that
is because those muscles only perform
knee extension so whether you're doing a
compound exercise or an isolation
exercise they are going to be trained
effectively however the fourth head of
the quadriceps the rectus femoris is
best targeted during isolation movements
like a leg extension that's because
while it does knee extension it also
does hip flexion so when you're doing
something like a leg press or even a
squat or a lunge you're lengthening it
at one joint while shortening it at
another joint and this Dynamic generally
doesn't lead to the best growth for
instance in a study by KU and colleagues
they found minimal Reus sporus growth
when just doing the squad and in this
study they potentially observed slightly
better vasus lateralis growth when
training all the way to failure but
slightly worse rectus femoris growth
when training all the way to failure
suggesting that the additional fatigue
generated by going to failure too early
in that session for that muscle might
have interfered with the second exercise
and how effective that exercise was and
so potentially going too close to
failure too early into a session might
actually impair hypertrophy on those
subsequent movements and subsequent sets
before we move on I want to clarify the
difference in terms of rectus femoris
growth and vasus lateralis growth was
very small but it makes sense to expect
this sort of finding so I do think it's
something we probably want to keep in
mind at the very least if we want to
hedge our bets it may be worth reserving
failure for a little bit later in the
session whenever we choose to train to
failure there is the opportunity cost of
for example doing more volume doing more
volume will also cause more muscle
hypertrophy but it is also more
fatiguing so we have to pick one which
one do we pick training closer to
failure or doing more volume let me give
you an analogy so you can understand how
volume and training closer to failure
impact your body your body is kind of
like a sink there is a drain pipe that
gets the water to leave and there's a
tap that you turn on to fill the sink
with water the amount of water being L
into the sink through the tap is
essentially how much fatigue your
training is generating if there's too
much water coming in eventually it'll
overflow and cause a ton of a mess
and that's where the size of your drain
pipe comes in the bigger the drain pipe
the more water can exit the sink
preventing it from overflowing and in
this case the size of the drain pipe is
essentially your body's ability to
recover which can be influenced for
example by how well you sleep how good
your nutrition is and so forth But
ultimately there's only so much bigger
you can make your own drain pipe through
things like good nutrition good sleep
and so forth at some point you just have
to control how much water you're
actually putting into the sink to begin
with otherwise it will overflow now both
doing more sets in the gym and training
closer to failure will increase how much
water is flowing into your sink but
since both of those things cause more
hypertrophy that is fine we just want to
be mindful of which one we pick given
that there's only so much water we can
put into the sink at once before it
starts overflowing and goes south
you need to pick your poison you can't
be maximally pushing volume and
maximally pushing relative intensity at
the same time there's always some give
and take whenever you're making training
decisions just keep this dynamic in mind
if you're pushing your sets closer to
failure all of a sudden just keep in
mind you might need to lower the number
of sets you're doing with that being
said most people can recover from much
more than they think they can and in
fact reported cases of overtraining
within the literature are remarkably
rare but so which one should you
prioritize should you be doing more and
more sets to get more hypertrophy or
should you be taking your existing sets
closer to failure well there is a
metanalysis coming out soon by the guys
over a datadriven strength that should
give us some answers in that regard but
in the meantime here is my attempt and
my practical advice to you as to how
close to failure you should train and
how many sets you should be doing the
aim here is to get the best of both
worlds if you want to maximize muscle
growth for a given muscle and you've
been training for more than about 6 or
12 months there's a good chance you'll
need to do 20 to maybe 30 sets per week
per muscle to really maximize
hypertrophy and yes those sets are close
to failure some people in my comments
always been talking about there's no way
you can do that much volume or train
close to failure without over training
you haven't tried it potentially maybe
that's a you problem cuz I don't seem to
be having an issue what I'm saying is
it's t to toward grinding so generally
if you've been training for a while I
would start with training most of your
muscles around 15 to 20 sets per week
per muscle and see how you do if you
want more growth and you're responding
reasonably well feel free to increase it
closer to the 20 to 30 set per week per
muscle range as far as how close to
failure to train I think we want to get
the benefits of training close to
failure without getting the downside
side of getting more fatigu in and the
following is my attempt at getting just
that whenever you're training for muscle
growth start the first set of an
exercise a bit further from failure for
example at two repetitions in reserve
then as you perform each subsequent set
on that exercise inch a little bit
closer to failure maybe all the way to
failure on that last set that way you
get to maintain a high level of
performance by not going to failure too
soon in that exercise and fatiguing
yourself for the subsequent sets but you
also get the benefit of one training
pretty close to failure on average and
two getting at least one or two
exposures to True failure on that last
set or two next if you have multiple
exercises targeting the same muscle
groups on a given day I would generally
Reserve failure or training very close
to failure for those last exercises for
instance if you're doing both the
barbell bench press and a dumbbell fly
on the same training day if you're
starting with a bench press consider
going from three reps in reserve on the
first set to one rep in reserve on the
last set for the bench and then starting
dmer flies around two reps in reserve
and going all the way to failure on that
last set that way you'll still be
performing well on the dly but you're
also getting the benefit of training to
failure on that isolation movement a
third guideline for how close to failure
you should be training is to consider
context I train Monday through Friday I
train 5 days a week there are going to
be days where it's wiser and less wise
for me to go all the way to failure on
Friday for example where I have a full
72 hours until my next workout I can go
balls to the wall I can go ham and I
likely will still recover just fine by
the time I have to train on Monday so if
you know that you're going to have quite
a bit of time before you train those
same muscle groups again feel free to
train a bit harder than usual but if you
know you're going to be training the
same muscle group again tomorrow maybe
don't train quite as close to failure
basically Reserve failure for when
recovery won't be an issue for like 80
or 90% of trainees I think that starting
an exercise around three reps in reserve
and inching closer to one rep in reserve
and then for later sizes within that
session maybe starting at two and ending
your last set or two at failure is a
great place to be and that's why I'd
recommend for 80 or 90% of people
training for hypertrophy out there
generally if you find that your recovery
is a bit wor maybe stick closer to 3:1
if your recover is a bit better maybe
stick closer to 2 to Z as a rough
guideline these will cover you one final
takeaway if you don't have much time to
train across the week anyways like
you're in the gym for an hour two
maximum per week regardless you should
be taking each set very close to failure
in fact I would probably go from one rep
and reserve on your first set all the
way to failure for your last few sets on
every exercise because for you fatigue
won't really be an issue you're barely
filling up that sink at all and so no
matter how big your drain pipe is it
won't ever overflow if the ultimate
bottleneck for muscle growth for you is
time and not recovery then ignore what I
said just train close to failure most of
the time I have a whole video on how to
train if you're pressed for time
somewhere up here but specifically for
you if you're pressed for time you will
want to opt towards training closer to
failure versus just doing more sets all
the time that is the video I hope you
enjoyed the video if you did please
leave a like comment subscribe let me
know what other videos you want to see
me make Milo I don't want to be thinking
about all this training to failure not
training to failure stuff isn't there
just something that can do all the
thinking for me there is and it's called
myo adapt my adapt is a training app
that is essentially a coach in your
pocket all of the stuff I mentioned
throughout this video about how you
should train a bit further from failure
when you start an exercise and then in
closer and closer to failure here yeah
my adap does all of that it tells you
how close to failure to train for
earlier sets of an exercise as well as
later sets of an exercise it takes into
account your recovery to dictate how
close to failure to train it allo
regulates how many sets you're doing per
week per muscle based on your
performance and other feedback week to
week and I'm confident in saying there
is nothing else like it out there
currently go to myad app.com and sign up
to be notified when it does get released
if you're training for hypertrophy I
think it's a no-brainer now I hear you
saying Dr wolf that is a nice oversized
quadruple Lex H t-shirt please don't F
Che me on the size I was lying if you
like the t-shirt and you like to support
wolf coaching check out Rascal
apparel.com it's comfortably my favorite
training clothing to use and since I
like it I think you might like it too
use code wolf at checkout to get 10% off
finally in the meantime if You' like me
to coach you and help you reach your
goals check out the link above and I can
become your coach that is the video have
a phenomenal day and we'll see you next
time peace