oh hey camera oh shit how long have you
been here it's me Dr Mike for Radisson
securitization I represent so many other
companies she was
it just gets boring by the way in a
sense this video is brought to you by
the RP diet coach app so check that out
it'll do your diet for you it'll tell
you what to eat when it'll plan out all
your meals you still get to pick the
foods but it guides you on all the
macros it'll message you when it's time
to eat it really is like having a bad
coach in your pocket so if you're into
like hardcore results driven diet stuff
it's the shit you kind of like eating
one meal a day of fuck all and getting
zero results don't download it in any
case
today we are going to learn how to do
coils
for the goyles hi it says barbell curls
on my list of things to do I'm going to
demonstrate this with an easy bar
because the principles are exactly
transferable the only caveat I say
caveat but what do I know I'm not Latin
is that you have to make sure your
wrists and elbows are okay with doing a
straight bar but if they're not a easy
bar can come in super handy so with that
being said world's longest intro shut up
Mike let's get to the first tip
first tip to make sure you heal your
biceps better is to choose the
appropriate grip the answer on here is
it um totally up to individual
preference you're looking for a few
things you're looking for a grip that is
comfortable for your elbows comfortable
for your shoulders and in which you can
really feel the biceps working for some
people a wider grip works really well
for some people a closer grip works
really well there are no wrong answers
here you just have to make sure you're
picking the grip that works best for you
at that time so it's totally fine to do
like a few months of close grip kind of
burn out of it switch to wide grip and
any Easy Bar becomes two variations now
if wide or close just never works for
you it hurts your elbows hurts your
shoulders never feel your biceps then
don't bother with the grip that doesn't
work
next tip for you guys to play around
with I'm sure you're used to playing
around with tips at your day job is to
figure out if you like to curl more
straight up and down or more in an
arcing fashion again there's no correct
answer here it's just how you get the
best feel in your biceps so straight up
and down sometimes these are called drag
curls and a few other things I've done a
few curls and drag if you know what I
mean so what you'll do is you'll kind of
curl just like this you'll curl down the
bar kind of travels in more or less a
straight line and if you feel your
biceps a ton this is great this is a
great exercise for people that tend to
feel like they're front delts are way
too involved in an arc curl and they're
like I can't feel my biceps sometimes
that works well for them the other
alternative sometimes it's good to take
a little bit of a wider stance if you're
skinny enough to do this you can pin
your elbows and your hips and then you
Arc the entire motion looks like a
u-shape
and then it really can stimulate the
biceps of Shield load there's no
guarantee that one of those will work
better than the other try both see how
you feel best case scenario they both
are winners in their own separate ways
and then you just have two variations on
one individual exercise sometimes people
just really don't like one or the other
let me know in the comments which one of
these has worked best for you
oh
what to do with the elbows
couple different camps on the internet
for this
some people say you should keep your
elbows pinned to your sides and thus the
curl will look something like this right
elbows don't really move much
bit of an interesting range of motion
here
it can work work super great for some
people it can really isolate the biceps
and get a great mind muscle connection
other folks like to let the elbows roll
more freely and curl sort of to the neck
slash face area so the curl like this
and then slow eccentric down notice my
elbows do move
you'll get some people saying that hold
on
if your elbows move like that using your
shoulders are not your biceps but it
turns out your biceps are actually a
shoulder flexor that's level one
thinking that's totally valid
level two thinking just above or below
depending on how you conceptualize these
things is the fact that bicep flexion at
the shoulder in this position is not
remotely a prime mover so yes your front
delts are still involved and the forces
on the bicep are not very high up here
so it doesn't actually add a whole lot
of stimulus
totally valid I checked the shit out
level three level three tells us through
lots of trial and error and this is a
little Jared feather type of technique
is that if you curl like this and you
get a ton out of it that's totally fine
and great I'm not dogging on this method
but if you curl all the way up to the
face it can allow you to unload the
movement which gives you a little Breaky
break at the top which turns every
single curl rep into kind of a Maya rep
situation so you curl all the way up big
squeeze that squeeze at the top doesn't
stimulate a lot of muscle growth but it
can enhance the Mind muscle connection
and you go from squeezing at the top
to painfully introducing The Eccentric
in a slow fashion and that sets your
muscles up for an incredible mind muscle
connection and also because it lets you
take a little break at the top you can
add a crap load of reps that are all
very close to failure towards the tail
end of the set
again there is no 100 right way to do
this both options work they can just be
two variations you use or you can use
whichever one you prefer at the time or
one of these just totally doesn't work
for you and the other works great try
them both before you write them off they
can both be super duper
[Music]
this video is not an instructional guide
for how to do bicep curls we actually
have that video if you search it through
RP we have a few of them this is a
targeting the muscle series video
assuming you already do the basics well
to get you to that next level this video
has targeted you the viewer that's like
look I'm doing this exercise right I
think but I fucking don't feel my biceps
I don't know what the fuck is going on
help don't worry we have heard your call
for help and we're answering so assuming
you're not doing stupid bullshit like
swinging around
you could still be doing your curls a
little too fast on The Eccentric and it
makes sense it's super tempting I'm
tempted with it all the fucking time if
you're on rep number 12 of 14 reps and
you curl up no cheating like no more
momentum
it's not really tempting to fucking
painfully over three to five seconds
control The Eccentric and then do
another rep fuck that I'm trying to get
up here and I'm trying to be like bam
bam and then get up again so I can get
the fuck out stop doing these stupid
reps go home and rethink my life
but as I am rethinking my life I'm not
growing nearly as much as if I had
considered because I don't really feel
the biceps much getting that fucking
nasty eccentric so treat
your curls
to a little bit of anti-ego juice
patented RP product
forget about how much weight is on the
bar put enough weight in the bar that
it's super fucking light
embarrassingly light
your gym Crush walks in and she's like
oh my God are you like wake and you're
like yeah but
I love you
don't take advice from me on how to talk
to girls you probably don't already and
that's for the best here's the deal
lightweight normal curl
five normal curl and a five fucking
Centric section
awful if I was doing this with weight
I'd quit right on camera it can make a
big difference it can let you feel the
living fuck out of your biceps I've
trained lots of people in person with
this method people who said I don't get
a lot out of the curl and biceps and
after about the fourth rep of slow
eccentric they look at me and I'm like
are you feeling your biceps and they're
like
stop crying and wipe that weakness juice
off your face you've got big arms to
grow it works really well give it a shot
[Music]
Maya reps
what the fuck that's not a technique I
know
it is a training modality
however
if you have trouble feeling your biceps
a lot of times it's because at the end
of a set it gets really tough and you
finally start feeling your biceps
and the settings
it is over
and you look around
you see Jim Crush walk by and you're
like
and she pretends not to see you and
you're like
okay just
just me being me again
however if you really want to feel your
biceps more try my reps which means
after you do like a good set of 15 to 20
put the weight down it's great to have
this actually this exact setup we have a
bench because if you put the curls all
the way down to the ground it's just
fucking annoying tiring for the lower
back Etc
put it down here Shake It Out rest like
three to five seconds three to five long
breaths
the shit going again
pump out another very close to failure
set whatever your rir is for that week
let's say two reps from fail let's say
you get like six girls or something
after six I put it down
holy shit almost every one of those
fucked my biceps up because I was
already close to failure another three
to five seconds and I go again
same idea how many of these to do
start out with two or three my reps
which means
one set of 15 to 20 and then either one
or two sets just like that with three to
five seconds
that'll cook you next week add another
one add another one add another one as
recovery allows that way you could get
to like week four or five of your plan
before deloading you could have one set
that starts the whole shit off and then
like six sets afterwards of five to ten
repetitions each oh my fucking God it
keeps your biceps close to failure for
like 30 fucking reps it's brutal it will
cook your ass you'll finally get big
arms you'll come up to that fucking gym
Crush again you'll be like hey Stacy
fucks up that shit he says
Rob we'll just say your name's Rob for
the purposes of this you're like yeah
what do you want to do about it she's
like I want to have sex with you rob
those threw something and they're
fucking head spins and you're in baby
Satanist chicks get all the love
see you guys next time
[Music]