[Music]
okay welcome everyone to a new episode
of myth-busting
where every Monday we're gonna take a
look at some fitness or nutrition myth
look at where that myths got started and
then why it's actually wrong based on
the most recent scientific evidence um
you guys may notice I'm actually in a
hotel in Orlando right now so excuse the
a typical background this week we're
gonna be looking at the idea that
there's a maximum amount of protein that
you can absorb in one city and what that
number is will depend on who you ask but
usually it's something like 20 to 30
grams of protein and the reason goes
that because there's a limit on the
amount of protein you can absorb it's a
good idea to space your meals out or
space your protein out across five or
six meals throughout the day because if
you were to just lump it all in one or
two meals then a big chunk of that
protein would be going to waste
so first where did this myth come from
um well the true myth is that only 20 to
30 grams of protein can be absorbed and
the word absorb is the key player the
key error because in reality we have
virtually an unlimited capacity to
absorb amino acids from protein
according to a 2009 paper on digestion
and absorption
virtually all ingested protein is
absorbed by healthy humans so the
terminology is important here and we're
using absorption to simply refer to the
passage of nutrients through the gut and
then through the intestinal wall and
into circulation in the blood and
absorption isn't the issue here
you could eat say 300 grams of protein
and absorb all or nearly all of that
just fine but I think what people really
mean when they ask this question is
whether or not protein intakes over say
20 or 30 grams in a single meal is
actually used to support muscle building
and
that the literature actually doesn't
have a perfectly clear answer on this
question but there is a lot of data out
there and I think that it can give us a
pretty good idea um so let's go ahead
and dig right in so in 2015 dr. stu
phillips research group published a
review article hinting at the existence
of a so-called muscle full effect the
idea that with increasing protein doses
you'll eventually hit a seal Pass which
increasing protein further doesn't do
anything extra for muscle protein
synthesis the ceiling has been
previously proposed in a pretty large
body of literature to be roughly 20
grams the first study to show this
compared 20 grams of whole egg protein
with 40 grams of whole egg protein
following a leg workout and they found
no significant difference between the
two groups suggesting that you get all
the anabolic bang for your buck that you
need with just 20 grams similar results
were found in another study where 30
grams of beef protein was just as
effective as 90 grams of beef protein at
stimulating muscle protein synthesis and
still more research showed that protein
consumed beyond 20 grams resulted in
increased oxidation meaning the amino
acids were being burned off for energy
and increased urea production further
indicating that there is some sort of
limit on the amount of protein that can
be used for muscle protein synthesis in
one sitting so so far based on this scan
of the literature it really seems to be
the case that that upper ceiling of how
much protein you can utilize in one meal
seems to be about 20 to 30 grams however
I think that in practice it isn't really
quite that simple because how much
protein you can use in a single meal
depends on at least three factors first
of which is the size of the person seems
to be the case that folks with more
muscle tend to need more protein to max
out the muscle protein synthesis ponds
so to account for this and general
inter-individual variability the
phillips review suggested 0.4 grams per
kilogram or about 0.18 grams per pound
as a reasonable upper limit so for a 120
pound person it would be about 22 grams
but for a 200 pound person it'd be more
like 36 grams so for bigger guys 22
30 grams may actually not be enough
protein to fully max out that protein
synthetic response the amount of protein
needed also depends on the amount of
muscle mass being trained in contrast to
the earlier studies a 2016 paper showed
that 40 grams of whey protein was in
fact better at increasing muscle protein
synthesis than 20 grams and because of
many of the earlier studies used lower
body training only and this study used a
full body training routine this led the
authors to believe that when you
activate more muscle mass and a workout
you require more protein to max out the
protein synthetic response a third thing
that definitely seems to drive the
number up is age and as we get older a
well-established phenomenon known as
anabolic resistance occurs and this
basically means that you need more
protein to get the same muscle protein
synthesis so these factors in mind that
the ceiling is no longer looking quite
as strict at the twenty or thirty
grandma and I think some individuals
especially those who are older who have
larger muscle masses and perhaps you do
full body training could easily stand to
benefit from say 40 or even 50 or
perhaps more grams of protein in a
single citizen but this answer still
doesn't seem to satisfy many experts in
the field and there seems to be
something just wrong with the idea that
you ate say 80 grams of protein in a
single meal at least half of that would
be going to waste when it comes to
building muscle and I think a big part
of this intuition comes from the idea
that most of the research we've been
looking at so far is based on acute
measures of muscle protein synthesis not
long term trials in this investigating
full scale muscle hypertrophy so some
would argue is just a little too
speculative to make any strong
conclusions about a true protein sealant
and I think a lot of this pushback comes
from the intermittent fasting community
where it's common to see folks the huge
bonuses of protein say 75 or a hundred
grams of protein so based across one to
two meals in a say four to eight hour
eating window and I will admit that in
the real world this feeding schedule
doesn't really seem to affect their
ability to add me mass in any way and I
think that there's some literature to
support this idea as well
one intermittent fasting study from
soldiers and colleagues found that
assuming on average 101 grams of protein
in one four-hour eating window versus a
more conventional spread out pattern
resulted in no differences in lean mass
preservation between the groups and
another paper found that consuming one
meal per day with roughly 86 grams of
protein actually showed improvements in
body composition when compared to that
protein being spaced out more evenly
across three meals I think a few obvious
limitations with this research are the
use of bioelectrical impedance which is
pretty unreliable and the fact that
total daily protein intake was pretty
low which I think draws into question
its applicability in the real world so
coming full circle on this I don't think
we have a perfectly clear answer on how
many grams of protein the body can use
for building muscle in a single meal we
do know that we have a virtually
unlimited capacity to absorb amino acids
from protein how much of that is
actually utilized in terms of building
new muscle will depend on a whole bunch
of factors not limited to your age the
amount of muscle mass that you're
exercising your actual body size and
also really importantly the quality of
that protein so for something a little
bit more tangible here's my personal
take on this after reading through all
this literature I think it's clear that
the most important factor when it comes
to building muscle
apart from resistance training is total
daily protein intake and I think most of
the experts on this issue would agree
and even though they may disagree about
exactly how much protein you need I
think that one gram per pound for
relatively lean individuals is plenty
meaning that's more than enough and next
I think assuming your protein is of
sufficient enough quality may be a good
idea to space that protein out somewhat
evenly across say four to five meals and
I think that this is probably slightly
more optimal than say bola Singh at all
in one or two huge protein doses
somebody you are someone who does follow
intermittent fasting I wouldn't say that
just because you do skew your protein
intake to be mostly consumed in one or
two massive feedings I wouldn't say that
most of that protein is going to waste
and this is just based on my
observations in the field that people
who practice intermittent fasting
and some of this intermittent fasting
research and I think that there's a few
reasonable explanations for this it's
possible that in the case of mixed meals
where you have a ton of calories coming
in from multiple different sources with
lots of different macronutrients
digestion and absorption is going to be
slowed to a great degree anyway and it
seems perfectly plausible that those
extra amino acids that may not
necessarily be contributing to muscle
protein synthesis may have a positive
effect on limiting muscle protein
breakdown but again ultimately I think
it comes back to your goals if you're
someone who's trying to get every morsel
of muscle that you possibly can it may
be more optimal for you to space out
your protein across say four or five
meals with maybe thirty to forty grams
of protein in each meal but if you're
someone who is just looking to you know
improve your general shape and size and
I think that you should focus more so on
hitting your total daily protein intake
and whatever protein scheduling it is
that allows you to hit that best is what
you should go okay so the rabbit uh the
real myth here is that you can only
absorb thirty grams of protein in one
sitting in reality you can absorb at
least ten times that amount no problem
but the real question is whether or not
you can use that much protein in one
sitting and I think that looking at the
literature we just don't really have a
clear answer on this I think that if I
were to look at just a muscle protein
synthesis something around 30 to 40
grams is probably where you start to see
that ceiling or that muscle full effect
however looking at the intermittent
fasting literature it could be the case
that those extra amino acids that aren't
contributing to protein synthesis are
limiting muscle protein breakdown and I
think that the body is smart in that way
and I think that it can find a way to
use that extra protein provided total
daily protein targets are being hit
alright so guys that's going to conclude
this week's myth-busting day another
that isn't quite black-and-white but I
think that there is a lot of nuance and
a lot of complexity to this issue so I
hope that you guys really found it
informative and before we go
I really want to thank audible for
sponsoring this video I'm one of the
questions I get asked all the time is
what books do I read and how the trial
one we do and just constantly being on
the go
and without busy I am and it's not
always easy to read books in print form
so i will use audiobooks to help get
more of my reading in and one book i'd
like to really recommend to you guys is
the gene by Siddhartha Mukherjee and
this audiobook is actually read by oh
Siddhartha himself and it comes highly
recommended a really good survey of all
that we know basically on human genetics
starting all the way back from Mendel
all the way up to our current
understanding of genetics and if you
guys would like to try out audible you
can go to audible.com forward slash Jeff
nippers or if you text Jeff Nippert to
500 500 and you can get a free 30 day
trial and a free audio book of your
choice personally been using audible for
three or four years and I think it's a
great service you guys would like to
check it out I'll have the first link
down there in the description you can
get started on your free trial today so
thank you so much audible for sponsoring
this video I really appreciate it thank
you guys so much for watching if you
liked the video please leave me a thumbs
up subscribe if you happen to be new and
I will see you guys all here next Monday