whoa this is just a snap I had breakfast
already gotcha
I had protein and oatmeal two bananas
her breakfast this is my dad we got
Ronnie Coleman bulk all the new merch is
lit check it Steph just launched her
merch all right so guys here's my
pre-workout meal you guys have seen this
from me so much
I'm currently tracking macros that Kris
Barakat gave me I'm not sure if I've
said that in the video but I'll put my
current macros up here on the screen
I've actually been hitting them really
well which I'm loving at the moment also
for my Australia people I am just now
finishing up my presentation for the
ultimate evidence-based fitness
conference in Melbourne so I'm gonna be
a guest speaker there amongst a totally
stacked lineup of speakers I'm actually
super excited for this talk I'll have
more information about that in the
description box below
some of the speakers that are gonna be
at the event so dr. Eric Helms I've
interviewed before Meno I've interviewed
before dr. Mike Ezra tell James Krieger
these other guys are super smart to have
been on Danny Lennon's podcast before
and absolutely stacked lineup and one of
the coolest things is that on the third
day Eric Mike and myself are going to be
doing an applied seminar so how to
modify technique for hypertrophy it's
gonna be totally hands-on and
interactive so I'm really looking
forward to that
you guys are interested it's actually
going to be one week from the day that
this video goes live so if you want to
check it out if you're in Melbourne and
interested I'll have tickets just for
true box below all right babe so what's
up why why are you eating 4,000 calories
a day so I have basically gone all-in
you don't know what that means because I
would
there you have to watch my all in video
to kind of get some context if you
follow Jeff you might have an idea that
I can eat a lot of foods I'm always
hungry so I am going all-in in an effort
to fix that hunger at least try to
rescue my hunger cues and in the process
I will be gaining a lot of weight but
it's going to be ok because eventually I
think my weight will plateau I will
hopefully have normal hunger cues at
that point and then hopefully try to
slowly lose some of that weight I don't
it's not gonna be the end of the world
but that's the idea as long as I can
live my life without always thinking
about food and always being hungry I'll
be happy and I can attest it uh so
you've been eating about on average 4000
calories a day for how long now the
point is since Memorial Day so it's been
over three weeks okay so every single
day some days it's been 6000 calories
some days it's been like around 4 but on
average around for 4,000 yeah and like
she's gonna do a full update on her
channel but I just wanted to like make
you guys also aware of this too because
I feel like it is something a lot of
people in fitness struggle with in terms
of like extreme hunger and then a lot of
the symptoms yeah food focus and a lot
of the symptoms that go along with
amenorrhea or hypothalamic amenorrhea
which she did a video on as well but you
didn't technically have what happened
did have some of the symptoms right so
anyone who's been in the caloric deficit
probably knows these feelings you're
always cold you're tired your recovery
is not great in the gym and you're
hungry and you're really focused on food
so I think mine is a little bit elevated
due to the fact that I think I have a
very large capacity I can eat so my
extreme hunger is very high and it was
getting to the point where I couldn't
sustain like my everyday life without
just like going to bed so hungry every
single night
I love this idea how much weight are you
up right now what does it pick or should
we give that'd be 15 pounds so I think
you look amazing I love the way you look
right now and I think I think it's a
very positive thing so anyway I won't go
into any more detail but that she's
gonna do a full-blown video on and if
you guys like to check it out if you'd
like to get her first video explaining
more of the rationale I'll have that
linked down below as well probably
gotten this because I've noticed this in
your comments sometimes and it's always
God is who are like oh you don't need to
bulk on that many calories and it's like
you're not bulking like it's not a
physique driven thing the idea is to
like increase your metabolism reduce
your hunger reduce food focus it's more
of a psychological thing than like oh
I'm trying to bulk up to gain muscle
even though you will do that you are
training heavier and you'll see that
today when we go for our workout but I
just want to disclaim that it's not like
she's like 115 pounds or I was like I
need 4,000 calories the bulk is like a
totally unique scenario there's nothing
for a human to picture to do with
physique gold building muscle nothing to
do with that I've actually taken any
Norma's step back with my training it's
just the days that I do train I have so
much energy that I do try to lift a
little bit heavier but in terms of how
many days a week that I'm training and
like doing zero cardio but in terms of
how many days that I'm training it's
substantially less than I was I'm just
trying to rest recover my metabolism and
just like I don't know enjoy the process
awesome we going for a workout two
scoops down I just remember this I know
people are gonna comment on this to me
so the all in experiment the only reason
why you know your average calories is
because you're tracking for an
experiment you're gonna document on your
channel the idea isn't to hit a calorie
target and try to eat 4,000 calories is
just you eat to satiety it's like true
intuitive eating basically if you have
extreme hunger they have you just so
happen to eat a lot and that's kind of
the way it worked out so the way that
I'm treating it is more like a
scientific experiment so I'm trying to
detach myself from numbers so when I
weigh myself every morning I feel like
I'm documenting it as if I'm like a
subject not me like I'm like
imagine it being somebody else more or
less and then documenting what somebody
else is eating is how I'm like detaching
myself so I document everything that I'm
eating but I only focus on the number at
the end of the day when I need to write
down like how much I actually ended up
eating I just went on new people
McGuire's why is the targets so high or
whatever but it's it's not that there is
no target there's no target I'm actually
surprised that I don't eat more because
you eat mostly of all foods anyway watch
for her video from on now see over the
gym
[Music]
all right guys so I'm gonna update you
on my program so I'm now on day three of
week seven so I know some of you guys
got ahead of me I got a little bit
delayed just because of some of the
collapse that I had to do while I was in
Toronto it kind of threw me off the
program a bit so I'm starting the third
and final wave there's no technical D
loads in this program but there the
volume and intensity waves so it goes up
reaches a maximum in week 3 and then
comes back down and meet four and
there's three three week waves if that
makes sense so that's kind of the
periodization of it so now I'm at a low
wave so this is a lower volume workout
here now I don't have a chance to do
this at home so I'm writing it out here
now on the platform I've got two
starting with two sets of five on the
deadlift at 85% of my one rep max I'm
gonna be a bit conservative still with
my deadlift match that's gonna come out
to 375 I think I can actually handle a
bit more I'm gonna put 385 on first
based on how that goes I'll probably
throw 405 on there because my deadlifts
been going well lately so yeah we'll see
start with deadlifts
[Music]
he remitted my way up is my first
working set at 385 pound guns bar see
how this goes and then adjust from there
for the second set
[Music]
it was pretty good the only thing is
I've got no chalk so my brook was kind
of slipping a little bit it's not the
prettiest bar some are on scraps for the
second one but I think with scraps this
will be way too easy so I'm gonna go up
to 405 and hit that for my second set
so something eating a lot more food I'm
feeling a little bit stronger today so
I'm gonna try to see what I can do with
some deadlifts I haven't done lifted in
a minute I can't even remember last time
I did Douglas so we're gonna see what I
couldn't see what I could pull today
[Music]
all right so that's it for Daedalus just
two simple sets feels kind of low but
the volume is gonna accumulate now in
the next two weeks I will say I'm pretty
happy with this I mean I've done four or
five a bunch of times now for five or
six reps so I think I'm ready to start
advancing the weight from here I'm gonna
increase my one rep max that I mean
putting into the program start handling
a little bit heavier weights because my
back feels great which is fantastic
another thing I found really interesting
was steps example of how nutrition
impacts on recovery since she's gone all
in has been eating more calories she had
this hip issue that was really
aggravating her when she deadlift her
squat and like no opinion today or
basically since I've been eating as much
as I had been every single time I did
squats I have no pain so it's really
interesting and crazy how much my
nutrition has been impacting my recovery
and like aggravating and injury I don't
know it's pretty sick yeah that's a good
side effect we got front squats
[Music]
all right so guys to finish out the
workout which is still like half the
workout we're gonna do three sets of
knee banded leg press we're gonna put
the hip circle around our knees to
activate the glutes a little bit more
Steph is doing these on the machine back
squat or the reverse machine squat which
is a similar movement pattern we're just
doing that so I don't every time then
after that we're doing three sets of
twelve on the single leg leg extension
I'm really just focusing on mind muscle
connection with the quads squeezing the
quads to move the weight over there and
then to finish off the hamstrings we're
doing a really unique exercise the
sliding leg probe so there are three
ways you can set this up if you have
sliders and access to turf you can set
them up set it up on the turf or if you
have a really sleek slippery surface you
can lay a towel down and do them that
way or I often like to do them on the
rowing machine so you put your heels up
on the seat of the rowing machine put
your back on the floor and then curl the
seat in toward you it's a really
different type of movement pattern you
want to keep your glutes extended
throughout the range of motion and it's
gonna really target the hamstring so if
you haven't tried those Stephani try it
out then we're finishing off the two
sets of 20 on the leg press calf raise
basically just controlling the weight on
the way down pausing at the bottom and
squeezing the calves to move the weight
back up and that is gonna be a wrap for
the workout so hopefully you guys
enjoyed it we're gonna go get a
post-workout meal after I finished this
workout so technics you guys happen
all right guys finished that was a
workout now we're out here on this rainy
day looking for the best ramen in
Kelowna according to Yelp so we both
just like watch my Timberwolf video and
at the end we had ramen and Steph was
like some of that
that's all in Stephanie was it was
saying I need some of that there it is
legit kind of okay here's the appetizer
we always get just to get the protein up
this is actually a really big bowl of
edamame looks for context it's pretty
big it's gonna be the starter all right
baby
what you got I got their original broth
with chicken and extra vegetables that
looks so good yeah and I got curry ramen
with extra chicken in here so let me
show you guys look so good we're gonna
dig in well that's a wrap for the meal
how would you describe it in one word
noodle II I think that the ramen that I
had in Toronto with Kane just ruined me
for all ramen for the rest of time
anyways there's gonna be end of the vlog
leave it a thumbs up if you enjoyed it
subscribe if you haven't already check
out Stephanie's channel put a button to
it over her face and I'll see you guys
in the next video
[Music]