this will bring you no love in how much
you can bench for reps but since you
want hypertrophy you don't care slow
Ecentric does not mean 5 seconds or 10
but it means you don't dump the bar in
your chest it means that you take a few
seconds to really lower and while you're
lowering I want you to think of reaching
your chest up while having the fibers
pulled apart that sensation of the
fibers pulling apart as you reach up is
not something you should try to avoid
and I know that sounds weird because
normally in in real life if your is
getting pulled apart you're like I
shouldn't be here I should get out I
should Rush this remember you're here to
get them pull apart because that's what
stimulates growth so you're going to
reach up the whole time and your chest
is going to be pulled apart pause gently
press