well we're 3/4 of the way through so uh
I'm really starting to feel it starting
to kick in tenance joints are starting
to get sore but you know I got to keep
pushing it got to get through this let
me tell you guys a fun secret when your
joints start to become acutely sore
during a single workout not a Mesa cycle
your workouts too long your joints
generally should feel better the whole
workout because they should be more
warmed up more pliable and because of
the fight ORF flight response that
occurs with training and all the
hormonal secretion your pain perception
should actually decrease significantly
there's an analgesic anti-pain effect
that training has if you have managed to
surmount that effect with doing enough
damage to your joints acutely that they
start hurting more and more you gotta go
home take a break rethink your
life don't stay in the gym for eight
hours people don't do it