hey folks dr. Mike here with Joey sat
Mary of set strength on YouTube and we
are here at the lines then Joey's
private training facility for
superheroes and villains no judgment
come train come one come all folks
here's the deal Joey has been doing some
hypertrophy training through our PE for
about six weeks now out of a twelve-week
plan and he has been using the RP diet
app for his diet side initially him and
I got together and we're training with
him or sort of training partners and
he's like hey like you know what do you
think about diet do you want to write me
something up and I was like no but I
designed this app that does that for me
so I don't have to anymore and you know
at first he sort of picked it up and he
was like ah shit I have to type stuff in
and then I was like dude just start
typing shit in and it'll recognize
everything and then he did it he was
like I was good shit out a diet like
here it goes so we're gonna ask him a
couple questions about his diet
experience with the RP guide app and see
what he thinks if he hates it just
remember that this is not a very good
review because Joey hates me personally
and I hate him back
YouTube beef is 1000% real I already
look at this you were my hand is a
little too close you don't like that cuz
he doesn't like me Joey
hi what's up welcome nice shirt Thanks
you forced me to wear it because if I
didn't we wouldn't make this video yeah
and all the adsense is going directly to
his personal bank and not to RP at all
because doesn't care about his company
cares about him oh well so that is
unsubstantiated nonsense folks but on to
the questions um you're about a month
and a half into using the RP diet app
yep what is your diet history what has
it been prior to this and how serious
have you made attempts at dieting before
well the cool part about this is
actually used RP templates years ago and
kind of when they you guys basically
came out with this stuff so a lot of my
knowledge is derived from a lot of
concepts that they talk about
their content their channel etc so I had
a good idea of going into it now let's
say the the thing for me is sometimes I
just stuck at plateaus and you know I
need to make some changes and
adjustments depending on my goals at the
time so that was what was nice linking
up with Mike is I kind of gave him the
situation that I was in where it
involves you know do I go up in wait do
I go down and wait you know physique
goal strength goals
so based off of his knowledge he kind of
gave me his overall take and guidance of
where we should go from here which for
us specifically had led me into a
cutting base so I was cutting for about
12 weeks and then at some point we're
going to put some mass on and get some
size which is going to help me get to to
where I want to be but in terms of
nutrition I would try to stay pretty
balanced I'm not very right or left or
extreme or anything like that I try to
just stick with the basics and then make
adjustments accordingly so I'm a I'm a
fan of eating food and tracking
religiously and doing the best that I
can to get to where I need to be that's
a really good point you bring up and I
think a lot of people run into that is
they know how to eat well but they don't
know where to start from the three main
types of dieting which is muscle gain
and obviously weight gain fat loss and
weight loss at the same time or
maintenance and just sort of recom so I
should get stronger and a lot of folks
in it's sort of like 15 ish percent body
fat range just athletic power lifter
strongman it's like it's not very clear
to a lot of people like with which way
do I go
um you know there are some downsides
there too like if you start a fat loss
phase your powerlifting buddies make fun
of you and you know you're not hitting
pr's as regularly as you were before and
that sucks like all of us that come from
a strength sport background Lee and what
am I in these bird portions for getting
maybe not getting weaker but like not
gaining strength as fast as possible no
the other hand like if you start at 15
ish percent body fat as a male or 22 as
a female and you start massing
you like it shortly you don't look as
cool and then you're like uh and then
you just end up in this like gray zone
of maintenance where people like were
you cutting or masking you like both
either what led you to so my suggestion
to you was because you were in that sort
of range I was like dude let's cut the
fat off in 12 weeks get you lean close
to 10% maybe even a little below and
then slowly get you back up into the 15%
range care and a lot of muscle with it
were you okay with that and put it first
or were you like really am i starting a
cut like what the hell oh yeah no like
you said I was kinda stuck in that
middle phase where I was actually
holding my body weight for a long period
of time for me it was more of a weight
class situation where I wasn't sure
because I could either go up or I could
go down so it mentally I'm sitting there
and I'm like do I pack on the size you
know or do I cut and get shredded but
then of course you're worrying about
your numbers and how that's gonna double
whammy because you haven't Amit Lee
literally in the middle of a way that
also yeah but we had decided like Mike
had said is to drop the weight first and
obviously I trust his input which made
sense for me and then build upon a new
base so that's why we were doing is to
get basically as shredded as possible
and at that point I was fairly confident
with my numbers and even if I did want
to compete it was in the right way class
to compete and then have enough time to
really progressively put on good quality
size which would put me in a good weight
class and also help increase my strength
to be super competitive in that weight
class but for me honestly just
anecdotally I felt like my body wants to
grow and wants to get bigger and I'm
gonna perform the best there but it
wouldn't have been as optimal to just
start throwing on size you know there's
always gonna be a little bit of fat that
I can lose develop a really strong base
that way it's like that one step back
for three steps that'll work cleaning
the slate exactly so that's what we
wanted to do and the grand scheme of
things you know 12 14 weeks whatever
isn't you know gonna damage anything
it's only gonna make you know
myself even better as an athlete so
that's kind of the route we took and it
was pretty clear to me on on what we
wanted to do what was the goal that you
put in the app so it's 12 weeks of
dieting and how much total weight loss
did you type in there mine was I think
16 18 pounds 16 18 pounds so that's not
like for a guy your size you're in the
mid to 200s here
yeah like round around 250 240 I mean
that's not a very fast rate of loss and
have you seen folks before like take a
bit of a bite more than they can chew
with a faster because I think everyone
turns in the muck and Einstein when they
start dieting they're like I'm gonna
lose three pounds a week yeah it never
quite goes well you took very well to
the very conservative approach did you
do you have any experience we try to cut
weight too fast before or did you see
other athletes at your gym do that and
like you sort of just try it away from
it what's up with ya know I've done it
personally before and I've also had
assets that have done it and typically
it's if it's easy go it comes back just
as easy in my opinion so it's like you
know you can die it's super hard or you
go extreme but I think mentally that
doesn't really play out long-term and
then you just have that crazy rebound
effect where the weight just comes back
on then you get even more mentally
messed up because like man I just worked
so hard and I was losing weight like
crazy and now all of its coming back and
then you get flustered and then you kind
of just quit or give up or you just sort
of like screw it I'm just gonna eat as
much as I can and just see where things
go so kind of just like the training I'm
in it for the long haul
and the those baby little losses kind of
compound over time and at the same time
I find that I'm more compliant that way
as well with my nutrition and the diet's
a lot easier to follow because it's not
like okay we're cutting out 80% of our
carbs right away yes of course if we did
that we lose weight very fast but it's
not going to be sustainable so with the
app you know the best part about it is
it kind of helps track you along the way
and then it will simply ask you like do
you want to stay this course and if I've
been compliant and my way
is slowly going down yes and then if it
notices that things aren't changing it
automatically was making those
adjustments where I have to think about
it which is nice compared to the
templates which you should be Excel
sheets you had to sit there and kind of
look and do things where this app just
like you said it just does it for you
gives you the option which is really
nice so it's been very gradual for me
where for the most part I've just been
able to slowly make adjustments every
two three weeks drop some calories but I
was used to it at that point so it
didn't really affect me mentally my
performance has been great in the gym
and I'm down I started 256 and I'm right
around 241 242 feeling the best and
getting as lean as I can and looking you
know you ever get in there we're getting
there and a me look good all right Mike
off camera so the app has like a bar
code food database with like 400,000
foods where basically any food in North
America you can scan and it registers
and it automatically puts it into your
diet and you go to almost any restaurant
and it automatically registers all that
stuff but I noticed that you tend to eat
mostly basic foods that you don't even
do the barcode scanning for and because
we have like a basic foods library of
our own with like 400 foods is there a
reason why you mostly stick to basics
and do you think that's something other
people should try or is it kind of like
a choose-your-own-adventure thing I
think there's two different ways you can
look at it I know there's people that
have gotten super shredded kind of
eating whatever they want and staying
within those macros for me being an
elite athlete my food quality is always
gonna be a top priority to me so getting
in as much you know nutrient 86
yeah Sour Patch Kids Pixy Stix and tons
of banks but no so that's kind of for me
what I want to stick to just to to feel
the best and you know run as awesome as
possible and I've always been the kind
of guy 6 to basics like I don't really
care honestly what food tastes like I'm
more concerned with the outcome of what
it's going to do for my performance so
there are ways that you can also take
the foods I eat and make them taste
better there's tons of seasonings out
there straws of different ways to cook
your food I am just
a normal ass dude who doesn't really
know that much about cooking so I like
to make it as simple as possible and
just stick to the basics which for me
just builds easy habits to follow and
that's just been what's really helped me
with my training and as well as my
nutrition but there's different ways to
skin a cat but I would say if you are
trying to be an elite level athlete
those little things are gonna make the
difference where it's like okay I can
either have you know white or brown rice
or I can have a pop-tart you know what I
mean like you you can make that decision
on your own but for me I'd rather
probably go with the rice over the
pop-tart or keeps things simple too it's
like if the app reduces your carbs or
increases your carbs you just add a bit
more of the usual stuff you eat but if
you're like making this most creative
meal combos ever it can throw everything
off yeah I'm having a quarter pop-tart
an hour's exactly that's the thing the
more complex foods you get are say like
you know we keep using pop our
popularity years now I kind of want one
but with a pop-tart there's other macros
that are in there versus just rice it's
mainly gonna be carbs so when you start
throwing another things is kind of
chewing up your maybe total intake for
the day where for me I'd rather just
have my carbs my protein my veggies I'm
very in control of what I'm eating and
mentally just helps me when I know I can
have a lot of rice versus half a
pop-tart like I'm a big dude so I want
to eat more food if I can have a chance
to do that room or folks thinking about
doing the RP diet app any tips for
success because everyone that wants to
do it or thinking should I do it they
want to make sure they don't hit some
obvious stumbling blocks and we try to
make the app as good as possible so
those don't exist but it's a it's a it's
a different world dieting what do you
what do you think would marry you but
six weeks into it you're super compliant
you've been doing super great you've
been losing a lot of fat what are your
like if you could go back maybe not just
to yourself six weeks ago but to someone
starting the diet app what are your two
maybe best points of like hey do this
and don't do that
the biggest one I would say is just
being consistent and understanding that
it's a process don't get all messed up
if it's not totally linear because it's
not going to be totally linear like
weight loss you mean yeah with weight
loss and I think when people see like a
bump on a scale they freak out and they
like we talked about earlier they just
throw their plan out the window they
think the app sucks they think the
diet's not right and it's it's just
gonna take time and you have to be
consistent
another thing outside of that is having
a good support system because it is an
app but you know we're in here training
so if you can you know either pair up
with some other people there's Facebook
groups there's other ways to get
involved to hold yourself accountable
with other people that kind of keeps you
going and the biggest motivator for me
is when the results start to come and I
think a lot of people don't give it
enough time to reach there and then they
give up so you have to give it a solid
several weeks and really fine-tune it
and figure it out for you start seeing
and feeling those results and then once
this happened that's what's kind of
gonna keep you hooked and addicted to
continue on with your journey lastly I
would just say be on the more
conservative end of things don't just
dive in to something extreme so you know
it's very easy to say I want to lose
thirty pounds we're gonna lose three
four pounds a week and you're gonna come
out hot well that's gonna be hard to
sustain once you get to week two week
three week four but if you say hey I'm
gonna lose you know maybe half a pound a
week and all I'm gonna do is plug it
into the app make some minor adjustments
I'm gonna ride out without making any
reductions for a couple weeks and just
see what happens
it's gonna help you build those habits
and those patterns and then once you get
the habits down you can start to make
some more adjustments so just take it
one step at a time one meal at a time
don't get overwhelmed with it have a
good support system and that's what's
gonna set you up for success but uh
overall I mean app is phenomenal because
it is so simple to use and it just
handles everything for you and you know
being in the industry and
you know seeing other products that are
out there other services this by far has
been the most simple resource and app
that I've ever come across to get me to
my goals and it's kind of it's almost
silly kind of how simple it is because
it's just doing everything for you that
someone else or yourself would have to
figure out ma'am when you said all the
right things we're gonna send you that
app money it's gonna make you a
billionaire thank God
and honestly thank you so much for all
that insight folks if you wanna check
out the RP died app it's on Google Play
Store and the iTunes Store cost six
hundred thousand dollars a second to use
but you're out there making that money
folks
thank you so much from Joey and I again
we have beef we don't like each other
maybe we should shake hands on camera at
all just to uh okay see you guys next
time