what does your midsection look like
right now for reference this is what it
would look like at 50% body fat at 40%
your waistline is smaller but your abs
are still buried at 30% your stomach is
much flatter but you still don't have
visible ABS once you get to 20% that's
where your abs become visible and at 10%
body fat you'll have a well-defined
six-pack assuming you've developed your
abs through proper training which we'll
get to now at 6% body fat you'd be truly
shredded lean enough for a pro
bodybuilding competition in fact this is
an actual real life example of a natural
body body builder who got down to 6.2%
body fat measured by dexa but this zone
is the six-pack sweet spot where most
men want to be between 10 and 20% body
fat this is where you'll have visible
ABS but not suffer from the nasty side
effects of extreme dieting and this is
the same body fat display for women
where the six-pack sweet spot is here
around 18 to 28% body fat now if you're
curious this is what my abs looked like
at the end of my last cut at around 10%
body fat you can see that I have more of
a four-pack than a six-pack and while
you can't change the genetic structure
of your abs I'm going to explain how to
get your abs to pop regardless of the
genetic hand you were dealt by using
three science-based tools first how to
train your abs optimally using just two
exercises second how to adjust your diet
that help you calculate exactly how much
fat you need to lose and how to set up
your diet to mathematically guarantee
that you get there as long as you follow
the plan and third the supplements I
recommend that are actually worth your
money first let's talk about training
now it's popular these days to say that
AB training is a waste of time because
the argument goes you can train them as
much as you want if you're not lean
enough you won't see the definition
anyway but I disagree imagine applying
this logic to any other muscle it'd be
like saying don't train your shoulders
because unless you're lean enough you're
not going to see the definition anyway
but no one ever says that the point is
you do need to train your abs so that
when you cut down there's actually
enough muscle there for them to pop
through and if you build up your
abdominal muscles through proper
hypertrophy training they will pop more
just like any other muscle but the
problem with most AB training online is
that most Fitness influencers showcase
these fast-paced quote unquote fat
burning circuit Style workouts which
truly are a waste of time for the most
part that's because these workouts don't
actually get the abdominal muscles close
enough to failure to stimulate
meaningful hypertrophy they are
essentially just another form of cardio
sure you'll burn a few extra calories
but you're not building your six-pack
instead to get your six-pack to really
pop you'd be much better off doing
Progressive overload training just like
you would for any other muscle that
means loading the ab muscles with weight
and to build your best six-pack you
really only need two exercises one
weight loaded Crunch and one leg rate
that's it for the loaded crunch you can
do a cable crunch where you grab a rope
kneel down and crunch while allowing
your lower back to round as you squeeze
your abs don't yank the weight with your
hands keep tension on your six-pack if
you don't have a cable you can do plate
weighted crunches by holding a plate
against your chest and crunching down
hard on your six-pack do these for three
sets of 10 to 12 reps twice per week
taking your last set all the way to
failure that means you can't complete a
full rep despite maximum effort every
time you train try to add some weight or
a rep while keeping your for form nice
and controlled these will hit the full
six-pack but probably slightly emphasize
the upper four pack so for some lower ab
bias you should add a leg raise for
these you can do them hanging from a
pull-up bar or you can use a Roman chair
I like the Roman Chair variation better
because it keeps my lower back locked in
which allows me to direct attention to
my abs better now if you can't do a
straight leg leg raise yet you can do
bent knee raises instead do these for
three sets of 10 to 20 also twice per
week and also take your last set all the
way to failure to progress on these I
prefer to add reps so I'll start at
three sets of 10 and then I'll add one
rep each week until I get to three sets
of 20 at that point you can add some
ankle weights or you can start slowing
down the negative but once you're there
you should have some pretty solid AB
development anyway planks are great for
general core strength and stability but
if your goal is to build a six-pack I
don't think they're the most efficient
option and I would consider them
optional also anti-rotation movements
can be great for targeting the
transverse abdominis and obliques but
they won't hit the six-pack muscles as
directly or with as much tension as
weighted crunches and leg raises will
those are your main two so this is your
full six-pack training plan you hit your
abs twice per week and you can Shuffle
the days around to whatever fits your
schedule best it would also be smart to
include some cardio in your plan even if
it isn't required for fat loss new
research shows that combining weight
training and cardio leads to smaller
wastes than just weight training alone
being more active with cardio will also
allow you to eat more calories and more
active people tend to be more successful
in keeping the weight off over the long
term so feel free to include 2 to 5 30
minute low to moderate intensity cardio
sessions per week but the reality is you
can do the most optimal Progressive AB
training on the planet and until you get
lean enough your abs simply won't be
visible and that's where your nutrition
comes in so next let's set up your
six-pack diet it's very simple take your
current body weight in pounds and
multiply it by 10 to 12 that's how many
calories you'll eat then take your goal
body weight also in pounds and multiply
it by 0.8 to 1 that's how much protein
you'll eat make sure you eat at least 50
g of fat per day and whatever's left
over are free calories they can be carbs
fat or protein now the types of foods
you eat are far less important than
simply hitting your daily targets
remember the natural bodybuilder I
showed earlier he got that lean while
eating Pop-Tarts regularly but still try
to prioritize minimally processed
nutritious Whole Foods over highly
processed less nutritious junk food most
of the time and here's a summary of the
full six-pack diet if you want to pause
and screenshot now obviously there are
big differences in Metabolism from
person to person and next I'm going to
cover some mistakes that almost everyone
makes so keep in mind that these
calories and macros won't work perfectly
for everyone for some people the
calories will be a bit too high for
others they'll be a bit too low luckily
I spent the last 2 years helping create
the best science-based algorithms for my
nutrition app
way to not only lose muscle and strength
but rebound all the weight back as soon
as the diet is over for a sustainable
fat loss you want to lose about 0.5 to
1% of your body weight per week so if
you currently weigh 200 lb try to lose
about 1 to 2 lb per week now if you have
a lot of weight to lose and you end up
cutting for more than 3 months straight
I'd strongly recommend doing a 2 to 3
week diet break somewhere in the middle
for the diet break take your current
body weight in pounds and multiply it by
16 to 18 and that'll be your calories
for the 2 to 3 we diet break now you may
gain a tiny bit of water weight or you
may continue to lose weight during the
diet break everyone's a little different
in terms of how they respond but almost
everyone sees better weight loss after
the diet break is over and once you
resume the caloric deficit again another
very common mistake is relying on the
body weight scale too much while the
scale can be a useful tool it can also
be misleading especially if you're
building muscle while losing fat for
this reason I recommend taking progress
photos in the same lighting at least
once a month you may feel uncomfortable
doing it at first but I promise you
you'll be very glad you have the before
photos to look back on and see how much
progress you made taking monthly waist
measurements can also help show that you
are in fact losing fat even if the scale
isn't moving as quickly as you'd like
it's also very common for people to have
too lean of an end goal once you dip
below the 8 to 10% zone for men or 18 to
20% zone for women you'll start
experiencing low energy extreme hunger
and reduced libido next let's talk about
a few supplements that are worth taking
and that I actually recommend the first
is a protein powder this isn't required
but it can make hitting your total daily
protein intake a lot easier I'll usually
have a 30 to 50 g prot R Shake
immediately after training not because
there's a super time sensitive anabolic
window but simply because it's an easy
way for me to boost my daily total the
second is creatine monohydrate I Take 5
gram every day it doesn't seem to matter
when you take it and you don't need to
cycle on and off Decades of research
have shown no negative side effects and
it's one of the only legal supplements
that actually offers a meaningful boost
in both strength and muscle mass it
won't make you look watery or bloated
but it doesn't seem to work for about
25% of people so you'll need to try it
out for yourself to see if you're a
responder the third is caffeine now I
personally take a pre-workout supplement
for this but if you don't want to take
pre-workout for whatever reason coffee
or caffeine tablets can get the job done
caffeine does have a small thermogenic
effect and it does seem to burn some
extra calories but it isn't clear if
this translates to significantly more
fat loss over the long term but that's
not why I take it anyway I take it
because it helps me feel more focused
and alert during training you do develop
a tolerance to caffeine though so I
would suggest only taking it on days
when you feel like you really need it or
cycling off it for a few weeks once
every few months and if you want to have
all the hard work of planning out your
diet taking care of for you I'd strongly
encourage you to download my nutrition
app macro factor it's free for the first
2 weeks if you use the link below so you
have absolutely nothing to lose and you
can cancel anytime here are some of the
Transformations I've collected already
from people using the app this is my own
personal transformation where I lost 30
lb by using the apps algorithms
exclusively I didn't manually adjust a
single thing I just followed whatever
the app told me the app is also
extremely fast to learn and easy to use
we've always had a barcode scanner that
allows you to instantly track the macros
but in some countries the macros
wouldn't show up for every food so we
recently added a nutrition label scanner
so now you can track the macros on
literally any food on the planet as long
as it has a nutrition label it's an
absolute Game Changer the app also has
tons of really cool analytics features
that'll help you understand and
visualize your journey over time and
weekly check-ins to keep you accountable
there's also a very active Facebook
community and subreddit where you can
ask questions and share your progress so
you can try it out for 2 weeks for free
at the first link in the description box
down below and don't forget to leave me
a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video
subscribe if you haven't already and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
one