all right what's going on everyone want
to welcome you all to the new
fundamental series that I'm going to be
running on this channel for probably the
next couple of months and what I plan to
do is basically cover in this series
what I believe to be the main primary
basics for all of the beginners out
there we're wanting to build muscle and
gain strength and also for those of you
who may not be quite so new to lifting
but maybe haven't yet been able to
really pin down what the true
fundamentals are just because there's so
much information out there now so I'm
basically going to split this up into
five or six videos so we're gonna start
by doing two videos on training then I'm
going to do two or three on nutrition
and the first one is gonna be on how to
build muscle how to diet to build muscle
the second one is going to be on how to
diet to lose fat and then we'll probably
do a third one just on how to diet for
health in general and then we're going
to do a final video one video on
supplementation but for this video we're
actually covering just part one of the
training aspect of this and that's going
to focus mostly on training theory and I
think that that's really important to
understand the basic theoretical
concepts before you can apply them in
the gym and basically build for yourself
a solid training routine and that's what
we're gonna cover in part two before we
get going I also want to quickly plug
Eric Helms's training pyramid series on
here on YouTube this is a fantastic
video series that I've used a lot myself
and I've drawn a lot of inspiration for
this series from so if you guys haven't
seen it I'll have a linked in the
description box below and he does a
fantastic job of laying out all the
scientific literature to do with
building muscle and gaining strength
so it comes highly recommended so though
further ado let's dig into part 1
training Theory the fundamental series
all right so guys as you'll see in my
effort to be mildly original with this
content I decided to set up the training
fundamentals as a ladder so we'll
quickly go through this here at the
bottom you've got sustainability as the
the first rung of the ladder and then on
these two sides the two uprights of the
ladder you have the two components of
sustainability you can think of them as
the pillars of sustainability and they
are safety and enjoyment
then round number two you've got effort
rung three you've got pop which stands
for progressive overload and
prioritization and then up at the top
the fourth rung we have the acute
training variables which we're gonna get
to in part two so this will be covered
in part two of this video so we're gonna
cover all these basics in this video and
then all the acute variables in the
second video which includes things like
training volume intensity rest periods
tempo exercises training splits and all
that stuff
so first let's cover this first up right
over here which is safety
it may sound boring and it is but trust
me if you do neglect it you will regret
it I think down the road
and I think it's really important to
cover safety first especially for all of
our beginner viewers so there are three
means cook with main components I think
- safety within the context of weight
training to build muscle and they are to
have good form to select proper weight
or appropriately selected weights and
then also to ensure adequate recovery so
as far as good form goes basically what
we're talking about here is to control
the negative so you need to have
eccentric control you'll see a lot of
people say doing a bench press they'll
allow the weight to just basically fall
down and then rely on the assistance of
their spotter to get the weight up that
is not good form with good form you want
to control the eccentric which is
typically around a two-second count for
the negative or at least be lowering it
under your own control not under the
control of gravity to control the
negative and the other aspect of good
form is to have a full range of motion
I'm so doing quarter reps half reps well
they can't have their place I think that
for beginners you want to focus on
taking the movement through the full
range of motion properly selected
weights refers to not using weight
that's too heavy also not using weight
that's too light this can be a little
difficult for beginner to find out you
may have to use some trial and error to
figure out what an appropriate weight is
for you general rule of thumb for
beginners we have the two for two rules
so this basically means if for two weeks
in a row you can perform two more reps
on your last set of a given exercise and
it's time to increase the weight so
let's just say as an example you're
doing three sets of ten on the bicep
curl and you're using 20 pounds let's
say you complete that tenth rep for the
first week you or rather you're supposed
to do three sets of ten but you can
easily do twelve reps or you can do 12
reps then the next week you find that
you can do 12 reps again it's now time
to increase that that weight for your
three sets of ten if that makes sense
the third aspect of safety is ensuring
adequate recovery and there are several
facets to this the first being ensuring
that you have adequate rest days so for
beginners here I recommend one day on
one on and one off this of course will
be individual but let's just say you're
running an upper lower split you can
train upper body rest for a day lower
body rest for a day and then repeat that
cycle through that's a great example for
beginners and this just ensures that
their joints and ligaments your soft
tissues as well as your muscles
themselves are recovering in between
those sessions this is going to be very
individual so for example people with
maybe more of an athletic background and
certainly get away with a higher
training frequency than this and that's
why I think it's important to listen to
your body so if you're noticing that
you're a little more sore than usual
maybe you have a little more aches and
pains and you typically have I think
it's important to listen to that
feedback and if you're especially
feeling any injurious pain where you
think you're at an increased risk of
injury I think it's especially important
to take a big picture long term approach
to this and consider just taking an
extra rest day allowing yourself to heal
up or maybe just doing some light cardio
or something like that to allow yourself
to recover sleep is another really
important aspect of recovery I think
that this is undermined quite a lot
amongst trainees especially those of us
who are really busy however I think the
scientific literature has strongly shown
that getting seven to eight hours of
sleep per night is significantly better
for both performance and body
composition than just getting five to
six hours per night so if you can get
those extra couple of hours I think it's
definitely a good idea and it's
definitely going to help out your
progress in the gym on a side note there
is some evidence to support that
sleeping even more so say nine to ten
hours per night will improve athletic
performance particularly in the case of
sprinters whether or not this will
translate into improved body composition
or strength and hypertrophy gains I
think remains to be seen but the bottom
line is is if you can squeeze in more
sleep it certainly is a way to improve
your recovery and expedite your progress
the fourth aspect to recovery I think is
nutrition and this is a topic we're
gonna get to in another video so I'll
save that for that so this is the first
pillar we've got safety and now we're
gonna get into enjoyment all right so
guys the second pillar of sustainability
we have enjoyment and the reason why I
bring up enjoyability of training so
early on here is because it's been my
experience that people who enjoy their
training tend to stick to their programs
better so they tend to be more adherent
and not only that they also tend to push
themselves harder on their training
program so I think that a lot of
beginners are really chasing that
perfect optimal training program that's
going to get them or the results as
quickly as possible and I don't think
there's anything necessarily wrong with
that mindset but I think that if we're
gonna focus on sustainability we really
do need to take a big-picture long-term
approach and I think that in order for
that to be really truly successful for
most people you really do have to enjoy
your training on some level now I know
some people really don't like training
at all and there's probably nothing
that's going to make them really enjoy
weight training and for those people you
may want to think of it as designing
yourself a routine that's just gonna
suck less and one simple way to do this
is just by making your workouts more
are efficient so basically you want to
focus on minimizing say the number of
exercises that you can do so one simple
way to do that would be by focusing on
doing compound exercises squats
benchpress presses deadlifts movements
that are going to involve a lot of
muscle mass and basically optimize your
time investment or minimize your time
investments in the gym rather than doing
a ton of isolation exercises where you
have to do so many different movements
that your workout takes a lot longer you
also may want to consider doing safe
full-body training where you may only
have to be in the gym two or maybe three
times a week rather than say you know
four maybe five times a week like you'd
see on a split routine ultimately I
think that enjoyability is very
important for having a sustainable
approach to your training over time and
a lot of this is going to come down to
personal preference and personality and
to important points I'd like to bring up
here are the idea of variety and
consistency in my experience especially
my coaching experience I've noticed that
a lot of people really do like to switch
things up quite frequently it keeps
their Trent their training more
interesting and it keeps them having a
higher level of enjoy ability with their
training and I think that that's okay on
the other hand you have other people who
really like to have a more regimented
training plan where the exercises and
the sets and you know the reps are more
or less the same week to week and they
can just clearly track their progress
increase you know the weight on the bar
week to week and that's very motivating
for them and they enjoy that approach in
practice I think most people will
probably benefit from some kind of blend
of this approach where you have some
flexible components to your training
program maybe there are certain
exercises you switch in and out week to
week but you also have some level of
consistency where you have those main
core movements that are staying the same
week to week so you can clearly track
your progress how much is something
we're gonna get to once we get to the
third run another thing that I'd like to
bring up here is the bro stuff so this
includes things like drop sets super
sets maybe some sports reps these
techniques that guys just really find to
be fun in the gym and
can sometimes get a bad rap from some
members of the scientific community and
I'm assuming that's because they can
sort of detract from a general focus on
progression however in my experience
this can make training a lot more
enjoyable these methods do have some
empirical support and so I see nothing
wrong with doing some things like you
know drop set super sets occasionally as
long as that doesn't take the central
focus of your routine basically in my
experience this is a way to make your
training a little bit more enjoyable and
then a final point here is I'd like to
distinguish between optimal and
practical and I've just alluded to this
a little bit earlier but basically I
find a lot of beginners are really
looking for that most optimal routine
whereas I think that in practice you
should be looking for a practical
routine it's going to allow for
sustainability over the long term and if
you can do that and keep the rest of the
the latter in mind then you're gonna see
a lot of progress even if it may not be
the single most optimal thing in theory
okay so that's gonna wrap up
sustainability we've covered safety and
enjoyment so once you have a routine set
up that is going to be sustainable now
it's time to apply effort so that's what
we're gonna get into next okay so guys
the next rung of the ladder is effort
and basically what I mean by effort is
you're working hard enough when you're
training and the reason that I rank this
so early on in the ladder is because I
see so many people like I've said who
are chasing that optimal routine but
they're just simply not pushing
themselves hard enough in the gym and I
did a video with my girlfriend Stephanie
on the channel about this and I'll just
link it up here in the cards somewhere
if you haven't seen it but the main
finding was that so many people who are
training in the gym basically just
aren't pushing themselves hard enough I
think to see significant hypertrophy
gains and people are leaving way more
reps in the tank than I think they
should be and in that study I think they
basically found that I think something
like 20% of trainees were leaving 10
reps or more in the
on the bench press and so this is just
not enough exertion I think to see
significant hypertrophy even if the rest
of the stuff is designed in in the most
scientific and most optimal way so I
think that you need to to work hard you
need to have a mindset that's going to
allow you to go in the gym and put in
that work and in all of my training
experience as an athlete and as a coach
I've never really come across a routine
that's so optimal on paper that it can
allow you to get away with having to put
in the work so I think that is a general
guideline you basically I don't think
want to be leaving a whole lot more than
three maybe four reps in the tank for
most of your sets so basically what this
means is you think you could have gotten
three more reps with a certain weight so
let's just say you're doing a bicep curl
let's say you go to two fifteen reps and
then you can't possibly crank out that
sixteenth rep that would mean that you
have no reps left in the tank if you
were to stop at rep 12 that would
basically mean you have three reps in
the tank I don't think that all sets
should be taken to failure I think that
failure training should be reserved for
specific circumstances and those
circumstances are here so I think that
training to failure meaning you can't
get another rep even if you tried should
be saved for basically your last set of
the last exercise for a given body part
so let's say you're doing chest training
and you've got the flat bench press and
let's say the incline dumbbell fly to do
you wouldn't take any of the benchpress
sets to failure you would probably leave
at least you know two maybe three reps
in the tank and then once you get to the
dumbbell fly you would leave reps in the
tank until your final set and then you
would take that one to failure and this
actually doesn't need to happen I see
this actually probably more so as in an
intermediate technique you could always
be leaving a few reps in the 10
but as long as you're getting within
that certain threshold close to failure
which isn't clearly defined but it's
probably somewhere around three reps
left in the tank then I think you're
pushing yourself sufficiently hard I
think that failure set should be saved
for isolation work
so basically heavy compound movements
things like squats overhead presses
bench presses deadlifts you shouldn't
really be training to failure where you
couldn't get another rep on those I
think you should save it for isolation
movements so these are single joint
movements things like bicep curls tricep
extensions lateral raises things like
that and especially machine exercises
things where you don't run the same risk
of injury if you were to actually fail
and then if you are doing compound
exercises and approaching failure I
think it's important to have a spotter
just in general and this ties in of
course with with the whole safety pillar
of the ladder this is basically the
second rung here you have to apply that
effort in an appropriate way
that Doug and doesn't mean that all sets
have to be taken to failure and you
always have to go balls to the wall but
in my experience a lot of people
including a lot of beginners once they
have you know their form mastered and
they've set themselves up on a sort of
routine that is enjoyable or at least
they have enjoyment of the routine in
mind so that they can sustain their
program over time I think now it's a
time to get that mindset locked in where
you're going to be willing to apply that
effort once you get your routine set up
in place all right so now we're ready to
apply effort it's time to move on to P o
P which stands for progressive overload
and prioritization so we're gonna get
into that next okay so guys on the next
rung we've got P o P in the stands for
progressive overload and prioritization
so progressive overload basically means
that you're doing more overtime
typically this will come in the form of
doing more weight or more reps and this
is the way people usually think of
progressive overload so if you're doing
let's say 100 pounds on the bench press
in week one
doing 105 pounds on the bench press Envy
2 for 10 reps each 10 reps and 10 reps
that would be progressively overloading
the weight if you're doing 100 pounds
the first week and then 100 pounds the
second week but you're doing 10 reps the
first week and you do an extra rep so
you do 11 reps in the second week that
would be a form of progressive overload
and I think that this really is what's
driving progress in training if there's
no progressive overload in place you're
probably not going to see much
hypertrophy or you're certainly not
going to optimize your your progress and
this is the I think what's mostly wrong
with the whole muscle confusion concept
where you have people changing things up
so frequently that they lose sight of
any kind of progressive overload now I
will say this isn't the only way to
progressively overload with weight and
reps you can also overload in actually a
bunch of other creative ways and I've
linked a good article on this in the
description box below if you'd like to
read it but quickly you can also
overload efficiency one way to do this
would be to maybe use the same weight
and use even the same reps but you just
sortin your rest period between those
sets so say instead of resting maybe 2
minutes between sets you dressed only a
minute and a half and as such you're
making your workout shorter and you're
also making it a little bit harder
because you don't have quite as much
time for recovery between sets that's
one way to apply overload you can also
overload exertion so one way to do this
would be by say slowing down the tempo
of the movement so say you're doing 100
pounds here in week 1 and we - still
doing 100 pounds but now you're
controlling the negative a little bit
better so maybe instead of having a 1
second negative now you have you know a
second and a half or a 2 second negative
and that's something that you can't
necessarily measure quite that closely
and I don't think you need to but
certainly I think you can overload full
or overload lifting tempo in this way
as long as some overloading stimulus is
in place I think you've got the main
thing covered so prioritization I
covered here mostly because it creates a
neat acronym that's fit to make pop
wrong over here but I do think it is a
very important thing that a lot of
beginners don't realize or they tend to
neglect the importance of it and it ties
in very closely to the concept of
specificity but the main idea here is
that you want to prioritize according to
what your goals are so if your goal is
to increase your bench press then you
need to put a focus in your training on
increasing your bench press it sounds
very commonsensical but you'd be
surprised at how many people run just
generic bodybuilding routines but then
they may talk to me and say that they
really just want to improve their bench
or they want to improve the size of
their homes and so depending on what
your goal is is really gonna dictate
what it is that you do up here and I
think that in order to really hone in on
those goals you just have to get very
specific now in practice one way to do
this I think is bribe by prioritizing
what it is you're trying to develop and
so the simplest way to do that is by
training it early or first in the
training session let's just say you have
a lagging chest on your upper body days
it might be a good idea to train your
chest first because we have a lot of
research showing that you're stronger
earlier in the workout so that's one way
to prioritize you can also prioritize by
training that thing that's most
important for you to develop early in
the training week so maybe after a
weekend say you've had that chance to
recover if your chest is your weak point
hit your chest
earlier in the week after a rest day or
you know if you have general fitness
goals but maybe your primary goal is to
build your chest you may want to at
least space at apart from say a heavy
leg day so that you're not feeling
really fatigued going into that chest
workout so those are just a couple
examples of how you can apply
prioritization through the principle of
specificity
and that's really all I have to say
about pop progressive overload is I
believe the single most important factor
driving hypertrophic adaptations and so
this is a very very important one and
once that's in place now we can start
talking about things like training
volume training intensity training
frequency exercises lifting tempo rest
periods training splits and all that
good stuff and so we're going to cover
that in part two of the fundamentals
series well that's gonna be a wrap for
this one guys I just want to thank you
for watching
a little bit more of a different style
of a video from me a little bit less
scripted a little bit less edited but I
hope you guys really like the series you
can let me know what you think in the
comments below if you have any questions
I'll do my best to be active down there
in the comment like the video if you
liked it subscribe to the channel if
you're new and I will see you guys all
here in part 2