so that's a peek into how Patrick
Mahomes gets ready for
Sundays that hurt that hurt Scott how we
doing more of
[Music]
this hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength I've been a professor of sports
science for quite some time apparently I
do bodybuilding seems like a hazy memory
now no wait I did a workout this morning
and I do Brazilian jiu-jitsu and I have
actually had quite a career back in the
day of being a strength and conditioning
coach in various capacities to various
division one and sometimes even pro
athletes and so today we have Patrick
Mahomes who is a a player of American
football and I to understand he's quite
good at it and we are going to examine
some of the footage of his well strength
training or something like that strength
and conditioning work to see if it meets
muster and I do have a PhD in sport
physiology and uh this is exactly up my
alley because believe it or not
hypertrophy is something I sort of
walked into I just walked in and I was
jacked now I started getting at
hypertrophy um sort of towards the end
of my degree program but I was trained
and have tons of experience in designing
and evaluating strength conditioning
programs so this is exactly up my alley
thanks School you trained me to do this
make stupid YouTube videos about someone
who actually famous and getting laid
while I'm here alone and hopeless with
no money what oh yeah let's go criticize
[Music]
 I'm Bobby sto Bobby
sto okay I'm a registered strength
conditioning coach and also a fellow of
Applied functional science appli
functional science don't know what that
is but it sounds like Mr stre
sorry if I have insulted you all jokes
all the way down oh and I've trained
Patrick Mahomes since the fourth grade
that's a trip they allow you to do
something like this is legal maybe
they're the same age let's get into some
of the stuff we like to do to get ready
for the season Patrick's training goals
are simple win the Super Bowl boy is
that not a training goal that's an
outcome goal a training goal would be
something like get strong or get jacked
or get fast or anything in between but
I'm just being a patan to gashole which
I'm really couldn't be sit up Med ball
throw what this helps Patrick do is
understand how to use his body from the
waist up yeah so I'll tell you right now
that's not what it's for what this is
actually doing is allowing him to
practice generating a load of power so
that he can move his whole body
athletically in that anterior chain
position so the posterior chain is
something that lets you rise up like
this the anterior chain lets you fold
over like this it uses your abs your
triceps your lats your hip flexors your
quads everything down to move as much
force downward as possible that it will
do but isn't teach you to move in a
certain way because this guy doesn't
need to be taught how to move he already
knows how to move from from probably 18
years of football and being born perfect
so yeah medball granny toss what this
helps Patrick do is learn to get
extension from his hips okay again he
doesn't need to learn how to get
extension from his hips he knows how to
do that he's black for Christ sakes he
knows that aing jump for the love ofing
God and maybe they're trying to
counteract the white side Scott are we
getting canceled yet in any case he
doesn't need to learn how to do dick but
he needs the RP hypertrophy app there is
no avoiding hard training if if you want
to grow but if you want to grow the most
your training needs to be hard and smart
RP hypertrophy app will make sure you're
progressing on track monitoring and
adjusting your workout at all times so
for all that work you're doing you can
be sure you're getting the best
[Music]
results so a lot of times we'll cue him
to throw his hips through his head this
is going to help give him flexibility in
his spine in the sagittal plane you're
kidding
he bent over 3 Ines my grandmother has
more flexibility in this agal spine this
exercise encourages she can pick up a
cup from theing
[Music]
floor track work sprinting running
drills are incredibly important for any
type of thrower or quarterback for a
couple reasons okay number one it primes
what we call the spinal engine so
everything from your belly button to
your neck it makes work and working an
athletic way that you can't get from the
weight room maybe I just don't know
enough things I don't know what the that
is but I put a high bar squat on your
back 500 pounds your spine will work
from your belly to your neck I promise
you that number two it helps with
scapular range of motion and upper body
speed
development upper body speed
development sounds like something boxers
would be using sure not something
you really get out of sprinting scapular
range of motion seems like Voodoo to me
and number three it helps with range of
motion flexibility and mobility in the
shoulder girlle what it's a it's a it's
Sprint work it's a the shoulder girdle
is tertiary it's not even
secondary maybe if you want to range of
motion on the shoulder girdle you can do
like rows and upright rows and shoulder
presses I don't know I'm confused are
you confused I'm confused hurdle bounds
help Patrick understand coordination and
timing Patrick does not need help with
coordination and timing these are in
like athletic properties that is barely
even possible to train you just evolve
with them or you don't after you're
about age 15 you figure out how athletic
you are and that's roughly stable for
the rest of your life the rest is just
specific skills training and making your
body more jacked and fast and strong
this isn't a terrible drill because
maybe it can help him I don't know I
guess it's practice for like running
over people that are trying to tackle
you and you're jumping over them uh I'm
not a big big fan of what's going on in
this particular movement this is also
going to help with lower body power and
amplitude every time your foot touches
the ground no it's not this is
submaximum it doesn't look like he's
trying as hardest to run fast which
means it's not helping with amplitude
because it's not maximized and it's not
helping with lower body power power is
one of those things that if you're not
within 90% of its peak you're not
training it if you think of training for
power and you're doing a jump but you're
generating 70% of the peak power you
could you're just getting the body tired
and maybe even doing some hypertrophy
also I have no idea why he's spreading
his arms out like
[Music]
that all right if you guys are having
fun we have more video just after this
but if you want a longer unedited sort
of extended edition with tons of CD
nonsense that YouTube would ban us for
you can join our members area where you
also get tons of other super informative
and sometimes maybe a little bit
entertaining videos do you want to pay
us just a little bit of money we got the
hookup see you in the members are if
you're going to do this drill I would
recommend super setting with full speed
Sprints just to make you tired for no
good goddamn reason 10 yard Sprints are
incredibly effective way to train for
American football because the vast
majority of sprinting in football
especially by the quarterback will occur
with not much longer than a 10 yard
radius um but if you start super
sprinting drills and Sprints you start
to become tired something you'll never
really experience in the football field
in the same capacity unless they do
plays every micro second instead of
reshuffling
everybody real training for football
athletes looks like very short bursts of
insanely high intensity and then lots of
rest does that remind you of the sport
of football itself yes it sure should it
doesn't look like this this is harder
it's definitely more challenging super
setting sucks but it'll make you not
faster it might make you slower which
isn't good we utilize a sled push for
Patrick for foot Mobility flexibility
and stability foot Mobility so
flexibility is not being trained at all
because there's no extreme ranges of
motion here so that's out foot Mobility
I'm not entirely sure what that means
his feet seem quite mobile to me and
this is not putting them in extreme
range of motion and uh stability again
this does not train stability a bosu
ball one leg squat would train stability
way better than
this backward sled pool is used for
posterior chain reinforcement don't know
what that is I don't know what posterior
chain reinforcement is and I suspect it
has no workable definition pulling the
back of a sled occurs at a velocity you
never see in American football but it
does not occur through range of motion
or specific targeting of movements that
would transfer well to General abilities
required in football like being really
big and strong and fast um this doesn't
make you very strong something like the
stiff leged deadlift would do that
better this doesn't make you very fast
because it occurs at a very low of uh
speed of movement um and gwi a sure
doesn't make you big because there's 20
trillion better movements of hypertrophy
and if it doesn't make you bigger
stronger faster it may do very little
outside of very nuanced contexts in the
sport of American football also teaching
the body how to pull through different
transformational
zones transformational zones she I went
to a lot of school never learned that
maybe I'm just ignorant
legitimately but I doubt it Patrick uses
the lateral sled drag for fernal plane
strength dope not terrible for this not
remotely the ideal exercise for this
something like a side Bend with very
heavy weight could do this way better in
every single capacity remember this is
an isometric movement almost exclusively
isometric you're just stutter stepping
that's all you're doing and also
teaching the foot how to roll through
lateral movements and have strength and
stability all the way up the kinetic
chain yeah but uh 16 years of American
football didn't teach him that I have no
idea why the you would be teaching him
that here again lots of strength
and conditioning coaches misunderstand
the role as teaching the athlete how to
move that's not the role if anything
that's the sport coach's job and the
coaches that work under the sport coach
like the o line coach so on and so forth
that have the specialty of teaching you
how to do the technical execution of
your football Maneuvers the strength and
conditioning coaches job in American
football is largely three things to make
the athlete bigger stronger and more
powerful which translates to speed but
you don't even train speed because
you're not running around with them if
you do those three things you're getting
it unbelievable if you do them well you
do get a huge flexibility and Mobility
bonus and build huge amounts of injury
resiliency the real way to train
American footballs for maximum effect
American footballs American football
players is to mostly have them do
compound barbell movements shoulder
pressing squatting stiff-legged
deadlifting power cleans mid thigh pulls
Etc weighted jumps medicine ball throws
all sorts of other jumps hops quick
sprints high knees so on and so forth
sounds like boring you probably did
in middle school I know but that's the
stuff that works the best this all
is really fancy you got a bunch of
degrees you got to show it off I feel
that energy but largely this is a
gigantic waste of fatigue and time
Patrick could be just playing
PlayStation and eating food so he could
recover and have better practices and
when he goes into the gym gym like this
is supposed to be you get him fing big
and mean anding strong period if I'm up
up on him uh against the other line and
I know he does this kind of I'm
like I'm gonna break that motherucker
into pieces if I had any goddamn
athletic Talent maybe I would but if if
I knew that he was doing compound
barbell Basics and could sink 405 lbs on
a front squat for a few reps I don't
know man he might just me up on my way
in better to be overprepared with real
hardcore
solid difficult training than nuanced
pseudo explanations of nuanced also
pseudo nonsense that this is I'm getting
meaner aren't I Scot the video guy hard
to hold back I started off so
patient
doc yeah cone speed drill the cone speed
drill is for balance and coordination
again he does not need to build general
balance and coordination he has more
General balance and coordination than
everyone on the planet except for like
two Olympic gymnasts or some like
that you guys get my drift now if this
is a drill that his football coaching
staff think can help him move in a
similar way as would be needed for
Success on the football field I'm all
for it but if it's to develop some kind
of underlying General qualities he
already has them he just needs those
qualities to be expressed in a stronger
more powerful faster way strength and
conditioning is not complicated I
promise finally strength training
elevated split squat Patrick uses
elevated split squat to work strength at
an in range of motion in this position
you need to work slow and have isometric
holds for up to 5 Seconds at the in
range of motion yes because that so
often happens in sport lifting in the
strength conditioning contest especially
for American football should be done
more dynamically than it is hypertrophy
training so he should be getting into
that bottom position and springing back
up because in reality that's what would
happen in sport he's not building
resiliency by pausing at the bottom for
5 seconds that doesn't build resiliency
at all it actually makes you less
athletic by practice it's not a good
idea you have to challenge folks in the
weight room to move with very high
velocities High Force Productions and
yes bounces out of the hole You're
Building resiliency right he's going to
get bounced off of O linan at some point
by accident you know when he's playing
the game better get used to it now so oh
good God oh God it says isometric pullup
oh God God damn it here it comes the
three position isometric pullup to make
sure Patrick has stability in three
different positions in a vertical pull
yes I'll just take this right on the
nose guess how many positions of
stability may be required in the sport
of American football technically
infinite the entire range of motion of
your body should be trained if you want
to pre prevent injury and enhance
resiliency through the entire range of
motion unless you can predict that there
are really only three major positions in
sport of football there aren't then I
don't know what this is doing he could
get all of this resiliency by just doing
pull-ups through a full range of motion
with a rapid generation of power on the
ascent and a control but at athletic
speed on The Descent and a little bounce
out of the hole to make those tendons
and connective tissue stronger so that
you can take a bounce out of the hole on
the football field it's uh again much
simpler in reality than uh than this
kind of stuff there's a huge attempt
been a longtime attempt to over
complicate strength and conditioning
turns out it's just not that complicated
overcoming isometric trap bar deadlift
is to make sure that we maximally
recruit all the muscle fibers in the
body but also it's about stability it's
it's not about weight it's about
constant tension and how would you
generate a lot of tension it couldn't be
with more weight could
it Christ you're training Dynamic
athletes you have to use a high range of
motion and produce High forces with
maximum intent to move isometrics are
the very fing opposite of that football
is not played isometrically I know that
sounds
crazy just a regular deadlift would have
been fing awesome as a replacement for
this Patrick uses the PIP thrust I
recommend three sets of five with a 5sec
isometric hold at the
Top If you want to give people needless
fatigue and arguably make them slower
this is a good way to train you let me
know where in American football someone
is asked to isometrically contract their
glutes for 5 seconds at a time or
remotely or whatever you get out of that
which is like some decent amount of
glute hypertrophy where does that matter
in football you say look glute
hypertrophy is a big deal in football
why cuz you're asked to produce a lot of
power of running jumping and cutting
with your glutes and pushing people and
pulling them around totally but do we
have other exercises that could check
all those boxes and end them yes squats
deadlifts power cleans stiff leg
deadlifts Etc can be unbelievable for
glute hypertrophy and power production
and strength generation and nothing
makes you moreing resilient outside of
the sport itself than putting a mean
heavy well- nled barbell on your back
that will make you a goddamn man
real fast this I don't know man
this is for only fans girls to do to be
completely honest probably on only fans
probably with nothing covering the front
am I right Scott the video guy hey hey
so that's a peek into how Patrick
Mahomes gets ready for
Sundays that hurt that hurt
Scott are we doing more of this all
right folks uh what do I say about this
lots of good stuff I'm just going to
break it down for you folks that follow
American football or used to play or
play or coach even better as a strength
and conditioning professional in the
sport of American
football you have the ability to make
your athletes
bigger take those big muscles of theirs
and make them stronger take those big
strong muscles and teach them to move
rapidly and produce High Force at the
same time which is power and the most
determinative varable in American
football and outside of a few old teen
little concerns here and there like
mobility and injury resilience which you
should be building through full range of
motion training with compound heavy
barbell Basics and Medicine B tosses and
things like that this is just that's
your job it's 97% of your job and if you
do that really well whatever athletic
Talent OR ability to move or ability to
coordinate their hips your athletes had
is going to multiply into that power
that you have given them the ability to
generate and it's going to make them the
football player they're really supposed
to be and then the sport coaches teach
them and improve their specific
techniques of execution on the field of
play tactics the head sport coach aligns
and recruits the right players and runs
the right plays that's strategy and then
all of those added up is do you win the
Super bowl or not or win D1 national
championships or even high school local
game it all starts with athletes that
have a given genetic ability to move
athletically which doesn't alter much
with time especially if they're always
involved in playing sports but you can
meaningfully as a strength and
conditioning coach make them bigger make
them stronger and make them more
explosive if you do that and you do that
often through a full range of em motion
you ALS reduce the probability of injury
you improve their resiliency that's your
fing job is it a complicated job
absolutely not but do you get to really
get the behind the guys teach them good
technique of lifting in the gym and make
sure their stiff-legged deadlifts their
power cleans their squats their incline
close grip barbell bench go up as high
as possible and that they're executing
super high velocity movements with
rotational moves and medicine ball
throws can you do that yeah fck yeah you
can it makes Gym training for footb
players not very timec consuming very
challenging very fun and egotistically
driving cuz look you squat more you're
better at football and it also makes it
insanely effective much of anything else
you see beyond that is just pure gobble
to fool people who don't know what
they're looking at and a lot of times
people really believe their own so
maybe they're fooling
themselves I'm an assle my name is Dr
Mike Patrick Mahomes you're the man my
wife is a football fan she thinks you're
great see you guys next
time oh
um # miixed R Supremacy out of 10 isn't
that right big family heyo that's all I
got all right that was fun folks this
video right here YouTube wants you to
click on it and uh YouTube knows all so
I would never disagree with them