hey guys dr. Marquez Rafael here for
Renaissance period ization
RP + & RP University lecture number 7 in
the training principles course is the
principle of phase potentiation this is
one of the fancy ones what's on the menu
for today we're gonna go give a simple
definition so you guys know where we're
going with all of this we're gonna do an
analogy for face potentiation that
really isn't even an analogy it's it's
more specific than that it's an example
of how this principle works in a
non-biological simpler system so that
you can always have a really awesome
easy super simple example to take with
you when you think about face
potentiation because I could get really
confusing if we just keep it to what its
actual applications are but this example
kind of analogy is gonna make things
super super clear it's always helped me
a lot after that we'll cover the
technical definition we'll talk about a
sub product ation Decay all face
potentiation is a big part of what that
face potentiation is we'll talk a little
bit about sample decay rates and it
really an extension of that sub
principle talk example of application
and programming implications lots of
chat about so the simple definition of
face potentiation is that when you want
to get better at something you
essentially build up what supports that
something first before focusing on it
specifically so you can get better
long-term results just like not eating
for a couple of hours potentiates
the culinary experience you're going to
inhale and you're going to have at a
restaurant later that's really good
because when you're hungry or you can
taste food better as opposed to just
eating a crapload of food before you go
out to eat and then you go out to eat
you're like I'm really hungry nothing
really taste that great so we can say
that not eating before going out to a
fancy restaurant can potentiate to your
culinary experience the food it makes it
better one thing done earlier makes the
next thing go better
if we can sequence several things like
that we have a chain of events one
potentiating the next if at the end of
that shalinka of events we have higher
level of sport performance blue or on to
something because then we can sequence
training in a way that makes every part
of it better because of its logical
location because one thing makes the
next better makes the next better makes
the max better so we examine what you do
with training we got to look at that
bottom rung first and say okay what
supports all of this and what do we put
on top of it to take that particular
analogy rather really example is what I
like to call the skyscraper analogy for
face potentiation question how do you
build the tallest skyscraper let's say
that was your goal it's been many
people's gold over history how do we
build the tallest possible skyscraper
well if you give this job to a toddler
say maybe a four year old even or a six
year old and you ask them how do you
build the tallest building what do you
do first the young child will almost
invariably say you go up any go as high
as you can and if you gave him a bunch
of blocks to play with that looked like
various parts of a skyscraper he
probably pick the spire and you know the
part of the skyscraper at the top that
maybe has like TV antennas on it
he picked the spire first and go boom
and that's what he put down because it's
already the tallest part maybe like
there we go good start but anyone
familiar with engineering remotely knows
that that's actually not the correct
answer as to how to build a tall as
possible skyscraper if you want to build
one the first direction you start
building in is down what that's right
anytime you have a really tall building
going up one of the ways you know or get
a hint that it's a tall building if
you're walking around a major city and
you see a construction site and you want
to know how tall the buildings gonna be
look at the construction site before the
buildings even gone up if the hole
they're digging is super wide and super
deep they're gonna lay down a huge base
the base of the skyscraper which houses
parking
structures elevators all sorts of sort
of life-support systems air conditioning
electricity etc if you have to make a
big deal of room for that you know
you're making room for something really
special after the first floor clears the
foundation so first you build the base
then you build the main floors and
lastly you put on the spire right why
well because the bigger the base the
more floors you can hold the more
regular floors are the higher up the
spire can start remember if you just put
a spire down first of all it's not
really a skyscraper it can't hold
anything people can't work and live and
play in a spire okay and also if you
build something super thin all the way
up you can do that and then it's like a
TV antenna
it's got to be anchored from every
single side by huge cables because it
just tips over in the wind and yeah it's
gonna be super tall but more or less
functionless compared to a skyscraper
which does the TV antenna Park just as
well as a TV antenna but does everything
else it actually has all the stuff in it
once you get the floors you can put the
spire up even higher on top of them
right so if you begin kind of like the
four year old did and begin construction
by putting the spire down first you're
not gonna go very far and you're not
gonna build the tallest building and the
most important part about this analogy a
rather example is that the order in
which you build the sections base floors
in spire matters a ton because while a
big base potenti it's how many floors
you have above it it doesn't directly
potentiate the spire if you want to
stick a spire into the ground and just
go 200 feet up and just leave it there
do you need a huge base no it's a total
waste of your time as a matter of fact
it's even more telling them that if you
want to stick a spire into the ground
you're gonna be sticking it into the
base which is gonna be lower than the
grounds you're gonna be missing 10
floors all of a sudden it's gonna be
even worse
so because the base only potentiates
floor building and floor building only
potentiates spire construction and spire
construction is relatively useless
without those two things before it
we have a logical structure of
skyscraper design in which one phase
potentiates the next it improves the
performance of the next it improves the
overall outcome by that method just the
same way with training one phase is
going to improve the next is going to
improve the next to lead us to an end
result that we like the best so the
technical definition from that
derivative is here it is training should
be arranged in a logical sequence of
phases whereby the initial phases
potentiate the improvements that can be
made in the later phases improving the
rate of Deen's for the whole process
above and beyond what would be possible
if all abilities were trained
concurrently at the same time so to
speak so if we built everything all at
once right we build kind of like some
kind of structure that was pretty solid
and had like its own little kind of base
like it was wide to begin with and it
had like some floors but the floors
didn't have much in them the floors are
really super thin so they kind of look
like a spire we'd get up pretty far but
we wouldn't get up as far as if we built
a distinct based distinct floors and a
distinct spire right this remember phase
potentiation it's one of those
situations where the later training
principles really draw on the first ones
you can almost say they're derivative of
the first training principles so phase
potentiation makes use of a couple of
really obvious training principles early
it makes use of specificity and training
modality compatibility because we're
saying look the best way to establish a
fitness quality is kind of by itself and
then later we're gonna stack stuff on
top of it to use a really easy support
example we want big muscles so we can
make them stronger but the kind of
training we do for hypertrophy doesn't
train the nervous system super well for
strength and if we were to do strength
training it's not sufficient volume to
really get good hypertrophy so we're
under meaning that there is not perfect
compatibility between training styles
and we're gonna use specificity to first
establish a good deal of one training
ability and then build on top of it with
another thus never violating specificity
in addition the phase potentiation
principle makes you
of directed variation when we're varying
when we go in for my per for you
straight
we are not varying at random we didn't
go from hypertrophy to work capacity
we're in hypertrophy to strength because
every training phase is purposeful and
not just different for its own sake is
hypertrophy to strength it's not the
other way around and it's not some
random source or room so yes variation
is super important part of phase
potentiation it's really very much an
extension of variation but it is a very
special case of the direct an adaptation
sub principle you could say and lastly
and very importantly phase potentiation
makes use of a sub principle called
adaptation decay adaptation decay is so
important it has to be a sub principle
and we have to talk about it next to
really really describe how phase
potentiation is designed but also how
it's limited right so the sub principle
is adaptation again here's kind of the
story if you've got to build a
skyscraper and you run out of funds like
you run out of money to pay for it
midway through let's say you've got the
base built but you haven't put any
floors on it the question is how long
can you let the base sit there maybe you
can cover it up with a big tarp until we
can't guarantee its structural integrity
and this happens with buildings all the
time so sometimes buildings will start
being built and then the bank has
trouble or maybe the war starts a
country goes into a depression building
stops for a while what they can do is
they can kind of mothball stuff and for
several years they can just leave it and
when they come back they can clean
everything up and start building again
that's happened all the time the thing
is what is the decay rate of the base in
a real actual literal technical decay if
we come back a hundred years later after
the base construction can we be sure
that it's ready to accept floors no it's
probably degraded to some large extent
bugs might have eaten the wooden parts
of it right the various other heavier
concrete parts might have sunk into the
sands in various ways there might have
been some shift in the base various
metal components could have rusted and
no longer support the weight they were
supposed to so we hit
assume that the base is gonna last
forever so if we're going to sequence
floors on top of a base we had better
know how long that base is good for and
if we're gonna come back later and try
to build on top of it we want to know
it's decay rate if it's on the order of
centuries we don't have much to worry
about if that's in the order of decades
we got to be something to worry about if
it's on the order of years or do you've
got to build the whole thing right away
right exact analogy to that is if you're
taking strong muscles and making them
fast remember then we're playing speed
training which has some modality
incompatibility to strength training so
we're doing mostly speed training how
long can your muscles stay strong enough
to support speed but while only
receiving speed training that's the
question right so just like how long can
we expect the base to hold stable for
the floors we can say okay if strength
is what we're basing our speed on but
once we switch to speed training to milk
that last little bit out of our
abilities in speed are we so sure that
strength is gonna hang around and the
next question is how long right because
that tells us a lot about how long we
can expect to get faster and here's the
deal because different underlying
characteristics on which later or latter
abilities are based have certain decay
rates we have two implications we can
draw from that we must do a couple of
things first of all we can't exceed the
decay rates when select selecting total
macrocycle length so example here is a
we've got to begin fixing the skyscraper
when the older base starts to wear down
not just when the newer spire starts to
rush so let's say the base starts to
wear down after 20 years but the spire
was only you know and so is the so does
the spire we'll make this simple every
part of that building starts to wear
down 20 years after initial construction
and requires us to do something about it
maybe make some improvements to it or at
least an inspection and let's say the
skyscraper took 10 years to build
we finished the spire 10 years ago but
we finished
the base 20 years ago so ten years after
the skyscrapers finished construction we
can't look at the spire and go so
everything takes 20 years to do start to
degrade we know the skyscraper finished
10 years ago we're good
the spires 10 years old we're good but
hold on the floors maybe 50 years old
still fine but the base might already be
20 years old so we have to look at them
even the earliest Fitness
characteristics that we've established
and make sure that their decay rates
support the next one and support the
next one and support the next one that
can't be any broken links in the chain
because of something you've established
midway through at the beginning of your
logical sequence of your face
potentiated plan is already beginning to
decay significantly when you're building
the later components or expecting high
performances you're in a world of
trouble because your very foundation for
those high performances is starting to
crumble on you and your performances
will degrade now we may just not want to
exceed those total rates right so we may
say okay if we're establishing some kind
of base and we need to perform at a high
level in six months nothing in this
macro cycle can be a six-month
meaningful degradation decay rate it has
to be longer than that there's another
option what we can do is periodically
re-establish these underlying
characteristics go back and train them
up a little bit kind of like fixing up
the base of the floors to give them a
little bit more time to hang around if
we plan to exceed the limit set in point
a servers okay six months is when we
need to perform six months from now so
everything we establish has to hang in
there for six months if we have to
perform eight months from now whatever
it is that degrades within six to eight
months we have to come back at some
point within six months of when we're
gonna be performing and kind of retrain
it reapply it put some sort of kind of
fix it up a little bit
and come back and train it to
re-establish that quality to make sure
that the degradation doesn't occur on a
net level and actually impact
performance at the end of the day all
right so we can enjoy the fuller effect
for longer and and get everything done
let me need to
so the chart you're looking at now is a
chart of sample decay rates for kind of
intermediate advanced collegiate
athletes they're super rough averages so
don't take these too much to heart
they're more like examples and really
rough guys for program design let's go
through how to read this chart just give
you an example and you can read it on
your own much more extensively just by
pausing the video for example so when
you're training for something that's the
top situation that we have there the top
axis and then the left is what effect
that has on your various abilities so if
you train for example for size what is
the effect on your size while training
for size increases your size and
long-term if you're training for size
and remember you're relatively advanced
what effect does that have on your
strength there's actually a slight decay
within two to four weeks of your maximal
strength why because size trains
different aspects of your nervous system
it teaches you size training usually
occurs in rep ranges that reward a
little bit more of a muscular endurance
style ability and not to peak nervous
system application so it's a slight -
gay and then it just kind of stabilizes
if you train for size what is the effect
on your maximum ability to produce power
or remember power rewards explosive
qualities of my nervous system they
change really rapidly power will decay
within one week of dedicated size
training so if you want to be the most
powerful person you want a high jump the
highest don't do sets of ten the week
before your competition you're not gonna
do so well and if you're training for
size what does that effect does that
have on your speed remember speed is an
incredibly fatigue sensitive ability and
it's incredibly sensitive to particulars
of the nervous system very specific
techniques very specific modes of action
highly explosive ones basically after
your first leg workout for size you will
get slower and maybe not markedly but it
sure will show very soon so there's an
immediate beginning and decay so if you
want to arrange your training properly
make sure that you look at charts like
this one and see what decays when to
inform you about how to peak and taper
for stuff and also to inform you how to
create your phases so for example here's
a
interesting one if we're training for
strength what effect does that have on
our muscle size no change
strength to put it another way strength
training conserves our current levels of
muscle size so if we wanted to make put
a foundation of size training first how
long can we train for strength without
that base of size decane the answer is
forever so if you want a an immediate
logical sequence in face potentiation
possibly as hypertrophy to strength
because strength benefits from my per
trophy like crazy because you get bigger
muscles now though strength training
teaches the nervous system how to use
all those big muscles and make it
stronger and also because you're
training for strength you never have to
worry about your size degrading it's
perfect all these other ones they don't
work so well there are decay scenarios
but some of them decay it says you know
the power training you know will lead to
a size decay just training for power
within two to four months so we know
that okay so when we finish our strength
phase if we're entering a power training
phase but within two to four months we
can expect for our size to start to
decay then what does that mean our size
ability came then our strength begins to
decay that's not great what happened to
our strengthen gets decayed well the
primary underlying characteristic of
power which is force production also
begins to decay that's really bad so and
that's what that means that power will
start to degrade size within two to four
months which really means and we can
scroll down and says if you're training
for power what is the effect only power
what is the effect on your ability to
produce power as a higher level athlete
well it increases it for a while because
the teachers are nervous doesn't do cool
stuff but look at notice that within
four to six months there's a decay
afterwards why the decay because within
two to four months your size starts to
be harmed within three to five months
your strength starts to follow clearly
because nervous system abilities can
only do so much with size and then in
four to six months you start to be
experiencing decay so if you're a well
muscled athlete
and you only trained in power which
means very low volumes of high force
training and very low volumes of
explosive high speed training in
conjunction with in the same microcycle
if you train like that for like half a
year you're actually going to start to
decrease in power then what do you have
to do come back and re-establish the
size you lost re-establish the strength
gain from that size go back again so the
real kind of inference here is that a
power phase in a phase potentiated
sequence probably shouldn't last longer
than a half a year it might be better
off lasting only several months perfect
use of that chart right there let's get
into some examples of application well
the proper examples are all over sport
training for example some classic face
potentiation or periodization models or
work capacity phase in sport into a
strength phase into a power phase and
into a speed phase used in tons of team
sports and speed sports all the time
classic hypertrophy strength and peaking
for powerlifting and for weightlifting
then we have basics phase four technique
periodization
and if learning a basic move taking the
move and putting into a combination of
effective moves once it's learned or let
or learned well and once those combos
learn well take it into a live training
phase where you use combos in an actual
live setting a very good phase
potentiated pure is a ssin and then in
endurance athletics we have a work
capacity phase and then I'll I kind of a
lactate threshold phase and then a
competition pace phase each one
potentiating performance of the mast now
what does over application of phase
potentiation look like how we do take
this too far here's how we take it too
far you start to see these phases in
complete isolation you start to say okay
specificity super-important training
mode elegant Pat ability is super
important so every phase has to have its
distinct goals to get as good at that
phase as possible before going on to the
next one or overvaluing potentiation and
kind of under valuating a sort of a
generality of training that we can't
what we're sort of violating specificity
by going too far away into that specific
phases demand
while missing the specificity of the
sport in general so for example if you
are doing um a powerlifting hypertrophy
phase and you do only sets of ten or
more and you only do machine lifts the
transfer into the strength phase is
gonna be a disaster
because you're gonna be instead of doing
sets of six to ten reps which has a
pretty good hypertrophic effect but a
pretty good nervous system similarity to
strength you're gonna be so dissimilar
it's gonna take you to strength days
just to get used to sets of five again
and because you've gotten bigger on
machine lift the specificity of that
yeah you're gonna have big muscles but
they're not gonna be developed in the
specific areas that we want them to be
if you have done it with barbell lift
their derivatives have very close to low
bar squatting and bench pressing and
dead lifting so we've essentially moved
really far into hypertrophy great we've
got a ton of size but we didn't worry
enough about that sizes ability to
transfer to the next phase so we've kind
of given face potentiation too much
credit we so if we train you know people
don't believe in phase potentiation so
you need to train for the same stuff all
the time it's always specificity and
it's always no only the sport and but
you turns out you need to train for
completely different stuff and you just
see what's it right it works yeah but
it's not completely different stuff that
still has to be very much related on the
other hand if you're really paranoid
about getting away from training what
you want to train you can under apply
face potentiation and think that
qualities degrades immediately and that
there's no delay in degradation that you
that decay happens really fast and you
think we always need to support all
qualities and stay specific so what he
end up doing well in powerlifting you
train four sets of 15 sets of six and
sets of heavy doubles all on the same
week every single week well I have
phases of hypertrophy well I have phases
of strength why I have phases of peaking
we can do everything in the same way you
can just keep getting better the problem
is it doesn't work that way
remember our concurrent skyscraper
that's kind of got a sort of base to its
structure and it's made of floors but
they're really skinny floors so it kind
of looks like a spire it's gonna go up
high it's gonna work but not as well is
if we have phasic structure where the
phases are distinct they're not so
distinct
we've forgotten the rest of it that
would be the over application but
they're distinct enough to make a big
difference and give their individual
contributions to the whole right so
lastly let's work out some program
design implications what are some big
lessons to learn here well here they are
before and this goes back to dr.
Hoffman's talks about making sure that
you really really get a needs analysis
going we don't just jump into training
we find out when we need one of those
things is always find out what the
underlying systems are of an ability and
which ones are the biggest contributors
to that abilities performance that tells
you what you need to work on probably
first and certainly as part of the
phasic structure it's a for example
power is generating force at high
velocities it's very explosive let's say
putting a shot if you look at a shot
putter and you only know the specificity
principle what are you gonna have them
do as far as training for shot put shot
put a hole lock which is a great start
but it turns out the most underlying
element of power is strength speed can
be trained but very little it's more
perfected than trained strength can
change wildly an individual can get
twice as strong but can they move their
hand twice as fast even without a load
no way we're talking about several
percent increase at best with a really
good training so the most changeable
malleable and thus valuable
characteristic underlying power is
strength so when you see a shot putter
and you know face potentiation you don't
automatically think we're gonna train
him only in a shot put yes Shoplet
rating is very important especially a
lot of is important towards the end of a
macro cycle where they're gonna compete
remember specificity we do more things
that are related towards the end before
competition but maybe earlier in the
phases of training you're gonna want to
make that person really strong why
because you know that strength feeds
into power a ton so once you've got a
shot putter
that's inclined benching 500 pounds
gee that's well on his way to having
Olympic level shout put performances but
if you've got a shot put her that's
plenty fast but it only incline benching
220 pounds you gotta wonder maybe
improving underlying strength is going
to improve power even more than training
power directly and that's absolutely the
case number two you want to know the
decay rates of the phases that you're
putting in of the actual adaptations so
that they're accounted for or not
leading to net decay right especially
during peaking what does that mean so we
know that training super hard makes
fatigue so we could have this idea that
if we don't train hard leading up to a
competition we have very low fatigue and
high fitness but hold on a second high
Fitness means we've retained the
abilities if we know something decays
really fast
we gotta keep training it pretty hard
for it not to decay here's a really good
example strength hangs in there for a
long time it doesn't decay very fast at
all it is also incredibly fatiguing so
for power lifters who are taught to
demonstrate strength at their
competitions the commonality for large
strong power lifters is to basically
train almost not at all in that last
week it's more like just going through
the motions super lightweights there's
no strength training in the last week of
training why well one because we need to
drop that much fatigue and if we strain
we wouldn't but two we can afford it
because for two or three weeks strength
doesn't move anywhere noticeably and for
sure for a week so it's totally fine
on the other hand if we're not aware of
that decay rates are different and we
come from the sport of powerlifting and
we start applying that to other sports
like short distance sprinting 100-meter
sprint and we say alright fellas got 100
meter sprint team trained super hard
this week next week's meat week meat
week we're not gonna do anything no
sprinting people are gonna get really
confused sprinting decays within several
days of not performing that activity at
a relatively high level so if you took a
week off of sprinting and the decay rate
so quick you would lose a ton of fitness
now would you be fatigued no would you
be fit no your performance would suffer
so how do you do is printing what was
sprinting you change your volume of
sprinting
we certainly reduce your volumous
printing in the last week especially in
the last several days but your intensity
should stay high all the way up to maybe
the day before the event and should
still be sprinting super fast or
relatively frequently because we can't
afford to drop sprinting out really
really far away from the meet it decays
too fast for us to be able to do that
number three remember that we need to
keep all the phases in context of the
grand scheme purely specific phases are
rarely needed when we say phase we
mostly mean that there are is in
emphasis D emphasis towards the desired
quality and away from the other
qualities so an athlete a thrower for
example may very well train for power
and actual do shotput
exercises if the entire throwing season
but they're going to do not so many of
them when they're training mostly for
hypertrophy and they'll do some strength
training then too but in the strength
Basel train mostly for strength not a
whole lot for hypertrophy maybe just a
little and do a little bit more actual
throwing and in there peaking phase and
the power phase are gonna train a lot
for power pretty much very little
hypertrophy training of any minimal
strength training and lots of throwing
notice that none of the qualities we
ever really take away we just emphasize
one and D emphasize another and then
another phase will do this and then
another phase will do that it's not a
complete zero-sum trade-off right when
you're picking phase lengths don't make
the phases so sure that directed
adaptation is violated okay if you have
phase that lasts two weeks what the hell
are you gonna build in two weeks nothing
right let's see you got a hypertrophy
phase that lasts a week how much mostly
we're gonna build in a week that's not
even a wrong question to ask how much
momentum of muscle gain you're gonna
generate in a week that you're not just
gonna lose the next week a week of
muscle gain builds you muscle but it
almost doesn't matter what you do after
that week nothing is gonna retain that
muscle for you you got to build muscle
for probably at least a month before any
of it will stick around
so definitely don't want to violate
directed adaptation and on the other
hand you don't want to violate variation
for how long the phases so you say okay
I'm gonna have high perch
Faye's that six months long and then a
strength phase after that well geez six
months especially for an advanced
athlete six months of dedicated
hypertrophy you're getting very little
hypertrophy towards the tail end of that
maybe if you stopped the hypertrophy
phase at four months and start of
strength then it would make more sense
even if you have the time to run all
those phases a little bit more very
variation probably helps in the context
especially of a more advanced athlete
now a lot of these phases can be longer
for beginners but as you get more
advanced intermediate men advance the
phases tend to shorten up how much
utility you get out of them how quickly
they start to become stale increases
this is especially true for phases like
power and speed development you only
really train speed for weeks until it
becomes a relatively useless thing your
nervous system your technique Peaks out
really fast once you're relatively
advanced but unless you come back and
build more size or build more strength
or a go away from speed training just to
do strength training for a while and
then come back go to power training
speed training doesn't by itself make
you faster for very very long it's
designed like a spire and skyscraper
it's the tip of the spear you don't
spend most of your time on it because
after a while it just doesn't do a whole
lot it's just by nature not very
overloading and that's a big part of the
problem lastly for high technique sports
remember taking that lesson of never
moving it completely away from a general
plan especially for high technique
sports in which your ability to crisply
execute the techniques needs to always
kind of be emphasized yes you're going
to go through different phases but some
semblance of full gameplay should likely
remain throughout but back to point
number three you know it's maybe 70/30
so for example if you are playing if
you're training tennis players yes there
should be phases of training in which
you're working on there serves a lot in
which you're working on their backhands
and on the forehand specifically for
hours on end in a practice and they're
playing much less actual tennis but
during those phases they should still
play a bit of tennis now maybe
they usually play in a peaking phase in
a live phase getting ready for
competition and tennis they may play 15
hours of tennis a week and do five hours
of everything else during phase in which
they're prioritizing individual
technique perfection or learning new
techniques maybe they'll do
fifteen hours of technique work but five
hours of actual tennis notice it's not
zero you don't want to take times
players did have not play tennis for a
while and just work on individual moves
because the way they synthesized all
those moves natural movements chord
awareness that stuff has high decay
rates and if you let it degrade for
months you're gonna come back and be
rebuilding it for a while before we ever
see anything as far as a benefit so it's
all about emphasis D emphasis but kind
of that 70/30 rule in general and not
taking his way completely and then
replacing them later with other things
give that some serious deep thought see
you guys next time
or the last of the training principles
[Music]