all right what's going on everyone has
first things first what I'm gonna do is
take you guys through my first training
session in Hong Kong I'm and then for
the rest of the video I'm gonna show
some of the highlights from the rest of
our trip so this was week 5 day 6 and my
push-pull legs program plus a few minor
modifications which I'll get to later it
was a pull day so we're gonna be
focusing on the lats traps rear delts
and biceps and up first was four sets of
10 to 12 reps on the Close Grip lat
pulldown and because this gym had these
mag grip attachments which I'm a fan of
I decided to use them instead of the
normal V grip neutral grip handle and I
do find the these mag attachment SAR
pretty great for keeping the wrist
neutral and really transferring force
away from the forearms and the biceps
and on to the back pretty well and I
like to think of this movement as
primarily a lat activator I'm so I'm
focusing on driving my elbows down as my
lats perform shoulder extension and I
would say out of the two pole workouts
in this program the second session here
is the more lat and more sort of
hypertrophy focused of the - so we're
kicking it off with a more lat specific
vertical pull here first now for my
experience you want to go to 30-degree
lean back
you'll want to pull all the way down to
your chest and you want to keep your
chest nice and tall throughout the full
range of motion
so up next is a interesting type of
superset between two different cueing
techniques on the seated cable row and
this is what I'm calling the crazy Hong
Kong training technique for this workout
since this is the first time I've ever
shown this on the channel so what we're
doing here is for the first 10 reps
we're gonna keep the elbows out and
focus on scapular retraction so driving
the elbows out and back and this is
gonna hit more of the mid traps and
rhomboids as well as the lats and then
we're gonna take a short 5 second or so
pause and then switch the cueing to make
it more laughs focused so on the next 10
reps we're gonna be keeping the elbows
tucked in while driving the elbows down
in back instead of out in back
there's a total of 20 reps per set of it
in practice these should feel almost
like two totally different exercises if
you're doing them right and as you can
see I'm wearing my belt here because for
whatever reason my lower back was just
feeling pretty rekt throughout this
entire trip I'm not sure if it was all
the walking or the long plane rides but
either way it just wasn't worth it for
me to risk any lumbar flexion here so I
just slapped the belt on for most
exercises up next was another lat
focused movement and if you've seen my
pulled a sign supplied video and then
you know that I like to use the longest
handles that I can find here I like to
lean forward at the bottom and then
extend up right at the top to get the
largest range of motion for the lats
possible up next is a snatch grip
barbell shrug and I'm doing these on the
smith machine just so I can stagger my
stance a little bit which I find takes
some pressure off my lower back and I'm
also going pretty light here just
focusing on doing higher reps and having
a strong squeeze at the top since again
the heavy weight here isn't really worth
the risk while I'm on the road and my
back is hurting a bit anyway then we're
moving on to rear delts so we've got a
cable reverse fly up next and here I
like to set up the cables high and
really lean back and focus on sweeping
the weight out laterally to make sure
the traps aren't taking over by
squeezing back too much and this sort of
ensures that the rear delts are in fact
firing and responsible for performing
the movement and round out the workout
we did some direct bicep work we're
doing the Bayesian cable curl where you
face away from the cable to get a bit
more stretch at the bottom and then
we're moving on to a heavy hammer curl
to really finish off the biceps and get
some more of the forearms involved as
well and that was a wrap for the workout
so after that I went back to the air BnB
and I had a PE science vegan protein
shake and my experience Hong Kong food
isn't really the highest in protein and
at least a lot of the stuff I've been
eating so I have been relying on protein
powder to get my daily intake up a bit
and this vegan protein does have a great
flavor and I find it to be a bit easier
on the stomach than the milk protein
blend at times especially when I'm on
the road so if you're interested in that
I'll have my discount link for it in the
description box below
also has it turns out Kiwis are actually
pretty popular in Hong Kong and this is
the first time I'd ever seen freshly
squeezed Kiwi juice anywhere and it was
actually everywhere
over here so anyway unsurprisingly this
stuff was absolutely delicious after
that we headed to a small restaurant
under the gym that was called nude food
and they have an impossible burger there
which I've been wanting to try for a
while apparently it's supposed to be the
best meat substitute burger out there
and I think it's made with a potato
wheat and soy protein base and I will
say that it was pretty delicious for me
the main difference was in texture I
definitely had a meaty taste but I found
was a bit more crumbly than a real meat
patty would be but I'd say as far as
vegan burgers go as probably I would say
this is definitely the best one that
I've tried so from there we took a
10-minute ferry across Victoria Harbour
and that took us from Hong Kong Island
over to Kowloon and the skyline and just
the overall scenery on this part of the
trip was absolutely stunning I don't
think the camera is doing it justice
here but I do think that Hong Kong is
the most photogenic city that I've ever
been to and over here in Kowloon it kind
of reminded me more of like a upscale
New York City in a way I'm just the in
the sense that it was insanely busy and
also I found that pretty much everyone
was always decked out in this like
really high-end designer clothing
especially Footwear which I thought was
really reflected in the shopping malls
there and I don't think I've ever seen
as many designer brands in one shopping
location and this mall was absolutely
enormous and it was actually just one of
many on this shopping strip in Kowloon
there was just so much shopping here it
was actually pretty overwhelming but I
ended up getting four new pairs of kicks
yeah so I got a new pair of EQ tease
these camo ultra boosts I also splurged
on a pair of Giuseppe's and then these
Reeboks were actually a
if from a friend over here so anyway
after a pretty long day on her feet we
did a ton of walking we went for a Hong
Kong massage and honestly the massages
in Hong Kong are incredible I ended up
going for a few of them and I think that
they were the the best massages I've
ever had and it actually really helped
fix up my lower back as towards the back
end of the trip I was feeling a whole
lot better so if you are ever in Hong
Kong visiting I definitely recommend
checking out one of these massage
clinics and at the end of the night this
place looks even crazier because of all
the neon lights and neon signs and it
kind of reminded me a little more of
Vegas in that sense at night I think
these signs are pretty iconic when it
just comes to general Hong Kong imagery
so definitely something worth seeing so
we ended up eating at a restaurant in
the mall where we ordered a bunch of
different food my main order was a
yakisoba noodle dish which honestly
wasn't that great for me the highlight
of this meal were these barbecue are
these baked barbecued pork buns they're
a classic in Hong Kong and I almost
never eat pork but I did make an
exception a couple times on this trip
since they're apparently a food
essential over here and I will say they
were absolutely delicious I also had a
Tsingtao beer and I enjoyed that a few
times on the trip and then of course we
had a variety of different dim sum which
were for me kind of hit or miss
depending on what was in them but
overall I would say they had a pretty
unique and authentic taste and
definitely something worth trying so
actually going back on the ferry that
same night was another highlight of this
trip for me I'm just seeing the light
shows on the buildings from across the
harbour I was probably the most amazing
skyline view I've ever seen the
buildings here are just incredible in
real life not only because they're
extremely tall but they're also really
beautifully constructed the geometry of
everything on the skyline is incredible
so definitely something that I think you
can really only appreciate if you see it
in real life so for the rest of the trip
I
we had the camera put away I shared a
lot of my experiences on Instagram story
and I've actually got a highlight on my
profile over there showing a lot more of
the detail and some of the more local
areas that we visited including Troy
hung which was so colorful and so
vibrant including that iconic basketball
court over there where everyone takes
Instagram photos including me and I
would say that was probably my favorite
area that we visited I just had such a
authentic Hongkong feel to it it was
really awesome we also met up with a few
new friends from social media over there
they took us out for a real hardcore
authentic Hong Kong dinner and you knew
it was a legit because there was no
English translation on any of the menu
items so hear what they do is they
basically will put a bunch of different
dishes on a rotating tray in the middle
of the table and you just kind of spin
it around and pick from it what you want
and I would say the weirdest thing that
I tried on this trip was jellyfish I
which didn't taste bad but it reminded
me of what it would be like to eat a
rubber band I definitely had a really
strange texture but it wasn't horrible
is definitely worth trying probably high
in protein actually haven't looked up
the macros on it but be interesting to
know after that we went for dessert and
we got some authentic egg bubble waffles
I've cooked outside over a flame and the
original waffle was really good but the
what was called a flat waffle with
condensed milk peanut butter and sugar I
think really took the cake for me I was
probably the best thing that I had on
the whole trip to be honest I'm so if
you're over in Hong Kong you definitely
have to try out the egg waffles and flat
waffles I'm so guys that was a quick
snapshot of our trip in a nutshell like
I said check out that story highlight on
my Instagram page for more of the
details some of the behind the scenes
and stay tuned to Steph's channel she's
gonna have a video covering a lot more
of the food that we ate on the trip if
you're interested in that so I'll link
her channel below also thank you to
everyone who gave Steph and myself food
or sightseeing recommendations I'm it
really made our trip so much better and
I found so many of you guys really
helpful actually especially on Instagram
we had an amazing trip hung
it definitely comes highly recommended
if you do have the opportunity to travel
there I definitely think you should so
that's it for this one guys if you
enjoyed the video don't forget to leave
me a like if you enjoyed it please
subscribe if you happen to be new and
I'll see you guys all here in the next
video
[Music]