[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
yo its dr. Mike from Renaissance
predation oh look we match Joey from sat
strength on YouTube give him a follow
and we're here at the lions then
strongman gym
Joey owns it and he has a dog that's
super adorable the dog will be training
today Joey and I'll be watching JK Joey
is going to be doing an out workout that
is going to be rear and side delts traps
and forearms what a strange workout well
these muscles have to get Jack you gotta
have to get it done somehow this is not
a workout that takes forever it might
take you 30 or 40 minutes on a peak week
20 to 30 minutes on one of the middle
weeks of home as a cycle we're gonna do
the peak week one today so it's gonna be
a ton of work let's get started with the
first exercise which is bent over rear
delt dumbbell flyes
[Music]
let's warm up first of course go ahead
and show us how this looks we're gonna
take a nice bend lower back a straight
almost completely straight arms gonna
pull all the way up and all the way down
no top holds or anything but notice the
full range of motion failure on these
when we do working sets is going to
occur when we can no longer get a full
range when the elbows can't get above
the back anymore good enough for the
rear delt flies strictness is everything
we don't want to use a ton of weight how
much is a ton well it's what we can do
for a couple of reps is sure technique
but then we have to loosen up our
technique we want the 10 to 20 range on
this exercise which probably means since
we're doing bunch of sets we want closer
to 20 on a first set with good technique
here's the deal
Joey weighs like 250 pounds he's a pro
strongman he's gonna be using 225 back
at home give some thought to what that
means you should be doing maybe 10 maybe
15 that's totally fine and look if
you're a rear delt hero and you can do
the stroke of your 30s awesome no ego on
this exercise let's start with a first
set good good 5 more 1 elbows 2/3 less
arm Bend for straighten those arms 5
more
yep and one more that's it perfect folks
notice failure on these is the least
exciting thing you'll ever see failure
on squats obvious and deadly failure on
inclined bench your training partner
grabs that failure on curls is when you
can't move anymore on these there is no
can't move anymore because you can
always cheat just a little bit Joey
stopped at exactly the right time when
he could no longer do any more reps with
good technique that's called technical
failure that's what you always want and
on some exercises it just doesn't look
super exciting other people will judge
you they'll say that guy doesn't train
hard those people they don't know
 about you they don't know you you
tell them
mm-hmm good full range keep those arms
almost completely straight there you go
it's tougher that way that's what we're
trying to do is hit those rear delts
beautiful control the way down
select elbows all the way up elbows all
the way up very good control no swinging
straighten those arms out let's get
three more one all the way up - yep
three very good four sets of rear delt
flies down great rear delt pump going we
need to finish the job with a more
compound exercise here it's almost the
same exercise except instead of keeping
our elbows fixed we'd use a compound
version and essentially do a face pull
with dumbbells
we're already warmed up so we'll just go
right into set number one great rear
delt and a bit of side delt stimulus -
you will feel a trap pump from this as
well the exercise has to be done with
control especially on the way down
elbows go sky-high the dumbbells have to
clear your face if you can't clear your
face anymore
that's failure keep it going excellent
all the way up very good and again let's
get five more one to pull high elbows
three come on four and last one let's go
by excellent the set stops a technical
failure when he can no longer do these
without upper body rocking motions and
notice also still only 25 pounds because
his rear delts are pre exhausted this is
not a he-man exercise where we use a
billion pounds but it absolutely blasts
your rear delts and your side delts on
to the next exercise
[Music]
next exercise is for the side delts
starting to tighten the traps a bit more
the barbell upright row but with a twist
it's a slow eccentric so we're gonna
move the barbell up at a normal speed
and then we're gonna take about four
seconds to go down make sure that's not
three seconds from here to here but that
the tough long seconds are in this
mid-range
where the side delts are most active
where they're almost expose this is
gonna be brutal
the rep range for this is five to ten
reps not because we want to go super
heavy but because of slow eccentric
lowers the weight we're using already so
as far as percent 1rm it's what you'd
normally do in the 10 to 20 let's warm
it up and give us a little look at what
this looks like here so we're going to
come up and all the way down and then
down one two three and four and then
come up and one and two three four and
all the way up and one two three and
four and one more up and one two three
and four go ahead and rack remember an
upright rows always have good technique
we never want to swing failure is when
we cannot reach the highest point that
we want every single time so for Joe
it's roughly at about nose height when
he can't hit his nose anymore we're
gonna call it let's start the work sets
excellent keep going 1 2 3 4 elbows back
1 2 3 4 keep going 1 2 3 4 smooth 1 2 3
4 you got more ups let's go 1 2 3 4
slower especially in that mid-range 2
more let's go slow slow there you go
fix it from the start resist resist
resist that tip good stop
very good
[Music]
finish the upright rows time to toast
the traps the exercise here is the
bent-over shrug we don't bend over a ton
Oh like fifteen or thirty degrees full
stretch at the bottom no swinging traps
come up and here's the deal with arm
Bend you can bend your arms as long as
you're not actively pulling with your
biceps if that lets you get a better
peak contraction your arms can just bend
however they want we're focused on is a
big stretch and a big contraction that's
number one
traps there you go beautiful perfect big
stretch solid contraction that was the
perfect left excellent again one all the
way up to no swinging three batter four
five you got a couple more let's go
failure on shrugs isn't something that
can be super objectively judged which
sucks which you can use your objectivity
as much as you can to make sure that if
you know for sure you're using almost
exclusively your traps you're good if
some of this happens but then you can
slow it down and keep using your traps
you're not a failure yet but when you
have to do this in order to get any more
reps you know it's over
that's failure save it for the next set
we have six sets of these shrugs as long
as you get your breathing back you can
keep going back-to-back which means you
might only need 30 seconds to a minute
between sets knock them out get in the
high quality preps
[Music]
good no body English stay bent stay bent
there you go
whoo one more look that fit good enough
[Music]
last exercise for today six sets of
wrist curls with a barbell here's the
thing first of all the rest of your body
doesn't move obvious
second of all you're gonna curl all the
way down to your fingertips curl all the
way up and pause for a peak right at the
top which means as a pro strongman super
huge super strong forums Joey's only
using 95 pounds total not a ton but he's
soon gonna see that is a ton in this
exercise quality technique
remember the forearms recover super
quick so you can do these roughly every
10 to 15 seconds and that's a working
set as long as you get 20 to 30 on your
first set and as long as all the other
sets have at least five reps in them
you're good to go let's finish up folks
is this the hardest workout in the world
it's tough because it's a lot of sets
it's pretty brutal it's not the end of
the world
not all workouts are supposed to
challenge you down to your very core
legs chest back fat stuff super tough
for shoulders for traps for forms it's a
matter of getting into the gym and
putting in the work the thing is a lot
of people don't want to do that because
the is boring and they end up with
not so big shoulders not so big traps
and not so big forearms you want the
biggest forearms ever because then
people will suspect that you're a
chronic masturbator which is an awesome
title we all seek to emulate hold and
then down excellent you feel that your
forearms and then down very good hold
and then down hold down excellent
come up down still rocking it high reps
let's do it good couple more and hold
for more let's go
one beautiful to slide it all the way
down there you go three last one go go
go go hold and down awesome
very good very good solid Joey thank you
so much for tuning in folks if you do
just one of these workouts this is the
average results right here your
shoulders could be that big and your
traps could be interfering with your
breathing your forms can be enormous
also if you do this workout you get all
these tattoos they literally appear
during the course of the workout or you
could start with a few fewer sets than
this a little bit less weight work your
way up over the weeks get a little bit
closer failure ad sets add some reps add
some weight start at two or three reps
fracture size are sorry two or three
sets per exercise work your way all the
way up to these volumes that we have for
you that Joey did today and then you'll
get really really awesome results make
sure you can fit this workout into the
rest of your program in your plan you'll
be well on your way to bigger forearms
and a lot of attention from the internet
see you next time
[Music]