hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today let's talk about
the five rules of front delt training
yes they rules but that's more for the
clever thumbnail title they are helpful
tips that can allow you to develop your
best front delts so you can look like
you have armad dels n look at my friend
dels the're huge quote Arnold
Schwarzenegger rule number one chest
work goes a long way training your chest
almost most in every case also trains
your front deltoids a huge amount they
do a lot of the same function so don't
overdo front delt work because of this
because you're getting so much out of
your chest maybe consider doing front
delt specific work one maybe two times a
week if you're really prioritizing them
but like three time a week front Delta
exercise is a giant I wouldn't even want
to say waste of time it could be too
much for you chest training grows your
front delts a little bit sometimes a
moderate amount
take one chest workout later in the week
throw a few sets of front delt work at
the end of that and that's almost as
much as your front delts will a ever be
able to recover anyway number two when
you are doing presses with a barbell be
they high incline press be they seated
barbell press or be they standing
barbell press especially standing you
want to try unless you're super gigantic
or super immobile to try touching the
barbell to your clavicles every single
time because stretch underload is really
really good for muscle growth and deeper
is better can you use less weight yes is
it going to make your front adts grow
even more while keeping your injury risk
even less yes it's a fucking winall
strategy number three if you are
training dumbbell presses with delts and
unless you're Ultra strong and the
dumbells are super gigantic a huge
recommendation isn't to come down to
where your delts are on the presses but
to come out and below your front delts
touching the dumbbell to the top of your
bicep if you can do that and pause for a
second and then Arc your way back up to
full lockout you will burn your front
delts off of your body and when your
body heals them up they're going to be
enormous and you won't be able to move
or even Flex because your front delts
will be too big mission accomplished
number four front raises are a very good
exercise for the front delts however
they're also an excellent exercise for
the side delts the big determining
factor is often what you do with your
hands in grip position because it turns
your delts and exposes their various
angles of pull so if you do front raises
a great way to do them is take the easy
bar curl position and raise them all the
way up over your head and all the way
super slow Ecentric back down to where
they're just sitting in the bottom of a
curl position that underhand easy grip
makes your front delts a no-brainer
angle of pull that really does most of
the work if you do wider grip barbell
front raises with your elbows out a
little bit and your tops of your hands
facing the ceiling overhand grip it
actually is a very huge La side delt
stimulating exercise and doesn't hit the
front delts nearly as much as you would
expect in addition to that point number
five is to try getting yourself into a
free motion machine those dual cable
Stacks that are super awesome and try to
do some straight arm raises there but
what you want to do is stand in front of
the machine Ma so that you get a super
deep stretch in your front belts at the
top and come all the way up for a peak
contraction and a slow Ecentric all the
way down for a deep stretch behind your
body try to keep your chest as proud and
high in the sky as possible while moving
your arms and stretching the back as far
that stretches the front belt something
it doesn't get a chance to do in many
other situations and then it's going to
fry your shit up and the best grip for
that is probably a neutral grip so
thumbs up towards the sky grab the some
kind of handle that allows you to
neutral grip and go to town in addition
to that get your ass uh if you don't
have a free motion machine or even if
you do for variation set up a a medium
incline bench like you're going to do
incline dumbbell presses except neutral
grip Hammer grip style drop the
dumbbells all the way down until they're
stretching you back here chest up proud
front raise the dumbbells up to right
above your head and slowly control the
Centric on the way down getting that big
deep stretch at the bottom that is a
serious approach to front delts and if
you see someone who thinks to training
front delts and they're doing the grab
the 45lb plate at the top and they doing
this half R
bullshit come up to them and say look I
really do apologize for what's going to
happen they're like oh no worries what's
going to happen and you Megaton punch
them generating like I don't know a
third of the speed of light Peak
velocity with your fist as it contacts
the metal plate in front of their chest
that they're holding and you're
generating like I don't know enough
energy to move
like to displace the Moon by an inch if
it was at Earth's gravity ground level
not a ton I'm just asking for basic
theoretical physics and as you knock
them
out
the chemical elements reform fuse and
Phile material is created you get
essentially an enormous nucle bomb is
just the detonation of such a contact
the gym gets sucked into this
essentially mini Wormhole you've created
for a short amount of time everyone in
100 square kilometers instantly is
vaporized to death uh the where the gym
was let's say the gym was in Connecticut
Connecticut is now a 500 Mile every
witchway crater which the Atlantic Ocean
fills up the good news is that the polar
bears will have more ice caps because
the ocean lels have
sunk don't hit people that hard folks
it's bad for all of us but kindly tell
them they could be doing better see you
guys next
time