hey folks Dr Mike Israel here for
Renaissance puritization last week
we gave you simple
Ultra easy straightforward ways to
increase your squat but no doubt many of
you have tried the simple ways and have
well let's say milked everything out of
them that we could have gotten so this
week we talk about increasing your squat
with an advanced periodized approach
this one's going to be a bit more
troubleshooting specific this one is
going to be a bit more formal laid out
but you will see that it incorporates
many of the simple things from before
assumes you're doing the real simple
ones and then lays out a plan to take
the most serious kind of possible
approach to really increase your squat
so let's take a look
here's how the sequence is going to work
you're going to do some due diligence on
your end and find the actual limiting
factors for your squat
then you are going to perform probably
several months of hypertrophy work on
those limiting factors be it that let's
say your quads are weak or be it that
your posterior chain is weak or be it
that your overall strength is just met
and everything's pretty balanced you're
going to have your work cut out for you
on the hypertrophy and for those
weaknesses
after that you'll go through a strength
phase and then you'll go through a
peaking phase and at the end of that
peaking phase you should hit new solid
PR's on the squat come back around
reanalyze the problem and continue
forward
so
limiting factors
here's how I would do this you may
disagree with it you may go slightly
your own way but this is a method I
think works pretty well
questions for you
do you miss your squats
deep in the hole
or do you miss them just at or above
parallel
hold that thought
next
when you're missing your squats do you
most often miss them very upright just
kind of your hips stop moving or do you
miss them kind of bent and rounded over
and you can even if you don't miss
squats
you can proxy these of where you
experience the most difficulty in the
lift is the the hole very hard for you
or is it just above parallel that's very
hard and are you when the Reps get
harder starting to cantilever over and
round over on your back or the reps are
getting harder you're able to stay
upright and it's just like your legs
feel like you're grinding through
having answered that
likely causes are at least reasonable
possible causes
for these various ways of missing or
having trouble in squats are as follows
if you're missing a lot of squats in the
hole then it's probably that your knee
extensor strength as a limiting factor
because in the hole your posterior chain
doesn't really have much of an effect on
anything and if anything if your quads
are strong enough what they'll do is
they'll shoot your butt up for you and
then you won't be able to raise your
back because your posterior chain is
weak but if in the hole you can't budge
out of the hole that means the
quadriceps which are the primary only
knee extensors humans have to some
extent that's pretty true to a large
extent
then really knee extension is limiting
factor and you sort of need bigger and
stronger quads if you're missing your
squats in the hole
if you're missing your squats or have
trouble with your squats at around or
maybe just above or below parallel
but you're upright the whole time
it's just overall strength that position
of right around parallel with a squat is
actually like the mechanically most
difficult position right just at or
below parallel or just above parallel
depending on a few factors
so if you're gonna be completely well
balanced with your knee extension
strength and your posterior chain
strength your ability to push against
the ground and your ability to lift your
back up after it's bent over if those
are balanced that's probably where
you're going to miss your squats so then
there's nothing inning off off balance
you really have a limiting factor your
just overall strength needs to come up
and that's a real straightforward
problem we know how to fix
and then lastly if you're breaking if
you're squat you're missing it kind of
around parallel or even just above but
you're missing it because you start
getting really rounded over and that
tends to reduce a ton of your ability to
drive through the floor then it's
probably that your posterior chain is a
limiting factor
if you think about this way if your bus
to your chain is theoretically strong
enough Ultra strong
let's say if you have the quads of a
hundred pound woman but the posterior
chain of
Andy Bolton the first person to deadlift
a thousand pounds you're going to be
missing every single squat in the hole
and you're going to be completely
upright because there's no way 150
pounds can possibly punk you out as far
as what you're able to stand up with
posterior chain is not a problem for you
so you're going to miss a squat exactly
like everyone misses a leg press it's
going to be a leg press for you and then
making your posterior chain stronger
won't help your squat a tiny bit because
of your completely limited by knee
extension so you obviously need to make
your knee extension your quads stronger
right but if your quads are strong
enough to push you above parallel or
close but then you start to round over
that's not really a quads problem
that is a posterior chain problem and
then you need to work on that
all right that's how you find limiting
factors not a whole lot of surprise
there
next you will do hypertrophy work to
attend to those limiting factors because
fundamentally the biggest issue with
weak quads
if we're going to address that and try
to really like solve that problem
uh bigger quads make stronger quads
almost every single time
and we're not trying to do some kind of
weird like oh but what if I don't want
to gain weight blah blah blah if I don't
want to gain muscle
if you don't if you're not ready to gain
muscle your toolbox for improving your
core lifts is much smaller and there are
plenty of discussions for how to do that
but this is the most straightforward
right
so then you design a program
to train the limiting factor muscle
slash movements whether it be posterior
chain extension or whether it be knee
extension
quadriceps
probably first or early in all the days
of your program in which they're trained
and probably a little bit more often
such that if you typically train quads
twice a week in your power lifting
program for increasing your squat you
could consider training your quads maybe
three times per week and everything else
same or even fewer amounts of times to
really Hammer home that adaptation
now of course you're going to include
all the rest of your lifts sort of as
they fit into your recovery demands
based on you squatting more or you you
let's say doing more quad work or most
posterior chain work you'll have to
reduce the other components somewhat
which is by definition has to happen
if you want to increase your Squat and
do the most you can to do it you got to
cool it on the other stuff because your
maximum recovery volume overall is only
a certain extent uh one finite thing and
if you take up more of it with squatting
stuff less of it is available for other
stuff so no big deal but that's not
really rocket science right and then
what you do is you spend a few
mesocycles in that hypertrophy work
doing mostly sets of five to ten for
those exercises that are going to
hypertrophy the muscle groups that are
limiting you
if it's quadriceps that are limiting you
you do a lot of quad work if it's
posterior chain you do not so much quad
work and much more posterior chain work
if it's overall then you do a pretty
even mix of posterior chain and quad
work then it's not so hard you just kind
of train normally
but I will say this intellectually if
you figure out
because it sounds like I'm saying okay
with this quads thing if it's quads
limiting factor we got some real stuff
to work on it's obvious if it's
posterior chain we have something to
really work on but if it's overall
General strength it's kind of like it's
a mystery just keep getting stronger in
the squat well no it's not so much a
mystery it's a mystery solved
the fact that you no longer have to
worry about why is my squat week is a
big deal a lot of people rack
their brains over it lose sleep over it
how come my squat won't go up if you
know that the way in which you miss your
squat doesn't imply that your quads are
super weak relative to your squat or
you're supposed to your chain is super
weak it just happens to be that you're
just kind of like um you know Miss the
squad exactly where you would expect
someone who just loaded too much weight
on it you could have a perfectly
symmetrical squatter
because posterior chain and quads are
just as strong as each other and balance
each other out and if you put one extra
pound on the bar he's gonna miss the
squat somewhere
and if you know that's where you're
missing the squat then you can kind of
say hey great just overall General
strength is what you need
and a lot of people who are doing
programs
under the assumption that it's always a
limiting factor that exists can be
really sort of like I've ripped off for
lack of a better term because they think
oh man I'm gonna get my quad so strong
and then my squat's going to shoot up
well the quads got stronger but the
posterior chain stay roughly the same
and now the only thing that happened is
they're missing the squat in the way
their posterior chain would miss the
squat and his squat is almost the same
so now they have to bring their
posterior chain up so in in many ways
not approaching
the general strength if that's the
problem for you but approaching one
limiting factor or the other just makes
the other limiting factor more pertinent
now of course if you approach the one on
the manufacturer first you get really
really strong posterior chain and then
later get really strong quads your squad
absolutely will go up but you just sort
of made a very specific kind of uh
limiting factor for yourself we could
have just gone and trained uh normally
sort of quote unquote even balance and
seen some really good gains it depends
on
how close your competition is how soon
you want to change your squat if it's
all the time in the world then you can
just work on your posterior chain like
crazy for several years and then bring
up your quads or vice versa but if it's
like you kind of want consistent gains
especially for me coming up in six
months it it behooves you to work on
both if you are missing your squad on
such a way that doesn't indicate one or
of the other are a huge limiting factor
for you
all right so after the hypertrophy phase
we've got bigger muscles
we are going to
switch our program to no longer work
let's say quads first because some
movements like ax Watts or leg presses
in high pressure phase you may even do
before squats or instead of squats
because they're very specific to quad
hypertrophy but now we're back into
General strength and then we have to
start squatting first again
right not limiting factor work first not
black press first but not squats first
again
however we are going to keep in the
limiting factor work if it's the quads
of learning Factor we're still going to
do a little bit more volume even in the
strength phase
and keep training hard to continue to
get our quads much stronger
and
in this
style of mesocycle this next strength
block several muscle Cycles in a row
you're gonna be focusing on mostly sets
of three to six repetitions not five to
ten but some assistance work will occur
in sets of five to eight repetitions
like maybe some hack squats like presses
Etc
after that
you're going to do a peaking phase I've
we have other videos about where peaky
phases belong and how they're to be done
but basically you do lots of main lift
volume in the first
few weeks and then you do a little bit
of accessory volume in the first few
weeks and then you pull that after about
one or two weeks in a peaking phase you
essentially pull all of accessory volume
out after three or four weeks you pull
the main lift volume out or down
significantly that starts your taper
that tapers down the volume and your
Fitness continues to stay relatively
Level under your underlying strength
your fatigue starts to fall and thus
your preparedness which is Fitness minus
fatigue starts to go up
compete or Peak and just hit hit it at
the gym wonderful big squat PR happiness
for you as they say
so here's a sample program I have for
the hypertrophy mesos
and then strength meso one and two
you'll notice that in the hypertrophy
mesos you know like day one is you just
do uh you know sets of five to seven
repetitions
in the hack squat with some posterior
chain work after this is an example of
you miss squats in the hole and your
quad extension ability is what's
limiting it so notice we start with hack
squats now here's the thing
sets of five to seven repetitions in the
hack squat deep strict with a pause
we'll build your quads not only size
wise but already strength wise if you're
missing squats in the hole and you still
have some ability to adapt to training
left you're not like 89 years old or
some like that no offense Grandpa
then
what ends up happening is your quads
have to get stronger doing this and have
to get bigger and then you see really
big gains on your squats because that
limiting factor starts to become much
less of a living Factor as your knee
extension ability goes up
day two of that program is sets of eight
to ten of the leg press and sets of H
ten in the high bar squat a little bit
of posterior chain work after notice
it's a little bit of posterior chain
work because we have a limited ability
to stimulate and recover and we're
intentionally saying we need more quad
work than posterior chain because we've
assumed here our posterior chain is not
the limiting factor thus It's relatively
stronger than our quads are
day three you do a bunch of light sets
with three to six reps in a low bar
competition squat pausing at the bottom
because we want to keep those technical
qualities really really in line and we
want to make sure we don't forget how to
load our squat but we're tired of
getting beat up by low bar squats we
reduce the weight like crazy and do take
technique slash recovery recovery
session with it and it works out super
super well so you have two very
stimulative quad workouts in the week
and then one easier workout you get
super recovered and you go on to next
week and the next week and next week and
each time you put five more pounds on
the bar ten more pounds here and there
and then after a while you're way way
bigger quads and ways stronger and it
helps to eat during this time too
especially if you want to magnify this
if you're on a fat loss diet you're
training your quads a lot they'll stay
the same slash grow a little bit but if
you're gaining some weight eating some
good food even just close to maintaining
but getting a few pounds during this
process it can really help
first strength meso you do again three
lower body sessions per week
day one it sets of five to six in the
high bar squat so notice we're getting
more specific High bar is more specific
to power lifting competition and
actually your low bar competition squat
then is something like the hack squat
right and a simple to your chain work
after on day two we do uh five to six
reps in the low bar squat with a pause
so now we brought low bar back to the
equation and we're really grinding
through making that stronger
and in addition to that we do sets of
five to eight and a half squat after
okay so still have that assistance
volume and that's going to continue to
do a lot of strength building for the
quads and also a little bit more
hypertrophy even in that strength phase
day three light work a little bit of
posterior chain same same as last time
day three doesn't change for almost all
these and then strength meso two now
we're getting into the heavier side of
strength so we're going to do sets of
three to four in the low bar squat with
a pause okay that's a big deal some
posterior chain work after day two we're
gonna do sets of five to six in the high
bar squat sets of five to eight and a
half squat on some posterior chain so
that day two is still a big quad
emphasis day for us why because we need
it we need that that we know that's our
limiting factor so we're going to push
it really hard plenty of time for
Recovery as well
now peaking meso comes along and the
example here is that on day one
you do sets of singles and doubles in
your low bar competition squat no pause
real competition style minimum posterior
chain work after maybe some glute ham
raises or something
day two you do three to four reps in a
low bar squat multiple sets
this time with a pause a lot of that is
to reduce the external load but still
get you great practice and great
stimulus you do uh some high bar
squatting Works which sets of five to
eight because remember quads are really
many Factor we want to keep stimulating
them at least for a while during the
peak so they don't just Slough off our
bodies and continue to provide us with
that cross-sectional area and strength
we so much need in the squat bit of
posterior chain work after now after two
weeks of this roughly like five week
Peak more or less
we're only doing three to four sets of
low bar no high bar no push to your
chain work on that day really starting
to bring the fatigue down like we
mentioned earlier Bringing Down the
assistant's work day three as always
sets of three to six reps light with our
low bar competition setup no pauses
that's gonna really really increase our
technical abilities in the squat and
then eventually we make all the
adjustments we even reduce the work that
we have to do in the main lifts and then
voila deload Peak
success squat has gone up when you come
back around to it in the next off season
your best bet is to go through that
analysis one more time and find out
where you're missing your squats
and think um
what is the likely culprit is it all
around strength is it my ability to
extend my knees or is it the ability for
me to extend my hips and my spine
without having a disruption and
technique and a folding over that's more
or less the only sort of three ways
people Miss squats there's absolutely
tons of new house there's tons of weird
stuff in between it's like everything's
good but my knees cave in all these
other problems but these I describe
maybe 90 of anything you'll ever see as
far as why isn't my squat going up so
either you knees are too weak or their
muscles around your knees your ability
to extend your knees sucks your ability
to extends your hips and your spine suck
or both are relatively even and you're
just not that strong and then you need a
balanced mix of both
folks let me know if you have any
insights or any questions in the
comments below
click on all the links buy all the
things and uh yeah if you want scoot
back a week watch that other video where
we talk about the basic super easy squat
fixes because some folks will come to
this video and be like oh this is like
brainy nerd agreed agreed but you
can get a much more simplified uh
situation with last week's vid and if
you have like some folks around you
maybe friends and college or something
that like they want some help with
increasing their squats but they're like
not ready for all the science you
just send them that other video right
and uh let me know and then uh over the
next few weeks hopefully I'll be biting
myself if this doesn't happen but uh
sort of Scott the video guy and I are in
charge of the channel after all over the
next several weeks we'll hopefully be
scooting out to you guys some simple and
advanced bench tips and some simple and
advanced deadlift tips and maybe even
some pull-up stuff because I know you
guys are always interested in pull-ups
for some weird Reasons I'm just
interested in male gymnasts but before I
say anything cancels me too bad we'll
see you guys next time