hey folks dr mike here for renaissance
periodization
quick tip the painful stretch
in calf raises is a growth zone this is
one of those tips that when you
implement for me you're going to hate me
during and possibly right after and
possibly still for a long time but
you're gonna love the results and maybe
me
folks that'll all i ask
just love me all i want is love is that
that much to ask you don't even need to
spend money don't even worry about going
to rp you know on the website and buying
products
love
that's the real currency in any case
uh a long time hypothesis that many
folks who are sort of reading literature
in hypertrophy and strength training had
is that stretch under load was very
hypertrophic caused a lot of muscle
growth it is when you stretch a muscle
out to a long muscle length and you
impose a shit load of tension during
that time it probably causes more
hypertrophy than like imposing tension
at any other part of the muscle length
including like when the muscle is short
so for example if
you put a lot of tension here in the
bicep and maybe grow the bicep more than
like having a lot of tension right here
the reason it was a hypothesis is like i
don't think anyone derived this
mechanistically but there were a few
studies
really fucked up if you think about it
where they took like birds and they
fucking stretched their wings out the
bird loved it the bird didn't love it
against its will and when they imposed
tension at the you know bird wings or
whatever it actually yielded a shitload
of hypertrophy we didn't know for a
while if that was like a type of
hypertrophy that only occurs in animals
because there are actually different
types of hypertrophy that occur in some
species that don't in others and
some of the human studies just didn't
transfer but
recent research builds on this current
consensus that milking a super deep
stretch might be even in some cases even
in many cases
more effective
than even full range of motion
crazy
do we need to change the name of the
full rom forum and team full rom no
because the whole thing's a fucking joke
anyway but
kind of neat and at the very least
exploring a deep painful stretch and a
variety of exercises is a good idea now
here's the thing
calves
profoundly easy to use a ton of weight
to impress
dot dot dot nobody nobody gives a flying
fuck what you calf raise and the people
who know shit actively look at you and
disdain because you took all their 45s
that they were using for actual
exercises
almost everyone that i've ever seen do
calves with shit little weight with a
small range of motion avoiding the deep
painful stretch has small calves that
never change so fuck that we're going to
try to get growth and here's how we're
going to try to do it
go a bit lighter something you can
handle through a full range of motion
for a set of like 20 reps or so
you want to milk the painful deep
stretch and even pause at the bottom so
if you're doing calf raises okay start
here and you go down you go slow
pause ow
up
down slow pause
ow kill me up just like that milk in
that deep painful stretch
a cool thing to try is your first set do
with like 20 to 30 reps close to failure
and then as soon as the lactic acid is
washed out of your calves like as soon
as there isn't a burn go again go again
go again so you're taking 10 second
breaks do well like if your first try do
three sets of this you probably won't
walk for a week anyway don't do like
nine eventually you can work up to doing
like seven or eight sets in a row the
really cool thing is like because you're
resting only 10 seconds like the fucking
shit gets done really quick
like you're there training caps for
three minutes and you fucking blew them
up you're gonna get an unreal pump and
it's gonna be unbelievable and it will
very likely lead to your best calf
growth right
don't thank me during because you're
gonna hate me during anybody dr mike's a
fucking asshole this hurts my soul fuck
him
afterwards you're gonna get a huge pump
and you're gonna look at your calves in
the mirror you're gonna see that vein
you like you're gonna be uh you have
these bulbous calves and you'd be like
dr mike knows some shit and hopefully a
few weeks later your calves look a
little bit more like that when you're
just walking around and listen let me
tell you
people have lied to you throughout your
life they see people judge you for your
looks bullshit nobody cares how you look
they judge you for your fashion like oh
my god he's wearing everything at
walmart folks if people judged for
fashion how the fuck would i wear so i'm
wearing a team evil jsp shirt shout out
brother chavez but normally i only wear
shit from walmart you think a fucking
fucking man of my status would wear only
walmart shit if i knew i was being
judged
people they say they judge you on your
physical appearance that's almost true
people only judge on one thing how big
are your calves when you don't have a
pump
they look down you never notice like
when you talk to people like hey uh is
this restaurant open for reservations
right now and the lady's like
uh-huh she only says uh-huh if you have
big calves actually if you have a big
cat she's like of course mister and then
she knows your name already if you have
medium-sized cash she's like oh let me
look at the schedule and if you have
small caps she goes uh no this
restaurant's closed like i see people
eating right now she's like it's close
to you you small cat fuck get out of my
face
see you next time
you