when you fail to lock out you can
sequester more metabolites in your quads
they don't have a chance to leave that
metabolite sequestration causes the
metabolites directly to sumate to much
higher levels and those have been shown
scientifically to actually cause growth
Pathways to activate so if you can get
the crazy crazy quad Burn by not quite
locking out it isn't the best strategy
in the world but it's a great strategy
in order to maximize muscle hypertrophy
so I'm liking seeing him do it here the
only downside it's brutal as
because you're like I like the idea of
squatting all the way down to super
great depth coming back up locking out
and getting a quick mental break from
the pain before I go again but if you
don't lock out at the top it's like nah
fam you just continue to be in the pain
and blows dick but it's worth it like
many things that revolve the penis and
blowing it I think if when you're doing
it it's like ah this sucks but then
after your friends are like hey that was
great here's a hundred bucks and a cab
Fair go home rethink your life or just
do it again the next weekend that's what
I say what