let's say you're training somewhere
around 85% of your maximum ability let's
say that you're getting 85% of your
maximum growth and that you would get
15% more literal muscle Gran in a given
week if you went to 100% dope but you
accumulate fatigue so fast you can only
train hard every other week that 15%
gain per week is a fucking ucer figure
because you ain't getting that payment
next week that's like someone telling
you like hey all right you won the
lottery you can have $100,000 now or you
can have $50,000 a week for the next8
weeks you're like wow 50 ,000 that sound
good but it's not as much as 100K I'll
take it 100K they're going to be like
fucking chump idiot here you go it's
that ability to come back and come back
and come back that is the Cornerstone of
getting you jacked and lean and
everything else you want in life
consistency and it is precisely
something that going all out cannot
allow you to do because you need so much
extra recovery time