all you do is you compare your rep
strength between every single meso and
here more good news at the end of every
single mes cycle accumulation you Deo
and that clears the fatigue and you
rebuild the fatigue so you essentially
have very similar levels of fatigue a
lot of it every time you test right so
at the end of meso one you squatted 315
for a set of you know eight and then
seven and then six all right best your
best workout here at the end of meso 2
you squatted 325 for the same reps at
the end of meso 3 it was still 325 but
you added an average of two reps per set
are you getting stronger yes are you
growing muscle probably right because
how the hell are you adding with the
same levels of fatigue fundamentally
you're adding abilities and you've been
squatting for a while you know how to
squat there's probably not any neural
and Technical adaptations you're making
especially if you've been training for
multiple years it starts to look like
you're probably on to something