hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization and today's topic
is the endless Infinity war between
machines and free weights which ones
grow muscle best and I'm here to put a
complete stop and to this war I'm that
hippie girl running out in front of the
tank going stop fighting everybody
maybe I'm cooler than that by analogy in
any case machines versus free weights
for getting jacked is a false
controversy it doesn't actually exist
whoa Inception let's talk about why that
is
the framing of the question of
are machines or free weights better for
gains is already wrong
it is similar to asking at a normal
average job should we hire men or women
for this position
what
whoever is most qualified for the job
oh yeah that's right econ 101. so in the
same sense if you have to ask machines
or free weights for muscle growth you're
asking the wrong question altogether the
real question is
which exercises can I choose and I don't
care what kind of exercises they are
that will best grow my muscles
now that's the real question
so we'll spend the rest of us talk
answering that question because that's
an important question to ask
here's the thing
the way we get down to selecting the
exercises that are best for getting
eject for a specific muscle group
is with a series of filters
we start out with every exercise
literally just straight up known to man
to exist inside of a gymnasium
and we apply One By One The Seven
training principles and if you want to
know what they are here they are but if
you really want to dig into them our
book the scientific principles of
hypertrophy training as all of them in
there described and Beat to Death over
200 whatever odd pages
training principle is applied to this
set
of exercises and every time we apply the
training principle it knocks a bunch of
the exercises off as nope nope nope nope
nope and only a smaller fraction remain
then we apply the next training
principle and it knocks out a bunch that
don't meet the muster and the circle of
exercises gets smaller and smaller and
smaller
until we have just a few exercises which
are our best
and then we can use those
so
here are the training principles let's
go through an example to see how this
would work
I really want to be able to do this
yourself super quickly I'll do it here
scientific principles of hypertrophy
training uh the link to buy stuff is in
the description it costs money but on
the other hand my Butlers need to be
paid every month they insist on the
money but you guys get to work for me I
say
if I said nothing at all they still hold
out they I pay them in tips only because
it's how you pay Butlers
um myself a lot of tax receipts for tips
in any case I digress here we go first
training principle the most important
and the most inclusive is specificity
so if you are trying to get an exercise
that builds your chest
bulky picks yum
all non-chest exercises are gone because
you have squats leg presses curls bench
press incline dips they stay
everything else goes away well that
makes it pretty easy so now we're just
now into exercises that actually hit the
chest awesome
next we apply the filter of the overload
principle everything that doesn't quite
give us a very good overload is gone
so that one like you hang off a bench
and you just do like the cable thing
with one arm and to barely feel anything
nothing's happening that's gone not
overloading enough you need exercises
that have a high raw stimulus magnitude
I said raw weird I said it like a New
Yorker raw hey Scott the video guy you
have to be raw before with someone you
just tell them what you feel yeah
oh God I should have never asked that
shit he's probably raw right now sick
in any case
raw stimulus magnitude is basically some
way to figure out how much is an
exercise really stimulate muscle growth
if he gives you an amazing pump without
uh doing a trillion sets if you can feel
the tension ripping your pecs apart if
higher reps give you a psychotic burn
right in the chest if you're sore for
days after just doing a few sets that's
a good sign because there's some
exercises you do and you're like I don't
know what I guess I know this
technically trains my chest but it sucks
should take about top 10 of chest
exercises you see these are the top 10
that really fuck me up great our list is
just now down to about 10 exercises
then
we rank them again on fatigue management
which is to say we picked the exercises
that have the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio so all the exercises that work
best shit fuck 10 let's say 20 or 30 of
the best exercises because if Jesus
Christ there's an infinite number of
chest exercises
which of those
give you the least systemic fatigue like
beat you up a shitload to where like
fuck I don't want to do this anymore
arched benching super heavy powerlifter
style can really beat that ass a little
too much so that you're like still sore
in your lower back for squats the next
day uh right maybe that's not the best
exercise stimulus to fatigue ratio style
exercises that are just don't suck the
soul out of you as much and specifically
exercises that are friendly towards your
joints are friendlier towards your
joints so if you have some kind of
incline barbell bench thing you do that
you just tears your shoulders asunder
like fuck that but if you have a
dumbbell press that you're like oh this
actually feels great it ranks above
so now exercises that are on let's say
bottom third of sfr they're just not
going to use them so yeah they're super
stimulative but they beat us up too much
so no thanks so now we got maybe 15
exercises or so that are still in the
running now we started with like
thousands we're down to 15. not bad in
just a couple training principles but
wait there's more
next is SRA stimulus recovery adaptation
all one principle it's the idea that you
train rest recover and repeat that's all
the principle says you gotta train and
then wait until shit happens that you
actually started in training like muscle
actually grows and then when you recover
you hit it again so there's a selection
there in the context of your program
let's say you have a Monday Wednesday
Friday chest routine
Friday you can pick some movements that
take a while to heal because you have
two days of rest but on Monday and
Wednesday you might want to be like oh
man I want that fucking the super deep
fly dumbbell fly that really rips my
pecs open but shit if I do that on
Mondays with any kind of volume that's
decent I won't heal by Wednesday and I
won't heal by Friday so I'm Gonna Save
the Flies for Friday but right now I'm
picking Monday exercises flies are out
cambered bar benches out and everything
stays in those just really really fuck
me up so the jumpers are not gonna heal
on time or like this exercise is great
for my pecs but I got triceps the next
day and it hits my tries too much or it
hits my shoulder Joy too much and I'd
love to recover for tomorrow so no
thanks so some of this is a sequencing
issue so you had like you know 12
exercises now you're maybe down to like
10 or something like that
next up is variation variation cuts out
two exercises for us or two groups of
exercise one exercises we just did
recently that we're super stale with
because somebody else could look at this
list for you they're making you be like
okay uh ooh incline demo press yes and
you're like ah no I just did it for like
three months and I'm just like fucking
tired of this shit okay that goes and
then exercises you're thinking of saving
for a a very a mesocycle like the next
mezzo or the next two mezzers ahead
let's say you're planning out a fat loss
phase and the last mesocycle of that fat
loss phase you really want to do deficit
push-ups because they really pop up your
pecs like crazy they take very little
setups you're super tired from your diet
and you just it's a huge stimulus and
you just love it you're just like damn
it the way I look I love taking pictures
at the end of my fat loss phase deficit
push-ups have to be in so that if it's
phase one of three fat loss phases or
sorry the first month of the fat loss
phase then you're gonna be like ooh
deficit push-ups ah fuck I don't want to
get stale on them by then I'm gonna save
them for the last month so that one goes
as well that constrains your list even a
little bit more exercises that are
already stale or exercises you want to
save for a little bit later
next is Phase potentiation this is very
Advanced you can just skip this one if
you're like what the fuck but very very
nitty gritty
as you go through the trading phases
let's say you just did an active rest
phase your muscles are super super ready
to be trained and they're super
sensitive to growth and they're
sensitive to damage
it's totally fine to pick an exercise
that doesn't have a lot of eccentric
loading like a like a kind of a a rusty
machine and it doesn't have a huge
amount of tension at the stretch it's
one of those like at the bottom you
don't feel a ton but at the top it gets
a little harder
that exercise is totally fine for you to
pick right after your active rest phase
because you're super sensitive to growth
anyway it'll for sure hit your chest
good enough but that same exercise
mesocycle 3 of your training phase two
mesocycles in should I could do like
eight sets to feel anything and by then
your elbows are off of your body whereas
exercises that are super eccentrically
demanding and ones which have exposed
you to a really big deep stretch they're
the ones that are
super effective in meso one but so
effective you might have to do like a
set of that exercise to start with
that's kind of stupid I'm doing a set of
cambered bar bench and meso one and I'm
doing eight sets of machine press and
muzzle three to get the same effect the
fuck like why don't I just flip them
shits over do three or four sets of that
not so great machine but good enough
because I'm not super
uh trained yet to mean that sort of
thing like I'm just good enough for me
now I'm really D trained after the
active rest phase it's good enough now
and then later when you're you know tail
end of whatever phase you're doing a
couple muscle Cycles in you're like all
right now I'm more resistant to
hypertrophy now I need the big guns then
you do the camber bar bench press which
is super center control Ultra deep
stretch it fucks you up but you're
already pretty well trained so it's not
overboard you don't just do one set and
go home because otherwise you get too
sore three or four sets there's a
symmetry there it's really awesome
these exercises
obviously you'll have to move them
around to get them to the right place
space potentiation wise which means in
any given phase some of them are like
I'm Gonna Save You for later and this
one I'm not quite ready and this one
Perfect all right so our list curtails
again
here we go let me tell you guys about
the RP hypertrophy app with over 28
preset programs already in the app you
could choose to make your own you could
modify an existing program or you could
just run the programs exactly as they
were written by a personal this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the adjust to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
after the six training principles you're
supplied you may be down to like three
to five exercises remaining all of them
at roughly equal on stimulus to fatigue
ratio so they're all fucking great all
of them are up to the task
all you have to do is just pick your
favorite whichever one you want or flip
a coin that has three three sides
and go
that's all you ever need to do about
picking exercises
what about machines versus free weights
who gives a shit
comments questions below like subscribe
consider our members area it's got
really fun videos in it it's just more
lecture science stuff
but uh we're not only fans quite yet but
maybe and last question for you should I
start an only fan
and then if I should what should I put
in there
feed isn't it
I'll see you next time