hey guys doctor is Rachelle here for
Renaissance period ization and today I'm
going to chat about a little bit of a
special topic something near and dear to
my heart and that's high-intensity
training or a chai tea as it's otherwise
created and known popularly so first of
all what is high-intensity training well
it was invented probably by Arthur Jones
sometime in the 70s after Jones
manufacturer exercise equipment and he
also sold programs with it in high
intensity training was his philosophy
here are the main tenets of high
intensity training
there are basically three that are
universally accepted among almost all
sort of high-intensity training for
points and there are plenty of modern
proponents number one and probably the
most common is to train to absolute
failure for every single working set
that means absolute concentric failure
usually and there are some other
modifications or you can't get any more
reps in that set then the set is over
every single time you train number two
is that you train with a low volume the
original high intensity training
protocol call for only one set total per
body part per week or every couple of
days alright so if your training back
that means one set of bent over rows to
absolute failure and that's your back
workout so we're talking about very low
volume though there are some
modifications and modern schemes but
generally their volumes are much lower
than typical bodybuilding program and
lastly most high-intensity training
protocols call for very infrequent
trained so usually that means one to two
times per week right and we'll talk
about a little bit online
why even two times a week is not
frequent enough if we follow the other
two tenets of this program so this kind
of training is popular currently has the
more popular in the past but it makes a
resurgence every now and again it is
popular among bodybuilders fitness
enthusiasts to this day so we're here to
talk about problems with high intensity
training what are the problems with high
intensity training why are we even
making this video well there are the
problems with the main tenant such f
training to failure is problematic we're
going to examine why that's the case
training with low volumes chronically is
also problematic and we'll figure out
why and training infrequently given the
first two is also very problematic so
the problem with hit isn't its basic
core philosophy not necessarily its
application so we're going to take a
look at each tag individually we're
going to look at failure training we're
going to look at low volumes and we're
going to look at frequency application
and we're going to try to figure out
exactly why and how high intensity
training suffers from variety of these
drawbacks so training to failure in one
single exercise session is actually a
pretty good way to stimulate gains it's
probably the best now it's not overly
superior to submaximal training that
gets close to failure but not quite but
it does have a slight advantage we'll
take a look at a little bit of data in a
segment now however training to failure
for any unit of stimulus for any one set
of failure training that you do a vast
disproportionate amount of fatigue is
also accumulated so that per some unit
of growth almost as much grow just a
little bit more growth than you would
have gotten almost trainer to failure
you get much more
from failure training such that if you
train to failure in repeated sessions as
high intensity training states you
should you're going to get much more
fatigue for the games that you're
getting than with some maximal training
fatigue simply gets out of hand and it
turns out the fatigue gets so high you
will overeat you're over trained much
sooner than otherwise and you can't
train sustainably like this if you're
training to failure all the time so
failure training isn't worth the
trade-off because it is good maybe every
now and again to get a lot of
adaptations but if you train constantly
the fatigue gets really out of hand
because it's much more fatiguing than it
is beneficial here is a basic sort of
visual representation of that taking a
lot of the studies on this subject
together so with failure training we get
as you can see just a little bit more
growth and it's meaningful
then with submaximal training maybe
seeing two reps shy of failure or
something like that but the fatigue is
at times probably double what you would
get if you just stopped two reps short
of failure that's two measly reps maybe
you would do another set of two reps
right after and get probably close to
the same amount of growth but still just
about half of the T so per unit of input
failure training just causes lots of
fatigue plain and simple so failure
training is not sustainable next we look
at the problems with low volumes in
general and here's where all the start
in the early literature on low volume
training a lot of the studies were very
short okay they were typically in
several weeks of lanes and they were
used on beginners there's a problem with
that we'll get to in just a second and
these studies Illustrated that
statistically the games were almost
identical for one set sometimes to
failure sometimes not as it were as the
games work from two to three
says so initially this led researchers
to conclude in the early 80s that
perhaps one set to failure is just as
good as multiple sets
why do extra work when you don't need to
an I agree with the general idea behind
that why would you do after work if you
get the same amount doing less work
that sounds really awesome and high
intensity training proponents continue
to cite these studies there's a problem
the reality is that beginners have such
a massive response to training they're
so primed to grow because they have no
experience in training they will grow
from anything in the physiological
systems in the muscle particularly that
actually cause growth are completely
topped out with just about one set if
you do any extra you already eating
maximum growth with just one set so
extra would be a waste of time now as
time progresses and is these beginners
turn into intermediate strength trainers
as they train more more volume seems to
be a better approach they can now
tolerate more volume and benefit from it
because it's not good enough anymore
just to do 1 set 2 3 4 etc sets seem to
be better and we'll illustrate that
graphically in a bit and illustrate this
as well in that modern training theory
states that more training is always
better so long as you can recover so if
you can recover for more training you
will grow for more training if you go
too far you won't and we'll see that
visually and just aside so I've got a
couple of sort of charts for you guys to
look at find them a little bit
informative hopefully so here's our
first visual representation and this is
addressing the beginning studies this is
probably about the first four weeks or
so of actual training for beginners and
what these studies this is kind of a
summary of all or
most of those studies and when those
studies found was that for three sets of
training over here on your left-hand
side the three sets of training grew
just a little bit more muscle if you see
that dotted line up there then one set
but in a typical study of subject size
maybe ten people that's usually not
statistically significant to become an
actual difference that you can report in
a journal so the people writing the
articles have to report well you know
that's just about the same as far as our
stats can detect them there are a
hundred percent right in saying that so
if you are in their first four weeks of
training you bet you can do one set of
all of your exercises a couple times a
week you will get maximal results
absolutely the first four weeks now
things get a little bit more complicated
as you gain experience in studies that
lasts between eight and twelve weeks we
start to see for three sets that muscle
growth really does begin to meaningfully
and statistically significantly outpace
our one set training group so now if
you're training for eight to twelve
weeks you're going to start to need a
little bit more volume you're going to
benefit from more volume of training so
already who are we talking about who are
we making this video for we're making it
for you guys out there that have been
training a couple of months to a couple
of years or maybe even longer
most people don't watch these kinds of
videos just starting out with training
they just hire a trainer or they go to
the gym and start doing stuff so how
many people are we really concerned with
it if high intensity training is being
advocated for your average trainer
that's been training awhile already it's
suffering from a problem that it doesn't
present enough volume because multiple
sets are better than single sets even
after you've only trained for 8 to 12
weeks now very interesting set of
studies and this has been summarized
much better than I can do it for you in
some very good literature reviews
experienced trainers this entire Tartus
for experienced weight
all these studies have been done on what
they'll do is they'll take people who
have been training for a while give them
a program that either has one set per
training session or per body part or
hurt in every couple of days or they'll
take two to three sets now have a group
train with four to five sets and they've
had groups go six sets and more and
here's what tends to happen groups the
train with one set they grow muscle but
not that much groups with two to three
sets of training four to five sets more
and more volume basically benefit more
and more and more from training it turns
out it's very difficult to get a
training program together in the
laboratory that actually leads to less
growth it's difficult to get to far so
it turns out that within very
traditional training parameters typical
exercise splits you the more you do
seemingly the better now here's an
interesting thing to notice yes there is
a clear pattern of diminishing returns
that is if you say you want to have one
set to your program you'll get a huge
benefit adding a set if you're starting
at one set if you're starting at five
sets adding a set may not make the
biggest difference in the world but
taking that into account more volume
seems to be better here's the most
advanced chart I have to show you guys
today one of them this is an
illustration of recovery ability versus
training all you remember we said that
more training is always better so long
as you can recover well here's the deal
all the way to the right first of all
the colors right in green is muscle
growth in blue we have sort of potential
for muscle growth that we're not tapping
out because we're not hitting our
recovery what's our recovery well in
this it's the dotted line the dotted
line in this chart all the way at the
top there represents our maximal ability
to recover if we train for one or just
two sets over there on the right we get
some growth but we're leaving a lot in
the tank we're not getting to our max
recover leaving a lot of stuff out we
could be doing better now if we get over
to rolling a little bit more like to be
more training yeah we're doing better so
I turn that decent training but we're
still not getting everything we can on
our program the optimal training program
difficult to hit all the time but you
can sort of wiggle around that area is
when you have as much stimulus as you
can recover from you're doing as many
sets as you can recover from you're
topping out you're maxing out all of
your growth potential now of course this
can backfire if you take it too far
remember we said so long as you could
recover well on this one we went
overboard on the stimulus we got a good
amount of growth but because we went
over our ability to recover it cost us
muscle growth thus that little red
rectangle on the top so it's important
not to Train too much but let's put it
this way high intensity training is so
far away from training too much we
should be concerned about it high
intensity training is all the way over
there on the right and it leaves a lot
to be desired because we're not training
with enough volume to really get the max
potential we can so for our last tenet
of high intensity training we have the
idea of infrequent training often times
high intensity training advocates will
say you actually need to decrease your
training frequency as time goes on to
allow for more recovery well let's
figure out what that's going to look
like so training frequency there is no
optimal seating training frequency
what really matters is you should get a
high workload in for the whole week for
a whole timeframe but how do you
determine how much frequency you do in
each workout well how hard you train in
each session how much volume determines
our three Lissie if each one of your
sessions has a ton of volume in it
you'll need more time to recover and
thus your frequency will be lower you
can get the same weekly total volume by
training
a little bit in each session tiny bits
of all you added up over high
frequencies still result in a similar
amount of muscle growth so if you can
recover quickly and if you can train
very hard you can do higher frequency
and higher volume at the same time if
you train with one set to failure let's
say two times per week that's just not
enough volume in any session to need a
lot of time to recover and thus the
frequency is inappropriate for the
volume it's not enough volume for the
frequency you will have a visual
representation of just a second to
really clarify what that means so you
know if you did 10 sets of 10 yeah you
might be able to train only once a week
or once every half a week or something
like that but with one set of 10 do you
really disrupt homeostasis enough to
require that much recovery time do you
really grow that much in a couple of
days between training to justify
training so infrequently and the answer
is probably not so we have a big green
okay sign at the bottom that signals to
us this is a fine method of training and
on top here we have essentially a graph
for growth / homeostatic disruptions
so you stimulate a muscle on Monday it
goes through its growth cycle it
recovers by Wednesday and then you
stimulate it again it recovers by Friday
you stimulate it again next Monday its
recover you hit it again so we're always
either actually training or growing
perfect we use the entire week to grow
that's exactly what a bodybuilding split
should look like now if you like to hit
it much harder for any given session
Monday you hit it hard and you get a big
limb in static disruption
takes a really big toll on a body takes
a long time to recover you grow muscle
for that entire time by Thursday only
Thursday not Wednesday you're ready to
train again you hit it on Thursday you
hit it again really hard being
homeostatic disruption up there and then
by next Monday you're okay to Train and
that's totally fine here's what high
intensity ends up being like if you've
trained for longer than probably a
couple of months looks like that so on
Monday to do one measly set to failure
basically you recover probably within a
couple of hours a day at the most and
then you spend the rest of the time not
adapting and not training and basically
just standing in place the Thursday hit
it again
barely work on one set that's it and
essentially you spend a lot of time not
doing a whole lot you spend a lot of
time missing out on growth the equate
dollar so to close out this discussion
get some sort of real-world tips and
implication the main points sort of the
take-home messages of this discussion is
that failure training is not a
sustainable way to train it's ok
occasionally but it's definitely not ok
to train to failure from a perspective
of doing the best and growing the most
muscle if you're training every session
of failure high-volume training and the
literature on this is crystal crystal
clear causes more growth in low volume
train now one set is high volume for
people just starting out but if you
haven't just started out for training
for a couple of months and especially a
couple of years multiple sets multiple
times a week multiple different
exercises from different angles is how
you grow muscle and the frequency and
this is really a big point needs to be
justified by your per workout volume if
you've got big workouts with tons of
volume you can train infrequently if you
have mini workouts you can train all the
time the vulgarians do that
weightlifter and do that occasionally
they'll squat every day every other day
but it's just a couple of sets that's
okay but if your idea of training is
just a couple of sets once a week that's
very much auditor training period just
not getting as much out of your program
as you can so high intensity training in
conclusion is an okay way to train but
it's simply not optimal for muscle
growth so if you're looking to be more
muscular than you currently are if
you're especially if you competed body
button you have to show off on stage
eventually high-intensity training is
probably not the right thing to try what
is the right thing to try well I figure
I wouldn't just talk smack this entire
time to give you guys some actual
recommendations for what is a good idea
good training looks like this multiple
sets multiple sessions per week and
every four or five weeks or so before
you deal owed you can bring it into the
gym hit it hard and go to actual
muscular failure outside of that you got
to stay shy failure may be two to three
to four reps away from failure and that
way you can train for long periods of
time without accumulating much 40 you
can do high-volume lots of sets lots of
times per week you can get lots of
muscle growth and be on your way to
doing the right thing the best thing for
growing muscle which unfortunately is
not high intensity training thank you
very much and we'll see you guys next
time for another one of these videos