okay slow he stay stay on stay on stay
on up up up up up up wait wait wait wait
don't R rest get back in ASAP ASAP ASAP
come on man this is practice this is how
we get
[Music]
better so you men's physique yeah can
you critique my posing really quick I I
already know it's going to be bad but y
are you serious I'm
sorry
W on my hold hold on hold here
boom
G what the yo I'm lifetime drug free how
dare you I have an eight-month child in
here mother HIV and pregnant as a man
this is Mr Chiron Kiron you do have a
last name I'm sure hold
ifbb men's physique men's physique yes
how many you the uh seven times s what's
your best place in third D got got that
twice I back to back they're like P like
third you're like fuck steep TI you must
be smoking a fucking cigarette on stage
after like time number six oh shit I'm
at the Olympia put this out it's getting
old a little bit dude that's awesome
super pleasure to have you on the
channel I appreciate it this is Jared
feather ifb Pro he's a pro but he is not
as good as you at
and I'm just not a pro at
all though I do look at pictures of Pros
on my Instagram in the bathroom when I'm
sitting alone at night I've seen you in
his catalog so I'll just keep it at that
chiron's got it all he's got the brains
he's got the looks he's got the body but
he made a really fucking big mistake I
know cuz Jared was like Kon you want to
be on the channel he's like absolutely
and Jared was like what muscles do you
want to train back chest shoulders arms
see the way it went he said what muscle
do you have the hardest time connecting
with I said hamstrings and I figured
since you guys G to help me why not help
me in a place where I need it the most
so legs today for the Tyron you are
brave man third at the Olympia many
times and men's physique people say m
physique guys don't train legs do you TR
legs regularly I do I do he got great
legs I appreciate it we're going to do
some hamstrings first sounds good we're
going to do a shitload of quads after
okay uh time to find out where you're
made of let's do it also fun fact fun
fact fun fact cut this whenever you like
Chiron is a a Greek legendary Centaur
uh-huh he also the guy from the river
sticks the Fairman who Fair like dude so
either we're going to get you horse legs
or you're going to fucking die die I
like that damn all right so you're going
to want to put your feet all the way
back into here CU otherwise they start
slipping all this weird shit and unlike
many other hamstring hinging exercises
it's totally fine to get your knees
completely locked out okay but when you
bend you want the bend to come from the
hips and not from the rounding of the
back your back is going to be completely
locked in and you're going to bend with
your tummy pointed out the entire time
chest up the whole time you're going to
get deep deep deep deep deep and you're
going to come up for just a second and
then control that slow Ecentric and then
come all the way up sounds good nice and
Arch chest up the whole time yes just
like that there you go deeper deeper
deeper and up nice twist in the top
there yep exactly exactly like that big
chest control it big chest big chest big
chest up quick again see them legs
shaking that's what we like big chest
big chest big
chest yep more chest
[Music]
up good two
more
big squeeze last one let's go big chest
let's go big chest big chest look
forward look forward chest up chest up
chest up chest up yes that's it oh
gosh you hamstrings yeah philm you're
like uh all right I connected with my
hamstrings I'm out that was
great you'll notice that if you just
bend same shit happens that's cool but
if you bend with that tummy out big
chest the whole time you're going to get
a crapload of tension in your hands the
exercise we're going to do after this is
dumbbell stiff leg a deadlift you're
essentially practicing for that exercise
here of course there also a stimulus
when you get those dumbbells you're
going to push your hips back your chest
is up up up up up and you'll instantly
notice like oh my hamstrings the thing
is like Survival Mod will kick in like
Bend everything but you got to expose
your ham Str got that's it gotcha yeah
like usually I'm in a crow Mall full of
people in my trench coat and my PE
officer is like do not flash people and
I'm like I got to expose
it I can't help myself I can't it's a
disease and then people don't usually
react because it's so small they're like
oh weird that guy's a kall or something
yeah strange strange time one more time
let's do
it more let's do some partials look
forward good but bottom end partials go
deep all the way down and then halfway
up all the way down halfway up of pace
still slow good there it is touch my
hand there one more Kiron let's go
finish strong
yeah yeah folks what you saw there at
the end of that set with Chiron was
lengthen partials if you want to know a
ton about lengthen partials Milo Wolf Dr
Milo wolf he's got a YouTube channel
he's got an Instagram get at him he is
the world's ranking reigning expert on L
and partials it turns out that after
you're done with full range of motion
shit you can do some partials at the
very bottom end but you guys heard us
queuing Kiron to continue that good
technique chest up very deep stretch
only as high as you can go deep stretch
as high as you can go that halfway
partial shit about five or six of them
at the end of a set can cook that ass
good technique lengthened partials if
you're keeping track of your shit in the
RP hypertrophy app you just add another
set as the partial set and then in your
feature you say last set was partials so
you know from now
on you asked a very important question
is there any way to take stress off the
lower back mhm if you have a belt yes
gotcha without a belt your core and your
back have to be the thing that supports
you gotta we're not trying to take
stress off the lower back we're trying
to Arch that lower back so much it takes
the stress gotcha okay downside it's
going to feel like holy shit my back
yeah upside it's going to build your
spinal Erectors is that something you
get judged on in men's
physique it's it's part of it it's part
of the criteria but they they want the
full back like Lads low lower Lads sure
back help your back to this will help
lower back to like crazy got so focus on
pushing your chest up as high as you can
uhuh pushing your stomach out as much as
you can getting the small of your back
as arched as possible it's not an
athletic feeling position uhhuh and then
you're going to be pushing your butt
back while you keep your chest up your
body can your you can bend over in two
ways one is at your lower back like this
one is back here like this yeah got you
know insert pussy popping reference here
but legit like like that not like this
if you see a bitch at the club pussy
popping like this you be what the wrong
with that big chest big chest Big
Stretch
up one more good one but back big chest
get deep slow slow slow slow
up
[Applause]
W so I
guess the good thing is is that you a
lot of people when you give them the
chest top queue they start bending their
knees come forward you're not doing that
at all yeah so I I'm going to guess
you're feeling it a lot in your
hamstring I am I am excellent and at the
end of the day if you have the good
technique yeah if you're feeling it in
your hams you're progressing in reps and
or load week to week to week hamster
growth has to result there's no other
way around it gotta and since you're
like related to a centaur you got to
represent I do I do they got four legs
and shit you only have
three they have five oh you're right
they do
have yo dude dude can you imagine being
like a straight up like ho like girls
night out like where do you want what
club do you want to go to be like I need
the I'm talking about this and then you
go to the sentur club plowing you under
and shit Scott we didn't see a video a
week ago about a an in B
just yes just like that keep that chest
up good chest beautiful chest
Deep Hell yeah the shaking is a good
thing big
chest chest very good go deep deep deep
deep deep deep deep up oh you got
another one let's do another one big
chest big chest take two seconds down
there it wasn't years and years of
training f that's
it you could be this big but you
play how you doing good good good all
right that was awesome hamstring
training folks now it's time for quads
and the Real Pain really really begins
Tyron asked for it he got it pack squats
are up next roll out the red
carpet the biggest limiting factor for
deep squatting is ink Mobility that's
the biggest limiting Factor but we fix
that simply by putting the toes out
putting the feet higher up on the pad
just depends for you it looks like you
can go a little more narrow uhhuh put
your feet up just a tad higher and point
the toes out like this got and if you do
a couple reps and you notice your toes
are drifting out like that that's where
they should be that's where you want
them to be does it feel like your heels
are going to come off at all when you
get to the top I want you to put them
heels down just as Hadad
[Music]
more if I focus on
keeping the attention there yeah so
don't worry about the form the form is
primary and then like me actually
connecting with the muscle with
secondary just in beginning to do it but
I know when once I do it by myself and
what not I'll be able to like focus on
the actual body part and the the phone
will follow if I'm focusing on feeling
attention I'll have to like make order
Corrections sure you know what I mean to
to the form if you're able to just keep
the technique how you had it yeah it's
impossible if you should not be working
the hamstrings the whole tension thing I
assume you mean like when you're coming
up to feel the concentric face I I
wouldn't worry about that more so just
the
pain yeah on the way down feel the out
of that pain use the stretch a shitload
and all the way up come up pretty
forcefully but then right back into the
pain gotcha gotta gotcha yeah it look
great look appr folks the Arsenal hack
squat is a great
machine
Jared the Arsenal hack Squad is a great
machine but uh one of the slight
downsides is that it doesn't accommodate
for full range of motion at the bottom
so we're going to give Kiron these
Blocks he's going to put them between
his shoulders and these pads it's going
to extend his range of motion by what
does it look like to you guys at home
for me it's about 9
in yeah we're so funny the other thing
you could do with these that's fun is
get get nice and hard and then just
go feels nice all right let's squat I'll
just cut myself off get
it ooh
keep
going yes good
up again slow big
chest knees looking great keep going all
the way down and then up good Kiron
you're taking one full second at the
bottom which I love keep doing that one
full second at the bottom go a little
faster here and then slow right here
wait for it up good rack the set ends
only when we say rack when we say rest
that means you just lock out and take
some breath sounds good how's your
cardio it's good we're going to find out
real soon
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
y way to control
tyon
good control
control good in that middle bottom range
you're getting a little fast get slow
there yeah
[Music]
slow slow slow slow pause up rest bre
breathe four
begin and then slow here SL slow slow up
Tyron slow down that bottom half take it
you can take it you take slow slow slow
slow slow yes right there a way to fix
it one more one more and then you get a
break exact same exact same control
control control control up rest Bree
nobody said R tyon you asked for this
shit three last ones and then rack begin
control every single
rep control control control up again
that Wasing awesome
slow slow slow slow slow
slow we got Nick Walker watching he
invented control let's go slow control
control control control
pause
know thanks Nick don't show the
plates Nick's like by the way you forgot
to add weight just saying everything was
Flawless except one thing you can do a
little bit better it was good just a
little bit better here you're going slow
which is
sweet you can go a little quicker here
as soon as it gets to the point and you
can feel it it gets tough right control
slow slow slow slow slow all the way
down all the way down all the down pause
and then come up got a lot of guys will
go slow here and then dip why do they
dip cuz it's fucking hard as soon as it
gets hard you have to me that muscle
like theing waves of soldiers pushing
against the gate you got to push back
down here control oh and it's going it's
going to blow dick between here and here
it's awful but we're here for awful cuz
awful in the muscles means growth come
on Nick dig
deep come on my
man
yeah
[Music]
H it one more control through the
bottom
control yes control control control
control wait
up rest don't rack don't rack don't rack
don't rack whoa whoa whoa whoa whoa pyro
what the oops oops back in up you a
professional athlete Kiron earn that
shit slow
slow up come up one more just stay in
the bottom it's not a big deal that shit
off you it's okay slow he stay stay on
stay on stay on up up up up up up wait
wait wait wait don't rack rest get back
in ASAP ASAP ASAP oh man this is
practice this is how we get better
begin yes
wait good two more two more good ones
time only count the good once slow yes
up finish breathe wait wait wait begin
last one last one let's go slow slow
slow pause up speed go go go go go go go
[Music]
[Music]
W trust me you will need that rest
most people do not want this type of
pain yeah you're still here you're in it
we got one more set uhhuh what do you
think about that it's rough it's rough
yeah
well here's another thing though man
you're a professional athlete the else
you supposed to be doing with your time
other than this
shit you're right some guy in the plane
would be like what do you do You' be a
pro athlete you be like it's training
hard you'll remember this workout you'll
be like yeah it's hard motherfucker
yeah oh shit Mr Nick Walker's on theing
half
[Music]
[Music]
spot K I don't care if you get four reps
dude yeah just
technique that's that's what's
impressive stay locked into that shit
leaning into that pain yeah making sure
the the rep is fluid no modifications to
your heels no modifications to just
total control at all times let's go get
those feet set big chest big chest head
back
yep lock
in back in straight out of a textbook
hiron do it
again
[Applause]
on beautiful again control control
deep rest rest lock out rest breathe bre
just rest don't rack just lock out bring
those bring those back together pull
them back
in come on pull them in pull them in
three
begin yeah
yeah
he worst thing that happen is you stay
at the bottom two
more we're right here with you try your
best up there it is there way to stay
way to stay ready with me slow extra
slow extra slow Kiron
pause finish what the was
that where are you going nobody said
stop hold up hold up hold up we got one
more we got one more that don't count
watch
out get under and get real tight we want
two two total good reps Kiron there is
no way out except two slow reps lean
into it lean into it lean lean into it
lean into it no bullshit
K one more we're right here with you
just try youring best go now slow me and
Mike right here slow big a fast push
mother go go go go go go go go go r
[Laughter]
better I'm just happy I'm not you right
now that was dope man good shit dude
good
[Music]
[Music]
effort deep
Nick deep knes out there you go hell
yeah
Nick
[Music]
again slow come on ni control come on
Nick deep
up yes one more Nick time to find out
time to find the out big chest strong
deep up go go go go go go go go go oh my
God that was beautiful
hell what do you think one more leg
exercise d whatever
man finish him off he's gonna
die all right I got to show in weeks
happen
again make sure it's a day he never
forgets K's like Nick shut the up please
you doing that shit seriously homie how
you doing me like this I had to catch my
burst I can talk shit back give me a
second give me a second
motherfuckers Nick Walker joined the
workout uh trading some sets of hack
squats and he was like Hey make him do
bulgarians and we're like am I not so we
talked to Kyra and he was like godamn it
fine so we're going to get a platform
out here to get that front foot elevated
deficit there's a back foot that lets
you slide really easy so it's a
Bulgarian sort of modified front foot
elevated lunge just two sets here will
be just fine cuz I think chiron's gonna
die soon just kidding good slow on the
way down gentle touch the knee and then
up
slow and then up until it hurts real bad
four more slower slower one down
slower two down
slow three
slow and up that's
it that old man got a cane and shit
you
pass I'm
watching nine three more Chiron three
more chest up 10
slow 11 slow slow slow that was 11 still
fix
it okay that's
failure
Christ that Wasing awesome that was
great you can't try any harder than
falling down that was good man folks
remember Gandalf and Lord of the Ring
said You shall not pass what what
happened to him after that fire monster
his ass up today that firem was the RP
leg workout Kiron you're the run you
fools
and that's probably good advice if
you're trying to do this workout Kon
huge pleasure having you on the channel
my friend man you guys having me dude
awesome how do you feel I feel good feel
like I push through I need some work
need some work I come see you guys when
I got some some food some food in me
that's right that's right that's right
this is awesome Kiron where can people
find you on social media uh so it's
Kiron IGM on
Instagram I think my YouTube page is
Kiron as
well I'm not sure right now not a lot of
blood going to the Head anymore at the
moment but uh yeah we'll we'll have all
those links down in the bio so you'll be
able find them there folks check kir out
check out the RP hypertrophy app if
you're interested in torturing yourself
like this always good technique always
your best effort see you guys next
time
yeah