hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
periodization continuing on with our
series about
specializing on a particular muscle
group
today's video is the one you've been
waiting for dying for
you've been in the
in a tiny little
makeshift tent in the Great War writing
back from the front to Grandma and
you're like we're shelled again today
also
can't wait to train my calves again on a
specialization program
of the good old days
in any case calf growth programming
specializing in calves is a curious
curious idea
because generally speaking we have a
couple of
ways we alter programming in order to
specialize on something the biggest of
which is that when you specialize on any
one thing you reduce the training for at
least some other things because your
body's system only has a certain finite
ability to recover find an ability to
train really hard so if you like really
want to bring up your quads or something
you got to ease up on all the other
stuff just to make room for that sort of
thing with calves
like with forearms and maybe even like
with traps you know gee whiz there's
really small systemic component
so there's not a lot of moving stuff
around
and as far as the prioritization stuff
or specialization like why would you
want to specialize calves the answer is
also quite obvious is because you want
bigger calves than you have now and
probably bigger calves in the relation
to the rest of your body or at least
keeping your calves caught up you don't
want to be the Super Jack guy who'll be
like oh my God man how much do you oh
shut the hell happened to your lower leg
bro you're like crocodile accident
that's the one calf the other calf's
alligator accident it's really kind of
an incident because I attacked the
alligator well we got my castle right
but I got the fucking rest of him
every time I close my eyes I see slows
goddamn stupid face in any case yeah
getting big calves is a bit more
straightforward than everything else so
skip around a lot of the formalities
here and just cut right to the chase but
just to review the basics of
specialization
this is important because
people seem to have this thing with
calves
where they
copy and paste
the programs that are effective for
other muscles
instead of deriving the program Anew
from principles
the big difference here
is that
if you just copy and paste something it
could be very inappropriate for its task
for example if you shoot a rifle like
this
and you copy and paste the exact
technique of shooting a rifle except
with a shoulder mounted rocket grenade
launcher you're going to do this and the
fucking Barrel is going to be pointed
your shoulder and you will shortly have
no shoulder
but if you take the principle of firing
something
two principles one grab it in a way that
is possible to aim it well and two make
sure it doesn't hurt you you will put
the RPG up here instead of down here
okay so it's a it's a good thing to
transfer principles instead of exact
templates it does exactly how to train
my chest I'm just going to train my caps
for a variety of reasons that doesn't
work very well for calves and that's one
of the small reasons why most people
walk around with tiny fucking caps the
biggest reason is they're just don't
fucking bother training them all right
so
real quick
basics of specialization as applied to
calves and everything else of course
first is you want to choose exercises
and modalities and rep ranges that
preferentially stimulate the target
muscle notice it does not mean shit that
works for other muscles but shit that
works well for your calves
prioritization
this is a big one train the muscle first
or early in all the days in which you
train it
because you know you want to be fresh I
think it's like almost never is that
done for calves
calves almost by definition an
afterthought calf is some shit you do
when you're fucking annoying training
partner he's like you know you're done
you fucking got a chest Problem by a
supposed book yeah let's get to the club
and fuck
at the club out in the open with people
or consenting people and your training
partner is like I know we have calves
left over and you're like fuck
Poindexter get out of here nobody wants
to do calves
but the reality is if you want the
biggest cast possible you can't have
that attitude you should probably train
them first or early now the good news is
if you turn your calves first especially
before upper body They Don't Really
interfere with anything it's just the
checklist item you gotta get out of the
way and that's going to be a theme we're
going to carry through much of this
video you just got to get it done calf
training isn't fucking Warfare you need
to paint your face into fucking camo
colors it just has to get done but that
just has to get done is something a lot
of people aren't willing to do
frequency generally speaking higher
frequency works better for
specialization this is especially true
of cabs in many cases get to what that
means in just a bit now the last Point
here is the non-specialized training
reduction you really don't have to do a
whole lot of that what you probably
don't want to do is train calves before
you train like quads or something and
then your calves are super pumped and
super fucking tired and your stability
and your limiting factor on like leg
press tax watt squat turns into like
your calves which you don't want but
other than that like really don't have
to make a whole lot of adjustments
so when you're constructing your
specialized plan which you are hopefully
doing right very now feverishly taking
notes
frequency
four calves
is going to be pretty high for most
people now the reality is frequency is
derived like it always is you give a
standard dose of training two to six
sets in the first session of the you
know first mazocycle more like closer to
two three or four cents and then you see
how long it takes for you to no longer
be sore and be very strong again a few
days later and then you train again and
that's sort of organically determines
how often you train then you modulate
the volumes to make sure you recover on
time all the time
that's definitely the critical principle
behind calf training and all training
actually for most people they're going
to be able to hit their calves pretty
hard get a good pump get good weakness
and everything like that come back and
hit the Cavs again oh one to two days
later which means a three or four time a
week split is usually pretty sound
your calves May heal slower than average
some people their technique mind muscle
connection is so good with calves and
actually they have pretty decent calf
genetics
maybe they didn't know about us and
never trained them but if you have
pretty good calf genetics on average you
will get more sore and for longer from
training calves so sometimes people can
get really good calf training just
training the Cavs heart twice a week
that's totally a thing but if that's you
that means after each training session
or calves are tired and fucked up and
sore for like two to three days after
every session not like oh I trained
calves yesterday and friend is like so
how do they feeling you're like I
fucking jump up and down a thousand
times today I don't I can't feel shit
well you need to be training calves
again either today or tomorrow
so if you are a low frequency calf
trainer it's going to be abundantly
obvious to you because you're going to
get real fucked up from training calves
consistently time and time again now on
the other end you need to be an
individual that trains calves five or
six days per week that's not a goal
that's not something you want to do
necessarily it's something that you uh
just end up fucking doing right I'm
gonna make the worst analogy maybe I've
ever made that's not true one of the
worst analogies that are made you know
gum
you could ask somebody maybe a
specialist in this field like a like a
sex therapist or something like how many
times you know per week should I be
banging like anyone who actually knows
things will never be like as often as
possible that's fucking ridiculous
that's like your genitals are worn out
you're not having any more fun and
you're still doing the thing you're like
ta-da here I am and she's like hey you
loving this you're like no bitch I can't
even be on my dick God damn it get out
of here right the correct answer is
whenever you're good well and ready to
have some fun again and you're
physically capable
hit it okay that's the ideal frequency
it's a very similar thing with calf
training and other training as well
you're not trying to train Cav six times
a week because you get some kind of
fucking gold star and you get huge
calves I can see by those calves that's
a six time a week calf right there no
way because if you training good calf
means they're sore for two or three days
six times a week training is fucking
stupid and because of how fiber types
and genetics for growth and stimulus
work the people that need to train their
calves six times a week put another way
the people that can recover Ultra
rapidly are probably on the slower
twitch end of things they can't leverage
the calves to do a lot of mechanical
damage and they may for other reasons
not being able to provide uh as high
stimulus as other people so then there
are going to be the ones ready to train
calves every day but they're gonna be
training calf six days a week for
results that will be on average not as
remarkable as someone who trains caps
twice a week and this is one of the
biggest reasons that we made these
videos for you guys and there's an
intellectually really sort of
high water mark here of be careful
copying people with big XYZ muscle look
if someone has a big calf or some shit
like that I'm definitely curious about
what they're doing I'm not saying you
know just ignore them be like look it's
all genetics and Synthol although in
Jared feather's case it is all genetics
um just remember that
everyone's different and you have to
train your shit to how it's perfect for
you and that means that if someone with
amazing genetics trains calves twice a
week and they grow like weeds that
doesn't mean like obviously everyone
with big calves trains them twice a week
and you guys will see this thing as a
model
carried over to other muscles anytime
you look at you know someone who's
training in a certain way and they're on
social media and they read magazines and
stuff and they watch YouTube they'd be
like a train like this because all the
top bodybuilders do it although the top
bodybuilders have unbelievable genetics
in a variety of ways and you may not
have those and you may and then great
hey you'll see you in the pros right but
you may not and your training may need
to be different so a lot of us with not
such great genetics need to train more
frequently not to make up for our
genetics but simply because we recover
faster and we recover faster because our
muscles are smaller they don't take as
much damage they're not as
hypertrophically sensitive thus you can
repeat that process more often so for
calves remember the real critical thing
is like if three or four acts two or
five acts you could read the slide and
be like what the fuck what is the
frequency the frequencies if I can hit
them hard see how long they take to
recover and then hit them hard again
that's it could be two could be three
could be four could be could be 17 times
a week uh new program RP 17x a week calf
training dot dot dot are you ready
question mark you guys like that ad copy
yeah I'm kind of like
um I used to be an advertising executive
at a big company I don't like to talk
about it but um I stood up morally
against an ad they were putting out and
um it was like a silent exit so legally
I'm not allowed to talk about it maybe
I'll talk about it some other time all
right so in any case
exercise
multiple angle calf raises
means what
really it means like on a bunch of
different machines leg press hack squat
calves calves off the staircase calves
pointed this way this way that way any
kind of variety you can use to spice it
up except for seated calves anytime you
have your knee bent your gastroc muscle
the big diamond shaped calf that you
like to have goes into insufficiency
okay it becomes you actually can't
hardly generate any tension at all
because it's sort of the muscle
collapses in and itself a little bit
it's just contracted already and it just
doesn't do much
a seated calf or as I like to call it
the double dildo machine because there's
inevitably double dildos for you to hold
on to practicing for your day job
it's a cool machine to train your soleus
muscle which is deep to your calves and
if it's really big it makes your calves
look like ankles I don't think anyone
really ever wants a big Soleus they may
think they do but they probably don't
the Soleus also gets trained really well
with a straight knee uh so it actually
isolating the soles by itself with a
bent leg is just unwise in most cases if
you could try it if it works for you
amazing but it probably won't
another thing is that machine it's just
great to be able to like sit there
relaxed and do this momentum thing and
use 800 pounds to impress the girl
that's also training calves and it just
doesn't do a whole lot so I just
wouldn't do it that's my um that's my
recommendation if you want to try it
sweet I don't uh typically endorse the
thing set numbers of course like
everything else two to six sets um per
session for Cavs start out there see how
it goes start out in a two to three sets
I wouldn't start with six you would be
able to not walk for a long time and
basically you know like when you have a
pretty good pump uh and it feels like a
workout you feel tired your strength is
dropping I would say that's enough for
the first session it's very easy for a
first session of calves to get the pump
of your life and be all happy about it
but then like for four days straight
your calves are hurting like crazy just
miss out on quality training you may do
more damage than you can actually
recover from so you need to dip into
your growth resources to recover and
then you get less growth so nothing we
want there
here's a big one loading and Reps
you want to use the repetition ranges to
get you the best stimulus to fatigue
ratio proxies
which means the most tension in the
calves
not the Achilles tendon okay
the most burn in the calves big deal the
biggest pump in the Cavs biggest
perturbation and so on and so forth
while at the same time not fucking up
your ankle tendons and not hurting your
knee or whatever else you're doing
for most people this is well above 10
repetitions per set or a load that is in
the 20 to 25 rep range 15 to 25 rep
range on the first set a relatively
light load the thing about Cavs is the
amplitude of the movement is so small
the repetitions don't take very long
so with a set of five calf raises the
time spent generating tension is so
little that it's not enough of a
stimulus for hypertrophy in most cases
and also if you're doing sets of five
with calves
it just seems to crush the whole fucking
area with mechanical tension and not
really ever hit that muscle as well as
it's supposed to be him I remember
Arnold saying something about how his
Cavs didn't really start growing until
he started using crazy heavy weights I
have a completely opposite view of that
in my experience with lots of folks
including myself
is that most people benefit from much
higher Reps for calves and shorter rests
and that seems to work a lot better than
heavy you know they might not be the
case for you but take this under
advisement
and follow your responses if you get
really good calf training with sets of
10 look I'm not gonna you know come to
your job and kick dicks out of your
mouth it's a Martin Lawrence quote by
the way
um that's awesome but if you have always
been doing sets of five to ten for
calves and you're wondering why your
calves have never grown and someone's
like do you want to try a set of 20 and
you're like fuck that that's cardio you
may be missing out on the biggest calf
stimulus ever I used to train calves so
that's a five to ten with Ben but met
knee and everything and it did hardly
dick and then I started doing slowly
gravitating and discovering that higher
rep sets with straight legs are like
fucking crazy and I started growing like
crazy and I have like decent sized
calves for my frame they sure match the
rest of me why uh one of my nicknames in
high school was chicken legs by a good
friend of mine thanks Ryan fucking
asshole
but um yeah so this one of those like um
being able to see things from a slightly
different perspective and not just doing
the traditional shit
all right progressing through the plan
once you've built your plan we'll have a
sample plan in a sec that you can work
off of if you want set numbers of course
this aligns to strength and soreness
if you don't get sore at all you train
again when your strength is back to
being pretty good recovered to do
another hit another PR if you do get
sore make sure you're never training
through soreness once you're uh sore you
train again but given that you have a
certain frequency it's the volume you
have to control so if you do three sets
of calves and you just barely heal on
time for the Thursday calf workout let's
say Monday Thursdays when you train
calves three sets of calves here on that
Monday you barely recovered next week
don't add any sets just stay at three
right if you did four sets of calves and
your calves are still so on Thursday do
three next time yeah and you won't lose
muscle by going from four sets to three
sets you'll actually grow more because
now the volume is more appropriate for
what you actually need
if of course you're recovering well on
time ahead of time add a set here and
there to make it so that you're
recovering
much much closer to just on time
reps in reserve start around three reps
in reserve and work your way up by
adding uh five pounds here two and a
half pounds here or one or two reps each
week
a lot of folks will get into the
situation where they'll say hey like for
muscles like forums and calves maybe
even biceps can't I just go to failure
do I need to do three reps in Reserve at
the beginning
the research seems to suggest that reps
and Reserve are better than failure
training especially over the course of a
multi-week program
will you pay less of a cost going to
failure from week one on all these
exercises yes because they're systemic
fatigue contribution is lower
but you'll still pay more of a cost than
you'd have to if you did three reps in
reserve and then went after that
so
you shouldn't look at failure training
as when can the excuse of I just want to
go to failure be most valid
you should look at failure training as
what is the optimal thing for me to be
doing to get the most jacked right and
I guess maybe that's one of the
differences that our channel here at RP
is maybe different than some of the
other channels in the fitness space is
we're going to cut you guys the real
deal on what actually fucking works the
best and it will let you sort it out how
much of that you want to do versus how
much fucker you want to do to have a
good time because I'm not against a good
time if you want to go to failure all
the fucking time and training even
though you know it's not ideal but you
and your fucking iron brothers are
getting in there and slaying fucking
dragons and shit it word up just watch
where you swing that fucking sword God
damn it I'm doing hack spots over here
swinging away from me but yeah fucking
go to failure and all that stuff but
just know that there's a trade-off there
between optimality and uh we'll call it
you know emotional satisfaction
so just know that and no Cavs should not
be trained to failure all the time it's
just because something's easier to get
away with doesn't mean you should do it
right you don't carry that logic through
the rest of your life right someone's
like hey you ever tried robbing that old
lady that lives across the street you're
like what the fuck is wrong with you why
like it's easy to get away with like huh
good point good point fuck that old lady
I mean I won't literally but uh
jeez excuse your words carefully Dr Mike
you could get canceled at any time
that's one of those things where you're
going to to rob the old lady and the
first thing you see is just like Point
Blank shot under your face you're like
I thought your Lifeline Life Alert thing
was on and I was coming
to check up on you
but I'm shy so I'm wearing a ski mask
and I have a giant
potato sack with a money sign on it so
just kill me grandma fuck it I've had a
good run all right sample plan what
would this calf training Ultra
scientific shit look like Monday you may
do some machine calf raises
a lot of calf machines are very good
some of the plate loaded ones from back
in the day are fucking awesome because
you get a ballery Centric stretch you
can really place your feet and they
don't slide around it's really good
stuff machine calf raises just two sets
of 15 to 30 15 to 20 reps three RAR
remember this is week one I'm really
easing into it
and you rest between the Assassins
you'll feel pretty strong again so this
is slightly heavier harder work set for
set so you might rest like a minute or
45 seconds between sets you'll rest Less
in the other days Wednesday single stair
or single calf stair dumbbell races
would be stand up stair stairway grab
the handle grab dumbbell and you just
maybe put one of your feet up on a
higher step or just take one foot and
put it up behind you like this and then
do single calf at a time switch dumbbell
switch there and go right into that
other calf No Rest why because it's not
systemically straining you're not going
to get out of breath doing that and
while one of your calves is getting hit
the other one is resting automatically
and calves require very little rest so
it's awesome this is great calf training
is uh here's a huge benefit I I wasn't
wasn't going to mention this
it's good to mention
scientifically optimal quote unquote uh
really good calf training doesn't have
to take a long time because the rest
intervals are so small and because you
ever really need one exercise for calves
per day to get the job done and honestly
if you have like five minutes literally
five minutes maybe ten three or four
times a week you can maximally stimulate
your calves such that doing any more
doesn't add anything I mean that's the
fucking hilarious irony behind calf
training and tons of guys at the gym
having small calves is I think a lot of
them think oh man Cavs that's another
bustle I have to fucking train and I
hate training it fuck it it's gonna take
forever it's not it's really quite easy
right single stair calf raise and then
Friday you get on the leg press slide
your feet down turn it into a calf raise
and you do my reps four sets of 20 to 25
reps on the first set and then all the
Reps drop off after next set is when the
lactate clears and the pain is just
barely gone which a lot of times will
get you back into that five to ten rep
range for all the successive sets but
also it only takes like five or ten
seconds for that to happen so really
calf training is like blow torching the
fuck out of your calves for five to ten
minutes and then just fucking off it's
really you don't have to commit a ton of
time like
that's not like that for all the other
muscles can you imagine someone's like
it's easy to bring up your quads just 10
minutes a day three days a week and
you'll have huge quads like
that's two of my hacked SWAT warm-ups
the fuck out of here
all right now that's week one you'll
notice uh two sets of shit two sets four
sets six sets six sets seven sets it's
very common to get between five and
eight sets with the same exercise for
calves the tail end of the week are very
good at recovering you need to squeeze
out more adaptation there
of course everything's at zero reps in
reserve
calf training is one of these
motherfuckers that's tricky because
there are so many ways to cheat in Cavs
you bend your knees a little more use a
little more oomph a little more hop even
lift your traps a bit on the uh one of
the calf raise machines that has the
pads here and here you gotta do one of
these you sort of got yourself a calf
raise so just be honest go slow go for
that eccentric control that super
stretch depth we have other videos on
calf training technique that'll help you
out and uh really just be honest of like
if I try the next repetition will it be
the kind of repetition that I can film
put on social media and people won't
make fun of me and be like what the fuck
was that if the answer is yes do it
there's another rep if the answer is uh
just stop you just get more reps on the
next no big deal
all right how long can you specialize on
your calves for
well honestly uh as long as you like as
as long as every you know three or four
methocycles you take a two week active
rest phase or a four week low volume
phase where you barely train your calves
at all you just train them so that they
don't get any smaller and then you can
actually blast your calves all the
fucking time I mean psychologically it's
probably a good idea every once a year
once every two years to take a few
months of just maintenance calf training
and that's super easy to do you're
training camps with like two to four
sets two times per week and they won't
go anywhere they won't get any smaller
unless you do it on a fat loss phase and
then you have to train it hard but if
you do that in a mass gain phase or a
maintenance phase no big deal and then
you can sort of like get your passion
for calf training back if there is such
a thing at all
all right that's all good stuff thanks
Dr Mike this has been fun but what about
some other shit I want free shit God
damn it I came on this channel I even
hit subscribe so what do I get well
here's the thing exercise video library
all the links are below by the way is
free so you can look up a calf exercises
and see how Jared feather does them and
God damn it my calves look like that no
the answer is they almost certainly
won't but they look bigger than they do
now which is nice muscle group training
guide huge detail all about Cavs all
about how to train them so if you really
want the super broken down version of
this for psychotic people that live in
the basement or obsessed with exercise
and have no friends
get on that shit that's free hypertrophy
Made Simple videos are free if you're
like what the fuck is sfr and all that
stuff go look those up they're right in
the description it's an awesome playlist
hypertrophy book
it's not titled hypertrophy book but
damn close scientific principles of
hypertrophy training
if you are really nerdy and curious
about the background remember I talked
about the principles of training and how
you transfer principles not exact
processes
that's the book for you and it costs
some money not a ton but I promise it's
packed full of value
and every now and again when you read
the book
um little ads for cologne Fallout and
you can smell them Scott the video guide
do you remember magazines used to have
uh cologne ads where they're perfume and
cologne
you peel back the layer and then you
smell it and it always smells so goddamn
good and then and then um and then you
got uh possibly an erection and then you
tried to tell yourself in your head that
it didn't matter if it was in the men's
cologne or the female perfume that got
you feeling like that
it's just a good smell and who am I to
judge myself
if you guys don't know we're talking
about you're younger much younger or
normal human being that didn't
steal people's magazines to smell the
perfume anyway uh lastly
if you want to build yourself a calf
program or an anything program
you can try out our custom Training
templates the links down there it's not
free but it's fucking pretty cheap and
it gives you an awesome programmer can
reuse and reuse and reuse as many times
as you're interested in it's just good
stuff you know it's good stuff and uh
get on there and get get you one of them
shits get you sorted so that uh if you
and I ever see each other in the street
I'll notice that you're jacked and I'll
be like and you'll be like hey
custom Training template
yeah all right guys thanks for tuning in
see you next time I have to go train
calves for the 16th workout of the week
that's right we're back to that see you
next time