since me cutting is sort of in vogue
right now with summer just around the
corner and whatever I figured I would do
a quick video just outlining my sort of
general thoughts on this and the
approach that I usually take and I'll
take you through a couple examples of
people who might actually benefit from
mini cutting so in case some of you guys
aren't really sure what it is basically
a mini cut differs from a full-blown
contest prep diet in its length and
sometimes its intensity so we're in a
full-blown contest prep diet you would
typically take 24 to say 36 weeks and
get as lean as you can possibly get a
mini cut is usually shorter and sweeter
and probably lasts anywhere from say 2
weeks until 8 weeks so first let's start
with the cases where a mini cut probably
wouldn't be appropriate I don't think
you should ever a mini cut right after a
show this just doesn't make any sense to
me even if say you went out and you
binge super hard for a full week and you
gained you know 10 pounds or 30 pounds
or I've known guys who've gained 40
pounds in that first week after a show
even if you fall into this boat I still
think that trying to damage control with
a mini cut is more likely to set you up
on a sort of yo-yo for the rest of your
offseason or until you can break that
cycle so I just don't think it's a good
habit to get into if you did happen to
find yourself in this place after your
competition I would say that the best
thing to do would be to simply increase
your water intake because a lot of that
weight that you added you know isn't
that weight it's much more likely water
retention that you're experiencing so
increase your water intake and bring
your calories back down to
maintenance level and figure out what it
is that you need to do so that you just
stop binging if you just stop binging
and start eating normally again then
that way it is going to sort of start to
go down over time naturally it's not
like you've increased your weight up
three pounds so now you're stuck here
until you do a cut again it'll sort of
just react Willa Breit if you you know
just stop eating constantly so I'm going
to set the guideline that running a mini
cut within six months following your
competition just isn't a good idea and
it would be a lot smarter to take
advantage of this time when your body
really is primed for anabolism and take
advantage of the good pumps that you're
getting in the gym the increases in
strength and the influx of carbs that
you didn't have while you were dieting
into your show take advantage of this in
terms of actually adding some new muscle
tissue rather than just spinning your
wheels and going from binge to mini cut
to binge to mini cut and also recognize
that this is normal right I don't know
if I know any competitors who haven't at
least binge really badly once after a
competition and you know I've known tons
of people who have had extended binges
after the competition so don't be too
rough on yourself don't feel too guilty
except that it's normal and then just do
your best to just break the binging
cycle and go back to normal eating
rather than doing a mini cut okay so
moving on to the second scenario where I
don't feel as though it is appropriate
and this is the person who might be in
the middle of their offseason but
they're already very lean and I'm going
to set the cap here at 10% so if you're
under 10% body fat then I don't see any
good reason why you should be mini
cutting um in fact I would say that you
would be better off putting yourself in
a caloric surplus gaining some muscle
and gaining some fat so that you can
make progress and this is especially the
case for guys who are still relatively
new to bodybuilding if you've only done
a show or two and you haven't been
training for that long trying to stay
ultra lean all the time might actually
hinder your rate of progress and you'd
be better off you know staying in a
surplus for even the entirety of your
offseason rather than going through mini
that's just because that's what other
people do and just to get into some
specifics here what I would say to do is
if you're say 8% body fat increase your
caloric intake until you push yourself
up to say 10 or 12 percent then you can
run a you know mini cut for a month or
so and then build your way back up again
and I just want to say that there's
nothing particularly wrong with staying
lean in your offseason as long as you
know your caloric intake is very high
you're still making progress in the gym
your strength isn't suffering in any
sort of way because of the weenus and I
would say that you're also relatively
experienced I don't think that guys who
are sort of new to the sport and are
still young should be staying that lean
especially if they still have room to
increase the calories and just to be
super clear about all this I'm not
saying that you can't make progress
being under 10% you most certainly can
in fact you could be in a deficit and
under 10% and still make progress if
you're progressing in the gym and you're
structuring your training properly but
what I am saying is that your rate of
progress will probably be hindered if
you're spending all this time in a
caloric deficit that you could be
spending in a caloric surplus and just
as a quick example here I'm going to
show you guys a couple of photos from my
second ever bodybuilding competition at
the Newfoundland provincials in 2010 and
you'll see in these photos I actually
weighed 139 pounds and then two years
later I competed at the natural Canadian
Nationals and I weighed in at 151 pounds
and so just to give you guys another
look at this to the far left there that
is me at my very first competition in
2009 I weighed 140 pounds there in the
middle is sort of the transition period
where I first begin my prep for
Nationals in 2012 something like 10
weeks out I believe and I was around 165
pounds there and then what you see on
the far right is my final package which
if you just compare the chest in the
left and right photos and my legs in the
left and right photos and pretty much
everything you just see a world of
difference there and I do attribute that
to some degree to my
lack of time spent in a mini cut phase
and then this is just another example
from the back here you can see the
improvements from 2009 to 2012 I'll
admit I am sort of phasing out here to
angle in 2009 photo but the idea here is
that you know you can see significant
improvements through the back and my
conditioning actually looks to be better
in 2012 and I'm about 10 or 11 pounds
heavier there so that was 12 pounds of
stage weight in two years now I will
note that I do think I was a little bit
leaner at the first competition in 2010
but it goes to show that you know if you
compare these two photos a lot of gains
can be made in just a two year period
and I didn't run any mini cuts in its
period I was in a surplus the entire
time and I actually went up as high as
forty pounds over my stage weight so I
went from a hundred and forty pounds to
a peak offseason weight of just over a
hundred and eighty pounds that offseason
and then I cut thirty pounds again down
to 151 that might be a little bit more
of let's say an aggressive approach that
I would take now if you know I were to
rewind the clock but I do really think
that a lot of the gains that I've made
even to this date come from the progress
that I made in those two years between
2010 and 2012 and so just a backpedal
here a little bit and cover all my bases
I'm not saying that you should just you
know take two years off and just perma
bulk for two years and you'll get the
same results that I did but I am saying
that you know if you spend those two
years spinning your wheels between you
know mini cut and gaining phases without
any real structure or plan in place I
think you'll probably be limiting your
even long-term growth potential to some
extent so now moving on to when it is
important and how you might want to
employ a mini cut so I think that there
are two and maybe three main reasons why
you would want to mini cut okay so the
first example of a instance when I think
it would be appropriate is if you've
been bulking for a pretty long time
and you just have no real appetite
anymore and you're finding it difficult
to get your calories in and your weight
has just become stagnant in this case I
would say mini cutting might help you
get your appetite back up so just to
cite a 2008 study here following seven
natural bodybuilders over 11 weeks of
contest prep and the researchers
measured their blood profile of various
different hormones at the 11 weeks out
mark at the five weeks out mark and then
again during peak week the three day out
mark and what they basically found was
that after six weeks of dieting leptin
had significantly decreased and ghrelin
had significantly increased and the net
effect of these two changes in hormones
is that you're just going to get really
hungry now interestingly throughout the
next six weeks or so they found that
gremlin went up a little bit it was like
something like 6% from the five week
comer but leptin pretty much just stayed
the same for the for the remaining six
weeks so this pretty much tells me that
dieting any amount after six weeks
doesn't probably impact on appetite too
much more right so after six weeks
you're probably super hungry for the
next six weeks you don't necessarily get
more hungry or at least that's what I
would infer based on the hormonal
results from this study and it sort of
does actually match my own personal
experience with dieting it is worth
noting that in the study that I just
referenced
um the subjects started their cut very
lean which is normal in natural
bodybuilding and I think that their
average was nine point six percent body
fat so it sort of still remains to be
seen whether someone starting at say 12
to 15 percent would experience those
same changes in ghrelin and leptin as
someone who was starting leaner and then
you could argue whether or not they
would experience the same changes in
hunger or not but those are sort of
small differences in body fat and I
think that six weeks should be more than
enough time to increase your hunger if
that's your goal so I still think that
putting yourself in a sufficiently large
deficit something like 20 to 25 percent
below maintenance calories for two to
six weeks should be enough to get your
appetite going again and then you can
get on with your sort of bulk ordaining
load or whatever right so I think that
the second and probably somewhat more
common reason that you would might want
to Mini Putt is just to keep your body
fat down a little bit so you know it
seems to be the case at least from my
observations that the guys at the top of
the natural bodybuilding world right now
tend to stay pretty lean in their
offseason and they're extremely lean on
showed and the standard for conditioning
just continues to go up and up and so if
you find yourself getting too sloppy in
your offseason then this might either
make life really difficult for you when
you have to cut down again or it might
just put a certain level of conditioning
out of reach for you for this season and
so I think that mini cuts are a good way
to sort of keep progressing in terms of
adding muscle in off season while
keeping fat gain at bay so here I'd like
to break it down into two sort of
separate examples that you probably fall
somewhere on a spectrum between so the
first example is the guy or girl who has
always gotten really strided for their
shows shredded for their shows um
they've never really had a super
difficult time getting lead so for this
person I would say that you can probably
get away with holding a little bit more
body fat in your offseason before it
would be prudent to run a mini cut of
any sort so just as an example for a guy
something like 12 to 15 percent would
serve as like sort of a reasonable high
end that you wouldn't want to push
yourself over before having to run a
mini cut um and now let's imagine a guy
or a girl who's historically struggled
with getting into shape
maybe hasn't got in fantastic shape and
previous shows or has really had to sort
of kill themselves to get there for this
person I would err towards the side of
staying
a little bit to lean in your offseason
and I probably wouldn't go to much
higher than 10 to 12 percent as the high
range of body fatness for your offices
and so without going too far down the
rabbit hole with numbers here I would
probably recommend for a competitor one
to just bulk as long as he or she can
until you hit that high end of say you
know 12 to 15 percent for guys and
basically get your calories as high as
possible and just make as much progress
in the gym as you possibly can and then
probably do a little bit of a longer
mini cut something like 5 to 10 weeks
with a slightly smaller deficit say
something like 10 to 15% below
maintenance and then at the end of the 5
to 10 weeks in to have lost probably 5
to 10 pounds and this is obviously going
to vary depending on the body weight of
the individual but I'm just giving sort
of nice round numbers for you guys as
something to hold on to and if you find
that you have to lose much more than
this say 5 or 10 pounds on your Mini
Putt then you probably pushed it a
little bit too far with your bulk to
begin with okay so for a competitor to
so the person who struggles a little bit
more with getting lean I would recommend
shorter bulking cycles and then also
shorter mini cuts so something more
along the lines of 1 to 2 months of a
bulking or very lean bulking
interspersed with more regular but also
more aggressive mini cuts so something
like a 20 to 25 percent deficit for 2 to
3 weeks and the reason that I separate
these two is basically just to show that
you know not everyone has to mini cut in
exactly the same way and to me it just
makes more sense to keep the person who
struggles with conditioning a little bit
closer to their stage condition with
more regular mini cuts to help keep them
sort of on track with what is priority
for them and allowing this person's bulk
to go on for too long could probably
result in too much fat accrual and then
in order to get back into that sort of
10 to 12 percent range the mini cut
might just turn into a full-blown long
term cuff which might actually hinder
progress over the long term since you
spend less time actually in a slight
surplus gaining and you know
conversely giving the person who gets
into shade
quite easily to many many cuts might
actually cause them to spin their wheels
as you know one to two months of bulking
might actually might actually not be
enough time for them to make significant
progress given the nature of their
metabolism and whatever else alright so
on to how should you actually set up the
deficit so should you use cardio or
should you use caloric restriction
through diet to me it probably doesn't
really matter but I would err on the
side of doing less cardio just because
generally I find it to be less reliable
than dietary caloric restriction in
terms of actually tracking the calories
that have been expended and also if you
do it a little bit too much or with too
much intensity at some point it probably
will interfere with your recovery in
your performance with weight training so
you can feel free to use a combination
but I would use cardio somewhat
sparingly just like I would on any cut
especially if you plan on using you know
high intensity varieties of cardio and
the very last thing that I will touch on
here is this idea of a transition or a
hardening phase as guys who have been
around the industry for a while will
probably know that some of the ideas
i've used in this video would have been
bored from wild Donald or lean Norton
and adapted a little bit in some cases
not adapted and I think it was a while
who talked about this idea of a
hardening phase so basically at the end
of your mini cut you just spend two
weeks at maintenance before going back
into a surplus and then similarly after
you finish your bulking phase and you're
ready for a mini cut take two weeks
spend them at maintenance then go into
your mini cut and I don't personally
think that this is altogether necessary
and I can't really think of any good
reason why it would have any
physiological benefit but it might
potentially help you adapt to the change
in calories a little bit better so you
know if you're used to eating 4,000
calories a day and now all of a sudden
you're eating you know 3,000 or 3,200
calories per day this reduction in food
intake might sort of you know catch you
off guard
and you might be more likely to maybe
cheat on your diet than if you spent two
weeks say at 3,600 then you know went
all the way down and started your Mini
Putt it might help with that hearin Sal
ittle bit but other than that I can't
really think of any significant
physiological reason to follow this
protocol all right so I almost forgot
the third reason why it might be
reasonable to do a mini cut and that is
if you just want to get lean for summer
so some people might think that this is
sort of like a superficial reason but a
lot of people who follow bodybuilding
articles and videos and whatever
probably don't even really care that
much about the stage so if you've been
bulking for your offseason and now you
want to do a mini puff for the summer
then that might work just fine for you
so what I would do in this case is just
set yourself up in a knife nice deficit
of you know 10 to 25 percent below
maintenance depending on how much time
you have given that it's almost June
we're starting to run out of time so you
might want to err towards the upper end
of that range but keep in mind that the
greater the deficit the more likely you
are to compromise lean mass loss so
that's why it's always better to give
yourself a little bit more time if
you're planning on getting very lean and
so this approach of course is obviously
much more up to personal preference
depending on how we and you want to get
how much time you want to give yourself
and so on and so for this person you
know it might not matter if two years
down the road they have significant
improvements say in their upper chest
for the stage it might just be a matter
of you know I want to get below 10
percent for summer and so you have a
little bit more leeway there my opinion
all right so that's basically it that's
all I have to say on mini cutting you
guys have any questions for me or
anything I didn't address you can feel
free to comment below and I just want to
say that I hope it wasn't mean I don't
think I came across like this but I want
to make it clear that I don't think that
many cutting is going to kill your gains
or that you can't make progress while in
a deficit or you know you can't stay
lean and still make progress clearly
that you know the top guys in natural
bodybuilding are staying very lean in
their office
and they're still making progress so I
definitely don't think that is true but
I do think that you especially a lot of
the younger guys out there if you're
doing all these mini cuts are probably
going to be stalling your progress and
you might even compromise some of your
long-term gains because you really are
primed for a growth in these initial
periods of your training and you know in
my experience after my first couple of
shows I didn't run any mini cuts in
those off seasons I just took advantage
of all of that growth potential and I
think that I maximized on it so yeah
that's my thoughts on that if you like
the video guys feel free to like it and
subscribe if you haven't thanks