and to make a long story short they
observed twice as much hypertrophy at
both sites when they were doing length
imp partials compared to a for emotion
Scott thumbnail 2x the growth question
mark no 2x the growth exclamation mark I
mean Bas on the study that's she writes
itself hey folks Dr Mike here for RP
strength and I am joined by esteemed
colleague Dr Milo wolf sport scientist
extraordinaire born in Belgium that's
correct in my own house no Hospital
needed you feel me you're kidding me no
wow you birthed yourself and I was
birthed in a place that has the word
Genesis in it
unbelievable and I assume the birth was
done with a lengthened partial range of
motion yes of course and that brings us
to our topic for today so Milo is a
super expert researcher and I would say
without any reservation the world's
ranking Authority on range of motion by
a long shot he has been involved in
multiple studies and dependently on this
topic himself and has done uh the most
comprehensive literature view on range
of motion but since he has done that
more research has come out so this is
your early to mid
2024 update on the state of what range
of motion optimizes
hypertrophy and um Milo take it away
let's do it so first let me get you up
to speed on where things were in about
2023 2022 to I put out a systematic
review of all studies on range of motion
for muscle building and strength but
let's focus on muscle building strange
who cares yeah if you get jacked enough
you get strong it's true anyhow what we
found at the time was that a full range
of motion was very very marginally
better than a partial range of motion
for muscle building when you just looked
at full range of motion versus parti
range of motion you just dumped it into
two baskets however that's probably not
the right way to at it it turns out we
have other studies comparing for example
isometric holds at different muscle
lengths so you can do an isometric hold
when you're training your biceps at the
top for example and you have a real
nasty Peak squeeze and your biceps are
short muscle lengths or you could do it
at the bottom and your biceps are long
muscle lengths and you're just holding
the weight
essentially when you look at those
studies of which there are five you
consistently saw that longer muscle
length holds are better than shorter
muscle length holds likewise the same
seem to apply to partial reps let's say
all you're doing is 50° of elbow flexion
range of motion you could do the bottom
half at longer mus lengths or you could
do the top half at shorter muscle
lengths the only real difference there
it's the same exercise it's the same
actual range of motion being gone
through the only difference is the
muscle length of the muscles being
targeted and once again across those now
10 studies I believe you consistently
see I think of in nine studies of those
that longer muscle length partials to
more hypertrophy than shorter muscle
partials and in science when n out of 10
studies are saying something the
probability that that something reflects
the real reality in the world is high
correct and funly enough in the 10th
study if you actually just look at the
numbers and that's study by staking
colleagues on the triceps the
differences broadly speaking except for
one measurement do still lean in favor
of long MUSC L training they're just not
large enough to be considered
significant or what have you and so
those are studies on partials and is
but if when we just dump things into two
baskets full range of motion partial
range of motion we see that full range
of motion is better than partial range
of motion by a very small margin that
doesn't really tell us about everything
because it turns out the muscle length
that we train seems to be a pretty
important determinant of how much muscle
you build and so we went one step
further and divided the partial range of
motion into two different baskets was
the partial range of motion being
performed at shorter muscle lengths on
average in the full range of motion if
you're doing a curl for example the
average muscle length of your biceps
might be around the Midway Point let's
say 90° of elbow flexion you could do a
partial on the top half at a shorter
muscle length or in the bottom half at a
longer muscle length and so we divided
partial ranges of motion into whether
they were being done at longer muscle
lengths on average than a full range of
motion so that bottom half or shorter
muscle lengths AK the top half and it
turns out that when we look things that
way two things were found one most of
the studies out there at the time had
compared shortened partials to a 4 in
motion almost certainly and I would say
not it it would say with with a lot of
uh external laical validity or
applicability because let's be honest
before you showed up most Bros in the
gym their idea of partials was the
topend partials because it was ego
fuckery that they were looking for so
that's an important finding that full
range emotion beats partials when
partials are in the squeeze top half but
what about partial range of motion in
the bottom stretch position versus full
ROM and by the way full range of motion
beating shorten partials it makes a ton
of sense when you consider the research
I just quoted longer muscle length
training across isometrics and partials
with the same range of motion do seem to
beat out shorter muscle length
isometrics or partials and so four range
of motion being performed at longer
muscle lengths obviously will also beat
shorter muscle length partials and that
makes sense because there's evidence of
a principle here yes but then we also
had three studies at time there's more
since then and that's what this video is
about that compared longer muscle length
partials so the bottom half of a curl
for example to a full range of motion
and just as you'd expect based on this
overall principle that we seem to find
across around 25 studies now it seems
like length and partials might be better
for hypertrophy at the time we had three
studies and let me go one by one the one
study that found no difference in
hypertrophy was a study by worken and
colleagues in 2021 they looked at the
like press comparing a super tiny range
of motion over 9 degrees of leg pressing
in a concentric only exercise kiako
Grizzly co-author probably sh um so 9
degrees of range of motion is next to
nothing right and in a concentric only
exercise so the degree to which this
applies to your training if you're doing
Ecentric questionable yeah so don't get
in the hack Squat and Just Bounce Around
correct got it correct um they compared
that to 90 de of range of motion on like
press so a much larger range of motion
more in the shorten position and they
saw similar hyper of the quads though
neither group really saw much
hypertrophy because their training was
kind of not that good anyways so just as
a scientific note when your core
variable fails to show a a large
meaningful effect the entire ability to
conclude differences between the
variable is a bad deal it's like
measuring which car is faster like a
Corvette or a Mustang but neither car
got off the starting line I wouldn't
really get into the differences bad news
corre so please continue but there were
two more studies at the time one was a
study by pedosa and colleagues where
they had participants training in one of
four conditions in one group they just
did four in of motion leg extensions in
the second group they did the bottom
half of that leg extension in the third
group they did the top half of that
extension and in the fourth group they
did half of their training as bottom
half partials so lengthened partials and
half of their training as top imp
partials or shorten partials and what
they saw essentially was that the group
doing only length and partials saw the
most favorable
hypertrophy at pretty much every site
measured it was consistent across a
couple muscle groups at a variety of
points across the muscle in terms of
regional hypertrophy and it was just a
pretty solid study in favor of longer
muscle length training for example the
shorten partials group generally saw the
worst hypertrophy as you'd expect based
on the 10 studies I mentioned earli what
what kind of magnitude of difference are
we talking about in this study if I
recall correctly we're talking about
roughly 50% more RS that's sort of 5 Z
correct B deal that is from what I
recall it could be office or some uh
leeway so that was the second study the
third study was a study by gou and
colleagues now this study compared
roughly midlength to long length
partials on average the muscle length
was a little bit longer in the partial
range of motion group compared to the
full range of motion group but it could
be argued to be closer to mid-length
partial in this study they compared four
range of motion School Crushers to
partial School Crushers more so in the
bottom position I remember that study
correct and to put it simply they
observe more hypertrophy in the partial
group I don't see this study as super
strong evidence in favor of linken
partials because it was closer to a
mid-length partial it was still on a
lengthen side of things but you could
argue it's more like a constant tension
rep but regardless as far as actual
science goes when you just categorize
things into four range of motion more
short and partial or more length and
partial it did fall on the side of being
a length and partial so you might say
look and this is actually what I
concluded in the study and people
nowadays are misquoting it to no end you
could say look these are three studies I
don't think there's a ton here and to be
honest you'd be partially right maybe
even mostly right partially you say nice
um however you can also take an
alternate stance and let to say look we
have like 10 studies comparing partials
of different muscle lengths seeing more
hyper with long muscle length PR nine of
which found that we have isometric
studies where they found more
hypertrophy from Len and train they're
different angles to the same truth
correct and it is ultimately just
lending Credence to the principle that
lengthened training on principle seems
more hypertrophic than shortened
training but equally you could say look
three studies I'm not really with this
at least as far as saying I'm going to
do length and partials as a standalone
technique over for rang motion all the
time
always however there have been two more
studies since then directly comparing
length and partials to for motion and
there have also been some other studies
in other areas looking at the general
concept let me talk about the other
studies
first the couple studies I'm talking
about are studies looking at the seated
versus stting calf R for
example these two Studies by kosida and
colleagues and our own lab in Le college
with Brad shonfeld compar the seated and
standing cafr on hypertrophy of the
Solus muscle so one of the planter
flexors and the gastro now the Solus all
it does is plant or Flex the ankle AKA
get your own your tippy toes however the
gas truck is also a knee flexor which
means that when your knees are extended
as they would be during a leg pressed
calf raise or a standing calf raise they
are more stretched than they would be
during a seated calf by a long shot
correct and so we're just comparing the
seated calf ra to a standing calf raise
the standing calf ra is a more
lengthened or stretched exercise for the
gastr and what did they see in these two
studies well they observed largely
similar heryo VI the Solus whether
you're doing standing cafes or seated
cafes which makes sense because
ultimately the muscle length is the same
all the Sol does is plle the ankle y
your knee can be in any position it
wants to be but the Sol is going to be
growing
essentially however in both these
studies gastrock growth was quite a bit
Superior in the standing cafes versus
the seated cafes so couple conclusions
one longer muscle length training did
also seem to be better for the gastr and
adding more evidence to the principle
that lengthen training appears to be
better for hypertrophy and two you
probably shouldn't be doing too many C
Cal raises or any I would say now
criticism to that be technically
speaking the gas TR is an insufficiency
and this barely gets activated when it's
at a bent position versus straight sure
but it sure doesn't go against the
length and partial stuff I agree it at
very least has nothing to say about it
but at most has lots to agree with it so
what other studies do we have then the
one final thing I'll not on active
insufficiency is that in these studies
we're not talking about fully flexing
your knee and getting your gas TR as
shortened as possible we're talking
about about a 90° angle so there may be
some insufficiency but the degree to
which may or may not actually contribute
to hypertrophy because with any argument
of well this muscle has better leverage
in this position or what have you
there's also the counterargument of it
has worse leverage but it still is
responsible for that joint function so
if you take a set close to failure it
will contribute as much as it can sure
and produce tension and so forth so that
is the calf data however we have two
more studies that have been published
and one secret study that I've been
involved in that I've got the results of
but it's not been published yet but I'll
still talk about it in the
end the first study is a study by casano
and colleagues in the Cales yet again
Italian love the Cals uh Brazilians I
believe oh
Brazilian got it continue um they
compared a full range of motion on the
leg press calf to just doing the bottom
half of the rep length and partials to
doing the top half of the rep and they
measured gastr hypertrophy because
that's the muscle being impacted by in
this case along the Solus by the um
range of motion being gone through at
both a lateral and a medial site so
essentially the outside and the inside
of the calf respectively and to make a
long story short they observed twice as
much hypertrophy at both sides whether
when they were doing length and partials
compared to a for motion Scott thumbnail
twox the growth question mark no tox the
growth exclamation mark I mean based on
the study that's it writes itself you
know um the final study actually found a
similar difference in hypertophy as well
around twice as much hypertophy in all
muscles measured and that's a study that
hasn't been published yet by a group of
researchers that's been actively
involved in this data it's done a study
on the seated versus L like C it's done
a study on the push down versus o
extension and that's a study by my
colleagues they compared on the multi-
hiip machine using a within participant
design if I recall correctly doing a 4
range of motion to doing just the bottom
half of the rep so essentially a multi-p
machine you can think of kind of
similarly to an RDL or hip hinge type
movement they were doing a hip hinge
type movement either doing the bottom
half of the rep when the hamstrings and
glutes are most lengthened to doing the
full rep or essentially just getting
their hip to neutral not hyperextending
the glutes so one criticism is it didn't
really use a 4 in motion because it
didn't hyperextend the glute if there's
a benefit to be had there I'm skeptical
but it's certainly something you could
argue regardless they measured
hypertrophy of the hamstrings and the
glutes and to make a long story short
all four heads of the hamstrings they
measured if I Rec correctly and the glus
Maximus did you say four heads four
three heads of the hamstring it depends
you can say semitendinosis semiosis
biceps femoris long head and biceps
foror short head oh we got them biceps
for Mor shits yeah you feel me damn
there's some science science by the way
some recent science also thanks to
quadriceps aren't foreheads maybe five
so yeah there's all kinds of wacky shit
some people have like an extra muscle
here and there too from Evolution and
shit damn all right sorry please the
only extra muscle I care about is
growing more muscle than I already have
you want to see extra muscle boom
motherfucker growing muscle other areas
too only in the right conditions though
all conditions mostly in the
inappropriate conditions full range
emotional that though I'm conditionally
released by my parole officer
anyway regardless in this study once
again they actually observed around
twice as much hypertrophy in all heads
of the hamstrings around twice a bit
less than some muscle groups bit more
than others um in the hamstrings and in
the glutose
Maximus so it makes five studies
comparing length and partials to a 4ange
of motion across four of these they saw
substantially more hypertrophy I think
two to three of these saw like twice as
much hypertrophy from length and partial
motion and some of them saw lower
magnitudes that's still not that many
studies it's five studies so if you want
to take a very very conservative
approach and only consider the most
direct studies bordering on cynical but
yes you could say that 4 in Emotion is
still the default approach now I could
say back look you're just using that
because it's the tradition like correct
that's what you've been doing for it's a
fallacy correct but fortunately that's
not all the evidence we have we have
evidence of a broader principle at play
as I've mentioned in total there like 25
studies now and there's one final study
I want to mention before we head into
the sort of wrap up in Practical
applications that's a study we conducted
up in Scandinavia with Ste lson taken
the lead so shout out stean lson and
essentially we trained around 30
participants with a within participate
design meaning one arm was being trained
one way and the other another way one
leg was being trained with one range of
motion and the other with a different
approach so that again wases out
differences in genetic sleep stress etc
etc which is good do you think that the
cross the cross education effect muddles
those results at all for strength yes
okay for hypertrophy there's no reason
to expect it obvious mechanism correct
um and the interesting thing about this
stud is they didn't just train one
muscle group they actually answered
three different research questions in
three different muscle groups extra
credit ass motherfuckers hey man that's
because I was partially I was involved
in the study design and so I was like
look these are some questions we need to
answer we don't know everything yet so
let's make sure we Design This in a good
way that maximize the use of the study
yeah studies aren't free they don't
happen off let's try to make them good
correct um let's start with the Caps
because we've talked about the Caps
quite a bit here and it's a very easy
thing to describe with one leg they were
doing full range of motion calf raises
ending the set when they couldn't get
another full rep with the other leg they
did 4 in of motion calf phases but then
when they couldn't get another full rep
they kept the set going doing just
partials until they could get even
another length in
partial and to make a long story short
at the sites measured in the gas TR they
observed around 50% more hypertrophy 5
in the group going a bit past failure
doing some lengthen training which to us
answers the question of in a short and
biased movement that's hardest in a peak
contraction position does going past
failure and doing some lengthen partials
until you can get another partial
increase hypertrophy and based on this
it seems like yes not even yes but like
yes yes oh for sure absolutely 50% is a
big deal correct 10% would be like worth
thinking about correct so the next
muscle group studied was the biceps and
for the biceps they were essentially
looking at the impact of muscle length
on hypertrophy
both arms did cable curls for both arms
the resistance curve on the cable curl
was set up such that the cable was
orthogonal to line of pull at the bottom
of the rep maximizing the force
production requirement in the stretch
position so if you think for example
about the difference between a cable
dumbbell kick back where there's no
tension at the bottom versus like a
dumbbell fly there's essentially no
tension at the bottom in the stretch
position in the kickback and there's a
ton in the Dumbo fly yes in this cable
core variation they were trying to mimic
what you get in a dumbell fly with lots
of tension in a stretch got however the
difference between the two arms being
trained was that one had one arm was
right besides their body with the
shoulder neutral so essentially the
biceps relatively lengthened but not
maximally lengthened right so examining
high tension at a lengthened position
correct but not high tension at a
maximum stretch correct okay they
weren't training in the most lengthened
position so what was the other arm
looking like then the other arm was
individualized so each participant just
went as far back as possible
to get as much shoulder extension or
hyperextension as possible to maximize
the stretch on an individual level on
their biceps so some people went further
back because they could some people if
they couldn't went a little bit less
further back and we actually measured
the range of motion of hyperextension as
well just so we could have some data on
look this is how much more stretch there
was and on average they put their arms
back about 45° compared to their um
compared to their torso did when they
did the stretch position one did the
cable get placed higher so was also
orthal it was always set up to be
orthogonal always match it and in this
case they actually didn't really observe
any major differences in bicep growth at
a more proximal site or a more distal
site at one site there was a bit more
growth in the lengthened in the sorry in
the more stretched arm the other side a
tiny bit more growth in the shortened it
wasn't really consistent and it wasn't a
big difference to speak of it certainly
wouldn't be significant based on the
preliminary result I'm describing it the
final comparison was what I found most
interesting and most relevant to a lot
of people in terms of how they train
their quads they compare doing a leg
extension with their Hip Flex to 90° as
you would often find in a regular gym
right like 90° between your thighs and
your torso just like this correct to
having your hips flexed to only 40° so
quite a bit more extended okay closer to
what you do in a Cy squat or what you
could do with a good leg extension
machine where you're kind of leaning
back if you've seen Tom plast leg
extensions for example he would often
extend his hips yes not necessarily for
this reason but he would do it for Tom
Platt's reason correct train as hard as
possible I have a prime leg extension
machine in my gym which is excellent and
it allows you not only to load the
length and position more but the seat
slides back so far that you can get like
30 or 20 degrees there you go they
compared 90 degrees of hip flexion to 40
degrees of hip flexion there was
actually a previous study that assessed
activation of the quads using T2 MRI
better than EMG in likelihood showing
that oh activation of the rectus femoris
for example was greater when it came to
the more extended hip position makes
sense which makes sense because the
rectus femoris is a hip flexor so when
you extend your hips and leg extension
you're lengthening it more yes and it
takes it out of insufficiency more
correct if there is some insufficiency
going on regardless for the other heads
of the Quad receps hip positioning
doesn't impact their length it can't
because they don't insert the hi correct
and so they measured hypertrophy of the
vastest lateralis which doesn't insert
the hip so positioning doesn't matter
for it as far as length goes and the
racus FIS where it is being lengthen
more when your hips were extended
40° what did they find well they
measured both a proximal side closer to
the hip and a more distal SL closer to
the knee for the vast lateralis as you'd
expect there weren't really any
differences between groups CU like the
length isn't being impacted there's not
really a major difference between a more
extended HIIT position and a less
extended hit position for the rectus
femoris however they measured
hypertrophy at the proximal and distal
site at the proximal site they observed
170%
more growth in the group with the
extended hips training in a more
lengthen position huge deal and if more
distal distal at the more distal site
they observed 50% more growth as well so
as far as exercise selection and overall
training goes this kind of suggests to
me a few things one based on the calf
results doing some partials after
failure in the lengthen position on a
shortened biased exercise is likely
going to create more growth on a set per
set basis did they compare that to just
bottom end partials in that study ah
fuck yeah you only have two likes and
otherwise you need to get more
participants well a few of us have three
likes not me Scot the video guy I mean
it barely counts as a thrd leg it's like
a thumb for me yeah oh thumb is a thank
you that's quite nice so I do um I think
Scott actually operates the camera with
a third leg to be completely honest I'm
guessing he needs like a 170 millimet
focal length to zoom all the we in all
that well everything you said but with
dicks yes um so that's one answer the
second answer is if you already have a
lengthen biased movement where your
biceps or any muscle potentially are
relatively lengthened and it's already
super hard at the bottom like you can
think of a pullover on the ground or
something like the tension is pretty
high at the bottom but you're not
maximizing the stretch on your LS right
cuz the thumbell hitting the ground yes
but you're still Gucci correct you may
still be good because the hypert of the
bicep is similar so maybe if the
resistance curve is sufficiently
difficult in that somewhat stretched
position you're good and finally when it
comes to the leg extension and the
rectus foror one longer muscle length
training probably better for hypertrophy
first of all quite clearly even as far
as the results go and two when it comes
to your exercise selection for the quads
picking exercises that create more of a
stretch is probably good which means as
we'll reveal in another video the leg
extension may not be that great of a
choice if you don't have the right
machine for it yeah CU you can't Lean
Back correct and most of the time the
resistance curve is also very short and
biased which based on some other results
like for example if I stud comparing the
preach curl to the incline curl finding
more favorable results in the pre Cur
because there's more tension in that so
muchat lengthen position based on those
results for example even if you can get
a decent stretch by the machine if the
machine is super easy at the bottom and
there's basically nothing going on
that's may still not be good enough you
need both muscle length but primarily
maybe tension at that position so it's
probably more important to have tension
at the length and position than it is to
have a stretch correct especially if the
stretch doesn't have a lot of tension in
it correct so if you're stretching in a
way in an exercise that isn't at high
tension dope cool probably the stretch
growes a little bit of muscle but you
need to stay there for 60 hours a week
to get that yeah but if you can create a
situation where there's not a ton of
stretch stretch but at the longer muscle
length you're getting a lot of tension
imposed then good things are happening
correct which makes a lot of sense and
as an add-on to that that is evidence
against the idea and this makes sense
that just the stretch is creating the
hypertrophy right because if just the
stretch was creating the hypertrophy it
wouldn't matter how much tension was
down there right right and if you look
at the stretch data stretching in humans
does cause some growth but usually you
need to stretch for quite a long
duration yes and not spend an extra 10
seconds during your session doing some
bottom half bullshit and in fact I have
a whole article on that topic that's
coming out by the time of this video
it'll be out on Strong by science on
topic of is are length partials just
causing more stretch mediated
hypertrophy answer probably not and this
study kind of provides more evidence to
that
but broadly speaking I want to give one
caveat and then we can move on to the
Practical
takeaways most studies on lengthen
training most do not look at the most
lengthened position possible so while
it's definitely a good idea to train a
relatively long muscle lengths and I
think you're probably going to maximize
growth training at very long or maximum
muscle lengths at least at times it's
worth noting that we have evidence of
the length in position being more
hypertrophic on a pretty wide level when
you compare deeper squats to more
shallow squats when you compare bottom
half calf raises where like you're
talking in a straight like position
about maximum muscle length for the gas
truck to 4 in of motion even that causes
more growth but most of the evidence we
have is on relatively shortened training
versus relatively lengthened training
and consistently more lengthen training
causes more growth whether or not that
also applies at the very extremes of
extreme stretching we have less data on
but personally based on just how
consistent the evidence is across 25
studies I do think you probably want to
maximize muscle L
training I love it what are your
practical takeaways because I have some
of my own
sure if you want to maximize hypertrophy
the stretch is not something you want to
miss out on if someone came to me
nowadays and was like look I want to
maximize hypertrophy I would almost
certainly put length and partials in
their program I would almost certainly
bias their exercise selection to include
plenty of lengthen exercises and we have
a whole video on that either out already
are coming out soon on the RP Channel I
would generally probably recommend
emphasizing the length in position via
tempo as well controlling the Ecentric
or lowering phase as you reach into that
deep stretch pausing in that deep
stretch position don't make it a short
time down there correct you want to more
time there correct and you can skimp on
the more shortened position the way I do
my uh tricep extensions with a cable and
I get shit for this on the internet why
not is I do control so I do quick here
on the Ecentric slow pause dip slow
pause dip and that makes sense for sure
and the other way of like really getting
down here would be the opposite of O
that is correct yes and the final thing
is just be explosive out of that the
start of that lifting phase because
that's ultimately at the start of
lifting phase is when your muscle is
most lengthened and so if you can be
explosive there accelerate the weight
produce as much force as possible that
is likely a good thing you don't have to
pulse it out but really get out of it
because ultimately if an exercise isn't
set up to have a lot of tension there
especially if you're just half a it you
can definitely half as it and get out of
there yeah but you're not producing as
much tension in a position as possible
and based on some of the research I
mentioned we do want to be producing
plenty of tension in that position which
again goes against the whole stretch
mediated hypertrophy hypothesis damn
stretch mediated hypertrophy punching
the air RN yeah F LOL so my takeaways
are really simple and they're twofold
one if you do for your motion training
for the lulls then do not miss the
bottom end get that deep stretch with
lots of tension down there and number
two highly consider either modifying
some or many of your exercises to be
just the bottom half length and partial
or at the very least consider some of
your sets maybe the last little bit of a
set or even every set ending it with
length and partials because now we're
getting from the hypothetical literature
into Dam this seems like there really is
some legit shit and the effect
magnitudes seem quite impressive so
definitely point three is don't do top
end bullshit here because you might not
grow a
ton agreed fully agree awesome folks
Milo has his own YouTube channel it's
amazing I would go check it out we've
probably linked a bunch of stuff and uh
we will no doubt be seeing him again
hopefully on this channel and also uh if
you drink rum Captain Morgan is great
because there he is
I get royalties he does get a lot of
money folks see you next time peace
[Music]