welcome to the house of hypertrophy how
can we train to most effectively and
efficiently maximize forearm hypertrophy
with the help of the scientific
literature we'll be going into great
detail on this we'll mention virtually
every exercise wrist curs wrist
extensions isometric grip training
pronation superation training radial
nner deviation training and last but not
least curling training let's Dive In
the forearms consist of muscles on the
anterior compartment and posterior
compartment here's a list of all 20
muscles the brachio radialis is one many
of you may instantly recognize it
extends from part of the upper arm
across the forearm we'll discuss how you
may maximize its growth later the
anconeus is a muscle you may have never
heard of It's a small muscle that is
actually involved in elbow extension so
will actually be trained in any triceps
exercise both the pronator terries and
pronator cordatus are involved in
pronating the
forearm while the superator is involved
in suating the
forearm with the anterior compartment
muscles that have flexer in their name
tell us they are involved in flexing the
joints they cross with all the flex and
muscles here they all cross the wrist
joints so Flex the wrist which is where
where the angle between the palm and
forearm decreases it is worth noting the
palmaris longus also flexes the wrist as
a fun fact not everyone has the palmaris
longest muscle according to this text it
can be absent in up to 26% of people
various tests involving flexing the
fingers and or wrist aim to see if you
have a visible palmaris longest tendon
or not for example this test involve you
bunching your fingers and then flexing
at the wrist to see if the palmaris
longest tendon becomes visible it is
also interesting to know some people may
have the muscle in one of their forearms
but not their opposite forearm anyhow
the names of many of these forearm
muscles may sound complex and
intimidating but let us quickly break
down the meaning of the terms so we can
enhance our understanding of the
forearms it's not essential for you to
memorize the names since I'll remind you
of the functions of the various muscles
as we detail what exercises May optimize
their hypertrophy when a muscle has
pocis in its name it tells us it can
move the thumb so the flex of pocis
longus in addition to flexing the wrist
can Flex the thumb when a muscle has
digitorum in its name it tells us it can
move the fingers or toes if we're
talking about the foot so both the
muscles with flexor digitorum in their
name tell us besides flexing the wrist
they can Flex the fingers superficialis
is Latin for near the surface
while profundus is Latin for deep so the
flexa digitorum superficialis is on top
of the flexa digitorum profundus finally
for the anterior compartment what about
radialis and naris the lower arm has two
bones the radius and olna radialis
refers to the radius the flexor Cary
radialis besides wrist flection can
perform radial deviation which is
movement of the hand towards the radial
side when you're standing like this
radial deviation looks like
this naris refers to the Nar the flexor
carpy naris besides wrist flexion can
perform nner deviation which is movement
of the hand towards the Ula side when
you're standing like this ol deviation
will look like this note carpy just
refers to the
wrist with the posterior compartment
muscles that have extend in the name can
extend the wrist which is where the
angle between the palm and the forearm
increases and you can probably guess the
functions of many of these muscles based
on what we've already described remember
we're talking about extension with a
posterior compartments so for example
the extensor digitorum can also extend
the four fingers there are only four
things that will very quickly expand on
digy minimi translates to little finger
so the extend sensor digity minime
besides extending the wrist also
specifically extends the little finger
indices translates to index finger so
the extender indices besides extending
the wrist also specifically extends the
index finger longus is Latin for long
and brevis is Latin for short so the
muscles with longus are longer than
their counterparts with brevis in the
name such as the extensor pocis longus
being longer than the extents of pocis
brevis now some of you may be thinking I
see the abductor pocis longus but
where's the abductor pocis brevis the
abductor policis brevis belongs to the
hand so it's not a for a muscle and thus
isn't on the list anyhow speaking of the
abductor policis longus this is our
fourth and final Point as it's a little
confusing and worth clarifying abductor
policis tells us it can ab D duct the
thumb but it actually can also extend
the thumb and contribute to radial
deviation here's a table that some may
find useful that details the functions
of all the for our muscles once again
you don't need to memorize this but feel
free to replay this section if you do
wish to memorize any of these
[Music]
details nearly all of the exercises most
people perform in their training program
since they involve gripping onto the
load already involves some forearm
stimulation vertical pulls horizontal
pulls and deadlift variations involve a
fair degree of static finger flexion
strength to not lose grip and remember
of all the fora muscles it's the flexor
digitorum superficialis and profundus
that Flex the fingers so these two
muscles are stimulated with the static
finger flexion involved in these
exercises in fact it's not super
uncommon for people to get sufficiently
strong on these movements to the point
where these forearm muscles become the
limiting factor in this scenario
assuming your goal is to most
effectively stimulate the muscles these
movements typically intend to using
something like straps can eliminate grip
as the limiting
factor during many curling exercises
with our base Knuckles face down if you
were to shut down the forarm muscles the
weight would pull us into wrist
extension so your forearm muscles
specifically the muscles that perform
wrist flexion are work to combat this
from happening during lateral raises our
base Knuckles are faced upwards if you
shut down the forarm muscles the weight
pulls us into wrist flexion so your
forarm muscles the ones that perform
wrist extension are working to combat
this from happening depending on your
goals training experience and genetics
you might actually be happy with the
forearm gains you see from your regular
training however we can be pretty
certain if your goal is to accelerate
and maximize forearm development direct
forearm training is required the reason
for this is pretty straightforward based
on the current scientific literature we
know to maximize growth of a muscle we
want to attain High muscle fiber
recruitment levels and tension this is
simply achieved by training two or close
to failure during most exercises your
forarms are typically not the limiting
factor so are far from theoretical
failure but during direct Forum work
they are always the limiting
factor the anterior compartment of the
forearms is generally larger than the
posterior compartment when dissecting
the anterior compartment except for the
pronator terries and quadratus which are
not super large we know the rest of the
muscles all contribute to wrist flexion
some of them have additional functions
but the fact is all of them have been
established have great leverage for Pure
wrist
flexion for those unaware leverage in
this case refers to a muscle's moment
arm the biceps can simply illustrate
this to know a muscle's moment arm we
need to know its line of force and the
center of the joint it moves then we
simply draw a perpendicular line between
these two things to get the muscle
moment arm here we see the biceps has a
fairly long moment arm which tells us it
has great leverage and potential to
perform its function of elbow flexion
and generally the longer the moment arm
the better leverage and potential a
muscle has to perform movement since all
these muscles have great leverage for
wrist flexion wrist curling exercises
which involves wrist flexion will be
very effective for training all these
muscles if you could only perform one
forarm exercise some wrist Cur would be
it simply because this trains the
greatest amount of forarm muscle tissue
currently there's no research directly
comparing different rist Co variations
for muscle hypertrophy despite this we
can hypothesize what the best risk of
variation might be based on the
available literature on other muscle
groups growing evidence suggests
training muscles at relatively longer
lengths produces greater hypertrophy
than shorter lengths what on Earth does
this mean when we move our muscles
change lengths for example the biceps is
at a longer length when the elbow is
straight but at a shorter length when
the elbow is bent two areas of the
scientific literature demonstrate the
benefits of training muscles at longer
lengths the exercise comparison research
and the range of motion research with
the first one example is this 2021 paper
from Japan comparing seated to Lang Leos
for hamstrings hypertrophy the
hamstrings consist of four muscle heads
all of them cross the knee joint so are
involved in bending the knee called knee
flexion however three of them also cross
the hip joint this design means these
three hamstring muscles are going to be
stretched more and thus at a longer
length when we bend them the hip which
is done on seated leg hes lying leg H
Coes involve no Bend at the hip it was
found seated leg hes grew these three
hamstring muscles more than lying leg
holes while growth of the biceps for
more a short head which is the one that
just crosses the knee and thus is
trained at the same muscle length
between both exercises was similar
between the two exercises in past House
of I perch for videos we've seen
selecting exercises that train the quads
and triceps and long lengths can build
more
muscle as for the range of motion
research this refers to the Joint ankles
you move through so with a normal biceps
curl moving the elbow from zero to
around 130° is a full range of motion
but we can divide this into two parts
moving from around 0 to 65° is what we
may call a partial at long muscle
lengths while moving from 65 to 130° is
what we may call a partial at Short
muscle lengths this 2022 study compared
car phrases with a partial at longer
muscle lengths partial at shorter muscle
lengths and a full range of motion that
moved across all angles gastr nmia
hypertrophy was greatest with the
partial at long lengths being even
better than the full range of
motion in the spirit of scientific
accuracy we need to recognize this
literature on Long muscle length
training is emerging and developing and
more studies are needed to answer
specific questions for example is a
partial at long length always better
than a full range of motion is there a
threshold of the long length needed to
maximize muscle growth Beyond which
further lengthening provides no further
benefit finally all of the research on
Long muscle lengths for hypertrophy has
been done on untrained individuals
across the web some suggest there are
mechanisms that mean trained individuals
would not see greater benefits from
training at long muscle lengths but as
I've thoroughly described in this
article I think there are problems with
this argument and we simply need studies
on trained individuals luckily there's
at least two studies in the works
exploring if trained individuals benefit
from longer muscle lengths when they're
published I intend to update you with
the results at the house of
hypertrophy nevertheless allow us to use
this available data to at least
speculate on what may be the best
forearm
exercises focusing on the forearm
flexing muscles we know they Flex the
wrist so are going to be shortened when
the wrist is flexed but at a more
lengthened position when the wrist is
extended withstanding wrist curve
variations we don't get into an extended
wrist position rather we're largely
moving the wrist from neutral to a
flexed position conversely with wrist
hes that have our forearm resting across
a surface with a base Knuckles down our
wrist successfully reaches an extended
position therefore we may hypothesize
this variation may be better for
hypertrophy thanks to it attaining
longer lengths this movement can also be
performed with your lower arm across a
bench or on your thigh but that's not
all we might be able to make this
exercise even better recall that the
flexor digitorum superficialis and
profundus besides flexing the wrist also
Flex the fingers as a result these two
muscles are going to be at a relatively
shorter length when the fingers are
flexed but at a longer length when the
fingers are extended consequently if we
allow the fingers to extend during the
wrist curl we will be able to lengthen
the flexor digitorum super falis and
profundus even more here we're
predominantly extending our fingers at
something called the metto caroal joint
while the load rolls down our fingers we
still have some Bend in the distal and
proximal interanal joint so the load
does not fall out then we Flex the
fingers while simultaneously flexing the
wrist to lift the load we'll call this a
finger flexion wrist
curl here's an example of what this
exercise looks like in real life
some of you might be thinking what if I
just performed wrist Co with fat grips
for those unaware fat grips are
attachments that increase the diameter
of the bar you need to grip thus
compared to using a normal grip using
fat grips automatically places your
fingers into a more extended position
therefore when compared to normal rist
Holes without fat grips using fat grips
will train the flexa digitorum
superficialis and profundus at
comparatively longer lengths but when
comparing them to finger flexion risk
holes they generally don't attain as
much finger extension so finger flexion
wrist holes generally still achieves
longer lengths for the flexor digitorum
superficialis and profundus making the
speculative assumption this extra
lengthening is beneficial for growing
them more this could be quite an
important thing because the flexor
digitorum superficialis and profundus
are actually the two largest forearm
muscles so play a large role in your
overall forearm size you may be
wondering by introducing this finger
flexion into our wrist curl although
this may enhance the stimulus to the
flexor digitorum superficialis and
profundus through placing them at longer
muscle lengths does this not compromise
the stimulus to the other forearm flexor
muscles my best guess is probably not
although this is not an identical
comparison recall we saw of this study
comparing cated to lying leg holes
seated leg Coes lengthen three hamstring
muscles more and grew them more but it
was no less effective for growing the
biceps for more a short head which is
trained at the same length between the
two exercises in the same way perhaps
finger flexion wrist CES effectively
grow the flexor digitorum superficialis
and profundus more while not being any
less effective for growing the other
Forum flexor muscles now you're not
going to be lifting as heavy as you can
compared to other rist Co exercises but
this likely does not matter we don't
want to make the mistake of thinking
that heavier weights means a greater
stimulus a great example of this comes
from this 2022 paper from Japan that
compared overhead extensions to push
Downs due to the precise anatomy of the
long triceps head it is actually trained
at a longer length with overhead
extensions and it indeed grew better
with this movement even though subjects
lifted heavier loads on the push Downs
throughout the study so this is how I'd
rank the different rist Co variations
remember this ranking is based on
inferences from the scientific
literature on other muscles so it would
be wrong for me to to say this is 100%
correct also if you dislike or cannot
train with any of the best ranked
movements throughout this video and you
find it more enjoyable or practical to
train with lower ranked movements that
is absolutely okay provided you train
these movements to or close to faila you
are absolutely still going to experience
hypertrophy the data still shows
meaningful hypertrophy in exercises
training muscles at shorter positions
I'll also note with standing wrist hes
you can also introduce finger flexion
which play reles the flexor digitorum
superficialis and profundus at
relatively longer lengths of course
since the wrist remains neutral during
this it doesn't reach as long of a
length as this
variation a time efficient way to
implement any form of risk hes into your
training is to superset them supersets
involve you performing two exercises
back to back and then rest before
performing this for however many more
sets you desire based on the current
literature we at least have evidence
implying suers setting exercises that
that train different muscles is
perfectly fine for muscle growth
generally Su setting rist holes with an
exercise that doesn't involve a grip
component is probably a sound idea such
as super setting leg extensions with
them or any of these other
[Music]
options recoil the anterior compartment
is larger in size so training them is
the main priority but the posterior
compartment isn't terribly small and
likely still worth training to truly
maximize forearm size much of the
extensive muscles of the forearm have
great leverage for wrist extension so
it's no surprise wrist extension
training is an excellent way to train
them the extensive muscles of the
forearm are at a shorter length when the
wrist is extended and at a longer length
when the wrist is flexed standing wrist
extensions don't attain a flexed
position rather we're moving the wrist
from neutral too extended conversely
wrist curs with a forearm across a
surface and the knuckles facing up
successfully reaches the flex position
so we may hypothesize this variation may
be better for hypertrophy the fingers
are already flexed thanks to gripping
the load and in this scenario this is
perfectly fine some of the extensive
muscles have attachments on various
fingers and are at a longer length when
the fingers are flexed a convenient way
to add wrist extensions into your
program is simply to supet them with
another exercise or even a wrist curl
variation
[Music]
another popular way to train the
forearms is through isometric grip
training isometric refers to our muscles
working but not moving I'll straight
away mention that grip training is
probably not essential for forearm
hypertrophy simply because grip training
trains finger flexion and thus just
trains the flexor digitorum
superficialis and profundus various
intrinsic hand muscles are involved too
but they are not our Focus today if your
thumb is in contact holding the mod then
we will also additionally recruit the
flexa pocis longus but all these forign
muscles are already going to be trained
extremely well with the risk hold
variations we've
dissected but since grip training is
popular and since some of you may enjoy
training variety let us dissect it in
general there are two common categories
of grip training the first is normal
grip training which involves you holding
on to a standard dumbbell barbell or
pull-up bar to or near failure far walks
involve simultaneously walking all
normal grip training trains the muscles
at moderately short lengths why remember
the flexor digitorum superficialis and
profundus are placed at the longest
length when both the wrist and fingers
are extended the flex of pois longus
will also be at its longest length when
the wrist and thumb are extended but
during normal grip training our wrist is
virtually neutral and our fingers and
thumb are flexed this isn't a disaster
research conducted on other muscle
groups demonstrates that isometric
training at Short muscle length still
evokes hypertrophy but unsurprisingly
growth is better with isometric training
at relatively longer muscle lengths the
second category of grip training grip
training with the fingers extended gets
us to comparatively longer lengths these
involve grip training with fat grips
added to dumbbells barbells or a pull-up
bar and pinch training with plates or a
dumbbell there are subtle differences
between these but the main thing is all
of them place our fingers and thumb into
a more extended position thereby
training the muscles at a longer length
relative to normal grip training so this
is the speculative ranking for isometric
grip training some of you may be
wondering how does isometric training
compare to normal Dynamic training for
hypertrophy there only seems to be two
studies comparing them the first one was
published all the way back in
1957 including the comparison of this
biceps is symmetric exercise to dumbbell
curling upper arm circumference gains
ended up being better with the dumbbell
curling yet upper arm circumference is
far from a precise measure of muscle
growth and we don't know if the results
would have been different if isometric
training at longer lengths would have
been
used the second study comes from 1986
and this paper compared isometric to
concentric only and eccentric only leg
extensions from the references my best
guess is the isometric training was
performed roughly around the long muscle
length positions achievable with a leg
extension quad hypoy was not
significantly different between all
three suggesting isometric training may
be able to produce similar gains
although I would have liked to have seen
a normal Group performing both a
concentric and eccentric motions also
this is just one study so future studies
are necessary to truly determine how
effective isometric training is right
now my best guess is isometric training
particularly at longer lengths might be
able to produce similar Hy pery to
normal Dynamic training although if
future research finds isometric training
isn't quite as good as Dynamic training
for hypertrophy I don't anticipate the
differences would be that large anyhow
as we at least know you can grow muscle
from isometric training it's absolutely
fine to include isometric grip training
in your training program if you
desire but let's say you wanted a
dynamic alternative to isometric grip
training in this scenario as isometric
grip training involves static finger
flexion we would be looking for a
dynamic finger flexion exercise when
dissecting wrist Coes we introduced
finger flection risk holes which already
involve finger flexion combined with
risk hurling in fact one option on the
table is to perform finger flexion wrist
curs until you get to the point where
you're struggling to curl the wrist up
and then you squeeze out a couple of
pure finger flexion repetitions with a
wrist maintained in an extended
position but if you're not a fan of this
you can just perform pure finger flexion
repetitions as a standalone exercise
this is likely an excellent exercise
since our wrist and fingers attain
extended positions we're training the
flexor digitorum superficialis and
profundus at long lengths besides this
hand grippers and standing finger curls
also train finger flexion I anticipate
these C be quite effective for growth
but since the wrist is in neutral it's
possible they are not quite as great as
finger flexion with the wrist extended
note these Dynamic finger flexion
exercises tend to involve the thumb not
in contact with the weight so the flexor
pois longus isn't going to be trained so
this is how we may rank Dynamic finger
flexion training again it's not Crystal
Clear how isometric compares to Dynamic
training but I will say as finger
flexion with the wrist extended reaches
the longest length of all these it's
possible this could be the best having
said this if you prefer to train with
any of the lower ranked exercises rest
assured they're not going to decrease
your muscle size as alluded to at the
start of this section dedicated finger
flexion training is likely not essential
since the muscles involved are already
going to be trained effectively in wrist
Cur variations but since some of you may
enjoy training variety this certainly
can be part of an overall highly
effective muscle building program if you
wish moreover the flexed digitorum
superficialis and profundus are after
all two of the largest for our muscles
so extra finger flexion training is not
what I'd call a waste of time finally
there are some convenient ways finger
flexion training could fit into a
training program besides just performing
pure finger flexion reps after failing
to perform wrist flexion let's say
you're training pull-ups on your final
set you could just hang on the bar for a
while if you're training dumbbell or
barbell standing curls on the final set
assuming the load isn't too heavy you
could perform a couple of pure finger
curl repetitions with hand grippers
these can be performed at any place and
time so it can be a highly convenient
and simple way to train your forearms
[Music]
more performing exercises that involve
radial or inner deviation will
effectively train these forearm muscles
that have leverage for this movement but
five of these seven muscles are already
highly trained with risk holes and
extensions the two exceptions are the
abductor pocis longus and extensor
polius brevis which are probably better
trained with radial deviation these two
muscles are pretty small so maximizing
their growth is probably not high on
anyone's priority list and growing them
will probably have a trivial impact on
your physique so I don't consider radial
or in deviation essential but I
understand that not everyone thinks the
same or has identical goals so if you do
wish to train radial or ol deviation
here's some solid
[Music]
options direct pronation and superation
training isn't involved in most programs
some of your exercises may be performed
with a supered or pronated grip but
these are not resisted pronation or
superation training direct pronation
training will effectively train the
pronator terries and quadratus while
direct superation training will
effectively train the superator and even
biceps since they function as a
superator too these three forign muscles
aren't going to be trained with wrist
Coes or extensions the pronator terries
has some leverage to perform elbow
flexion so will somewhat be involved in
exercises that involve elbow flexion yet
it likely experiences a better stimulus
with direct pronation training so if we
wanted to maximize the growth of these
muscles direct pronation and superation
training would be required but
considering that these muscles are a
small fraction of the forearm muscle
mass they are far from the most
important thing for overall forarm size
and for the vast majority of people that
simply care about building an overall
developed physique direct pronation or
superation training is not what I deem
essential but again not everyone thinks
the same or has identical goals so
perhaps you do want to train them some
of you might know that pronation
training is common in the arm wrestling
world and it's quite interesting to see
that Devon larett one of the best armed
wrestlers in the world has a highly
developed pronator terries anyhow with
your forearm across a bench or on your
thigh and using an uneven dumbbell
moving the hand in this way trains
pronation while moving your hand in this
way trained super Nation you can also
perform both in one smooth
[Music]
motion as mentioned near the
introduction many of you are probably
familiar with the bracho radialis some
data indicates when the forearm is
pronated the bracho radialis helps
return to neutral while when the forearm
is supinated the bracho radialis again
helps return to neutral yet as implied
by this paper the primary function of
the muscle may be elbow flexion as a
result the Brau radialis is going to be
trained well in any exercise that
involves elbow flexion including
horizontal pulling exercises vertical
pulling exercises and of course curling
exercises it is widely thought using a
neutral or pronated hand grip during any
elbow flexion is superior for growing
the Brau radialis this belief partly
stems from the idea that the biceps seem
to have their best leverage to perform
elbow flexion when the forearm is
supernate and indeed a fair few
electromyographic studies find the
biceps display higher activity when
elbow flexion is performed with the
forearm in superation surely this then
means the braal radialis has a smaller
contribution to Elbow flexion with a
supinated grip but a larger contribution
with a neutral or pronated grip quite
fascinatingly the overall
electromyographic literature fails to
support this although I did come across
two studies finding the brao radialis
displayed higher activity when elbow
flexing with the forearm pronated three
found no difference between different
forearm positions and four actually
found better Brach your radialis
activity with the forearm in a supern
position for example the most recent
paper had 10 competitive bodybuilders
perform cable curls with a supern
pronated or neutral grip and both biceps
and bracho radialis activity tended to
be higher with the supered
grip as discussed many times at the
house of hypy before electromyographic
data has limitations so it's possible
this explains the surprising results
however my current belief is that
electromyographic data May potentially
be more accurate when we're comparing
exercises that only have slight
variations such as curling with
different grips my reasoning for this
comes from research on other muscles
some electromyographic research on the
coughs finds that cough raises with
slight variations between them
successfully predicted muscle growth
outcomes while other electromyographic
research that compares very different
exercises doesn't always translate into
muscle growth outcomes thus I think it
is worth considering the surprising idea
that a supered grip trains both the
biceps and break your radialis extremely
well in fact we at least have one study
demonstrating that supernate curl
training can be superb for braak your
radialis hypertrophy the study recruited
previously untrained individuals to
train dumbbell and machine preacher cods
with these variables both of these
exercises are typically performed with a
supinated grip this training was not
compared to anything else as the aim of
the study was simply to explore the
relationship between muscle hypertrophy
and strength gains it was ultimately
found that the B BPS brachialis and
bracho radialis all significantly and
similarly grew as this study didn't
directly compare supern to neutral or
pronated grip training it doesn't prove
a supernat grip is sufficient for
maximizing brachy radialis hypertrophy
but it at least demonstrates how
significant growth of all these muscles
can occur with a supern grip for those
interested the study did find somewhat
of a relationship between muscle
hypertrophy and strength gains but the
relationship ship was far from super
strong we might have future videos at
the house of hyper view that explore the
overall literature on the relationship
between hyper Fe and strength anyhow if
we assume for a second that supinated
grip is sufficient for the braak your
radialis I think it's possible that some
people who report feeling their break
your radialis more with pronated curs
are getting confused with the wrist
extensor muscles during pronated curs
the weight is trying to flex your wrist
so your wrist extensors are working to
prevent this from happening some of the
muscles involved in this are around the
bracho radialis so you may be deceived
into thinking it's working more than
usual when you're actually feeling these
extensive muscles now this is a
controversial take I'm completely open
to being utterly wrong here if future
research finds Brach your radialis
hypertrophy is better after training
with pronated or neutral grips but right
now my current interpretation of the
available evidence is that neutral or
pronated grips may not be essential to
Max break your radialis hypertrophy thus
if your current program includes some
form of vertical and or horizontal PS
Plus at least one curling exercise I
expect this will absolutely contribute
to substantial braak your radialis
development and might indeed be enough
but let's say you have been doing this
but you are not happy with its
development well assuming other aspects
of your training and lifestyle cannot
explain your lack of break your radialis
growth then you could try to increase
the volume of your curve or even though
the present evidence doesn't support it
you could experiment with neutral or
pronated coals as you don't have much to
lose before we wrap up some have
suggested regardless of forearm position
certain curling exercises could be
better for the Brau radialis there are
two different lines of thoughts the
first one is that some analyses find the
difference in elbow flexion leverage
between the Brau radialis and the other
elbow flexors tends to be largest as the
elbow becomes increasing L flexed which
is at the top portions of a curl due to
this some say curling exercises that are
harder at higher elbow flexion angles
May elicit Superior Breaky radialis
growth many regular free curls are
already quite challenging at the middle
to top parts of the curl and adding a
resistance band on top will make the top
part of the curl even harder thus
perhaps this effectively increases the
stimulus to the break your radialis the
second line of thought opposes this it
suggests since the breaku radialis
leverage isn't that bad in lower elbow
flexion angles and since we've seen that
training muscles at longer length seems
to be better for building muscle
exercises that are harder in the bottom
part of the curl when the muscles are at
longer lengths could be best cable curl
variations and free weight preacher
curls do this that is they are
relatively more challenging in the
bottom part of the curl compared to
regular free weighs and resistance
banded curls I will note from the biceps
perspective since it has attachments on
the shoulder and can be lengthened
during shoulder extension it will be at
relatively longer lengths with the cable
curl compared to preacher Coes whereas
since the Breaky radialis doesn't have
attachments at the shoulder its length
is similar between both exercises so
which of these two lines of thoughts is
correct there is currently no published
research that can help answer this but
fortunately I'm aware of at least one
study that's in the works that may help
answer this once it's published we will
update you at the house of hypotrophy
until then I wouldn't overthink this too
much and I would just select the curling
exercise or exercises you
prefer if you're searching for further
guidance on programming to obtain your
desired physique it can be tricky and
timec consuming however our highquality
partner the alpha progression app can
help you generate an evidence-based
training program that's 100% customed to
your needs in less than 3 minutes simply
specify the equipment you have how often
and how long you want to train for and
if you want to focus or neglect certain
muscles there are even Advanced options
to periodize your training and Implement
D loads there are over a quadrillion
input combinations on which your plan is
based and with a touch of a few buttons
you can customize things further through
analyzing your past performance the app
provides Progressive overload
recommendations during your workouts to
help you continue making gains the app
automatically generates graphs that
display your long-term progression
thereby saving you time from having to
manually track your progression the link
in the comments and description gives
you a 2E free trial of all the premium
features and if you like it and decide
to go beyond the link gives you 20% off
a subscription I truly believe the app
is awesome and the reviews speak to
this before concluding remember that
although science is absolutely a
powerful way to understand the world our
knowledge is provisional that is we are
open to changing what we think might be
true in light of new and stronger
evidence as mentioned in this video
there are some studies currently being
conducted that may help us better
understand how we may more effectively
build muscle and if further new evidence
emerges that may support or challenge
anything detailed in this video or
anything else at the house of
hypertrophy I plan to update you all to
conclude we've covered a lot of
information feel free to replay the
video or use the timestamps in the
description and pined comment to jump to
specific sections but based on
everything detailed we can see there are
probably a quadrillion ways you could go
about training your forearms as some
examples if you only wanted to train
with one forearm exercise some form of
risk hold variation will help you train
the most amount of forearm Mass we
specifically saw how finger flexion
wrisk curls due to them training all the
flexor for our muscles at longer lengths
might be best for hypertrophy if you're
happy to perform more than one exercise
adding in a wrist extension exercise
likely helps you enhance growth of many
muscles belonging to the posterior
compartment of the forearm if you're
someone who prefers even more variation
besides these two exercises you could
add in some form of grip training
Dynamic finger flexion training or other
specific exercises that generally Target
the smaller muscles of the forearm
finally we know the break your radial is
part of the forearm to and this muscle
is highly involved in elbow flexion a
motion that occurs in exercises that are
already present in many training
programs such as vertical pools
horizontal pools and any curling
exercises thank you for making it to the
end of the video feel free to check out
the alpha progression app or our recent
dive into growing the triceps and chest