most of you won't be able to do that in
fact I would damn guarantee I'm stronger
than you you're probably better shape
than you I would actually recommend most
of you people start you people
[Music]
hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
critization the creator of the RPI
pertrophy app and a professor of sport
and exercise science at Lehman College
in the Bronx in New York City in
Manhattan in the world and guess who
else lives in that world Mr Andrew Tate
successful professional kickboxer
successful semi-professional person who
I think
sells sex workers or something like that
I'm not sure on the controversy but I do
know he's in the manosphere and I also
sometimes identify as male let's review
his workouts and see if his advice is up
to muster
[Applause]
um
seven days a week no rest days it's
actually a bad idea your body needs rest
in recovery it's when it actually does
most of its growth I would recommend the
most advanced folks that are seeking the
highest levels of adaptation to their
physiques and muscularity train at most
uh six days a week but uh most folks
will get the best results training uh
somewhere between four and five days a
week so seven days a week is generally a
bad idea
he's got a lot of exercise equipment at
his home so I guess house arrest is easy
when you're frivolously wealthy the
chest press is a little the reps are a
little too quick for my tastes and
probably not very close to failure and I
just move in the weight around the range
of motion isn't amazing but because it's
hitting that bottom stretch position I
don't have a ton of hate for it seems
just fine and it says machine press a
thousand reps seriously wait hold on
I'm here guitar
oh yeah okay so he's doing a ton of
repetitions with incredibly lightweights
which if you can do a thousand of reps
of something in some workout it's
probably either catastrophically
overdoing it and is going to cause more
damage than growth forcing you to spend
most of the next several well several
days or a week or more recovering
instead of growing and adapting or it is
still profoundly easy because the weight
is so profoundly light and you're so far
from feeling anyone set that it ends up
being a very poor use of time to not get
you the best results
[Music]
I have to make it harder for myself to
punch myself I'm actually 85 sure 800.
okay so he's punishing himself for not
remembering not really good for sport
Science maybe with the RPI purchase app
he could accurately log all of his uh
inputs and not have to ask himself this
question it looks like he's using a
full-size laptop which is generally I
like to work out with a
refrigerator-sized computer next to me
at all times
the there's a term for this in the
hypertrophy training literature and it's
called Junk volume it's doing lots of
reps but each rep is so profoundly easy
and you never really get very close to
failure so none of the parts of your
muscle that really grow the most the
fast twitch motor units they're called
they never really activate much and so
you spend a lot of time doing this you
accumulate plenty of fatigue or in his
case not even that many because it's so
easy but you don't get a huge stimulus
if you did 30 total repetitions but each
one of them was a very very heavy and
very hard and was done in a very
controlled Cadence with a deep stretch
he could get all of the benefits and
more of his workout without spending I
don't know how long doing this takes a
long time to do a thousand reps
single day of training Tate's prison
beast mode oh my God it's everything I
ever wanted out of a workout in that
jail cell I had no access to a gym I had
no access to any kind of workout
equipment it was just me in a jail cell
with you with balls of water holding
them out as long as I could hold them
out for and then they'd drop to the
ground endless push-ups had the time
every single day we trained we woke up
disappointed we swallowed the
disappointment and we got the training
this is very good psychology uh the
thousand trillion push-ups and the milk
bottles or whatever that's just don't go
to jail and you won't have to do that
kind of stuff every single day what is
your excuse
ah what is your excuse stuff look uh
training every single day is not a good
idea again six days a week four days
five days is better but uh sure makes
for good memes
what else is entertain other than a good
meme
I don't know
welcome to the tape Fitness course
there's a tate Fitness course
unbelievable now this Fitness course has
a very unique angle to it and the angle
to this course is staying in shape
having a good physique growing your
strength in as little time as possible
sounds really good this is not going to
be one of those courses that talks about
 diff this muscle that muscle eat
this eat that okay so nothing with
actual content or information
hardcore stuff this tendon this joint
it's like I don't know any of that stuff
I don't actually know things I just want
results I'm uninterested in all of that
even when I was a professional fighter I
was completely uninterested in all of
those things almost all professional
fighters are I can assure you even as a
world champion I was uninterested I
believed in hard work and dedication I
don't understand how hard work and
dedication are
antithetical to knowing what you're
doing
but uh supposedly for mental bandwidth
is small enough it's one or the other do
not believe in this muscle that muscle
that enough so we're looking for a
fitness course that's going to sit there
talk about a whole bunch of science
science and garbage garbage yeah then go
buy another one another one no wait
wait go buy another one
hey guys if you really like that what
you might really like extra is our
extended edition of this video and
actually a lot of our videos occur in
our members section hit that join button
and you will be whisked away into a
portal of magic and by magic I mean
extended video editions of what you just
saw
this is my fitness routine I use to stay
in shape and the reason we're in my
bedroom my bedroom
his bedroom looks nice you could uh take
away the civil rights of at least 20 15
year old Romanian sex workers there I
imagine
time to get canceled if you want to go
to the gym and train for three or four
hours a day that's fine idiot but I know
a whole bunch of people who dedicate
their personality to being a gym rat
having a good physique but they don't
have anything else okay
apparently the other hours of the day
three or four hours of the day is all of
them and they don't have anything else
they just sit around and play video
games the rest of the time fine what do
you do with the rest of your time Mr
Andrew Tate and friends of yours okay
yeah you're in shape so nobody cares
right unless you're making money I don't
see the point in dedicating that much
time to it it's a fair play you got to
know what you're getting out of the gym
and you can actually get a great
physique if you have a minimal list of
you know intelligent pieces of equipment
that you're using in an intelligent way
let's find out if intelligence supplies
here what you need are two mats see mats
I bet you don't even need those but
we'll get to that in a second you need a
bar which you can pick up for 10 bucks
and you don't even need a lot of weight
I'm a strong guy really in fact I would
damn guarantee I'm stronger than you
unlikely and I use 30 kilos of weight
okay
dope Max
the maps are not for you match for your
floors because I don't know if your
floor is in my mind expensive yeah the
Target demographic that buys these
things probably does not have expensive
floors it's nice that he is expecting
them to get richer over time while still
adhering to his workout routine because
they have all the time in the world to
get rich and import people against their
will from various countries forcing them
to have sex but whatever else you do for
money out of my business uh or you know
um do other kind of uh entrepreneurial
activities then you get the bar now
this is gonna look easy maybe because it
is I'm kidding I don't even know what it
is yet but I promise you it's not
promise received so I I would actually
recommend most of you people start you
people what the with 20 kilos this
is 30 kilos the reason we do do these
two particular exercises is I'm about to
put graphic infuses
oh those are such cool graphics I like
that he didn't I don't really like
science
 but like he's got science Graphics
every muscle group in the body your legs
your abs your shoulders your chest your
arms everything's going to be done with
these two exercises
really so you start here
Burpee back
lift it up over your head camera guy
what are you doing that's one we're
gonna do 25 of them
okay so a burpee superseted to a not
athletic clean and press does work a lot
of the muscles of your body well it's
probably mostly cardio workout and
doesn't really get you very jacked or
very strong if you're very out of shape
and you want to become sort of skinny
and have some muscle like entertain then
that's a fine thing to do that's 25 so
you can tell I'm out of breath
I'm probably in better shape than you
probably in better shape than you I love
the advertising it's just quite direct
you suck but you could be like me if you
did this in fact
you do it with 30 kilos
most of you won't be able to do that
it's going to start with 10 kilos maybe
even 20 kilos I like the progressive
element that respect
so
they're way more efficient ways of
training whatever the jumps train than
doing the jumps and way less taxing on
your joints and connective tissues so
almost anything else when I do them I
try to get my hands up
that's just uh let me guess from your
kickboxing days just good old muscle
memory old Fighting habit wow how'd I
know that this is great for his
demographic because everyone in his
demographic thinks they fight even
though they don't it's like yeah man
always keep my hands up brother just
because you know like I've seen a couple
entertain videos I'm kind of like a K1
fighter yeah yeah if you're sitting here
going well why burpees tape which muscle
does my juicimus Maximus meet my shut up
none of that matters damn they're
not bodybuilders they're not science
Geeks you're trying to have a good
physique good physique means you're
building the body in a specific way
which means your bodybuilder now and if
you want to have the best physique then
you want to know what you're actually
training which means you're a science
geek it turns out if you want a certain
appearance you are actually encouraged
to think about it a little bit you're
trying to get paid I don't know what
this has to do with making money by the
way for the record almost everyone who
does this will not have a good physique
Andrew Tate did not get a good physique
doing this he got it training for years
and years and years in combat Sport and
having generally good genetics uh
comparable calorie intake to his
expenditure and uh moves around a lot
that's it in my personal experience
girls don't find that whole bodybuilder
 attractive true they find money
attractive and they also find the
potential that you will sell them down
the river and they'll never have homes
again attractive too much is it too much
I'll back off
let me tell you guys about the RP
hypertrophy app with over 28 preset
programs already in the app you can
choose to make your own you can modify
an existing program or you can just run
the programs exactly as they were
written by me personally this app
programs everything for you exercises
weights sets reps frequency the whole
thing after every single workout on
every single week the adjust to your
unique parameters with every single
input we have over 250 exercises in the
app with detailed video tutorial links
to every single one you never have to be
confused about technique or form ever
again I'm guessing right now you're
pretty interested in the app download
the RP hypertrophy app today
these dudes who do that bodybuilding
it's gay gay
very good way to make a critique that
has no substance at all let's just call
it a name my man I'm around
changing weights changing weights that's
for science Geeks so what we're
basically looking to do is three
exercises in one set I like that his
facial expression during this video is
like he was woken up at three in the
morning and told to film this impromptu
he's like this go on my face
bruv I know you son all right so 10. oh
that's the worst technique I've ever
seen God damn I wasn't ready for that
 don't folks don't hide in your
upright rows open up into them get your
elbows up and out that will train your
shoulders like it's supposed to it looks
like he's dying in there am I allowed to
make these jokes like a Jewish workout
they just like recoil at the bill uh
it's a hundred dollars for breakfast
the stock portfolio came back and you
had less return than you want
all day I'm here all day
terrible awful and he's using his legs
too I don't know why he's trying to make
it easier for his shoulders maybe he
doesn't want Jack's shoulders I don't
know
if I saw him doing this at the gym and
you pointed him out I didn't know who he
was and you were like does that person
know what he's doing I would say no no
he does not
straight away change your grip straight
away mate don't wait for it
[Music]
just moving stuff around I would make a
critique but that would be filed under
science and
nerd and
gay
oh that was so athletic you
guys ever seen some like that
that's World Championship I throw it up
to change my grip if you're not
comfortable with that you can hold it
and change it slowly my hands are now
reversed
guess what the advantages of reversing
your hands you get to lift in a slightly
less comfortable position accomplishing
nothing on net balance
[Music]
now I've got a change of grip back to
the original grid yeah
so once again I throw it
oh
I've seen more athletic catches in my
life I'm back again
between those three exercises that is
all I use
to stay in pristine physical condition
yeah I don't think he looks exactly he's
in pristine physical condition he's like
a guy that like is tall and skinny and
just like smokes a lot of cigarettes and
drinks and sometimes hits the gym and
you're like yeah Frank he exists Andrew
Tate is probably great for Hustler
advice
how to pick out cigars and advice on how
to take people who previously had
genuine life trajectories and hopes and
dreams for themselves and imprison them
against their will and use them for sex
other than that uh I wouldn't go to him
for workout advice because while it's
not terribly wrong you can do better
almost anywhere anyway Mr Anderson if
you see me in real life please don't
beat me up but um
[Music]
four out of ten four out of ten four out
of ten that's it
don't cancel us see you guys next time
[Music]
foreign
[Music]