here's the best way to get jacked in
2024 using
science welcome back Dr my wolf today
PhD in sports science bringing you the
latest research that you can use in 2024
to build more muscle I'll break down
this video into discrete sections
touching on some relevant Recent
research that helps inform your training
to get more jacked first progressive
overload you know that if you want to
keep getting bigger and stronger you
need to add weight whenever you can to
keep the workouts challenging what you
might not know is that a recent study in
2022 by Plotkin and colleagues actually
compared two ways of progressively
overloading and whether one is better
than the other for muscle growth in this
study participants were split up into
two groups both groups performed the
squat the leg extension the standing
calf and the seated cafr however one
group progressed by adding reps week to
week so adding a rep whenever they could
and the other group added weight week to
week whenever they could which do you
think resulted in more muscle growth
well actually both of them resulted in
similar muscle growth so if you find
that you'd rather progress by reps week
to we or by weight don't feel like you
have to do one or the other whichever is
more convenient and enjoyable to you
might be just fine for exercises like
lad raises where you might not be able
to add weight week to week feel free to
just add reps instead likewise for
exercises where you actually prefer
doing lower reps like say a squad or a
deadlift feel free to just add weight
week to week don't feel like you need to
add reps week to week to keep seeing
improvements in your muscle size next
I'm going to break down some research on
training volume how many sets should you
do per week to maximize your muscle
growth well at 2022 meth analysis by
basv and colleagues actually answered
exactly this question for the quadriceps
and for the biceps they found that
between 12 to 20 sets per week was
optimal for hypertrophy for the triceps
on the other hand doing at least 20
weekly sets was better for hypertrophy
importantly there's been some more
recent research in the quads for example
a study by nson colleagues suggesting
that you can go even past 20 sets for
other muscle groups and still see a
benefit in terms of muscle growth in
this study they essentially compared
doing 22 weekly sets for quads to 32
weekly sets for quads to 37 weekly sets
for quads across two sessions using the
squat the leg press and leg extension
exercise by and large doing more sets
all the way up to 37 average weekly sets
seem to lead to more growth and so if
there is a muscle group that you really
want to improve on and that you've been
training for a while and really not
seeing great gains you may just want to
increase its volume past 20 sets while
dropping how much training you do for
other muscle groups to compensate and
you may just see more muscle growth but
for most muscles starting somewhere
around 10 to 20 sets and adjusting from
there as you see fit is a great place to
start next up how close to failure
should you be training for muscle growth
well just last year a metanalysis by
Robinson and colleagues was published
answering this exact question when
synthesizing several dozens of studies
what they found is that The Closer a set
was taken to failure the more muscle
growth it caused all else being equal
however since going too close to failure
too early in a session can actually
impair your performance later in that
session going too close to failure too
early or too often within a session may
just cause more fatigue than is
beneficial but still most of your
training should be pretty close to
failure if your aimless to maximize
muscle growth here's what I recommend I
recommend taking your first set on an
exercise to about two reps in reserve so
in an all out effort you could have done
two more reps before reaching failure
then with each consecutive set go a
little bit closer to failure and by the
last set go all the way to failure
Additionally you could go a little bit
closer to failure on those last few
excises in a session and a little bit
further from failure in those earlier
exercises within a session for exercises
where it's safe to fail like for example
on a machine chest press you can go all
the way to actually failing rep for
other exercises like a barbell bench
press without a spotter consider just
stopping the set when you feel like you
can't do another one this way most of
your training is pretty close to failure
but you don't get the negative effect of
going too close to failure all the time
in your training and by taking that last
set to failure you're also able to see
whether or not you're truly pushing
yourself as hard as you think you are
next up should you do Low Reps or High
Reps if you want to build muscle well a
study by Las evicus and colleagues
actually answered exactly this question
they compared the effects on hypertrophy
of doing either sets with 20% of your
max 40% of your max 60% of your max or
80% of your max for context that can
mean anywhere between about eight reps
all the way to about 70 reps they found
similar muscle growth whether
participants used 40 60 or 80% of their
training Max however when participants
went too light all the way to 20% of
their Max for very high rep sets they
did actually see worse muscle growth
overall the research suggests that if
you do anywhere between about 5 and 50
or 5 Z reps per set on a per set basis
you will maximize hypertrophy the only
caveat there is that with higher rep
sets it can be harder to reach all the
way to failure if you've ever done a
high rep set on the leg extension for
example you'll notice there's a lot of
burning going on and so you very well
may end the set just because of pain
rather than actually hitting failure and
so generally lower rep ranges of about 5
to 15 reps are going to be most
practical for most people for most of
your training but there is some research
suggesting that you want to include a
variety of rep ranges in your training
to maximize muscle growth so while I
recommend doing most of your training in
the 5 to 20 rep range doing some higher
rep training is probably going to be
beneficial if you want to maximize
muscle building next up what exercises
should you do to build muscle well I
have a whole series on that very concept
on my channel but here's the breakdown
if you're pressed for time pick
exercises that are time efficient so
exercises that use dumbbells stack
loaded machines or cables are great
choices because usually they involve
minimal setup and you can just adjust
the weight very quickly it's essentially
plug-and play use exercises that are
sufficiently stable so no doing curls on
the BOS ball use exercises that will
likely be eliminated by the Target
muscle and finally pick exercises that
emphasize the stretched position indeed
a metanis by wolen colleagues wait a
minute that's me found that focusing on
the stretch when you're lifting like for
example by using lengthen partials and
only doing the part of the four range of
motion that has your muscle most
stretched may be better for muscle
growth compared to doing a full range of
motion at the very least what this means
is that you should pick exercises that
involve the stretch position and are
challenging that position and that you
should always aim to include that
stretch position in your training if
your aim is to maximize muscle building
next what's the best split or routine
well the most recent research on
training frequency or essentially how
often you train a muscle group in the
given week suggests that you want to
train a muscle group at least twice a
week if you want to maximize muscle
building what this means is that a
variety of approaches can work what
probably doesn't work quite as well is a
body part split wherein you train each
muscle group only once a week a push P
leg Split For example can work if you're
consistent ly able to train 6 days a
week however depending on how often you
train you may find it more practical to
use either a full body split where
you're essentially guaranteeing that
you're training each muscle group at
least twice a week or even an upper
lower split where if you train 4 days a
week you've got your basis covered
finally there may or may not be an
additional benefit to working with
slightly higher frequencies past twice a
week and so yet again a full body split
may be slightly better in that regard
next up if you want to maximize muscle
growth do you need to bulk the answer is
probably there was actually a recent
study in 2023 by Helms and colleagues
that looked at the impact of being at
maintenance versus being in a surplus on
hypertrophy they found very few
differences in terms of muscle growth
whether you're just at maintenance or
essentially not bulking at all versus
being in a surplus and gaining weight
however there has been previous research
and I have a whole video on that
somewhere here suggesting there is a
slight benefit of bulking on your muscle
growth however it likely isn't as large
as a lot of people used to convey so if
you want to Max maximize your muscle
building do consider getting into about
a 1% of body weight gained per month
Surplus for most people that's around a
100 to 300 calorie Surplus however if
you're okay with just getting very good
muscle growth not maximum muscle growth
you could probably get that with just
maintenance and if you're someone who
dreads cutting or has trouble losing
weight then maintenance can actually be
a great approach according to the latest
science next up how much protein should
you be eating well according to a met
regression by Morton and colleagues if
you want to maximize your muscle
building you'll want to consume around
1.6 g of protein per kilog of body
weight per day ideally you would split
this in three or more meals per day
however if you're unable to get three
consistent meals per day in or you would
rather not or you're fasting for example
for Ramadan what have you don't think
you can't make any gains a very recent
study by trolin and colleagues actually
compared the acute effects of having
either 20 g of protein or 100 g of
protein all at once to see whether it's
true that your body can only use say 20
to 40 g of protein at once for muscle
building to make a long story short your
body can use quite a bit of protein even
if it's consumed all at once for muscle
building and in this study in fact after
having that 100 g of protein even 12
hours later the body was still using
that protein for muscle building so even
if you can only have one or two huge
meals per day still try to hit your
total daily protein goal next up what
supplements are worth taking for muscle
building the main one by Norge is going
to be creating mon hydrate in the first
year of taking creatin monohydrate you
may see as much as about 3 lbs of
additional muscle growth creatin
monohydrate is by far the most well
established supplement on the market for
muscle building and to be honest it's
the only supplement I would recommend
wholeheartedly the other two that are
more situational are caffeine and
citrine malate I would only take
caffeine before a work out if you're
working out in say the early afternoon
or morning because having a large dose
of caffeine at once can actually impact
your sleep even as late as 10 to 12
hours later and so unless you're
training in the morning I wouldn't
really recommend taking caffeine however
there is some evidence suggesting that
taking caffeine before a session can
increase your muscle growth the same
goes for citrine malate there is some
evidence suggesting it can increase your
performance when you're in the gym and
so it may or may not increase your
muscle growth as well however both
caffeine and citrine malate are a bit
more optional I'll have some dosages and
timings for each supplement on the
screen and finally how long should you
be sleeping to maximize muscle building
well for most people you should be
sleeping at least 7 hours a night you
should be feeling pretty rested
throughout the day so if you don't feel
rested with 7 hours consider doing more
and finally if you need an alarm clock
to wake up in the morning that's a sign
you may not be sleeping sufficiently on
the other hand if you find yourself
waking up before your alarm clock goes
off but you still feel well rested
throughout the day every day that's a
good sign that you're getting sufficient
sleep to maximize muscle building that's
the video broke down some of the latest
research on how to build muscle in 2024
if you like the video please comment
like subscribe if there's anything you
want to see me cover leave a comment
down below and I'll get to it if you
want me to handle your training
nutrition check out my coaching Services
somewhere here above in the meantime
have a phenomenal day and I will see you
next time peace