welcome to the house of hypertrophy what
is the biggest training mistake you can
make in the words of Mike mener in fact
going from one set to two sets is the
biggest mistake you could possibly make
it's not just a mistake it's the biggest
mistake possible you just doubled the
exercise and therefore you doubled the
inroad into recovery ability with these
men Clips you often get some intriguing
comments such as this as humans we are
designed to empty the tank through one
set one Sprint one hunt one fight after
Jones who's often credited for
popularizing hit training has said how
many sets of the exercise one additional
sets usually serve no purpose and may
produce a state of overtraining with
some subjects an intriguing comment left
on this channel States one set to
failure dummies other than that you're
overtraining these are certainly some
interesting and controversial comments
but I thought this would be a good
opportunity to overview the scientific
literature on overtraining fatigue and
set numbers in a way that we haven't
really done previously at the house of
HP hopy let's dive
[Music]
in the talk of fatigue and overtraining
is interesting so let us start there
does the fatigue from a higher number of
sets spiral you into overtraining there
are different ways you may Define
overtraining but this 2013 consensus
provides us with this definition a
decrease in performance with or without
symptoms lasting months or longer with
no following performance gains there are
dreams on either side with some
believing overtraining is a myth and
others as we've just seen thinking
overtraining occurs from anything more
than lower volumes of training
considering nonfunctional overreaching
which is defined as a performance
decrease lasting weeks or months with no
following performance gains is also
worthwhile both of these can occur from
resistance training but getting there
seems to be incredibly difficult
illustrating this this analysis examined
22 studies that deliberately tried to
induce over training or overreaching
from resistance training and 10 studies
fail to find any meaningful fatigue that
would be classed as overtraining or
non-functional overreaching thus even in
studies purposefully constructed to
produce overtraining or overreaching it
doesn't always happen for instance this
paper employed this training program
involving largely training the full body
5 days a week with just 24 hours of rest
between sessions plus maximum strength
tests on Friday bench press and squat
strength performance did decrease in the
second week but they rebounded and
performance actually improved over time
so neither overtraining nor
nonfunctional overreaching occurred
rather performance improved This
research demonstrates that the notion
that you're going to overtrain from
performing more than one set is to put
it bluntly ludicrous to be fair I'm not
sure if Jones or the commenter
considered overtraining as the
definition we provided but even still
although more sets will generate more
fatigue this certainly does not mean
your body can't handle adapt and still
grow from it multiple areas of the
literature lead me to conclude this this
paper had trained folks perform a
sixcess all to actual momentary failure
on the barbell bench press yet a marker
of neuromuscular fatigue was virtually
fully recovered 48 hours after training
to be fair this is just one fatigue
marker in one paper but importantly as
you continue to accustom yourself to a
training program across weeks your body
produces a range of adaptations that
only further enhance your recovery
capabilities demonstrating this these
researchers had subjects perform five
sets of 15 maximal eccentric
contractions the fatigue of Maximum
eccentric contraction should not be
underestimated after the first session
subject saw substantial soreness damage
and fatigue for at least 5 days after
but as subjects kept training across 10
weeks recovery improved by the 10th week
subjects were seeing virtually no
soreness or damage and they virtually
fully recovered their strength 24 hours
after the session and don't forget this
was with five sets of maximal eccentric
work the literature on how many times
per week you should train a muscle ties
in here on average when the total number
of sets you perform each week for a
muscle is kept the same the number of
times per week you train that muscle
doesn't matter too much for hypertrophy
this means that higher frequency
training where you're training a muscle
24 hours apart regularly is a viable
option on the table as an example ex Le
this study had trained subjects train
the squats and bench press each with 12
sets in a week a three times group
spread this volume across three sessions
a week while a six times group spread
this volume across six sessions per week
this meant the six times group was
performing two sets per session and just
resting 24 hours between sessions
despite this fat free Mass gains and
strength gains were comparable between
both groups in fact the fat free Mass
gain somewhat lean towards the six times
group interestingly there are are some
limited cases of higher frequency
training being Superior to lower
frequencies such as this paper which had
trained folks perform 15 weekly search
for each muscle a low frequency group
trained each muscle once or twice per
week while a high frequency group
trained each muscle across 5 days a week
this means they would have regularly
just had 24 hours to recover between
sessions and multiple sets per muscle
were performed each session back squat
strength gains were greater for the
higher frequency while other strength
gains were similar muscle growth was
overall better with a higher frequency
this does not mean higher frequency
training is undeniably the best or that
you have to train this way even if you
don't want to because as deciphered in
other videos the overall entirety of the
evidence suggests you certainly can make
great gains by training a muscle once
twice or three times per week individual
differences can also exist due to
multiple factors some people may fail to
handle high frequency training
nevertheless the main point I'm trying
to show here is that if the fatigue from
multiple sets was problematic higher
frequency training should never ever be
an option but we see it
[Music]
is what about the main thing muscle
hypertrophy I'm actually going to start
with this paper that I've never detailed
before at the house of hypertrophy 70
previously untrained individuals train
their quads with these exercises for
three sets each three times a week for
16 weeks this actually totals to 27
weekly sets performed for the quads
which is quite a lot but both the
younger and older individuals grew well
in these 16 weeks after this the
subjects were divided into one of three
groups for the next 32 weeks a d tring
group stopped training altogether and as
you can imagine they lost their gains a
1/3 group continued to train but cut
their volume down by 1/3 by still
training each exercise for three sets
but just once a week A 1 nth group also
continued to train but cut their volume
down by 1 nth by training each exercise
for one set once per week quite
interestingly the older adults in both
groups didn't make further gains they
actually lost some size as for the
younger adults the 1/3 condition did
lead to some gains but with the 1 nth
group they largely just maintain their
muscle size if higher sets were
problematic and if lower sets were
unfailingly the best for hypertrophy in
all circumstances these results should
not have occurred on the flip side we
have research suggesting you grow just
fine if not maybe be even better when
you perform more sets than usual for
example this paper had trained
individuals perform the unilateral leg
extension and leg press with one leg all
subjects perform 22 weekly sets for the
quads with their other leg all subjects
perform 20% more weekly sets than what
they'd been performing before the study
vastus lateralis hypertrophy was better
with a leg that performed 20% more sets
than
usual another study had subjects train
their lower body with a range of set
numbers and found on average the
subjects that experienced the best gains
had increased their sets by the most
compared to what they'd usually perform
before the study more studies are
definitely required to understand if
when and how much you should increase
set numbers across your training career
but this research at least further
demonstrates how more sets aren't
inherently
detrimental all this research involved
changing set numbers but what about data
just comparing higher to lower sets we
have this paper with trained folks
performing leg extensions with either
one or three sets my f protein synthesis
which is the creation of the proteins
that make your muscles bigger was
greater and longer lasting for the three
sets now protein synthesis data can be
clouded by muscle damage but as these
subjects were trained and merely
performed the leg extension I don't
anticipate muscle damage being a major
confounder nevertheless we of course
have research actually measuring
hypertrophy you can indeed find some
papers failing to find the significant
difference in muscle hypertrophy between
training with either one or three sets
per exercise but it is equally true that
other papers find three sets per
exercise built more muscle than one set
importantly when we statistically
combine all the individual papers into a
meta analysis multiple sets overall
result in Greater hypertrophy more
precisely performing a total of nine or
more weekly sets per muscle group
produced greater hypoy than performing
fewer than nine weekly sets per muscle a
lot of this data was from untrained
individuals when analyzing the data on
trained individuals the most
well-designed data tends to indicate
that 12 to 18 weekly sets for a muscle
group produced better gains than fewer
sets this is an average and some
individuals and muscles could see better
games with fewer or more sets
fascinatingly we had this recent study
that found progressing up to an
incredibly High 42 to 52 weekly sets for
the quads led to Greater quad
hypertrophy than performing 22 weekly
sets now there are nuances and
considerations to this paper which we've
more thoroughly outlined in a previous
video but it nonetheless demonstrates
how anything more than lower set isn't
detrimental it is worth noting in all
the studies outlined here the
instructions and rep number data
provided in the papers indicates they
were training two or very close to
failure on the sets which is perfectly
fine since as detailed in another video
stopping three to two reps from failure
is likely comparably effective to
training to
failure if you're searching for further
guidance about training our highquality
partner the alpha progression app can
help you create track and evolve your
pury and strength training a custom
workout generator can tailor make an
evidence-based program to your needs in
less than 2 minutes let it know the
equipment you have how often and how
long you want to train for whether you
want to focus or neglect certain muscles
with the touch of a few buttons you can
edit things more to your liking such as
changing set numbers if that's what
you'd like to do the app generates
graphs that can track your progress
thereby saving you time during workouts
it analyzes your past performance to
provide Progressive overload Rec
recommendations to help you continue
making gains there's also a massive
exercise database with video and text
tutorials on each Movement try the app
free for 2 weeks with a link in the
comments and description and if you like
it and decide to go beyond the link
gives you 20% off a subscription the
reviews speak to the app's unmatched
quality by no means is it my intention
to hate on Mena or Jones the truth is
they didn't have access to the research
we have now I will say it is a little
questionable of them to have been making
seemingly firm conclusions in the
absence of any strong data nevertheless
by no means is it my intention to also
say that training with lower sets is a
crime we know the Research indicates it
can produce gains and it may fit
people's goals and Lifestyles better
which is absolutely fine but the notion
that lower sets are superior in all
circumstances and that the fatigue from
higher sets leads to overtraining and
inferior results isn't supported by the
scientific literature thank you for
watching feel free to check out the
alpha progression app or our recent deep
dive into building the LS