hey folks it's dr mike for renaissance
periodization today's topic cheat meals
yay or nay let's take a look at the
costs benefits upsides downsides and
figure out which way to go and it could
be different for you depending on who
you are and how you respond so
the upsides of cheat meals on a fat loss
diet are two at least that i can think
of maybe two and a half first is they
can be a psychological break from hard
dieting which can be really cool it can
refresh you you can hit that diet hard
right after awesome another thing is
they can replete a little bit of your
intramuscular glycogen stores and give
you a better training response the next
day or if you have the cheat meal after
a big workout like a big leg workout and
you go have a cheat meal you may
actually be able to drive a little bit
more muscle growth from that workout
itself so some good positives now
here's what cheat meals don't do
we'll get to the negatives in a second
because a lot of times people think that
cheat meals have certain positives that
they actually don't have and here are
some sort of myths that we have to bust
first is cheat meals typically do not
cause net benefit changes
in
metabolism or in hunger hormones which
is to say
that they do cause these changes but
only during the time that the cheat meal
is sort of in the bloodstream all right
so hunger
when you eat a big cheat meal a lot of
times you won't be hungry anymore but it
doesn't have a lasting effect as soon as
the cheat meal is gone you're just back
to your fat loss diet you're exactly as
hungry as you ever were because now the
calories are lower
your metabolism people say i'm eating
cheat meal to boost my metabolism when
the cheat meal is in your bloodstream
being you know shuttled to cells your
metabolism absolutely goes up during the
time that the high calories are there
and your metabolism burns some of them
up and then after the high calories are
gone if the cheat meal is gone your
metabolism doesn't stay elevated it
drops right back down as soon as you
start fat loss dieting so there's no
long-term net benefit effect feed
forward which is kind of what a lot of
people think they use cheat meals for
like go to fucking stoke metabolic fire
bro got to reboost the metabolism they
don't do that they just boost it during
the time that they're in and the effect
really just cancels itself out
there's no evidence that it's convincing
for a super compensatory effect after
such that if you're dieting down your
metabolism starts to get sluggish you
have a cheat meal and then you just
whoosh keep dieting go you have a cheat
meal you'll gain some weight from the
cheat meal your metabolism will fire up
you'll lose the weight from the cheat
meal and just be back to normal and the
only way you keep going is to continue
to keep calories low and activity high
and lose weight so there's no actual
real big benefit there
another thing they don't want you do a
lot of times people dieting for a show
like oh yeah i'm gonna get a cheat meal
fill out see how i look filled out well
there's better ways of doing that cheat
meals come with lots of fluids usually
and lots of sodium which means they
don't let you see how you'll look filled
out and dry they'll let you look puffy
and that's not something you should be
interested in on your weight or
bodybuilding show if your ostensible
goal for having the cheat meal is to
kind of assess your physique more carbed
up
just increasing clean carbs for a day or
two
does this much better so instead of
having like 100 grams of carbs from rice
every meal making maybe normally do on a
fat loss diet you bump to a 150 or 200
for several days you really feel fill
out but you didn't increase the salt you
didn't increase the water you get a
drier tighter look everything looks
great you're like oh wow man i'm really
making progress i note the body weight
and everything and then i go back to
work so a lot of times people want cheat
meals to do these things but they don't
but why do people use them a lot and say
that they do these things because
cheating is fun you know like someone's
like hey do you want to have like a
whole pizza after this live workout on a
diet or do you want to increase the
amount of white rice you add to your
meals by some fraction for the next two
days what the fuck that last one doesn't
seem appealing at all there's the
temptation to pretend cheat meals do
some shit they just don't do because we
fucking want to cheat right
downsides of sheet meals there are a few
we have to be aware of them it's not all
downsides because we know there are some
upsides here but for some people
especially not all
cheat meals can cause higher rebound
hunger when you're locked into a diet
and you're not eating ultra tasty foods
you kind of forget what they taste like
and you may be like sort of remember but
you haven't experienced in a long time
your own clean foods that you're eating
for your diet because you're pretty
hungry they taste pretty good if you get
cheat meal in there oh my god that's
like giving somebody heroin you're like
wow this will you know really uh won't
make you want heroin anymore because
finally you got heroin you should be
good that's not how it works right now
of course the heroin analogy is way way
way overblown but a lot of times people
who have a cheat meal and they have the
pizza and they finish the pizza and
they're like so what do you want now
back to clean dieting like fuck that i
want to eat pizza again so that rebound
hunger is really nasty it doesn't happen
in everyone some people that they have a
bit of cheat meal and they don't want it
for another two or three weeks some
people they have it and it just makes
them want more i'll say this again when
we finish the talk but depending on
which one you fall into is how you're
going to choose whether or not to have a
cheat meal
another bad thing for some people again
not all
having cheats
especially regularly or cheats when you
sort of decide it's time i'm too
depleted you have a cheat
can
leave you psychologically
uh with this looking forward to cheat
meal kind of perspective
and that can be nasty nasty nasty on
your sort of mental state in a few ways
first you get anxiety
before cheating okay you become you're
anxious to get the fucking cheating
going so if it's like thursday and on
friday take cheat meal thursday's the
longest fucking day of your life friday
morning and afternoon the longest
fucking you know hours of your life and
then friday finally friday night you
have your cheat meal everything's great
during a lot of times especially if
you're really far gone on a diet a lot
of times you want to enjoy a cheat meal
but you're so rushed to get it in that
you your consumption is mindless and
this is actually reported among more
serious folks that have binge eating
disorder or disordered eating that's
binge style that they don't even hardly
remember or experience tasting the food
it just goes in
so a lot of times you have mindless
consumption which means you're not even
enjoying the cheat meal anymore nearly
as much as you could
and then towards the end of a cheat meal
like when you've got the last slice of
pizza or the last few chicken nuggets
you have this like fear of the end of
good times you're like oh fuck this is
my last nugget and after this i start
fucking starving again i hate my fucking
diet the fact that the cheat meals
coming to an end soon can be
psychologically painful and then after
you can have like mini depression where
like you're
you're hungry and your next meal is some
clean meal you just go to sleep and
you're like damn and all i want to do is
just keep cheating god fuck why am i
here right
and
even if none of that stuff happens to
you cheat meals can cause temporary
bloating as a matter of fact they're
very likely to because you have a ton of
fluids with a cheat meal usually and
cheat meals almost always going to have
a ton of salt and a ton of carbs
and that can really throw off your
psychology by messing with your look you
have a cheat meal you were like on track
you look a little depleted but you were
seeing some cuts seeing some changes you
have a cheat meal this is gonna be great
you wake up the next morning you look in
the mirror and you're like
what the fuck like a lot of shit is
blurred out because you're holding body
water it may not have a great effect in
your psychology and it may actually kind
of demotivate you and you're like fuck
this die it's not even working like i
look like shit fuck it i'm just going to
keep cheating because who gives a shit
people do that all the time another
thing you can do is mess with with your
psychology by throwing off the scale
like you weighed 130 pounds 131 pounds
you know
129 pounds and things are sort of going
the right direction 128 etc you have a
cheat meal because someone told you to
you thought you needed to or you felt
like it and then all of a sudden the day
after comfortably easily no problem the
scale could be as high as 135. what the
fuck the last time you won 35 was like
fucking six weeks ago did you just erase
six weeks of your diet no you know
better than that maybe on your best days
but right now you feel like you've taken
like
18 steps back and that can be
devastating especially if you're
attached to that number on the scale and
you see it as a note of progress it can
suck
it can also mess with calorie
adjustments by throwing off the scale so
much the scale goes up and maybe not
doesn't come down for a few days and you
have to ask yourself the question like
okay these last few days i had the cheat
meal whatever these last few days i've
been on this diet back on the diet that
i'm supposed to be but i'm still at a
higher weight than i'm supposed to be
because i don't know why the answer is
the cheat meal is still hanging in there
for you and you're like fuck do i need
to reduce my calories even further this
is a very common thing that happens all
too common people have a cheat meal
they'll gain some bloat they'll go back
on the regular diet the bloat takes a
lag time of a day or two or three to
really come off
and they you know at day number two
they're like fuck fuck fuck fuck uh i
gained too much on the cheat meal i
gained too many you know actual actual
grams of body fat which is damn near
impossible for one cheat meal unless you
eat like 10 000 calories or 50 000
calories from stupid shit like that
then what ends up happening is they over
compensate and they slash the calories
increases diet fatigue increases wanting
a cheat meal even more and then we're
into this fucking really nasty cycle
so
how do you make your call are cheat
meals right for you well there's a sort
of a two-step process step number one is
to ask yourself do you need a
psychological break from dieting if the
answer is no no if i can take a cheat
meal there's no reason to do it remember
there's no metabolic benefit or anything
like that it's not a cheat meal with
some additive effect that like oh it'll
make you just better even if you don't
need it don't take it
if you do need a psychological break
consider consider don't take consider a
cheat meal and then if you're
considering move in to step number two
step number two is do you have prior
good or bad experiences with cheat meals
are your experiences more like hey you
feel really refreshed and you're good to
go or your experience honestly you have
to be honest with yourself more like
fuck i just want more cheat meals and
i'm desperate i want to give up on the
diet
if your experience previously has been
good and you need one then you take them
sweet
if your experiences prior to this have
been bad do not take one and if you
really need a
break from the diet consider adding
clean carbs in for a few days or
consider adding clean carbs in for a few
for a week or half a week or a week or
even a few weeks or even just take a
maintenance phase because you're like
really far gone diet psychology wise
you're really over dieted it's okay to
take you know four six eight ten weeks
of just maintenance eating you won't
gain any weight that's just maintenance
is you won't gain any fat because it's
maintenance it's not an ass gain and
then when you're feeling really good
then you can do another you know six to
eight weeks of dieting and finish up
strong
if you don't have experience with cheat
meals and you don't know where you stand
on this
next time you do a fat loss diet try a
cheat meal if you get to the point where
you feel like you need a psychological
break from dieting you take the cheat
meal and if it goes super well then
cheat meals can be something that when
you really feel like you need a break
you take
if it doesn't go well and it goes all in
the sort of not so great ways then
you'll know for future reference not to
take i used to take cheat meals all the
time i had to discover all the shit by
myself because i didn't have like
fucking fitness youtube back when i was
doing this and i had nobody to learn
from really and i learned about myself
that cheat meals just absolutely didn't
work for me as it led to all the bad
shit
and then i stopped doing them and i
haven't done a diet plan to diet cheat
meal in the last g five years or
something like that maybe longer of my
diet journey and it's been fucking
amazing and i've gotten i've sit in
front of you the leanest i've ever been
in my entire life and my glutes look
like a walnut what the fuck's up with
that
anyway hopefully this was instructional
and uh make your best choices and if you
have any questions ask in the comments
below also
folks subscribe to our channel
consider our
uh products that we sell on renaissance
periodization all that stuff is linked
below because for the love of god i need
money remember the hunt for lamborghinis
never ends see you next time