[Music]
hey folks dr. Mike back here Renaissance
period ization showing you at home
workouts you can do this is our fifth
and final series demonstrating the delts
Doug over here has been working out a
little bit you might remember him from
the other videos we did but bull
workouts in my boys gained a bit of size
I don't know maybe this whole program
works now before you get carried away
this is clearly not Doug but it was
funny wasn't it but now that we're back
to pretending it's Doug Doug how do you
feel feel great yeah awesome game 90
pounds of muscle so here's the deal
we're actually gonna get to demonstrate
a real workout in the at-home just one
of the many side and rear delt workouts
that you can do here's the deal we're
gonna do a superset he's gonna do one
set of side lateral raises which will
demo on a sec one set right away of
dumbbell upright rows Hill or killer
superset he's gonna arrest roughly 30
seconds and then we're gonna do that in
another three times can you do it war
than three of course if you're not used
to sort of things start out with one or
two sets of this if you're really used
to it four or five six sets and then
slowly work up over time let's get right
in to demoing the first exercise and
warming up for it at the same time we
just have a pair of dumbbells that's all
we have at home sigh lateral raises
[Music]
alright so side lateral raise no
swinging no BS just really good
technique Doug show us how that works
excellent very good control notice only
the shoulders are active the arms are
nice and straight just a little bit
elbows bent do three to five reps just
to get a clean and with the movement
feeling good alright super good enough
and we can relax as soon as he's ready
he's going to do a set of that
immediately followed by dumbbell upright
row so we might as a warm-up for these
as well let's do three reps of dumbbell
upright rows notice the elbows come nice
and high it's your personal preference
if you want to do these a little bit
away from the body or super close
whatever makes you feel your side delts
the most perfect
he's gonna rest for about one minute or
so get his stuff together and then we're
doing sets all out to failure
excellent notice that control slow
eccentric excellent love the control
notice his technique is not breaking
down even though he's working super hard
couple more reps here let's go awesome
push we need close to failure push let's
go one more let's go
uh-uh-uh not quite high enough very good
technical failure Albright Rose hit it
one excellent notice how he's leaning
forward a little bit
that's definitely an option you can try
to hit the rear delts a little bit as
well as the side delts all for comfort
and how you can work hard excellent
technique lead with the elbows every
single time
pull nice and high it's a safe exercise
for the shoulder joints if it feels ok
for your shoulder very good couple more
let's go let's push good let's go come
on now oh not quite very good 30 seconds
break and then we're back at it again
for another back-to-back set control
nice and high
no half reps notice no swinging
just shoulders awesome keep it going
awesome you've got a couple more let's
go effort effort
oh that's it get your together
hit it beautiful technique elbows high
and control and elbows high and control
notice there's no swinging for the hips
it's all doubts all the time and up good
and up good and AH good let's go all the
way up and down oh oh that's it
failure excellent 30 seconds break and
we're back at it for the last superset
good job good job dog third set Doug is
beat up he's tired he's 90 trillion
pounds more muscular than the start of
this program five days ago folks let's
get at it
hit us up with our last set good
technique you will be super tired
towards the end of these sets that does
not mean you get garbage technique it's
always good technique because technique
works the muscle more not less we're not
cutting reps we're cutting to good
technique reps or not quite high enough
switch excellent awesome big pull
awesome elbows up awesome resist the
temptation to cheat very good excellent
elbows oh that's it dude good stuff hey
listen between the two of us you should
fight crime or something now that you
got this new body folks will you get
this jacked on the RP gym free program
which is linked below it's highly
unlikely because this man is a super
high level power lifter and now a
bodybuilder he's enormous he's not
actually done I know it's crazy but a
little practical joke if you want to get
a little bit more jacked however if you
want effective programming feel free to
hit the link in the description and if
not no worries just use this video as a
guide to making your own programs no big
deal guys take care of yourselves
have fun training at home and we'll see
you next time
[Music]