hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization fitness myths
video number three
vegan diets are healthier than non-vegan
diets oh boy
the triggering is upon us we'll talk
about the claim itself we're talking
about why it's probably wrong
where the grains of truth are and what
the take-home message actually is so
the claim here
is that a vegan diet is
by design more healthy because it is
vegan than pretty much any omnivorous
diet where you eat animal as well as
plant products
and the other sort of implication of
this
myth or this idea
is that if you're really serious about
getting healthy and losing fat you'll go
vegan and there's no shortage of youtube
comments on every single video on
nutrition
that it's a few uh vegan folks that have
really been impassioned and will just
say things like that all the time like
you say healthy diet unless it really
meets in a healthy diet if you're
serious about being healthy you're going
to go vegan and they'll see how right or
wrong they are
so it turns out that the nutrition
literature is pretty vast lots of
comparisons between vegan diets and
diets that have animal products in them
and when both diets are healthy
there are really no differences between
vegan diets and non-vegan diets
now
a lot of early literature compared vegan
diet which was mostly healthy whole
unprocessed foods
compared to the standard western diet
which is like
you know a turkey sandwich for lunch
potato chips as a snack
and i had to work late so burger king
for dinner like
lots of diets are better than that diet
maybe all diets
so it turns out when both diets are
healthy
vegan diets are no more healthy on
average than health-conscious diets
designed with some animal products in
them
what is
what is a healthy diet generally
speaking if a diet is minimally
processed
is high in
lean protein sources well some kinds of
fatty sources are totally fine veggies
fruits whole grains and healthy fats
like nuts and seeds and oils and
avocados etc
if you have that kind of diet and the
lean protein sources come from vegan
sources or if they come from animal
sources
gee whiz you know it really doesn't
matter you get roughly the same health
especially if on a vegan diet you
supplement with b vitamins and a few
other things to make sure that you're
not running low on it because typically
we get that from animal sources so the
reality here is
vegan diets
are for sure healthier if they're
healthy vegan diets than just unhealthy
regular eating but if you make the other
comparison diet omnivorous it's still
healthy like something like a
bodybuilder would eat or crossfit or
just some very health-conscious person
you know like basically the claim is
like if you have a like a nice ocean
caught salmon some brown rice and some
veggies and a slice of fruit
that plate is less healthy than the same
plate except the salmon is replaced with
like a tofu dog that vegans would eat
that's just not true it's just not true
meat is not the source of poor health it
is mostly an extreme level of processing
of foods which leads to a hyper
consumption of foods which leads to a
hyper caloric state which leads to
obesity and all these other bad health
things
so
that's the rough cut
is that fundamentally this is actually a
myth you don't need to be vegan if you
want to be the healthiest you can be now
properly done vegan diets as far as
grains of truth can be healthy they can
and when i was writing this slide it was
like grains of truth and then i had to
just talk more smack because
unfortunately leads into the next thing
used to be back in the 80s and 90s when
veganism first started its ascension in
the western world
there were basically zero vegan products
outs on the shelves almost anything
processed was going to have animal
products in it which is why vegans
typically ate a diet of lots of fruits
and veggies lots of whole grains and
minimally processed vegan protein
sources
almost no junk food almost no snacks
their idea of snacks was like oh i'm
just snacking on some nuts you know and
you're like oh that's kind of a boring
snack the thing is that's back when
vegans were super lean and super healthy
as veganism became more popular
corporations decided vegans probably
want to eat tasty foods they made vegan
foods but made them ultra processed and
super palatable very very tasty i guess
what those corporations weren't wrong
vegans really do want that stuff and it
turns out that that led to a revolution
in the
fraction of vegan foods that were now
junk foods essentially and vegan junk
food is
such a big deal people go way out of
their way to get it now they don't have
to because it's in every store they
blink your eyes and there it is
that's maybe half of the entire whole
food store is that it's mild
exaggeration but vegan junk food used to
get these brownie cookies
at whole foods back when i lived in
philadelphia and they were like sorry
100 vegan right on there i couldn't tell
she was vegan it was fucking so good it
had loads of oil and fat and delicious
sugar all of a vegan but you know what
i'm saying your boy wasn't eating 18 of
these motherfucking things every day
because i would have been enormous and
super unhealthy if that was the case so
the days of vegans de facto having to
eat healthy foods are over and gone
which means nowadays if you say well i'm
on a diet
to lose weight and become healthier
and i know i'm very serious about it i'm
gonna turn vegan that is a guarantee of
nothing nowadays and it's just a
guarantee that your junk food will look
different maybe cost a little bit more
and that's it right that's it so
what are the best practices to take away
from this
if
you want to go vegan it should probably
be
for ethical reasons that's easily the
strongest argument for veganism if you
want a few more arguments for veganism
and some against take a look at a video
we have it's like 10 reasons to go vegan
or something like that
we made it on this channel a few months
ago on youtube it's pretty popular it
goes through you know like
it's a really in-depth video it's like
an hour it's really super minut
philosophical points i think towards the
end you kind of get the idea that like
most of us could probably eat fewer
animals that like think a lot have
feelings like pigs and cows it sucks to
kill them so if you want to go more
vegan that's totally fine if you want to
go completely vegas totally fine but it
shouldn't be for your health because
veganism is not a guarantee of health or
even a marginal increase in health it
should be for things like ethics right
some environmental concerns there but
they're relatively minor
especially with the future of technology
ascending as it is in 10 or 20 years
vegan omnivorous diets are going to have
no different effect on the environment
because everything is going to be grown
in vertical agriculture and
what's it called we'll be eating you
know completely artificial meats any in
any case so that's i think a very moot
point in the grand scheme but the
ethical concern is there and i think
that's where you should derive veganism
from that's where veganism is on a
strongest footing anytime vegans say oh
dude for your health they're putting
themselves in a situation in which they
have to defend essentially uh
indefensible points and it makes
veganism as um as a social movement look
not so great i would i would recommend
against it
at the end of the day you can do almost
any diet as far as macro composition or
sourcing in a healthy way as long as you
stick to minimally processed healthy
ingredients and stay in the mat and
calorie balance and eat enough proteins
carbs and fats to keep you upright which
is very few of any of them so the rest
can come from you know you can eat a low
protein high carb low fat diet you know
high carb or sorry you know high protein
low carb high fat diet and 50 other
permutations no problem
because your body's super adaptable as
long as you get very bare minima and
most the foods are from largely
unprocessed healthy sources and you
don't overeat on calories man that's
really like 90 some percent of health
right there
you will continue to hear claims in the
next year
three years five years
about veganism being healthier the
number one source of those claims
are vegans that would all do good
intention really do believe vegan diets
are healthier
but they're not so keen on making sure
they're not wrong they don't do a lot of
uh red teaming themselves
because they're so dedicated to pushing
veganism as much as possible if there's
remotely evidence for the fact that
veganism could be healthier they're
going with it they're advocating for it
because anything that could lead to less
animal suffering generally vegans like
my view is a little bit more long view
than that i think as an advocacy group
you shouldn't say things that aren't
true
because then you get in a situation
where people can say hey you lied to me
once why should i believe anything you
say now it's a bad look so i think as
far as vegan advocacy the health thing
should be dropped altogether and you
should just focus on the ethics of you
know pigs suffer and their incredible
pain and there's fucking millions of
dying all the time and that's fucking
terrible there's a good enough reason to
go vegan we don't have to make up claims
about health which is just categorically
false
folks that's all i have try to be a bit
more vegan see you next time
you