I see far too many people butcher their
barar Ro technique and it's keeping them
small here's how to fix
that welcome back Dr M wolf here PhD in
Sports Science teaching you how to
improve on your barbar Ro technique
first up what is technique and why does
it even matter fortunately for you I was
the author on a recent review paper that
looked at exactly this what evidence do
we have for confirming what is good
technique and what is bad technique if
you go into any gym you'll get different
people giving you different advice about
how to do bout rows whether cheating is
a good thing or not we looked at the
evidence on the topic and here's what we
came up with as the most evidence-based
guidelines for maximizing your muscle
growth as far as your Technique goes the
three components we could identify from
the research that make up good technique
for building the most muscle possible
are as follows first we have Tempo or
essentially how fast or slow you go
while doing repetitions based on a net
analysis by sh and fing colleagues it
seems like if reps take more than about
8 seconds per rep total including
lifting lowering and pausing phases
you're likely seeing less hypertrophy
likewise although it's less clear if
your reps are super fast say a second or
less you're probably missing out on
hypertrophy so the penl row where you
have no Ecentric control whatsoever is
likely a bad thing when it comes to
hypertrophy instead I would aim for at
least a 1 to maybe 2 second Ecentric on
each repetition to maximize muscle
building as long as most repetitions
take at least 2 seconds total and there
is some more preliminary evidence out
there now suggesting that a slightly
slower Ecentric or lowering phase and a
slightly faster concentric or lifting
phase are preferable but broadly
speaking as long as your reps take
between 1 to two to maybe 8 seconds per
repetition you're in the right ball park
and for bonus points slow down your
lowering phase a little bit and be
explosive on the lifting phase or the
concentric phase and finally as I
mentioned earlier if your reps take much
longer than about 8 seconds per rep
which is super in common with barbell
Rose if anything is to the opposite just
be aware that you are likely reducing
hypertrophy by going that slow the
second Factor we identified was external
momentum generated by other joints and
this is huge when it comes to barbell
rolling now as you may or may not know
we don't have any studies directly
looking at this but there is a
theoretical rationale for why minimizing
momentum generated by other joints is a
bad thing first it essentially reduces
the likelihood of the primary Agonist
muscles or trying to Target the upper
back musculature the lats the biceps the
rear delts being the limiting factor for
a movement or a set to be good for
hypertrophy we want to take the target
muscles close to failure or even to
failure if when you're doing your bbell
rows you're suddenly involving your
glutes out of THS and hamstrings by
jerking the way do and going from really
bent over to essentially upright that is
reducing the likelihood that your upper
back biceps rear dots Etc are going to
give out first and so while we don't
have any direct evidence comparing a
more body English heavy technique to a
more strict technique which by the way
we are working on that study will be
coming out in the next year or so it is
theoretically important as we have
evidence that going closer to failure
for a given muscle group or a given
movement does increase hypertrophy as
shown by a meta regression by Robinson
and colleagues from a year ago so we
just want to use a technique that
probably minimizes the involvement of
other muscle groups and maximizes the
chances of the target muscles being the
limiting factor additionally when it
comes to the barbell rule for example
turning into a weird deadlift to row
hybrid where you're suddenly using a lot
of glute adductor and hamstrings is
probably causing more fatigue for not
much additional stimulus I think we can
all agree that a deadlift is more
fatiguing than a barbell row Al us being
equal and so going from a strict
technique where you're only moving your
elbows shoulders shoulder blades Etc to
one where you're essentially doing a
half deadlift rep is likely to cause
more fatigue now I know some people are
going to say well what about the loaded
stretch if I use that technique I can
use more weight and get a better loaded
stretch which for hypertrophy you seem
to be the guy who's all about right well
yeah in isolation using more weight and
getting more weight in that lowest
stretch position might increase stimulus
a little bit but there are better
Alternatives and that's also where
flexion rows come in or essentially any
sort of rowing variation like a barbell
row where you intentionally flex and
extend the spine now because one of the
bigger muscles in your back the Rector
span what most people refer to as your
lower back muscle even though it goes
all the way up to your neck that muscle
is responsible for spinal extension so
if we intentionally flex and extend the
spine during the barall row or during
what we call a flexion row that likely
increases how well those muscles are
being trained I would generally Reserve
flexion rows for chest supported rows
where you're able to easily focus on
spinal flexion and extension as opposed
to just flexing and extending your hips
the other slight limitation of flexion
Row for hypertrophy is I'm not too sure
whether or not flexion rows take your
lower back or your Rector muscles
particularly close to failure at the
very least least most people can
deadlift and isometric contract their
Erectors with way more weight than he
can barbell row and so even if you now
start extending and flexing the spine
during the flexion row I'm not sure the
weight being used is sufficient to
really Target the erector muscles that
well instead you may still be limited by
upper back string which is a good thing
for the upper back muscles but it may
also just make the flexion row not that
great of an exercise for the erector
muscles and in general I would rather
keep your rowing exercises for your
upper back and maybe some lower back
isolation movements for your Rector
muscles for example many gems have a
spinal extension machine also called a
lower back extension machine that is
probably a better place to train your
Rector muscles than with a row or at
least do it on chest supported machine
rows to make it a little bit more
intuitive to flex and extend your spine
as opposed to your hips the third
component of good technique is range of
motion and that's where I see a lot of
people mess up their barar Road
technique the main finding within the
research when it comes to range of
motion is that we want to focus on the
stretch position that that means at the
very least using a full range of motion
and not skimping on that full stretch
and additionally there is some evidence
now showing that lengthen partials or
essentially just doing half reps in the
stretch position could cause more muscle
growth compared to doing a 4 in of
motion there's a few implications of
these findings first doing the pen L row
where you essentially let the weight
rest on the ground on each rep is likely
not ideal you're missing out on the full
stretch of your upper back musculature
and you're essentially removing tension
in that position to avoid this issue
with a penl row with a dead stop row
where you just put the weight down at
the bottom consider standing on a plate
by standing on a plate you're able to
get a full stretch in your upper back
musculature likely increasing muscle
building second based on a recent study
I was involved in doing some partial
repetitions in the lengthened position
in a movement that's hardest at the very
top in that Peak squeeze might cause
more hypertrophy and so in a barbell row
where the hardest part of the movement
is touching your stomach with that very
contracted shortened position for your
back when you can't get another full rep
there may be a benefit had but just to
make and partials in the stretched
position in general for every ruling
exercise or pretty much every back
exercise in general even pull downs and
pull-ups focusing a bit more on the
stretch position probably makes sense
most back movements are hardest in the
shortened position and from more
hypertrophy there's a good chance that
we want to increase the emphasis on the
stretch position that could be done by
doing partials after a range of motion
failure it could be done by just doing
partials but finding ways to increase
the emphasis on the stretch is likely a
good thing as far as your Technique goes
and so when demonstrating technique to
you I'll kind of give you three options
one just doing a full range of motion
but still focusing on the stretch two
doing length and partials and three
doing partials after failure and the
final component of good technique and
this is me speaking more so as a coach
now than anything we identified within
the paper is preference and Pain
Management if you're hitting the above
criteria of a good range of motion
focusing on the stretch a good Tempo and
minimizing involvement of other joints
but there's a certain technique you
enjoy doing more go for it even if it
means a slight compromise on the above
Factor and the same goes for pain
management if for example doing your B
Arrow perfectly bent over in like a RDL
position causes you a little bit more
lower back pain but being a bit more
upright doesn't there's a good chance
that you should just roll with whatever
is less painful now that I've explained
what makes up good technique on the
barbell row let me give you a set of
instructions that you can use to
optimize your barbell row technique
based on the evidence first adopt a
similar stance as you would for Romanian
deadlifts shoulder width or narrower
feet Straight Ahead in all likely
then grab the barbell and flex your hips
as much as possible just like you would
in the bottom position of a Romanian
deadlift avoid too much knee Bend as the
knees can get in the way of the barbell
hip hinge the bar off the ground with
straight arms congratulations this is
your starting position in the barbell
row by starting your set this way you're
making sure that you get a full stretch
on each rep next roll the barbell up
either just past your knees for partials
giving you a heavier loaded stretch or
all the way until it touches your
abdomen for full range of motion reps
once you've reached the top of your
repetition control the bar down over at
least 2 seconds in the bottom position
in that full stretch consider slightly
pausing once you've paused be as
explosive as possible out of that bottom
stretch position it's always a good idea
to do so because it essentially makes
you generate more tension in that
stretch position but especially so with
a relatively unloaded stretch like the
barbell R throughout the whole
repetition and the whole set minimized
torso movement common mistakes include
raising your chest as you row and
dropping it on the way down to meet the
barbell the only things moving should be
your arms and your shoulder blades if
your hip angle changes you're involving
your glutes adapter and hamstrings for
no good reason I hate to break it to you
but no one's impressed with your two to
four plate cheat rope bro no one cares
finally when it comes to breathing where
you breathe is mostly personal
preference you might find your
strongness by breathing out freely
during the lowering phase or the
Ecentric and Performing off S maneuver
or bracing during the concentric so that
is the technique I recommend for
maximizing upper back growth in the
barbell rope let's go through the
technique checklist and make sure we've
hit every Point adequately first as far
as Tempo goes we have a 2cond Ecentric
we're not turning into a weird deadlift
row hybrid we you're just dropping the
weight down we have an explosive
concentric or lifting phase we're
pausing at the very bottom in that
lengthen position and we're generally
using Tempo to emphasize that stretch
next as far as range of motion goes the
barbell row as an exercise isn't
particularly length and biased it's
going to be most challenging in that
short position but using lengthen
partials and modifying our technique
slightly to get a full stretch and not
have a dead stop at the bottom of the
rep we're increasing the focus on the
stretch if you'd like more of an
emphasis on the stretch feel free to try
a prime machine row or even a chest
supported t- bar row or tar in general
and finally we're limiting external
momentum generated by non-target muscle
groups we're keeping the hips and torso
static throughout the whole set it is
very easy to cheat your bobar rose but
prioritize moving only the arms and the
shoulder blades and you'll be in a
really good position that is the video
broke down the science on how to best
perform your barar rose as far as muscle
building goes if you enjoyed the video
leave a comment like the video subscribe
I know like half of you aren't
subscribed currently so I'd really
appreciate it if you watching this video
would subscribe if you enjoyed this
video go to my.com and sign up to the
email newsletter in a few months we'll
be releasing a training app that
actually includes good technique
instructions for all exercises myap is
aiming to be a Cutting Edge app using
all the latest scientific research to be
an evidence-based coach within your
pocket giving you an individualized
program to maximize muscle growth that
adjusts week to week based on your
feedback we've been working on this for
years and it'll be releasing in just a
few months so if you're interested go to
my adapt.com sign up and you'll be
notified when it comes out oh and did I
mention it's going to be a fraction of
the price of what most coaches would
charge you for good evidence-based
programming I'm confident in saying
there's nothing else like it out there
in the meantime if you you like me to
coach you consider checking out the link
above and I can become your coach if
you'd like to see me break down the
optimal technique for any other
exercises leave a comment down below and
I'll get to it in the meantime have a
fantastic day and I'll see you guys my
subscribers next time peace