you don't need to train heavy to grow
muscle if you're a Mike menser Fanboy
this video might offend you
soon to be Dr Milo Warfare from Wolf
coaching today we're talking about
training heavy and whether or not it's
necessary for average for you well it's
not several recent review papers have
all found that you can grow muscle just
fine whether you're training heavier or
lighter provided sets or taking close to
failure well that's the video peace
actually let's discuss a few things
first should you still include heavy
training in your program for muscle
growth short answer yeah you probably
should at least if you're looking to
optimize hypertrude in fact a recent
analysis for my good friend Zach
Robinson from data driven strength found
that when combining a variety of wrap
ranges or could buy a variety of
intensities like heavier work lighter
work etc that seems to lead to more
hypertrophy than if you just do one rep
range right so doing some work and say
the five to ten rep range somewhere I
can say the 10 to 20 rep range and some
work say in the 20 to 30 rep range
across a variety of intensities to some
heavier work some lighter work leads to
more overall muscle growth than if you
just did all of your work in that five
to ten rep range that heavy rep range
and this actually makes sense even in
light of some of the mechanistic data so
I recently read a paper by Walker Hajj
and colleagues from 2021 looking at the
mechanisms responsible for hypertrophy
specifically it looks like there are
three categories of mechanisms that
eventually lead to hypertrophy the first
one is attention and tension related
stuff so essentially by lifting weights
you're producing active tension to lift
the weight right that will lead to
hyperte online another thing that can
lead to hypertrophy that's really the
tension is the muscle lengthening so you
produce something called passive tension
kind of like a rubber band as you link
to the muscle that results in passive
tension buildup and that can lead high
pressure feed the second category is
muscle damage related stuff so it looks
like muscle damage can potentially
contribute to hypertrophy via stuff like
proliferation of satellite cells
complicated stuff let's not go into it
and the third thing is metabolite
related hypertrophy so it looks like
things like Lactaid presence and other
metabolites may eventually lead to
hypertrophy now importantly these three
mechanisms don't occur in the same
proportions regardless of the weight you
trade at it's likely that for example
the lighter rep ranges or training with
lighter weights with more repetitions
may lead to more metabolite accumulation
so thus can stimulate hypertrophy
differently than heavier work would and
so it makes sense since each rep range
in each intensity stimulates hypertried
differently by different mechanisms that
including a variety of referendums in
your program would be superior for
overall hypertrophy compared to just
doing one now that we're clear on why
you would want to include both heavy
moderate and light training in your
training program to optimize hypertrophy
let's discuss some of the pros and cons
of heavy training itself let's start
with the benefits of heavy training the
first one is as I recently discussed in
this video right here with heavier work
say below 12 reps it seems like people
are more accurate at gauging how many
more reps they could have done right so
they're more accurate at gauging I was
one right away for failure or two reps
or three reps and that is likely pretty
important given there's a relationship
as you can see here between hypertrophy
and how close to failure you're training
so being pretty accurate in your
estimation of how close to failure you
are during heavy training is likely a
benefit in trying to maximize
opportunity the second benefit is that
heavier training results in less
discomfort than Rider training picture
this you're in the gym you're about to
do some light extensions you want to
train your quads right so you got two
options either you do a heavier whack
say about six reps or you do sets of
about 30 reps or lighter walk generally
from the research we have and from
anecdoll experience doing that set of 30
is kind of going to suck you're going to
burn a lot of discomfort it's not going
to be a pleasant experience and that
actually might contribute to why people
aren't as accurate at gauging reps and
Reserve at higher rep ranges meanwhile
the set of six you're in there for about
15 seconds and you're out so overall a
lot more pleasant a lot less discomfort
compared to the lighter rep Rangers now
this is less of a benefit for
hypertrophy but heavier trading does
carry over better to maximum strength so
let's say for example you're someone who
both wants to grow some muscle AKA get
your act but also wants to get some
strength improvements like you want to
get a pretty big squat a pretty big
bench pretty big deadlift whatever you
want to call it in that case heavier
training like say doing sets of five
would generally carry over way better to
your owner of Max than doing say sets of
20 or 30 reps so there is some benefit
there in terms of strength so if you
have multiple goals heavier training can
be nice for you finally heavier training
is generally pretty well suited to
compound exercises if you think about
compound exercises like the squat sure
you might have seen that one random
program where it has you do four sets of
20 on the squad in all likelihood though
if you were to actually try doing that
doing High Reps on compound exercises
and going with light weight you'll find
that it's extremely difficult first of
all in general a lot of discomfort and
secondly especially on compounds it can
be quite difficult to push yourself to
failure with High Reps so low reps can
be a very nice way to do so especially
because compound exercises typically
burn a lot of energy and require you to
breathe quite a bit and so pushing
yourself to failure on compound
exercises with High Reps can be very
difficult and Low Reps or heavier
training can be a nice way to get your
compound work in and still get close to
failure now let's talk about some of the
drawbacks of heavier training and some
of the advantages of lighter training
the first one is that heavy training can
be somewhat time inefficient when you're
training heavy say doing a set of five
on squats it can take you quite a while
to warm up for that exercise you do one
plate you rest for a few minutes you do
two plates you rest for a few minutes
you do three plates and so forth if
you're working up to a heavy load
warming up can take a lot of time and
that warming up isn't directly
contributing to you growing more muscle
in fact it's taking up a lot of time for
not much additional benefit since as I
mentioned earlier on a set percent basis
heavier and lighter training are just as
effective as each other for stimulating
hypertrophy now the second point is a
bit more contentious heavier training
may or may not be a bit more pain
inducing or injury causing and may or
may not be a bit more difficult to do
while you already have pain specifically
what I'm referring to here is there is
some data showing that strength sports
like say strong man powerlifting and
Olympic weightlifting generally have
higher injury rates than Sports where
the loading ranges are a bit lower for
example bodybuilding now there's a lot
of confounders here and this is
observational so I'm not going to say
training heading is going to injure you
but there is a chance that training
heavier in general may cause slightly
more injuries than training lighter
that's just something to keep in mind
and equally when you're experiencing
pain you may find that it's quite
difficult actually to train heavy
whereas doing since 20 or 30 oftentimes
won't cause as much pain and you can
still get a robust hypertrophy stimulus
from just going a bit lighter and a bit
higher in wraps the third drawback of
heavy training is equipment if you're
training in a home gym or what have you
you may find it very challenging to
actually even find enough weight to
train that heavy if you have dumbbells
that go up to say 30 kilograms or 50
pounds or whatever you may find out for
a lot of exercises you don't get to trim
heavy you have to do at least 15 reps so
training heavy by default requires you
to have more equipment or more load
available for you to make it work
compared to lighter training where you
can just do more reps and still get the
failure the final caveat to have your
trading being a decent option for our
portrait fee is that there is such a
thing as being too heavy I'm sure you've
seen it on Instagram people doing
triples on their machine
overhead press when we both know that's
probably not ideal in fact there's some
research comparing sets of between about
two and four repetitions two sets of
about eight to twelve repetitions and it
looks like to get the same effect from
doing sets of two to four reps and eight
to 12 reps generally you need to do a
lot more sets of two to four reps to get
the same effect as you would get from
sets of say 5 the time so in order to
make up that difference you would need
to do more sets which is more fatiguing
takes more time and is generally just a
disadvantageous right so what I would do
is I would generally when you try to go
heavy go no lower than about five reps
per set less than five reps per set and
you're likely wasting a bit of time and
fatigue for normal traditional benefit
as far as hypertrophy is concerned so
what are some practical takeaways you
can still get really good growth just
doing one rep range so it could be just
heavy training or just lighter training
but you should likely have some walk
from between 5 and 30 reps if you're
training happy don't go below about five
reps below about five reps you'll likely
see less growth per set and you would
need to do a lot more sets to get the
same hypertrophy benefit in other words
that would take you more time cause more
fatigue before in the end the same
hypertrophy so if your goal is
opportunity not the best at it there are
some advantages to training heavier like
for example seeing a better carryover to
your strength like if you care about
your owner boxes but there are some
disadvantages too in terms of
potentially being more injurious taking
a bit more time to warm up for and other
stuff anyways that's the video if you're
still not Mentor fanboy get out on my
channel for everyone else stick around
like comment subscribe and I'll see you
guys in that next video
please