all right what's going on everyone I
hope everybody's having a great weekend
so far what I want to do in this video
is a slightly different style than what
you're probably used to get in front of
the camera and kind of chat with you
guys about some of the things that I've
been thinking about recently especially
since publishing my last video on body
recomposition which I feel like created
a little bit of confusion or maybe just
promoted the confusion that was already
there a little bit further which wasn't
my intention but I feel like since then
I've actually thought about some of the
cases I put forward a little bit more
now so that's what I'm gonna do here
first things first though I want to let
you guys all know about the Black Friday
sales that are going on
Jeff Knipper calm all my training
programs are gonna be 30 to 50 percent
off all weekend PE science calm you can
save 35 percent using discount Jeff and
that includes the new QE one prolific
and high-volume pre workouts so if you
haven't checked out my new signature
flavor now might be the time to do so
for rise dot CA all of my training
apparel and training gear you can get
there it's up to 70 percent discounts on
some items and then also the mass
research review so I use mass all the
time to get information for videos on
this channel and you can subscribe to
that for 21 bucks a month versus the
usual 29 which is a actually really good
deal and this is just the best thing out
you not only get a new issue every month
you also get access to all the
backlogged issues and they now do these
in audio form as well so if you're on
the go or you don't really want to read
or look at your phone or what have you
then you can just listen to them which
is actually great as well so you guys
can check all that out in the
description box below but what I want to
do in this video is kind of recap the
last video that I put out where I posed
the question to you guys of whether or
not it's possible to build muscle in a
caloric deficit and then the opposite of
that to lose fat in a caloric surplus
and I actually want to quickly go
through the poll results for that here
so I'm going to put this up here on the
screen yeah if we look at the video over
here we can bring up the poll results so
in the video you guys will remember I
posed the question it was kind of a
thought experiment as opposed to a real
scenario but I used my friend Pat is the
example and I said he's been training
for about five years
pretty intelligent dedicated
but he's never done any direct forearm
training and he's about to begin a
12-week cut where he's actually gonna
begin doing 20 sets per week for his
forearms will he gain foreign muscle
while cutting and I was super impressed
to see the pet only 9 percent if you got
the question wrong now I may not
actually be wrong I'll talk about that
in a minute but yeah 90% of you said yes
which I would agree with you know under
normal circumstances and what I found
super interesting was that over on my
Instagram the numbers were actually
quite a lot different so I didn't pose
the same thought experiment scenario I
just kind of asked the question straight
up so I was like do you think it's
possible to build muscle in a caloric
deficit and I'm just gonna gonna get the
numbers out here so so for that question
on Instagram 24 percent of people said
no so it's not possible to build muscle
in a caloric deficit the opposite
question so is it possible to lose fat
in a caloric surplus forty percent of
people actually got that question wrong
they said it's not possible now I'm
going to talk about the rightness and
wrongness of those answers in a minute
because I think there is room for some
gray area there but for the first
question that's almost 5,000 people who
answered the question wrong and then
almost 8,000 people who answered the the
surplus question wrong or at least who
said no so I found that kind of
interesting that people on YouTube
answered the question more correctly
than on Instagram but I think that could
be due to the fact that people on
YouTube tend to watch my YouTube videos
whereas on Instagram I kind of have a
different audience over there who don't
necessarily watch all my videos so they
may not have seen when I've kind of
covered this in the past or what have
you and then also I feel like I was
actually even more surprised because on
YouTube I actually kind of rigged the
thought experiment to kind of try to
trick you guys a little bit so I said
like you know he I've reiterated a
couple times he definitely will be
losing net net body mass and he
definitely won't be eating
calories to meeting his weight or
however it was that I phrased it but you
guys still didn't fall for it you still
said that yes he'll be able to build
muscle which I will say I was impressed
with I was really pleasantly surprised
to see that but anyway I kind of want to
dig into the case a little bit further
because if you'll remember at the end of
the video I kind of altered the example
a little bit where I said now he has
been training his forearms directly for
the last five five years so now at this
point will he still add form size while
in a deficit or will he now at best
maintain and these results were
interesting to me as well now at this
point they kind of flipped so because he
had been training his forearms leading
into the cut now 71% of people think
that he'll at best maintain that muscle
that he's already built because he's in
a caloric deficit while 28% of people
said that they think he'll continue to
add size throughout his cut now I tend
to agree with the majority again here I
think that he would be lucky if anything
to maintain and when we look at case
studies in natural body builders when
they get very lean almost without
exception they're losing lean mass lean
mass isn't necessarily the same as
muscle mass so it could be some water
Lawson and so on and so forth but I
think that even with that granted it's
still likely the case that people do
lose muscle when they get to very low
levels of body fat percentage so this
was a 12-week cut I guess it would
depend on just how lean he was getting
whether he would lose muscle or maintain
but yeah if you look at the the case
studies on this you'll see that
oftentimes they do in fact lose muscle
so I'm just going to pull one up here
we've got this 2014 study by a kiss'
Kistler and colleagues and Peter fiction
was a contributor on this paper and I
remember back in 2015 he did a follow up
summary of all the natural bodybuilding
contest prep case studies that we have I
think at the time there was three or
four and he kind of summarized what they
each found and what he basically
concluded with regard to lean mass was
that how much lean mass you retain
depend
how fast you diet so if we look at the
results here of the three studies you'll
see that they lost 21% 32% and 43% of
their weight as a lean mass respectively
I'm so in this Robinson a tall study 43%
of the weight loss was from lean mass
which is quite a lot and that was the
case study where he also lost the weight
the fastest so in this piece Fitch and
kind of made the case that from a muscle
press or of a preservation perspective
makes sense to lose weight a little bit
more slowly and I think that this was
kind of what spurred on the trend of
people doing longer preps personally I'm
not sure how much weight we want to put
into this I feel like there's a lot of
other factors to do with how much cardio
you're doing how well structured your
training is your actual macronutrient
breakdown and so on and so forth but
still I think it's worth mentioning that
across these three studies you do see
that trend that slower weight loss tends
to preserve muscle a bit better so in
our example where am I here so in our
example with training the forearms you
know you could say maybe he'll maintain
maybe he'll lose a little bit it might
depend on just how fast he's cutting and
it could also depend on his training so
I could also agree with the minority
here the 28% of people who said he'll
continue to add size if he did something
like specialization cycles or maybe if
you increase the volume if it is forum
training and reduced it somewhere else
and there are a lot of factors there but
I kind of just wanted to pose that to
sort of get you guys thinking about how
all of this works so those are the poll
results and the follow-up commentary to
the video I noticed I was getting a few
things so I got a lot of messages of
people saying this isn't a yes-or-no
question I just can't answer it and
sometimes they were really lengthly
messages which I did actually appreciate
and I spoke with a few of you and I
would agree like if this was a test
scenario where I was giving a test this
would be a long answer question not a
multiple-choice question and you could
easily say something like will he gain
foreign muscle while cutting well
perhaps no because perhaps he has
a ton of deadlifts and a lot of farmers
walks throughout his five years of
training so even that general compound
work would carry over enough to his
forms that even if he starts doing
isolation work that's probably not going
to be enough especially in that caloric
deficit where the hormonal milieu of his
less anabolic and so forth so that could
be a case to say yeah maybe he wouldn't
build muscle while cutting but still
assuming that the extraneous factors are
normal I would say that what this
thought experiment was intended to
instill in you was that it is certainly
possible to build muscle while cutting
and now when I say that a lot of people
say okay yeah it's possible but that
doesn't mean it's likely it's not really
practical most people can't expect to
build muscle while cutting we are better
off splitting this up and to say when
we're cutting we're just losing fat and
trying to maintain muscle and we're
bulking we're trying to build muscle and
we have to accept a certain amount of
fat gain and you just have to live with
that and I do say this in a lot of cases
for more advanced trainees but I just
don't think it's true broadly because a
lot of people don't have the same goals
that I might have or that you might have
and while I think it's the case that if
you want to build the most muscle
possible then it makes sense to put
yourself in a caloric surplus if you're
someone who for example wants to stay
very lean and still make some progress
or perhaps stay very lean and just
maintain the muscle that you currently
have then I think a recom approach where
you sort of build muscle lose fat at the
same time I'm sort of tighten up your
appearance might actually make perfect
sense the muscle gains may be a little
bit slower but for all that it might be
more in line with what your goals
actually are and make more sense for you
and then another thing I noticed that a
lot of people were saying was that this
only applies to kind of obscure
scenarios so I'm gonna try to find a
specific comment here I think I heard it
yes so this was the comment it said yes
it is possible but only if one of these
three things apply
so the individual is untrained the
individual is obese and or the
individual uses anabolic steroids and I
would say yes body recomposition so
losing fat and building muscle at the
same time applies to these three
scenarios and if we pick them apart we
can kind of figure out why if you're
untrained then you can build a lot of
muscle very quickly which as I explained
in the original video kind of changes
the nature of the equation a little bit
I'm gonna talk about that in a little
bit when I bring up an article from Eric
Helms but I think that the underlying
commonality and all these and many of
these scenarios is that if you're able
to build a lot of muscle very quickly
because muscle has such a lower energy
density than fat it can skew the energy
out side of the equation and allow the
calories in calories out math to not
always work out perfectly I'm so if you
can build a lot of muscle very quickly
chances are you can achieve this body
recomposition so if you're totally
untrained you can obviously build a lot
of muscle very quickly we know that from
research and first-hand experience when
you first started lifting that's when
you make the most games if you're obese
it's a little bit different because in
this case it's not necessarily that
you're able to build a lot of muscle
very quickly but that you're able to
lose a lot of fat and so that fat can
kind of serve as a energy source when
there's not a lot of calories coming in
through the diet time so I would imagine
a scenario where you have a morbidly
obese person who may just start light
resistance training and he may go on a
complete fast for months and you could
just feed him essential amino acids say
the essential vitamins and minerals and
I would imagine that he would build
muscle because the fat and then the
amino acids that you take in would be
enough to provide the energy and the
basic building blocks needed to build
the muscle so that would be an
interesting case I would say you could
go on a complete fast for several months
if you're obese enough and your
resistance training
and you would still build muscle I'm so
being obese or overweight would be a
scenario where this would apply just how
overweight you need to be isn't really
clear I'm not aware of any data on that
so wood cutting from 20% body fat to 10
and body fat would you be able to build
muscle in that case because the fat can
serve as a energy source to fuel the
muscle building process I would say
probably yes actually I don't think
you'd have to be that obese and of
course it would depend on your train
status what your training looks like so
on and so forth but still I would say
that it seems plausible to me and then
the third scenario that people think it
only applies in is if you use anabolic
steroids and that's very similar to the
case of an untrained individual where
you're just building so much muscle so
quickly that it kind of changes the
energy
dynamics in the body but one scenario
that I feel like a lot of people forget
about is the case of D trainees I'm so
for people who maybe are just coming off
of an injury or just took time away from
the gym for a vacation or whatever in
that case because of muscle memory which
is a very real scientifically
legitimized phenomenon that I've talked
about in other videos you are able to
build a lot of muscle again quite
quickly and that's why when you see
people who've taken time off from the
gym or got injured and we're forced to
take time off from the gym they tend to
bounce back very quickly as long as they
get there their training in check and
for that individual I would say that
recomposition also makes perfect sense
and that's almost true independent of
prior training status also I think
there's this fifth scenario where it
applies more than people acknowledge and
that's for people who stopped taking
their training quite as seriously for
whatever reason and this applies to
natural lifters as much as enhanced
lifters but I see it's often the case
that people in their offseason for one
reason or another start to get a little
bit lazier with their training I feel
like it's natural there's very few
people who are always extremely
motivated and always progressively just
do more than they did the last month
often training intensity will wax and
wane as lifestyle factors change etc so
for someone who may not have taken their
training quite as seriously for a
certain period of time and then starts
to ramp a training intensity up again I
could see that in their case they could
definitely build muscle in a caloric
deficit to take an example here that I
feel like would apply
actually a lot of people if you kind of
let yourself go you're on holidays you
gained a good deal of fat but you also
weren't really training so you might
feel like you lost a little bit of
muscle but now you're back in a scenario
where you feel like well I'm fatter than
I was six months ago and I have less
muscle than I had six months ago what do
i do should I enter a bulk because I
want to build that muscle back and then
I'm gonna gain probably even more fat
should I start a cut and just accept the
fact that I lost muscle and I'll be a
little bit skinnier but at least I'll be
leaner I would say neither of those
scenarios I would say the best thing to
do at this point is to aim for body
recomposition so in that case you'd want
to put yourself in a slight caloric
deficit I'm so anything from 5% to 20%
slashed off of your maintenance calories
and you'd really want to focus on
progressively building your strength
back up and building your intensity back
up in the gym and in that case you will
almost undoubtedly see that you're gonna
build muscle and lose fat and get your
prior physique back actually very
quickly so that's a serie that I feel
like applies so broadly and outside the
confines of these three specific
scenarios that people will often forget
about and it's because of this
misconception that you have to be in a
surplus in order to build muscle or you
have to be in a deficit in order to lose
fat which I'm gonna get to in a little
bit that people don't take this approach
which to me just makes perfect sense so
anyway the other thing that I wanted to
comment on here was the reverse scenario
so is it possible to lose fat in a
caloric surplus and I kind of just want
to clarify what I mean by or exactly
when this would apply now because I will
admit that I feel like this scenario is
much more obscure and less likely in the
real world than the first scenario so
it's much more likely to build muscle in
a caloric deficit than it is to lose fat
in a caloric surplus and I don't think
as a coach I would actually ever
recommend to anyone who has the goal of
losing fat and building muscle that's
actually go in a caloric surplus and
almost always recommend a slight deficit
or maintenance
I wouldn't say go into a surplus because
from my experience once you put yourself
in a surplus
chances are you are going to gain fat
the surplus would have to be so small
and you'd have to build muscle over such
a long period of time that it wouldn't
really be practically meaningful in the
real world I set that question up kind
of as a thought experiment to show that
it does go both ways as long as you're
somewhere around maintenance there is no
switch in your body that flicks on and
says okay now I'm in a surplus I have to
be storing fat all that the
thermodynamics law says is that you need
to be storing net energy so yeah if
recomposition is your goal put yourself
in that slight deficit in the the lose
fat and a surplus was more of a
conceptual idea to prove the point that
recomposition certainly is very possible
now I'm gonna switch over here to an
article from Eric Helms that's published
in November of 2015 so basically just
over three years ago which is crazy
because I remember when this article
came out and I remember reading it right
away
shout out to shredded by science where
the article was published and I don't
think Eric was the only author on this I
believe there were several contributors
down here so I just want to make sure I
give the right credit so I think
Lawrence Judd wrote this and then there
were other contributors down here and
the list of references but in any case
this actually explains the whole concept
that I explained in the last video quite
well especially from a practical
perspective and they give another
example here right from the outset of a
woman who she signed up for a personal
trainer she wanted to lose weight look a
little more fit look a little more toned
or whatever her goal was and she noticed
after 12 weeks she you know her pants
were fitting better she had dropped down
a size she feeling how confident her
friends were giving her all kinds of
compliments she looked better so on and
so forth
but then she stepped on the scale I
don't know why she wasn't winning in
between but she stepped on the scale and
she hadn't actually lost any weight and
that was a little bit discouraged
discouraging to her because she thought
that in order to lose fat she'd have to
lose weight and this was just a
circumstance of that kind of beginner a
newbie phenomenon where she had been
building muscle while losing fat and so
she had just kind of redesigned her body
in a way
and so you know if you're not aware of
the fact that this is possible it might
be discouraging for beginners to not be
seeing the numbers go down on the scale
so try not to stress that too much at
the beginning of a diet kind of as a
beginner but still a lot of people will
often use this as an excuse to not be on
track on track with her weight-loss
goals and is usually not the case that
you're building so much muscle that you
can just offset the the fat loss
altogether and sea weight maintenance
that can be a cop-out for some people so
be aware of that but if you do see
significant visual changes and
measurement changes and so on it could
very well be the case that that
recomposition is in fact the reality for
you the other thing I wanted to mention
in this video so they go through the
thermodynamics systems here and how the
human body is a thermodynamic system
despite the fact that we have different
ways of storing that energy which makes
it a little bit more complex but still
it still does hold and they cite dozens
of metabolic award studies showing that
energy surpluses and deficits do
reliable you lead to weight loss and
weight gain another thing I want to
clear up is that I'm not saying that
energy surpluses and deficits deficits
don't apply to human systems they
certainly do we just need to think about
this on a net scale and not a tissue
scale so you can just zoom in on the
muscle and say you'll necessarily not be
building muscle in a caloric deficit
because these tissues have different
energy densities but still as a whole
and in general the metabolic reward
studies do show that if you're in an
energy surplus you gain weight if you're
in an energy deficit you lose weight
it's just that where that weight is
being stored or loss can be different
depending on training and I think that
training and building muscle really is
the x-factor here it's what makes this
more complicated because there is such a
disparity between the energy density of
fat and energy density of muscle so they
talk about a few assumptions here that
people make that are wrong the first is
the homogeneity of the hue
system and this is basically what I just
said that different tissues have
different metabolizable energy z' now
this was something that came up quite a
lot in the comments of that video so
people were asking where the 90 400
calorie figure came for fat so we've all
probably heard the 3500 calorie rule to
lose one pound of body weight you need
to create a 3500 calorie deficit and
there's actually a really good article
here by lau mcdonald called the 3500
calorie rule which explains why as a
rough ballpark figure that can actually
work for most people but when you put
training into the equation it can kind
of change things a little bit and of
course it doesn't account for water
weight changes at all because water
doesn't carry any energy value so this
is a really good article and i'd
recommend reading it through and seeing
how he kind of modifies that equation
but then the the ninety four hundred
calorie figure that I cited comes from
this study by Hall in 2008 and as you
can see here he basically figured out
exactly the required energy deficit per
unit of weight loss and kind of put this
3500 calorie figure to the test and it's
actually a bit complicated so I'm not
going to go into the detail here it's
beyond the scope of this video but still
in the end he ended up coming out with
that figure of 90 400 calories per
kilogram of fat mass still that's based
off of averages and other research shows
that it does depend on your body
composition so as you lose fat and build
muscle these values actually change
because the hydration status changes and
the energy density changes based on how
much of it you have but still as a rough
figure I feel like this was good and the
purpose of the calculations was just to
prove the broader point that both of
these scenarios are possible not to be
actual specific scenarios that are
happening in the real world so it was
just kind of a conceptual thing but if
you wanted to dig further I'll have all
this linked in the description box below
so that's where those figures come from
the other thing again I got all the time
I kind of already addressed it but it's
that body recomposition is kind of
incident in signal
kind of obscure and doesn't really occur
in trained individuals but Eric Helms
did some amazing work over here and he
summarized the lean body mass change and
fat change in all of these studies over
here and basically what you see is that
in surpluses and in deficits you see
body recomposition so when you look at
the actual literature you see that these
two scenarios certainly are possible and
if you wanted to go through that you can
and you'll see that in some cases they
are actually more advanced
so these jose antonio papers had pretty
highly advanced trained guys so nine
plus years of training and i mentioned
in the original video another paper that
showed in elite athletes you see body
recomposition so i think that that's a
bit of a myth but still despite that I
still feel like for intermediate to
advanced people as I said in the
original video I would probably
recommend splitting it up into a bulking
cycle and cutting cycle assuming your
goal is to build as much muscle as
possible and I just want to talk about
this for a brief minute and we'll wrap
it up I've started thinking about the
fact that most people may not actually
have the goal to build as much muscle as
possible it might not be worth them it
might not be worth it to them to make
marginally more gains by bulking because
of the fact that they have to add quite
a bit more fat and not be quite as
satisfied with their physique while
doing that it might be better for them
to make marginally less gains but
maintain a leaner physique going through
the process and for these people I think
I would recommend more of a body
recomposition or you could call it gain
taining approach so this is actually
something that was really quite popular
in the natural bodybuilding community a
few years ago so I believe in McCall
incorrectly that Lane Norton and Alberto
Nunez both had endorsed this gained
taining approach where they'd stay
really quite lean throughout their
offseason and really just focus on
progressively overloading in the gym
adding weight to the bar and very slowly
gaining weight and adding
minimal body fat and I feel like this is
actually a perfectly reasonable approach
now and I'm actually not even aware of
any studies that compare the gain
taining approach so sort of maintaining
your weight focusing on getting stronger
in the gym maybe very slowly gaining
like one pound of body weight a month or
something like that versus the Vulcan
cut approach I think it would be so cool
if we could design let's say a year-long
study where you have one group do a six
month bulk and then a six month cut and
you have the other group just do a gain
taining approach for a full year and we
could figure out who would actually
build more muscle by the twelve month
period because it's not perfectly clear
to me which one would come out on top
even though I would expect the bulking
and cutting approach to be better
because what we see in all these case
studies as I've already shown is that
when you do cut back down and you do
tend to lose muscle mass so the question
is would the amount of muscle mass that
you lose while cutting be enough to
offset that discrepancy between the
rates of game between the gain taining
approach and the bulking so we need that
study to know for sure but if I were to
hypothesize I would say that because
bulking allows you to have a more
anabolic milieu so probably have
slightly more testosterone you have more
anabolic signaling in the muscle in
general and it generally being heavier
allows you to lift more weight so that
means more volume more tension on the
muscle probably more muscle growth as a
result and then if you cut slow enough
and with sufficient protein you should
be able to minimize muscle losses and at
the end of 12 months should end up with
more muscle but still with the gain
taining approach it's been shown to be
very effective in numerous people and it
allows you to maintain more of a leaner
look year-round which might be more
optimal so anyway that's something I
think I might follow up on in a future
video probably do a more truncated
version a little bit more organized but
still those are my general thoughts on
that for the moment hopefully you guys
didn't mind this style of video from me
I often go into these much more prepared
a little more scripted but I just kind
of wanted to get on here and sort of
think out loud with you guys kind of
think through what it is I'm currently
thinking about this and sort of update
you guys on my full of you and perhaps
clear up some of the confusion that may
have came from the last video so anyway
if you guys are in the market for it I
don't forget to check out that Black
Friday sale I'll have all that linked in
the description box below get yourself
some Kiwi lime pre-workout if you'd like
to check that out feedback on that has
been amazing
also quick update on the technique
Tuesday series rashon and I have the
filming done for the first episode but
we're really trying to make this the
best technique and form oriented product
available anywhere especially for free
so we really want to make it good so
that is coming soon so you can stay
tuned for that thank you guys so much
for watching let me know if you like
longer form videos like this please
leave me a thumbs up if you did enjoy
the video if you happen to be new I
don't forget to subscribe and I'll see
you guys all here in the next video