I kind of overarched a little bit too
much and my back like hyperextended so
it was a little sore and this is good
this honestly pulls it in the opposite
direction the belt squat is a superior
form of exercise for the quadriceps and
I'll tell you why there is a term in
sport Science called axial fatigue it is
the fatigue that is imposed on you when
you have weights pushing down on your
spine it's not a bad thing but it'll
cost you because it's very independently
fatiguing barbell squatting and Smith
machine squatting is incredible
in context but a huge advantage of the
belt squat is that because the belt is
positioned at the very bottom of your
spine and almost all the force
transduces through your hips and Below
you essentially avoid axial fatigue
altogether the stimulus to fatigue ratio
of belt squats if you do them right
especially can be just straight up in my
view some of the highest around that's
not true for everyone but for many
people I believe the sfr of belt squats
can be superior in most cases on average
to many other leg exercises