now don't get too excited by the title
of this video okay this doesn't mean
that cardio is ineffective or that I'm
suggesting you do your hour of weight
training a few times per week and then
spend the rest of it completely immobile
on the couch cardiovascular exercise has
a wide variety of overall physical and
mental health benefits and I do
recommend that you include some in your
program whether it's in the form of
traditional gym cardio or some kind of
active hobby that you enjoy however when
it comes specifically to the goal of fat
loss it is true that a lot of people
overestimate the role that cardio
actually plays in the process and this
can send them down an inefficient path
that slows down the rate of progress or
even possibly prevents them from losing
fat altogether so if you want to lean
down in the most effective way possible
without needlessly slaving away on the
treadmill six days per week I'd highly
recommend watching this video through
where I'll go over three reasons why
cardio is ultimately overrated for fat
loss and I'll explain what you really
need to be focusing on instead for the
very best results reason number one is
that a typical cardio session doesn't
actually burn that many calories to
begin with now different factors such as
your body weight muscle mass Fitness
level and the intensity slash duration
of the session will all play a role but
but for most people out there a standard
30 to 40 minute cardio workout isn't
expending some huge amount of energy and
just causing the fat to rapidly melt off
your limbs with every passing minute for
example let's say you pedaled on the
stationary bike four times a week and
burn 400 calories per session that would
be 1600 calories for the week which
would average out to 230 calories per
day now that's still a noteworthy amount
and it definitely counts but it's really
not that much when you consider the time
and effort investment involved and when
you compare to the calorie content of
different food items you might be
consuming for example one banana is
about 120 calories right there a chicken
breast is maybe 130 one tablespoon of
peanut butter is a hundred one cup of
cooked rice or pasta is a bit over 200
and one avocado is over 300 just to give
some perspective and keep in mind that
that's for clean food items only a
chocolate bar or a couple cookies or a
single slice of pizza those will
probably be at least equal to what was
burned during the session or even
exceeded when it all comes down to it
remember that losing fat is ultimately a
matter of maintaining a net calorie
deficit in the overall picture whether
that's achieved by burning more calories
through exercise or by consuming less
through your diet it's total energy in
versus total energy out so as long as
your total food intake is still at a
healthy level where your nutritional
needs are being met and you're getting
in enough protein putting the majority
of your focus on diet is going to be by
far the most efficient route both
because a it's a lot easier to just
shave a few calories off of your intake
versus trying to actively burn a
comparable amount and B it's also a lot
easier to inadvertently replace those
calories that you burn by overeating
since it only takes a relatively small
amount of extra food to essentially
cancel things out one banana with some
peanut butter on top could be enough on
its own to match the energy expended
from one of your cardio sessions when
things are averaged out for the week as
a whole and if you're not tracking your
intake precisely then consuming a couple
hundred additional calories is very easy
to do without realizing it and can
basically happen in the blink of an eye
the second reason why cardio is
overrated for fat loss is because on top
of the fact that it doesn't burn that
many calories during the session itself
the net amount actually shrinks even
further when you factor in the
compensatory effect that kicks in in the
hours after the workout is over keep in
mind that the body isn't very tightly
regulated system and it's always seeking
balance okay it doesn't want to be in a
calorie deficit and it's evolutionarily
wired to perceive that deficit as
meaning a lack of food availability it
has no idea that there's a freezer full
of pepperoni Hot Pockets 10 feet away
from you so when you start expending
even more calories while you're in that
state the body's going to make certain
adjustments to offset things in order to
conserve energy and one of the main ways
that it does that is through reductions
in meat which is short for non-exercise
activity thermogenesis and refers to all
the small mostly unconscious movements
you make throughout the day like walking
fidgeting tapping head movements Etc now
that might not seem like a big deal on
its own but it actually makes up
anywhere from 15 to 30 percent of your
total daily energy expenditure and can
be responsible for several hundred up to
even a thousand plus calories burned if
you've ever dieted before and you've
been in that consistent calorie deficit
over time then you know that feeling of
increased sluggishness that starts to
settle in there's just less willingness
to move around in general smaller tasks
you'd normally do without really
thinking about them start to require a
lot more conscious effort whether it's
taking the stairs or just getting up to
walk across the room for something
everything just feels more challenging
in general now I'm not necessarily
saying that this reduction in movement
is going to completely cancel out your
cardio 100 percent though it definitely
could depending on the situation but it
will offset things to a certain degree
to where that 400 calories you burn on
the stair climber might drizzle down to
300 or 200 or possibly even less without
you even realizing if you're finding
this information helpful so far don't
forget to hit the like button and
subscribe to the channel to stay up to
date on future videos and lastly reason
number three why cardio is overrated is
that along with those reductions in need
the other way that your body will
respond to that increased energy
expenditure is by increasing your
appetite further to motivate you to
replace the energy that was lost now
this will affect each person a bit
differently depending on various factors
again I'm not saying the appetite
stimulation will totally cancel things
out but just keep in mind that the
energy burned through exercise isn't
just free calories that come with no
consequences at the end of the day an
energy deficit is an energy deficit the
body has gauges in place to know how
large that overall deficit is whether it
was created by moving more or by eating
less and it's going to react based on
that now if you just prefer doing more
cardio and then being able to eat more
as a result that's up to you but again
you could just as easily create your
deficit by reducing your calorie
consumption and you won't even
necessarily end up hungrier by doing
that so to quickly sum this up not only
are you not directly burning as many
calories during a typical cardio session
as you probably think but you're also
getting even less of a net effect later
on through reductions in need and
through appetite stimulation you
truly benefit from cardio to a
significant degree in terms of fat loss
or the ones who are performing very high
volumes of it and often where cardio is
both a form of training and also an
active hobby whether it's cycling Sports
martial arts or some other kind of high
energy expenditure activity if you're
out there burning 800 plus calories
every single day then yeah that's
certainly going to add up to something
much more significant but that's not
going to be applicable to the majority
of the population and even if you do
ramp up to those higher cardio volumes
now you start creating an interference
effect with your weight training
sessions because of additional systemic
fatigue muscle damage and possibly joint
stress to where you're now impeding
recovery from your previous workouts and
your affecting performance on your
upcoming ones so if maximizing muscle
retention during a cut or potentially
even gaining muscle at the same time as
a goal for you then you wouldn't want to
be performing a ton of extra cardio
anyway it's definitely not going to kill
your gains but at a certain level it can
start having a negative effect at the
end of the day implementing a successful
fat loss phase is about striking the
proper balance between Diet weight
training and cardio as you've probably
figured out by now diet is going to be
the most important Factor by far at the
top of that pyramid because it allows
you to create a calorie deficit with
minimal time and energy investment it's
also the easiest air to screw up which
means you need to give it the most
attention not to mention that it can be
pretty difficult to accurately track
exactly how many calories you're burning
through cardio whereas tracking your
calorie intake is going to be much more
precise don't assume that the calories
burned reading on your Apple watch is
accurate because it can very often be
way off base after that you need to make
sure that your weight training plan is
properly dialed in in terms of physique
Aesthetics that's going to be without a
doubt the most important form of
exercise because it's the stimulus for
maintaining or possibly even building
new muscle as you drop the fat and then
from there cardio can be added in to
help you expend some additional calories
and of course for the overall physical
and mental health benefits that it
provides but in terms of pure fat loss
cardio should be thought of as more of a
supplemental tool in most cases and not
as the main priority especially if it's
something that you really don't enjoy
doing if you fall into the Trap of
thinking that you have to go for a run
every single morning or ride the
stationary bike for 40 minutes after
every single workout in order to lose
fat and you're just trying to grind
through it with sheer determination
every time it might be doable for a
while but there's a very good chance
that you'll eventually burn out and quit
now it's actually pretty hard to give
exact guidelines in terms of cardio
frequency because it really depends on
your existing activity level outside of
the gym as well as your lifestyle and
your preferences and just how lean
you're trying to get but anywhere from
two to four sessions per week would be
pretty reasonable for most average
lifters you can certainly do more than
that if you want or if you're doing
other forms of reasonably strenuous
exercise outside the gym then you might
not need any traditional structured
cardio at all so that's something you
have to figure out for yourself in terms
of what's actually necessary for your
goals and what is genuinely sustainable
for you as an individual and then one
final point that I'd make here is that
if you really are just focused in on the
physique side of things right now and
you really hate traditional cardio that
much or you're just super busy in your
current situation to where you don't
want to prioritize it at the moment
ultimately that's your call and
technically you can create your calorie
deficit just through dieting alone and
then maybe using walking as your main
form of additional activity that's still
an option and cardio technically isn't
mandatory for fat loss I still do
recommend it I don't think hypertrophy
style weight training workouts and
walking can replicate the benefits of
more cardiovascularly challenging
exercise on their own but when it comes
strictly to losing fat and gaining
muscle cardio is not a must if you want
some more help getting your overall
fitness program onto the right track
whether your goal is to lose fat gain
muscle or possibly do both make sure to
visit shawnell.com custom just fill out
the short form on that page and I'll
send you back a free step-by-step
training program based on your current
condition and goals along with an easy
to follow nutrition plan as well the
link for that is in the description box
when it comes to effective
supplementation you can also visit
realscienceathletics.com to check out my
own line of research backed clinically
dosed formulas I personally created from
scratch to maximize your results here
are two more videos I'd recommend
watching now don't forget to subscribe
to the channel to stay up to date thanks
for watching guys and I'll talk to you
again soon