we are here with an episode on the
biggest strength training scam strength
training what the [ __ ] is strength
training I hear you asking Dr pack
nobody cares about strength training
anymore is not 2014 15 where
powerlifting was booming in the YouTube
scene
yeah yeah and where people cared about
strength training people only care about
hypertrophy nobody's going to watch this
video I know but hey for the five of you
that still care about getting your PRS
going and actually lifting heavy [ __ ]
for the fun of it including myself not
lifting myself but lifting heavy stuff
you get me I'm going to use my immigrant
card for any grammar errors errors in
that sentence and then I'm going to use
my British passport card to say how dare
you I am a British citizen my English is
better than yours we invented English my
American friends last I checked you were
speaking English not American but now I
see you unsubscribing let me say USA
best country in the world World keep
subscribing I love you
USA strength training scams let's start
with number one this is for my
powerlifter friends extremely lengthy
over-the-top warm-ups literally no need
for you to do 20 and I've seen I have
seen things bro 25 to 35 minutes of
warming up to then warm up again on the
exercise that you're going to do now I'm
not saying don't do anything and
obviously look if you're a world
champion powerlifter and you have your
routine and it's more of a ritual than a
warm-up and you're doing it because it
just gets you in the mood mentally and
it's your way of like zoning in after
you come into the gym all all for it
fair enough brother or sister keep doing
whatever hell you're doing for 35
minutes but the idea that you need to
foam roll do static stretching dynamic
stretching uh some extra Mobility work
bands schmand corrective exercises
prehab schab before in order to make a
difference in your training performance
I don't buy it the current literature on
warm-ups shows that a general warm-up
and usually usually most most times
those warm-ups in the literature are
like light cycling they're not somebody
doing 65 different exercises and using
five different recovery and foam rolling
uh modalities in order to do that so
doing a general warm-up 5 to 10 minutes
literally anything to get your heart
rate up if you walk to the gym then that
covers that if you don't then you drive
you could literally do a bit of cycling
you could do your Dynamic stretching as
well if that helps you but keep it brief
5 to 10 minut minutes of a general uh
warmup will suffice if you're again
trying to absolutely make sure that
you're taking every single box and you
want to be as warmed up as possible and
then proce proceeding to warm up on the
actual exercise that you're performing
is where the magic happens so and I
would argue that even if you were to
spend very little to no time doing a
general warmup and then you essentially
spent more time just warming up with the
bar let's say on a squat that that would
potentially make more of a difference or
actually that would make more sense than
you spending 30 minutes and this is not
a hyperbole a lot of strength Focus
lifters specifically power lifters do
spend an enormous amount of time doing
stuff that they're somewhat parting or
is part of the powerlifter identity that
they believe is necessary so again if
it's a ritual do whatever you want go to
the gym and do back flips if that helps
you get in the mood sure but if you feel
that you need to do your rear delt
activation drill or you need to pull on
a pair of bands to activate your triceps
before Bening ah you're being fed BS or
please provide the equivalent the
appropriate citation so I can say ha
that doesn't count that's a paper that I
don't like and I'm dismissing it just
kidding that you're not going to find
many sitations to support the idea that
um a lengthy an extremely lengthy
warm-up filled with random corrective
exercises is going to do much for injury
prevention or for boosting your
performance literally do the exercise
maybe spend a few more sets just with a
bar or lightweight and that will get you
ready for that exercise because you're
actually doing that movement it will get
you mobile enough to do that exercise
because you guessed it you're doing the
movement squatting down with a barell on
your back a light barbell or no barble
is going to do wonders for your
squatting
Mobility now I'm not saying that you
should take this and completely ignore
any sort of dynamic stretching that may
help you with depth or feeling a bit
looser but just keep it short 5 to 10
minutes of you know doing some static
and dynamic stretches will be more than
enough you do not need to spend a ton of
time warming up the other strength
training scam is doing a ton of
extremely high RP work to the point
where every single set that you're doing
or the majority of your sets in the gym
is an absolute grinder now the current
literature on on the relationship
between proximity to failure and
strength shows that things are not as
clear or as straightforward as with
hypertrophy when it comes to maximizing
strength and maximizing Force output
getting very close to failure is not
necessarily going to do magic for your
strength uh like it will for hypertrophy
now that doesn't mean that you shouldn't
have the odd grinder set or grinder rep
here and there as at the end of the day
that may have some transfer to your
skill of grinding pun intended actually
pun not intended surprised myself here
with a p keep grinding what the [ __ ] am
I telling you you should be always
grinding make sure that every set that
you do is at an RP of
11 and you're there literally being
saved by paramedics with the bar on you
because you took that set too far but
like me taking this joke too far you
don't need to set to take your sets or
the majority of your sets to an RP of 9
or 10 keep in mind having some 1 RM
specific work and obviously you you you
may have your hypertrophy work which
will be at a high RP but your strength
specific work can easily stay in the RP
range of 5 to 5 to 8 5 to 7 you could
leave three four reps in reserve
maximize Force output and at the same
time get better at what you're trying to
actually improve you're trying trying to
get better at maximizing Force output
and being a good lifter in the one
repetition range again the odd single
double or triple here and there or that
five rep PR that you really wanted where
you do go for that last rep where you're
literally shaking and you're fighting
with your whole life creating an
unnecessary amount of fatigue for really
not much more of a strength gain but
potentially some High pery Gain is
totally fine here and there just don't
approach your powerlifting or strength
training workout with a mentality of
okay this is another PR shattering
session where I will leave absolutely no
reps in the tank for the majority of my
sets again it's strength training and
part of strength training means forcing
progression sometimes and doing the the
OD set here and there where you actually
go into PR mode and get that PR which
then helps you psychologically with the
rest of your wig or the rest of your
blog is fine just don't approach
training with that don't approach every
session and every set with that
mentality okay do not comment but Dr P
you're a real doctor and Physicians but
I also disagree with you because you you
know it's I'm like you're saying we
should lift light no saying you should
lift heavy but you should leave some
reps in reserve for the majority of your
strength specific work your hypertrophy
work is a different deal so but again
you know for most of you powerlifters um
out there and the shs fired actually uh
another point on that note another
strength training scam um where you're
essentially scamming yourself and that
goes mostly for my powerlifter friends
look before you attack me big fan of
powerlifting literally did my PhD on
powerlifters I am going to Sheffield
next weekend I coach powerlifters I've
coached plenty of powerlifters I've done
a bit of powerlifting myself in the past
although I am not a
powerlifter skipping your hypertrophy
work or half assing your accessories and
by half-assing I mean leaving plenty of
reps in reserve which I see a lot
obviously this is just me observing
stuff it may not be the case if we
actually were to run a study on
literally every part of in the world but
you somewhat scamming yourself out of
potential future strength gains now the
relationship between strength and
hypertrophy warrants future research but
if you're doing the D thing for
hypertrophy gains and you're doing
tricep extensions or whatever push-ups
or lat pull Downs to get your lats
bigger uh for them to potentially
contribute something to your powerlifts
and I mean I don't know why you use the
lats specifically but let's say your
triceps if you're doing tricep
extensions so that you get bigger
triceps to potentially further improve
your pressing
strength don't leave 20 reps in reserve
like you see powerlifters just going
through the motions just the moment they
feel any sort of discomfort or pump they
let go of the excise the same way you're
overshooting your SBD work to an
unnecessary Point that's how your
hypertrophy accessories should look like
you should be there really struggling to
get that last rep so that you can make
sure that you're getting the most
hypertophy bank for your buck out of
your accessories and that goes for
strength training train needes as well
but those are less guilty I feel cuz
they will usually not treat um non SBD
movements as access ACC but rather as
other exercises that they do for example
barbell Rose or chin-ups so powerlifters
G check yourself next time you're doing
your accessories and ask yourself is
this really a hypertrophy set how many
more reps did I have try to do an AM
wrap at rp1 and if you see that you got
another 12 reps maybe next time you need
to take them a bit more seriously since
you're doing them right might as well
skip them if you're not going to take
them seriously another strength training
scam is the addition of bans or chains
now I see the comments and the hatred
and stuff and keep in mind that scam is
in quotation marks the current
literature on the addition of bands on
elastic bands and there was a recent
study that specifically looked at Elite
FTS bands that are used by many lifters
found that they did not adding bands and
obviously matching for load used between
bands and non- bands uh between the
group that used bands and the group that
didn't did not really add much keep in
mind that it did not really take away
much but the addition of bands on things
especially if you're doing so in a
relatively uninformed way or because you
saw it somewhere or because somebody
said it or because intuitively you're
like oh I'm going to make it harder at
the top which is my sticking point um
mindlessly adding bands and change to
stuff for strength and I mean even for
hypertrophy because we've seen that a
bit but for strength
specifically doesn't really make much
sense you're not really getting much
more out of that exercise in some cases
depending on the bands that you use you
may make the exercise relatively
different because it will be very
unstable especially if you're dealing
with a ton of bands that may require you
to learn how to use those bands and
spend which will then require you to
spend a bit more time getting used to
them and it's I I just don't don't see a
really really solid argument for forcing
those in your training now in some cases
where you working with athletes or
yourself where you absolutely love bands
and you love The increased tension at
the top of um of each movement then I
guess you could just include them there
now as far as overloading the sticking
point
specifically you could make an argument
to use them as as accessories but again
the data currently shows no benefit for
strength with the addition of bands um
which we would expect to see something
if they magically improved the we weak
point or the sticking point of each
exercise and at the same time doing the
exercise specifically or even you know
looking at which muscle groups you can
potentially make stronger that are
contributing most at the saking point um
may be a better option as a purist as
somewhat of a purist myself I'd just say
stick to the exercise themselves however
there are cases you know where you may
not have access to as much load as
before the add of accommodating
resistance can serve a purpose there so
I'm not saying bands are useless and
there are applications for them but when
they are presented as an absolute Game
Changer Plateau Buster
whatever they call them these days just
mindlessly throwing them on top of your
lifts and just parting things like oh
sticking point or you know um resistance
curve Without Really knowing why you're
adding them and expecting them to do
wonders or expecting them to magically
solve your your issues with a squad nah
I wouldn't I wouldn't bet a lot on that
that's it strength based episode for
those that still care about strength
don't forget to like subscribe hit the
notification icon and stop strength
training it's 2024 it's all about
hypertrophy and optimizing side delt to
rear delt ratio who cares about lifting
heavy weights and having fun you should
be sad and you should be just constantly
looking at your Physique in the mirror
to to see if you've made any meaningful
changes
peace nothing but real doctors only no
Physicians hom me watching YouTube
Lonely that's okay I'm here to cover you
I'm not really good at freestyling in
English but I could kick your ass in
Greek and that's a fact