hey folks dr mike israel here for
renaissance periodization eating through
the holidays a handy guide is my gift to
you today and that gift is dietary
sanity in this time of the year such a
rare gift i might add so what's in the
mix today and what are we talking about
well holiday eating is really fun
and it's especially fun because like you
know your family and friends are around
if you have that sort of thing
if you are a soviet military research
project like somebody here
and you had memories implanted of family
and friends it still feels special and i
you know it's something little twinkle
they implanted there works just fine the
thing is with the holiday meals the good
thing is family and friends and amazing
food the bad thing is it's real easy to
overeat and get down on yourself and
feel miserable and bloated so let's talk
about some realistic options how you
dear viewer
can navigate the holiday eating
topography ooh fun word makes me feel so
smart to say words like that i don't
often feel smart so um i try to get as
much of it in as i can option number one
is the toughest
second toughest look at that i got
something wrong right away like i said i
don't feel smart often
you're competing or peaking
right after the holidays
you have to diet through
and my best recommendation if that's the
case for you
is pack all your meals don't cheat at
all
because if you start trying to work
cheats into a really hard cut
the misery of that effect of cheat foods
in a deficit to make you even hungrier
for cheat foods and hate your life
is a huge risk like if you can swing it
swing it but you probably can't so don't
that's my humble advice
option number two
you are dieting through the holidays for
some goddamn who knows reason
but not so seriously no competition
coming up nothing crazy
and then
you
have another option
my suggestion to you in this case is to
take three or four pre-planned fun
holiday cheat meals
and make them on special times so you're
gonna know in advance like i'm going
aunt clara's house and she's gonna have
her brisket and i'm going to you know
uncle phil's house and he's going to
have his
head of pig
again i don't have family or friends so
i have no idea how humans actually
celebrate these holidays but head of pig
i know for a fact as a christmas
tradition so you know when these meals
are coming up you know when it's fun
times
and for every food and amount you plan
to eat you have to ask yourself and this
is a huge tip from one of our rp
superstar coaches dr melissa davis who's
actually a neuroscientist um ask
yourself is this food really worth it
because you're only giving yourself a
certain pre-fractioned amount certainly
three or four meals through the holidays
like thanksgiving the day after
thanksgiving
christmas eve christmas day
man that's about it new year's there's
five
um but in any case
you know ask yourself like is it really
worth it because if you plan meals you
only have so many to plan
and then you're like this meal sucks
like why did i plan on cheating with
this
you know that's cheating you couldn't
have done at a more fun meal so make
sure it's all really worth it and
another huge tip is don't sit there
snacking that's how you get your
calories to go super crazy and throw you
off of your fat loss plan because
remember in this scenario number two
you're in a fat loss phase don't sit
there eating potato chips or
um cheetos or something like that
because good god you can pound the
calories away not even notice so make
sure these are distinct meals make a
meal eat it slow log it be done with it
and that's good to go
now i wouldn't eat a whole lot less in
your other meals to make up for this
i would just settle for slower results
okay so yeah you're at a pretty big
deficit already you add in the cheat
meals now you're a smaller deficit and
that's okay because if you do a crazy
deficit you're going to be so hungry for
your cheat meals they're going to
disappear into your mouth before you can
know what's going on and the pleasure
sensation is just going to be much much
less right and you're going to be hungry
for the next one and nervous and it's
just going to suck so my advice is don't
do that it's gonna lead to more misery
my honest assessment is this option
number two is the toughest one because
believe it or not option number one if
you just die straight through you're
kind of on robot mode like people are
eating and having fun with their
families and you're in your garage gym
training and eating chicken breasts and
you're going to show them you know
that's what i plan on doing but uh it's
actually like because you're siloed and
then super tunnel vision and focused
it's not a big deal this balance of i'm
still cutting but i'm also having cheat
meals it's tough i really really really
wouldn't recommend so what would i
recommend if your goal is maybe longer
term fat loss or weight loss i would
recommend
option number three three or four
there's only four options
you're maintaining okay so here are the
recommendations there you want to stay
active and eat very well uh plenty of
food maybe at a tiny deficit through
most of the week
and build yourself a real big buffer
zone because remember the goal is
maintenance and if you eat like you know
several hundred calorie deficit every
day just eat clean and don't eat any
bullshit right and take your fats down a
little bit you can open yourself up like
a 2 000 calorie wormhole of like hey i
actually to in order to technically
maintain
this friday night for christmas or
whatever i actually need to pound in 2
000 calories above what i was going to
eat anyway that's pretty sweet and then
during the holiday meals i can enjoy go
to town do your best do your worst
whatever and then right back to plan
after the sort of pre-planned holiday
meals so a huge thing people get into
the holidays and it's one of the biggest
stumbling blocks is they're really good
on their diet and then they have their
cheat meal and then they just fucking
disappear it's all cheat meals
afterwards for three and a half weeks
after you have a cheat meal they wake up
the next day and it's gonna be a shitty
meal but it's just one meal of like egg
whites and chicken sausages and
broccoli and just do this and you go to
the gym into this then after you went to
the gym
the next clean meal feels better and it
feels like normal yeah whatever i don't
even remember cheating right
at some emotional level it's different
so remember cheating is real tough in
the meal after and then you just one
workout later you should be renormed and
doing pretty good and then a couple days
later or whatever you get another one
right and then you just sort of repeat
that process for every cheat meal and
then as soon as you know you're back
into early to mid january you get right
back under your fat loss plan that you
have so you maintain through the
holidays like you know right before
thanksgiving all the way through right
after new year's you maintain all the
way through and then go back to fat loss
and if long-term fat loss and weight
loss is your thing this is the best
option way way better than option number
two which is dieting straight through so
dieting straight through is usually
95 of the time just as you go fools
errand it's something that wise dieters
look at people doing and being like
it's it's a kid who looks like harry
potter is loading his fifth plate on
each side on the leg press and like guys
who train for a while and girls have
trained for a while look at that and
they're like
and your friends who don't train or with
you at the gym that day they're like is
that guy gonna do that you're like
that guy's an idiot right they look at
you the same way if you fat loss diet
through the holidays
usually a bad idea no in some cases
that's your choice but i'm giving you my
honest assessment
option number four gaining during the
holidays oh man so here's the deal
two a days for when gyms close because
like christmas day most gyms are closed
so christmas eve they close at 6 pm or
whatever you come in early
have a meal
rest come in again
you just did your christmas days workout
or however that needs to be
uh or just shift your whole week back a
day get all your workouts in so you're
anabolic and then eat super well
and stay on track eat mostly healthy
foods all the time your regular gaining
time and then when your special
halloween meals come up oh man that's
your two to three cheat meals per week
that you should probably doing anyway on
a gain phase and then who cares you eat
everything santa claus comes coming down
the chimney and you rip his fucking leg
off and start eating he's like oh my god
blood is shooting out of his femoral
artery
so anyway
uh
it's easily the most fun option even if
you don't kill santa claus brutally in a
chimney in front of your children it's
still super fun because hey massing is
great and holiday food it all goes super
well together the only snafu is that
sometimes gyms are closed but you can
get around that in a big way by planning
your workouts to occur maybe twice a day
or something on the days gyms are
closing and if you're watching this in
uh
modern asia western europe most of
europe actually nowadays and
the north america largely the united
states canada then uh oh yeah in
australia and all the all the anglophone
countries you probably have access to
gyms like damn near all the time anyway
and then maybe some of the gyms close
like for one day and christmas or
something like that so generally
speaking not a huge deal not a huge deal
and you can really get around
all right so
other than that folks hey hey listen
happy holidays from myself and our whole
crew here renaissance periodization uh
merry christmas happy new year
um
shit even happy hanukkah why not you
know what i'm saying your boy is jewish
i to wish you that tbh and it's probably
too much information you don't want to
know i grew up from age 0 to 7 in the
soviet union where religion was largely
illegal so they did give us the ability
to celebrate christmas but they placed
it on new year's so russians have santa
claus come he's actually called
grandfather frost um
and no joke you can look all this up and
he has like a a a female a young female
assistant uh guruca who's like kind of
fine as hell you feel me i don't know
what the hell's out that's all about
communists we're like fuck it here you
go uh so i actually grew up celebrating
basically christmas there's the tree and
the presents and the whole thing uh so
to me christmas means a lot came to
america and uh turns out we were jewish
so tried celebrating hanukkah i don't
know that really worked for us but it
seems like a really fun holidays uh you
know if you're loaded and jewish you get
like eight eight nights of gifts or some
shit like that you're not saying russian
immigrant we never saw that shit but it
sounds really fun dreidels they're cool
too and honestly whatever other holidays
you're into celebrating
all peace and love enjoy during this
time just get with your favorite people
and do your favorite things
uh and on the note of dieting and stuff
like that life is full of all kinds of
good stuff and you really have the rest
of the year or most the rest of the year
to diet like crazy and dulles
bodybuilding nonsense so i really
recommend maintenance or muscle gain
during the holidays in most cases
because you can really enjoy yourself
and get a lot of life and not have to
die through crazy stuff like look if you
know you're peaking for the arnold
arnold classic and you're a pro
bodybuilder for your competitor you're
going to die through the holidays that
sucks but you're also a professional
athlete that's what you do for the rest
of us i think it's probably a good idea
to take the holidays and uh and be easy
um
maybe not for you and that's totally
cool respect your decision if you choose
to die through but if you feel like you
have to die through well i'm a physique
athlete this is what i do yeah most the
rest of the year you can get it all done
and still have that huge combination of
success in your physique and feeling
great about yourself and also eating
tons of delicious holiday foods god
there are so many can you guys tell i'm
dieting right now um i'm going to be
enjoying the shit out of myself i uh uh
hypothetically
we'll have a show uh right before
christmas or uh 12th or something in
december and then after that there ain't
no food that's safe
i don't really even eat that much so
i'll have like three cookies and be like
but i'll try now here's the most
important part of this video folks that
was all good news here's some real world
news lamborghinis still unfortunately
are not free so please buy rp stuff
click on the links buy things i need
more lambos i currently have nine i need
an 11th that's right 10th is going to be
a christmas gift to myself so i need
11th lambo um
for real though tons of sales and
discounts going on right very now at
renaissance purestation we'll have all
the links in the in the description so
click on stuff and buy it but for real
for real uh enjoy all the free stuff we
do and all the videos and guides and
info
um you don't have to buy anything from
us that you don't want but if you want
something that you think will enhance
your performance and stuff feel free to
buy it love you anyway folks happy
holidays see you uh maybe next year
maybe peace
you