dr mike here with renaissance
periodization
what's up
here's the deal fitness myths video
number four
you have to go all in
to get results it's all or nothing let's
take a look at the claim why it's wrong
some brains of truth and finally
what best practices are in this realm
here's more or less the claim and this
isn't a lot of times a distinct claim
people verbalize
but it's implicit in the way they
discuss fitness
they basically say if you're serious
about fitness results if you want to
change let's say sandy at the office
comes up to your desk and says hey i
want to lose 15 pounds by the christmas
holidays what should i do
you gotta say to sandy hey listen sandy
you gotta commit your whole life fitness
you gotta wake up at 3 a.m drink raw
eggs throw up a lot ostensibly run
around with a little beanie hat and
gloves philadelphia in 1979 is this
rocky or what am i talking about in any
case the idea is if someone is
interested in fitness they have to go
all out or at least really close 100 in
which means usually a few things come
along with that 100 diet adherence like
if your bro personal trainer or coach
sees you having one extra almond that's
it you're cut off you're done you're not
willing to do what it takes you're never
going to get lean
you've got to train 100
hard which a lot of people interpret as
reaching total muscular failure
in every working set for example never
miss any training days never push back
your training you know your daughter
could be like born at 4 pm and at 3 55
you're on your way to the gym to do legs
because that's when your training
partner's gonna be there stuff like that
right uh waking up early is often pinned
into that and this whole waking up early
business like i don't know about you
guys i'm somewhat out of touch i'm quite
a bit older but
when i was in high school and then
college there was this like lore that
really serious fitness people woke up
before work or school to go running
for some reason you had to go really
early
because you could never
run after school or work for some reason
or at lunch
you wake up at four in the morning and
you had to go run and it had to be
outside you had to be miserable and
that's kind of how you got in shape and
everyone knew that's what it took
and that meant if they didn't think they
could have the bandwidth for that a lot
of people didn't even try to get fit
because their goal of fitness looks like
it takes a lot of work and it actually
doesn't in many cases it's not that hard
to get more fit but if you have this
idea that you have to go one thousand
percent or nothing then you miss all
that really good stuff in the middle
and here's why this claim is really
fundamentally wrong
results as you could have predicted
lie on a spectrum
and that spectrum scales with the effort
that you put in so for example generally
on average with some exemptions we'll
talk about later
if you put in fifty percent of the work
uh adhere to your diet fifty percent on
average then you'll get like fifty
percent of the results you wanted which
is not zero percent good and more
importantly and even more accurately
if you do something like 90
of the good stuff you're supposed to on
your plan you get something like 90 of
the results there isn't this cutoff
switch where it's all or nothing it just
doesn't exist right
thus any effort is better than no effort
and 90 plus
is nearly identical to 100 effort now
you could say listen if i'm going 90 why
don't i just give a hundred
interesting intellectual sort of
blossoming from that intersection of
ideas
it's interesting
to have a notion that you're giving it a
100
but if you examine all the ways in which
you're actually adhering it turns out
it's all in the high 90s
getting to 100
in any process
usually requires an exponential input of
effort that sometimes is actually
asymptotic and you never reach 100 and
even if you do it costs way more
resources for example this is an analogy
but it happens the same way in fitness
as well
let's say you have your room okay i'm do
it
jordan peterson
clear your room i don't have a good
jordan peterson impression a big fan as
well but uh
videographer scott is laughing his ass
off my pathetic attempt at jordan
peterson impression so cleaning a room
you say you want to clean your room how
much effort is it going to get or take
you to get 90 of the dust out of the
room well you just vacuum the room and
then you pick up the bed and vacuum
under that motherfucker you get the
cabinets as well you do some dusting on
the top shelves this and that and that's
it that's 90 it took you 30 minutes and
it's done and then a week later do it
again no problem here's another question
how much effort is it going to take you
to
take that last 10 of dust
and add take another 9 off that
99 of dusting also here's the thing
you've already done all the dusting you
can physically see what you need to do
at that point is get some kind of
different light that lets you actually
see the dust where it is or have some
kind of expert cleaner come in and do
this crazy vacuum thing where they like
really get into the floors and take all
the furniture out and like upholstery
clean everything
that might be like four hundred dollars
where it's like you know your first one
was free in 30 minutes of your time this
one's an hour and a half of your time
because you got to let the guys in be
there when they do it let them out and
pay the money it's an hour and a half of
your time and 400
that's an exponential rise now here's
another question
what do we have to do to take your room
and make it a an intel chip design clean
room which is to say it's not 99 dust
free it's 99.9 percent dust free or even
more than that well you know like clean
rooms just don't happen by themselves
we're taking all of your furniture and
just literally throwing it away we're
taking some kind of really insane
chemical process that treats your entire
room and precipitates the dust out and
anytime you want to enter you have to
have a double door where you're
completely clean head to toe before you
go in and you can only go in with a full
hazmat
suit really so when you say when your
mom comes in and goes robert i want you
to have this room 100 dust free the
economist inside you should go
that is an insane problem that may be
unsolvable with my level of resources
and time don't say that you'll just get
punished for forever
but
it comes back the same way in fitness
doing 90 95 of a plan
is going to get you amazing results but
if you say i need 100 adherence that
means you have to leave so early to go
to the gym to anticipate any any traffic
problems that makes to make it so you
don't go to the gym exactly on time it
means that you have to weigh out to the
grain of rice and more and and you have
to really worry about how the rice is
being cooked because could fill with
more or less water and then the weight
is off it's an insane proposition
and if you just do 90 or 95
it's so much easier but gives you almost
the same level of results that exponents
nasty you don't want to be in that other
end of the curve here's the big downside
trying to get to that end of the curve
trying to go from really really good to
perfect
burns people out like crazy all the time
and leads them to abandon fitness so
that whole mindset that whole idea of
hey man you know you want to get in
shape you either bring me 100 intensity
and effort or nothing you don't ever
need to tell that to anyone you just
need to make sure folks are bringing it
and going hard not the hardest ever not
to their limits hard and then you slowly
up the bar every now and again and still
have some good days and bad days you
keep pushing the pace and over time they
get basically the same fitness results
as someone who has this insane grinder
mentality for no reason at all
now there are some grains of truth here
first
if you really go to the other end and
you say man you don't need to go 100
you can start to do this like slacking
excuse stuff where you say hey listen
this guy on youtube dr mike i think he's
a phd in ornithology or whatever and he
said
that you don't have to go hard to get
fit so i'll just start like just going a
little bit to the gym and i've literally
interacted with folks before who wanted
me to write a diet plan for them
and they only went to the gym once a
week
once a week
and for like an hour at a time and
they're like how much muscle can i gain
like this and i'm like essentially zero
muscle i guess like and they weren't
beginners a beginner can gain some
muscle also not a lot and they were kind
of like i kind of want to be like
why don't you go two or three times but
for them that was too much and they're
like well i should get something and the
thing is if you do a very low amount of
things there actually is the other end
so the one end is if you try to do it
all the exponent takes you into crazy
effort levels for almost the same result
if you go back the other way there's
this drop-off point
below which you get pretty much no
results and that can actually happen so
we're not trying to say hey look because
you don't have to give it your all you
can give it a little tiny pathetic golf
putting effort and you'll still win no
way
you got to give it like 90 percent i go
that's a lot but it's the same amount of
a lot and it's a possible amount of a
lot
second thing
some forms of a lack of adherence
can derail actually all of the results
even if you on paper seem to in some
ways not lose a ton of adherence so for
example if you are hitting 100
of all of your food is healthy you're
checking off all your workouts all your
daily activity you're sleeping at hours
at night all that stuff
but
you go hyper caloric on saturdays and on
fridays backwards
time i'm always trying to pretend i'm
human to relate with you guys sometimes
because in my alien world run from we do
the days backwards so friday and
saturday you eat more calories and you
can say to yourself look look that's
just like two sevenths what is it like
14
that's like you're at like 86 adherence
on calories if you count by day but hold
on a sec
if you eat so much on those fridays and
saturdays don't you dare say that's
impossible as people do it all the time
you're in a slight deficit for monday
through thursday and sunday as well
friday saturday you know what i'm saying
you're having the time of your life and
all of a sudden over the week
here's the caloric baseline
you were in a deficit had you done
friday and saturday it would have been
like this cheating enough on just friday
and saturday sometimes just saturday
doesn't do this and gets you fewer
results it does this or even this it
either gets you zero results or
backwards results people are like man
i'm dieting super hard but i'm not
losing any weight how hard were you
dieting last saturday we'll have a
little slip up up up up a little slip up
of an extra pizza on top of your normal
daily calories could be literally a good
large extra large full topping pizza is
like 4000 calories all of your day's
deficit added up does that count add up
to four thousand like no
okay that's not even close and my
deficit hole for the week is like two
thousand so you know if you lose a pound
a week it's a 3500 calorie deficit one
fucking extra pizza
per week can just take you basically
just to neutral or even a slight game
and all of a sudden you look on paper
well hold on my adherence is pretty good
i only had one slip up like if you got
the total number of meals you may be
like 45 meals a week or something like
that 44 out of 45 you did perfectly and
then one meal you had an extra pizza on
top right and i think it's like this
isn't hyperbole people actually do this
shit all the time and as a personal
trainer or someone trying to help people
with their fitness
we'll have other videos on this but you
should be a little bit skeptical not
cynical but skeptical of when people say
like oh i'm eating nothing and i'm not
losing anything like okay maybe on
average you're eating nothing maybe
almost always you're eating nothing
quote unquote or eating sticking to your
plan
just one little accession of that plan
and by little i mean enormous but it's
just what it counts as one meal means
measured
by meal frequency and the number of
meals you check off as healthy
damn dude you're like 97
measured by weekly calorie deficit
you're no longer effective just that one
change means the whole plan is out and
that's scary and that adds a real big
grain of truth to this all or nothing
thing so for calorie balance it really
is actually all or nothing in the sense
that either you generate a deficit or
you don't lose any weight plain and
simple
so
where do we go with all this where does
the balance lie
best practices here we go first
you want to get your calories into
either a deficit or surplus depending
which one you want
if you're trying to gain weight and gain
muscle tons of folks on this channel and
most of youtube are asking like man i
can't gain weight what's up i literally
i was in a new gym a few days ago and i
heard hadn't been to a public gym in a
long time mostly just hardcore
powerlifting bodybuilding gyms this was
as legit as it gets public gym the
conversation was fucking hilarious
because this guy's like man i'm not
gaining weight man my strengths
plateaued this other guy's like you
gotta fucking eat more bruh and the
other guy was like i am fucking eating i
like i was like putting my belt on for
hack squats and i would be like no
you're not fucking eating a liar right
the thing is like that guy might be on
point a lot with his diet but then like
he wakes up on sunday and he's just like
oh i don't feel like eating and he has a
protein shake and then his friends come
over and they smoke weed and watch
movies and then it's 8 p.m and he's like
i guess i'm a little hungry he has a
protein bar he falls asleep so he's
hyper hyper caloric the entire week and
then one fucking day of eating like 600
calories then he's back to neutral and
then he's
next monday rolls around he still weighs
179 he was 179 last week and he's like
what the hell is going on so make sure
your calorie in a surplus if you want to
gain or deficit for sure if you want to
lose not it doesn't deficits are
accumulated over the entire course of
the diet and at the very least week
after week after week so if you're in a
deficit yesterday deficit today and
tomorrow you're going to surplus like
crazy you can literally just erase all
of that and gain all that fat back it's
the thing that happens to be very
mindful of it
no exceptions on the weekly average
next on training train at
or above your minimum effective volume
the least amount of volume it takes to
actually grow muscle which means like if
you want your legs to get bigger and
you're doing three sets of squats per
week that might be at your maintenance
volume you're looking to get my legs to
grow i'm training real hard even all the
sets can be a failure maybe you should
add another session of squats and then
do six sets in one session and six
that's in another that's 12 cents total
that's for sure going to be over your
minimum effective volume in almost every
case and then you actually will grow
muscles so as long as you're in a
hypercaloric state and above your
minimum effective volume you should
probably gain some muscle maybe not the
maximum unless you do everything right
but something's going to happen and
better is if you're not on a surplus and
you're below your minimum effective
volume you almost certainly won't be
gaining any muscle and if you're not in
a deficit calorically
you'll almost certainly just not lose
any fat right
above those two points check your
calorie surplus or deficit over the
course of the week make sure you're
training at least enough to cause muscle
growth if you hit those two you're in a
real good position how much further you
go with adherence on the details and
stuff like that is up to two things one
is your preference for how fast you want
the results if you're just training for
fun and you're not really worried about
results coming quick make sure you hit
these two and the results will come but
they'll come really slowly so after six
months you'll be like oh cool i look a
little bigger this is neat maybe like
you know some dads train with their sons
dad's 35 the son's 15 and they go to the
gym together and it's a cool bonding
experience dad could give a fuck if he
gets much more muscular the kid's really
getting after but you're just there to
get results like a little bit totally
fine right
if you want maximum results
you do more of the things correctly but
there's that sliding scale again and
then the last thing you want to make
sure to figure out is sustainability
what you never really want to do
is apply a level
of dedication to your training that saps
so much of your psychic energy that at
some point three weeks later you're like
fuck this i don't even want to diet and
train anymore i couldn't give a shit
less this is too much
you want to set it at anything below
that breaking point and
you can set it pretty intensely it all
depends on you but intensely enough to
where you come back week after week day
after day month after month and you're
like nah man i still got it i can still
keep doing this and if you can you're
going to get great results your training
partners other people you see on social
media their levels of adherence might be
above your breaking point for
sustainability and if they are do not
copy their programs don't copy their
programs anyway but all you got to do is
get right below or anywhere below really
that level of sustainability that you
can tolerate for a long term and then
whatever results you get there they'll
keep going nice and slow and you'll have
the best of all worlds there's no sense
in pushing yourself all or nothing
because what you usually get is burnout
jack shit happens you get upset and then
you're no longer involved in fitness so
take your time do things right come in
slowly get your gains find out where
your limits are
stay under them but flirt with them and
you'll get the best results that you can
possibly get in the real world folks
thank you so much for tuning in see you
next week for another myth
you