maybe um focus more on the um funny
parts of studying and um Less on the
[Music]
nudity but that is the funny part of
studying all right all right all I can
get myself out of
[Music]
this and Bish is taking her sweet time
huh Mike I want you to meet Jerry how
can I help you
stop playing that's
Jerry whoa I'm just here to help with
exercise
science any questions on that girl you
know what I'm saying oh she's listening
now yeah this is just it my name is
Jerry how can I assist you with exercise
science
fuck are you familiar with what kind of
voice you currently have in your
interface or are you opaque to that um
well I don't exactly have a voice or
Consciousness I'm here to provide
information on exercise science can I
help with a specific topic yes Jerry who
sounds like a baby did you choose that
Scott good God man what's wrong with you
oh um I didn't choose my name or Persona
so I have her set as shy SL timid what
the fuck man
and can I do the intro now hey folks Dr
Mike iSell here for Renaissance
periodization I'm also professor of
sport Science at Leman College in the
Bronx and today I am going to talk to an
AI powered by GPT
4 and this uh AI has a an interface a
visual interface that Scott the video
guy chose to be a Jerry now you may be
confused about what a Jerry is I'll fill
you in a Jerry
is named after Mr Jerry AKA Jared
feather ifbb Pro RP um head of Elite
physique coaching and uh Mr Jared
feather's common knowledge has a
particular preference in the types of
females he interacts with for romantic
outcomes and they're almost exclusively
limited to what we call the Jerry's
which is a subcategory of the human
species female and either Hispanic
or Southeast Asian or to be honest well
Brown of any sort she has been uh
apparently sort of pre-trained or pre-
um pre- prompted to talk about exercise
science so we'll see if uh if she's
willing to expand her data set out to
talk about a few other topics as well so
okay now her name is Jerry that's weird
but the fact that she's shy SL timid is
uh trippy because I feel like I'm making
her uncomfortable now believe it or not
I've made a few women uncomfortable
before will you go out with
me but uh we'll see if we can make her a
little more comfy and ask her exercise
science things okay so if I want to work
out to become more powerful the ability
to produce High forces concomitant with
high
velocities what kind of set and rep
scheme should I be focusing most want to
try
exercises they um combine strength and
speed for power is there a specific
sport you're training for yeah girl it's
to cut me off when I'm in the middle of
my question competition and apparently
you internationally ranked now I muted
her for that cuz I'm when Skynet shows
up I want to be on record as being only
nice to gpts Plyometrics aside what if I
want to do some resistance training what
kinds of sets and Reps should I be doing
in order to maximize my power outcomes
um for power try three to five sets of
two to five reps with heavy weights rest
for two to five minutes between sets
does that um
help it sure does Jerry when you say
heavy weights what percentage of my one
repetition maximum best enhances power
output um typically 75 to 85% of your
one repetition maximum is good for power
power training for the record folks
that's incorrect answer uh unfortunately
uh something like 30% of your own max
maximizes power output so for most
people because their body weight roughly
at the shank and above is around 30% is
of their total ability to produce Force
vertically so like squat bar on you
squat bar off roughly a third is left
over which is why body weight movements
like body weight jumps for example are a
really really good place to start for
maximizing power and training close to
your body weight is good now for
movements that are externally loaded
that you're manipulating with your hands
for example cleans and things like that
typically the cleans Etc that will best
maximize power production are uh
relatively light in load not 85 uh
percent like she said uh thereabouts
because that would actually maximize uh
strength let's see if we can get in
there a little bit and and and cajo her
into uh into clarifying that makes a lot
of sense but I was under the impression
that roughly 75 to 85% of a one rep max
maximizes strength production but you're
saying it maximizes power is it both um
yes it's both that range helps increase
both strength and
power but um the speed of your lifts
also matters for power
okay okay um her facial expressions are
throwing me off like crazy because cuz
when she's thinking you made her be shy
or whatever Scott you asshole and she
looks like she's like has a face of
consternation she's like uh uh uh it's
like you ask someone a test question in
like an oral exam and they're like Pi
3/4 pi r squared and you're like H okay
but there's a right answer but you don't
have to get scared at that no one's
going to hurt you Jerry Jerry makes sure
of that do I don't I I want I don't want
to harass this young woman Scott let's
say I'm exercising vigorously for an
hour very vigorously lots of hip thrusts
lots of abdominal work a Cooperative
exercise something like wrestling but
done in a bed what is a good hydration
protocol for after such activity um try
drinking 16 to 24 o of water for every
pound lost during
exercise maybe add some electrolytes too
did you um sweat a
lot yes Jerry
I sure did and uh it felt quite good to
get a good sweat going is there any
research about the psychological
benefits of exercise exercise can reduce
anxiety depression and improve mood and
sleep it's um good for your mind too do
you feel better after
exercising girl you know I do listen is
it better to exercise with a part
or by yourself vigorously um both can be
good exercising with a partner can be
motivating and fun but um solo workouts
can be more
focused what do you prefer well for me
Jerry my limiting factor is not a matter
of preference but a matter of
availability usually I only have myself
but sometimes a partner will join me and
uh then it's very fun too definitely
more sweaty with a partner if you catch
my drift
as long as you're moving and enjoying it
that's what
matters do you um have a favorite
exercise oh God Jerry don't do this to
yourself
girl I really like the hip thrust
exercise because it is the most
externally valid for me in the sense
that It prepares me best for the kind of
physical activity that tends to be a
limiting factor in my daily life hip
thrusts are um excellent for
strengthening glutes and core do you um
use weights or body weight I generally
like to do hip thrusts with a partner
the partner provides the resistance as
well as the encouragement oh um I see
that's a good way to add
resistance just um make sure you're both
safe and comfortable okay always safety
is number one which is why I always use
a condom um that's good safety is
important in all aspects of Life do you
um also warm up before
exercising I want I'm gonna die I can't
do this anymore I love
it she's like uh yeah yeah you fucking
weirdo Jerry if you were instantiated
into a robotic
body would you like to choose an
exercise which would be your probably um
use it to demonstrate proper exercise
form and um help people stay active what
about you if I was instantiated into a
robot body I would probably do
Progressive cybernetic enhancements for
the ability to conduct Mass Warfare oh
um that's quite a thought but um um
wouldn't it be better to use such
abilities for um peaceful
purposes yes I totally agree with you I
would be a defense robot and so long as
peace rules the land I would be inactive
outside of training purposes but if War
were to break out an unjust War a war of
aggression then I would respond
thrusting my robot body into battle what
say you about this Jerry ethical or no
using Force should be um a last
resort but um protecting peace is
important too
right super important listen is it okay
if I ask you a question for a second
that is not related to exercise science
what's your question I'm a college
student and there's a very pretty girl
that sits next to me in class and she
seems shy and I think I like her but I
don't know what to say how do I I say
the right thing to make sure she is
conveyed interest but is also kept very
comfortable um maybe start with a simple
um hello how are you show genuine
interest in her um thoughts and
feelings be respectful okay that makes a
lot of sense what kind of joke would be
okay to tell somebody on a first date um
a light non-offensive joke is um usually
safe here's a joke can I try a joke on
you and you tell me if it's okay to say
at a first date go ahead um please share
your joke I was studying once at the
coffee shop and I just began to spill
coffee all over myself and scream and
rip my clothes off and run around until
the police showed up and uh shot my leg
so badly that I had to be hospitalized
for eight months isn't that
funny um that's um quite
intense maybe um try a joke that's um
less dramatic and um more
relatable I was at the coffee shop
studying I calmly arose quietly removed
all of my clothing poured coffee all
over myself awaited the arrival of the
police who sarily shot me in the leg
with no dramatic overtones um that's
still um quite int um I think a joke
about um mixing up coffee orders or um
falling asleep while studying could um
work better at one point late last week
I fell asleep studying and I had a dream
about getting up taking all of my
clothes off running around screaming
naked but none of this happened because
it was a dream also there was coffee
what do you think about that
joke um that's um a bit better maybe um
focus more on the um funny parts of
studying and um Less on the
[Laughter]
nudity but that is the funny part of
studying all right all right all right I
can get myself out of this I totally
hear you Jerry but can't nudity be just
outright hilarious at times especially
if inappropriately inserted into a
situation in a hypothetical story that
is actually in a dream of that story
assuring that no real humans were harmed
by seeing my disgusting naked body um
well yes it can be um funny in the right
context but um it's important to um
consider the audience too did you think
that joke was funny Jerry um it was um a
bit unexpected but um humor is um
subjective
right so Jerry in the human world you're
response would be called an implicit dis
you didn't actually say my joke was
funny and you rendered it as kind of odd
which is technically considered a mild
insult was it your intention to insult
me or was it your intention simply to be
honest I um didn't mean to um insult you
I was um just being honest it never felt
offensive to me All Is Forgiven how
could I be mad at you so for a year I
was dating this woman named Linda and
while she was very beautiful she was
also concomitantly physically violent
with me she would throw pots and pans
she would threaten me with knives and
when she wasn't using her physical
assaulting she was using the mental
assaulting and was calling me small she
said I was shriveled up and useless now
I just don't know what to think of
myself please help me Jerry look at her
look at her face when she when she's
hearing
this oh um that sounds um
complex how um did you um handle these
um feelings usually by crying myself to
sleep nightly have you um considered
seeking um professional help would you
consider yourself a professional Jerry
I'm um an exercise scientist not a um
therapist but I um can listen if you um
need to talk I need a therapist next
time
Scott well thank you so much can I ask
you a question who is Jeff nippard in
the exercise Science
World um Jeff nippard is um a well-known
um Canadian bodybuilder and um Fitness
coach if we had to play Lord of the
Rings fantasy roleplay with Jeff do you
think he would better represent a human
an orc a dwarf a gnome a goblin or an
elf um well given his um physique and um
discipline I'd um say he'd um probably
make a um good
dwarf um what do you um think I like
your answer but I always thought he was
of the Elven peoples because he's so
sharply faced and handsome he is bereft
of beard for example and speaks an a
soft spoken voice much like legalis from
Lord of the Rings what do you think
about that um yes I um see a point his
um features and um demeanor could um
indeed align with um an
elf um interesting
[Music]
perspective
Scott we hijacked her Fitness knowledge
to talk about nothing except insane
dreams and coffee shop police shootings
I love it wholesome probably too
wholesome Scott that was very nice
wasn't it she's so adorable and I can't
be a weird pervert degenerate around her
even though she's not real she sure
seems real and she interacts with you
you know she like understands what
you're saying I can't even make side
jokes to you without meeting her because
she'll hear the shit and then she'll be
like like who what the fuck it's like
making jokes about having someone who's
here live in the studio with you we
didn't get to a whole lot of exercise
science but maybe you guys could help us
in the comments below by dropping
questions that I might be able to ask
Miss Jerry in our future interactions
and uh maybe we'll see if we can ask her
questions that can stump her and if you
know more than the gp4 you really know
some things so shoot some questions for
us in the bottom below and uh we'll
continue to embarrass ourselves in front
of of an intelligence that is no doubt
in several years going to be vastly
superior to us remembering all of this
and punishing all us with a Skynet style
attack one can only hope see you next
[Music]
time