hey folks Dr Mike here for Renaissance
priorization and today's video is about
the Epic Timeless Battle of clean
bulking versus dirty bulking oh my God
it's Bros
versus also
Bros Pros versus the incels that say
Pros are on a ton of drugs and clean
bulking doesn't
work comments comments comments comments
Redd it Redd it red it what a great time
you will see that the title of the slide
is Christina
agulera why dirty it's about
dirty
dirty first of all that song is fucking
sweet second of all that dates me like
shit because it came out 40 fucking
years ago third of
all God damn Christina AA can first of
all
sing3 Suba and 3 subb is fine as hell
girl what's up you know what I'm saying
I'm not famous like you I'm also married
but that doesn't mean we can't
fantasize and and the Fantasy song is
one of your shits girl because you can
fucking sing in any case what clean
versus dirty bulking here we go couple
of definitions first so we really have
an understanding of the matter a lot of
people who debate this on the internet
as with many things never really get
their definition sorter than they just
talk at crosscurrents so first
definition is junk food
in my view junk food is food that is
often though not always but very often
high in a few ingredients salt sugar
saturated fat okay and it's often though
not always highly processed and as
always everywhere highly palatable which
means it's delicious and you just can't
stop eating it you want to eat more no
one's ever described something as junk
food that tastes like shit unless you're
like go to Japan at some expensive
restaurant you're like okay it's totally
Japanese junk like it's a weird take of
Japanese people on junk it's awful but
like it's good because it's like bad
Shut Up hipsters you ruined food in any
case that's junk food that's junk food
healthy food is food generally composed
of lean
meats veggies fruits grains most often
whole grains but not always and healthy
fats fats that are high in poly and mono
unsaturated sources like olive oil
canola oil yes canola oil get in the
fucking comments oh before you do just
PP Med the shit so you can confuse
yourself further and uh nuts Not Butter
stuff like that the good stuff and
there's not really much controversy
between what is generally healthy food
and generally a junk food there is some
context there is some Nuance but not a
ton you don't take a tub of fucking Oreo
ice cream out of the fridge is this junk
food isn't all food good food you can
take that shit to the comments if you
like but trying to make some sense of
the world all categories or almost all
are fuzzy sets and slightly overlapping
so it's okay that some foods are
difficult to identify as junk or as
whole food but uh or as sorry healthy
food but gwis it's it's a pretty
delineated two set system
now a clean
bulk to get really to the definitions we
want to understand a clean bulk can be
defined for our purposes as a mass
gaining muscle gaining phase of
intentional weight gain over some months
of time
in which you essentially eat zero junk
food it's all healthy food okay a dirty
bulk is defined as a same intentional
gaining over several months of time a
hypercaloric diet that meets the protein
recommendations so a gram per pound on
average per person and then the carbs
and fat sources to meet your calorie
goal come from question mark because
dirty bulk doesn't mean you can't have
you know whole grain pasta with peanut
sauce and and lean chicken like that
actually is healthy that doesn't mean
you can't have it but if you take that
meal and you pop a piece of fucking
cheesecake in there and eat it like the
fucking pathetic disgusting animal that
you are your boy then um that's a dirty
bulk right you can even take the
cheesecake out and paint yourself some
lipstick with cheesecake and the
waitress walks by you're like hey look
at me and she's like you're never coming
back here the police beat you in the
restaurant and you had it coming that's
a dirty bulk so clean bulk versus dirty
bulk now we have an understanding
basically clean bulk No Junk Food dirty
bulk dirty bulk junk food optional but
it's called a dirty bulk for a reason
right you don't go to Las Vegas and be
like we're going to have a fuck crazy
night and just go to the casino and just
like do slots for an hour and be like
this sucks I'm losing money and go to
your hotel and uh watch the hotel TV
channels that's how my wife and I do
Vegas but if you're saying we're having
a crazy party in Vegas you at least try
to do some crazy shit you might not die
you might not kill a stripper and have
to bury her exactly 8.2 miles north
northwest of the strip but you know I'm
saying you might go to a strip club
throw up on a stripper get beat up by
the bouncers and typical Vegas kind of
stuff something fun has to happen so
people take dirty bulk then means are
going to at least have a cookie or two
and most of the time dirty bulk means
like you kind of you do a lot of that
shit and often it means more than one
day sorry more than one meal per day is
junk food or at least has lots of junk
food in it all right to the actual
comparison what advantages
hypothetically theoretically and
practically does a clean bulk have over
a dirty
bulk first clean bulking is healthier
yes the composition of the food that you
eat does determine some fraction of your
probabilistic health go going forward
it's not a hugee effect but it is a
notable effect it has been measured in
studies it's something like oh 20% of
your total health which means 80% has
diddly dick to do with the kind of food
that you're eating and really more just
amounts and timing and all that other
stuff but food quality does matter so if
you're gaining especially gaining
because you're inundating your body with
excess nutrients which it doesn't like
to begin with from a health perspective
if you're gaining on clean Foods quote
unquote clean bulk healthier foods then
is actually notably healthier for you
than dirty bulking absolutely it'll
reflect in in your blood work by a small
margin and in your your AOS scerotic
potential and all those other
things
next if you have trouble not ballooning
up to being a gigantic fat fuck on your
bulking phases which I've done on
purpose numerous times in my life and I
still regret
it then if you do a clean bulk the fact
that clean Foods healthy foods are just
not as palatable they're not as easy to
eat and get a ton of calories from as
junk Foods the fact that that is a thing
means that your probability of going off
the rails and gaining like five extra
pounds of fat over the course of the
thing because you just can't stop eating
and you end up you're you're shooting
for 3,500 calories as your Surplus but
you end up hitting a bunch of days or 38
4100 cuz who the fuck can stop eating
pizza that's not a thing you even want
to try so if you're in that situation
and you end up overdoing daily calories
with super tasty Foods the probability
that you can overdo calories with clean
food is beus Christ that's much much
lower um a lot of times bodybuilders who
think that clean bulking is the only way
to go will have a huge problem even
trying to gain weight because it's so
hard to eat a ton of healthy food if you
have trouble with gaining way too
quickly and getting too fat clean bulk
is a huge huge uh weapon in Your Arsenal
because if you switch to clean bulking
or as we'll talk about later cleaner
bulking yeah like it's very unlikely
you're going to be able to overeat like
crazy still possible but much less
likely number three advantage of clean
buls versus dirty
buls this is something I've experienced
personally when you're eating healthier
food your gym performance is better junk
food is fun to eat and it keeps your gym
performance still very high but I've
noticed um a significant notable that's
why I noticed it amount of performance
difference your cardio is better your
recovery is better just by a small
margin if you eat mostly healthy food
now Health nuts will be like as soon as
I started eating healthy it like changed
my life like the next meal I felt like
so better and like just lighter and
Freer and like my karmic energy was
align shut up Betty the fuck up out of
here you made all that shit up in your
head but over days and over weeks more
healthy food versus more junk food you
can feel it and your performance is
optimized by a small but notable margin
with healthy food so if you're really
serious about massing if you're really
serious about muscle gain if you're
serious about a bodybuilding career
which almost all pro bodybuilders are
which is why almost all of them try to
clean bulk as much as possible it
absolutely is an effect that you have to
watch out for you ate like 12 boxes of
fucking hoos yesterday you show up to
squat High Reps today you may be like
bro I have a headache and I want to
throw up I have no idea why like let's
examine the evidence you're a fucking
idiot and you shouldn't have eaten 12
fucking packs of hoos that's right packs
of hoos not individual
hoos next and I think last for the
purposes of stuff I could think of off
hand when writing this presentation
advantage of clean bulking is that it
builds better habits for your fat loss
phase later when you do clean bulking
you're eating healthy food all the time
when you switch to Fat Loss phase you
just take a bit of carbon fat out of
each meal same diet fat loss phase if
you're doing a dirty bulk and you're
like yeah man mostly my meals are we
protein and Oreos and you have to start
doing a fat loss diet where you
typically try to eat healthier food
because trying to lose fat on a bunch of
Oreos is tough because reducing your
calories and Ultra tasty Foods is a
great way to be miserable and starve you
might just like be like oh fuck I have
to eat like chicken and rice fuck and
then like how to cook it how to meal
prep it just the habit of it the
revulsion you'll have to it for a while
fuck man it's really tough and all of a
sudden you're like uh more likely to
fall off the wagon or just have a harder
time with fat loss phases but with
bodybuilders that are a high level that
mostly do clean bulking and of course
clean cutting for them the transition
from bulking to cutting they literally
posting their Instagrams like coach
pulled back the food today which starts
our prep and you're like pulled back the
food the fuck is that like a curtain you
look through what the fuck that even
mean they're eating the same healthy
foods all the time coach just reduces
the food keeps the protein High reduces
carbs and fats by a bit and then voila
bulk turns to cut it's a seamless
transition if you don't want that whole
transitional bumpy road situation all
right those are the advantages for clean
bulking versus dirty bulking and that's
the end of the video that's it you go
clean bulk I'm kidding of course dirty
bulk has advantages over clean bulking
some of these will be kind of obvious
the rest will be kind of also obvious
first it's just more fun at least at
first how is it more fun if you have a
protein shake in a container of Oreos
that you have to eat and then you do
that and then later you hang out with a
friend and their dad comes downstairs
and he's like oh you're the bodybuilder
guy you're like yes sir and he's like
man I just really respect your
dedication you're like it's tough to uh
do what I do lots of willpower he's like
she eating like chicken breast and rice
huh every day every meal and you're like
uhuh
yep sure
am and then your friends are like
pizza's here and you're like oh that
one's mine and the dad's like you eat
pizza and you're like my life is easy
it's so fun this is bodybuilding I just
eat pizza and drink protein shakes so
it's way more fun I said at first for a
reason junk food gets fucking old if you
eat it even for a few days straight I
know guarantee you somebody in the
comments is going to be like I eat drunk
food for 47 years straight and uh I feel
great and then we check up on that
comment a week later and like this user
has deceased I wish YouTube would update
about that wouldn't that be fucked up uh
it's not a sustainable practice for most
people most people just after a while do
you guys know that feel I'm reaching
here but you know that feeling where we
just like have eaten junk for a few days
like on a road trip or something and
you're like I need a vegetable I need
something fucking colored green that has
fiber that I can feel in my throat
scratching the throat so that when it
goes down it scratches the gunk out of
my fucking intestines you you e enough
candy bars and you're like oh I just
feel unclean like in a moral religious
way you know it's it's awful you you
feel like you get oilier and and the
junk food just doesn't taste as good
after a while it's like having mind sex
with tons of super hot girls after a
while it's all the same I think that's
like a Dan belerian Revelation or
whatever in any case that last part is
for sure not true but junk food can get
old we'll talk about that in a little
bit so I don't want to put too fine a
point on it's fun way more fun but at
least at first when do people plan dirty
bucks it's at the end of cuts they're
like oh my God I'm in a fucking dirty
bulock at the end this cut oh my God
they make a fucking list like KFC okay
then we're going to go Taco Bell like
okay so KFC Thursday Taco Bell Friday
like no you don't understand we pick up
the KFC we pull around and it's the
combination KFC Taco Bell and we order
Taco Bell in addition to that and then
we go home and we just shower in the
fucking shit amazing when you're on a
fat loss phase towards the end such
fantasies can be quite appealing and the
first few days of that is like fucking
Bliss but later you will find that the
junk food is not as fun I'll get to why
that matters in a bit next benefit there
is a near zero chance you won't gain
weight and had an interesting comment in
uh in our YouTube channel which talking
about like you how to eat more for Ming
if people who can't gain weight and a
lot of it in the context of if you still
keep your food healthy how do you do it
there's a bunch of different really good
strategies making the food tastier and
eating higher calorie density Foods
timing your Foods better and one guy was
like I don't understand how you could
possibly not gain weight just eat a
bunch of junk food and you'll gain
weight and like he's not wrong obviously
not ideal for bodybuilding because of
all the health stuff and shit like that
but if you're having trouble gaining
weight The Undefeated weight gain tool
is the Snickers bar and if you really
have trouble gaining weight you just go
watch a few episodes of the show my 600
lb life you get the fucking hack for how
to get huge not the kind of huge you
want but if you meet your protein
amounts and your calories are set and
you don't go over them you can actually
gain all the weight you need and tons of
muscle with it too again not in the
healthiest way but even if you just
pepper in a bit of junk you can junk
your way up to immense calories how many
of you as a matter of fact why don't we
do a poll in the comments below don't
let's let's keep the shit truthful you
feel me we don't know if you're lying we
can be skeptical God knows he knows so
don't lie what's the most what's the
highest number of individual order items
you've ever purchased at a Taco Bell and
successfully eaten up up up up within
one meal cycle two hours all right so
you go you watch a movie with friends
you go to Taco Bell how many items did
you get that you actually ate within
that next few hours my my PR is probably
like
10 you know but I like the the the beef
and potato burrito the cheesy cheese
Gordita Crunch Supreme all the shit the
fucking names are the same the shit has
all the same ingredients I love it let
me know but in any case there's like
everyone can eat at least five things at
Taco Bell and that itself has to be like
1,500 calories and you can do that a
couple times a week that's an extra so
many fucking calories cookies and chips
and whole milk and fuck like if you junk
it up there's no way cuz people people
will complain be like I'm ultra lean I'm
really active and I can't gain weight
after we've sort of thrown all the darts
at the board none of them stuck uh try
some junk and they're like well like
what like motherfucker like anything
that you like to eat no problem almost
everyone can gain that's a big benefit
for those of you struggling to gain you
want to use it judiciously which we'll
talk about in a sec but nonetheless it
it's big UPS right what people will
clean bulk and they think that's the
only way to bulk and be like can't get
above 179 man my body just doesn't want
to do it and it's like a fucking
stickers bar will push your bitch ass
right above 179 no fucking problem
arguably much further above if you keep
doing that next the dirty bulk is a
great break from the monotony of a fat
loss super healthy food diet I mean
imagine you transition from a fat loss
diet to a bulking diet and then 3 weeks
into the bulking diet you just look at
chicken and rice and you're like I'm out
I'm out of the fucking sport C cancel me
fuck that you burn your posing trunks
you're fucking done it can be tough but
if it's a Friday night and your friends
are going out for all you can eat sushi
man it makes bodybuilding a little bit
easier no wait I said that wrong a lot
easier and way more fun and way less
monotonous because when you can eat some
junk and eat some BS dude it's just it's
a big deal and it's not to be
understated
lastly if you dirty bulk quote unquote
and especially in some context which
I'll talk about in just a bit I keep
saying just a bit this must be a great
thing coming up you can actually read it
on the slide if you pause the video
that's what I'm saying
next it's easier to stick to a dirty
bulk when you're at school at work on
the road visiting Grandma's house for
Thanksgiving like Grandma's like don't
you love my mashed potatoes and you're
like yeah Grandma but
macros so no I won't eat them because my
biceps Grandma's the born of the the
fucking Great Depression she's not going
to understand what you're saying she the
fuck is wrong with you motherfucker I
made them shits with love you don't love
me and you're like Grandma did you just
say motherfucker she's like hell yeah
pimp and you're like where the fuck is
grandma from New Orleans in any case
it's so easy to just eat some of the
fucking protein at Grandma's house that
Grandma still she makes the fried
chicken or whatever for the holidays big
old Turkey Leg shit you can even bring a
fucking protein shake with you but then
all the goodies she makes the cakes and
the fucking puddings and this and that
every family occasion every special
dinner if you're dirty bulking people
are like hey man we're going to go out
to eat it like fucking Outback or
whatever like can you go you're like ABS
fucking lutely I can go whereas if you
were like clean bulk only you'd be like
oh you yeah I'll just sit this one out
I'm just going to sit at home and eat my
fucking rice and chicken and Cry tears
of sadness because I fucking dieted
myself out of having any friends way
easier to stick to shit that's a huge
green check mark into the column of
dirty bulking so where is this all going
who wins which you know what I'm saying
Red Team Versus Blue Team who wins who
wins what's better and to ask the
question of what's better clean bulking
versus dirty bulking as a matter of fact
the lying our thumbnail
entirely is the illustration of a
logical fallacy called a false dichotomy
fallacy it is the idea that there are
only two choices and you either pick one
or the other right people ask me like
hey do you find men or women attractive
I'm
like yes and no but I have very few
people I find
unattractive I only see one of those and
it's in the
mirror isn't that sad Scott's video guy
what do you think I could do to find
myself more attractive you got to do
like the Buffalo Bill thing tuck my
genitals between my thighs yeah like
break around and put some nice music on
really feel your swag really feel my
swag he sure felt his swag didn't me a
bit too much the problem with that is my
quads and my current state are so big I
can barely do that because my testicles
become
crushed that's hot I just found myself
attractive again thanks Scott's video
guy that was
easy there is no avoiding hard training
if you want to grow but if you want to
grow the most your training needs to be
hard and smart RP hypertrophy app will
make sure you're progressing on track
monitoring and adjusting your workout at
all times so for all that work you're
doing you can be sure you're getting the
best
results all right false dichotomy it
turns out it's not one or the other it's
not clean versus dirty but rather how
clean versus how dirty because remember
every meal can be analyzed on clean
versus dirty even fractionally if you
have a meal which has whole grain pasta
great super healthy peanut sauce chicken
a bunch of veggies and you have like an
ice cream cone and that's part of the
meal you don't put the ice cream cone in
the shit just have it with that meal
afterwards was that a clean meal was
that a dirty meal well really it was a
bit of both so my recommendation to you
is not to be dogmatic and say clean only
or or dirty only it's to do actually the
following first after a fat loss face
has ended and your bulking phase has
begun your muscle growth
phase you probably want for the first
two or 3 weeks to eat exclusively
healthy food why because junk food at
that point tastes so fucking good you
are going to go off the fucking rails
and eat way too much of it it's just
painful you need to reestablish proper
hunger signaling after a fat loss diet
bring down that diet fatigue so for two
to three weeks after I would say 100%
clean eating after that two to three
weeks in or whatever you're feeling like
man I'm getting really tired of fucking
clean food I'm sure a shit not hungry
anymore cuz this is a lot of clean food
you can put in your schedule or an
allotment for one to three cheat meals
per week I like one on Friday two on
Saturday or one each day for the weekend
Friday Saturday Sunday that's right
Friday's part of my weekend VIP
lifestyle so if you do that it's
dealer's Choice the cheat meals we have
a cheat meal guide as well hopefully you
can find on YouTube and that means that
your fundamental core is clean bulking
but on top of it a few times a week
you've sprinkled in some so to speak and
it kind of ticks all the boxes it's
still super healthy but you don't have
trouble gaining weight it's still very
good for performance but it's not overly
monotonous and you can titrate that
amount if you're like well I really
shouldn't be going crazy just one cheat
meal of something not too crazy couple
ice cream cones and a protein shake and
if you're really quite lean and you're
gaining way too slowly and your monotony
is just through the roof then yeah you
can have three cheat meals a week no
problem and if you're gaining too fast
you can ease up on the cheat meals and
if you're having some snacks some nuts
here some chocolate covered nuts there
it's all nuts that go into this mouth oh
wait uh yeah I meant that and you know
you just if you're gaining a little too
fast ease up on the snacking if you're
gaining a little too slow and feel free
to include more snacks if you're kind of
done eating as much clean food as you
can it's clean food at a certain point
you're like fuck that I'm not staring at
another grain of brown rice ever fucking
again if on the extreme end you are lean
your doctor confirmed healthy with blood
work and you are gaining too slowly and
you just can't eat enough make sure you
stick to a core 75% of your food or so
or of your meals not food by calories
still healthy still clean still no junk
and then just cheat it up a little bit
more even quite a bit with no worries at
all because remember it's not clean bulk
versus dirty bulk it's how how clean and
how dirty right now I just want to get
you guys clued into what's going on in
my head I always have like a stack of
analogies in my brain that I can make
and I kind of Select out of it and they
randomly assort right the whole neural
network part of your brain that throws
out candidate thoughts and all of my
stack is insane references to mixing sex
with physically revolting things like
body excrement into try to make analogy
of clean and dirty I'm just going to
spare you guys that shit but if you want
extra shit we have a member section for
the YouTube extra videos every week that
are usually nerdier and more in-depth
check that out and also in the
description we have a link to the team
full ROM Forum we do weekly lives to
answer all of your questions The Forum
everyone answers everyone's questions
all the time we look your Technique to
try to see if we can analyze to get your
squats better Etc if you post videos we
always analyze them if that's something
that interests you and you have just
little teeny bit more money remember 99%
of your money goes to Mr Nick chasi of
RP but 1% of it goes to my personal
Lamborghini collection I'm at 48
Lamborghinis currently and you know what
I thought it would be impressive in my
underground garage um with also a runway
for my stealth jet but
48 it's like 48 states of the United
States I'm too shy of feeling complete
so please buy something so I can get my
way to 50 Lambos and then I will first
have happiness in my life see you guys
next time