foreign
welcome to the house of hypertrophy
there are many ways to perform a set
when lifting weights a normal set is
simply a belt of repetitions performed
and people commonly perform multiple
normal sets with rest intervals between
them a rest poor set for this video will
be defined as performing repetitions 2
or at least close to failure resting for
a short duration and then performing
further reps to or at least close to
failure multiple of these types of sets
can be performed in a session if you
like a drop set for this video will be
defined as performing repetitions 2 or
at least close to failure and then
immediately reducing the load to perform
additional repetitions to or at least
close to failure multiple of these types
of sets can be performed in a session if
you like this well-designed study
compared to these set systems for
hypertrophy and strength we'll also
analyze cluster sets a little later
let's Dive In
[Music]
the study recruited 28 trained men with
an average back squat one at a Max of
139 kilograms and subjects were assigned
into either a normal rest pause or drop
set group all subjects trained twice a
week for eight weeks training for back
squat leg press and leg extension each
session the normal set group for each
exercise performed four sets of 12
repetitions with a 70 one rep max load
using two minutes of rest between sets
the rest pause group for each exercise
performed 10 repetitions with a 75 One
Rate Max load rested for 20 seconds and
performed a further six repetitions they
performed three of these rest poor sets
per session with two minutes of rest
between them the drop set group for each
exercise performed 10 repetitions with a
75 One Rate Max load and then
immediately reduce the load to 55 100
Max to perform a further six repetitions
they performed three of these drop sets
per session with two minutes of of rest
between them during the fifth week of
training all groups increased the loads
they trained with by five percent total
repetitions were equated between the
three groups so this is technically why
the normal set group performed one extra
set versus the rest pause and drop set
groups if any group failed to hit the
rep numbers prescribed assistance was
provided to get there unfortunately the
researchers didn't mention how often
assistance was provided with the
Response Group many of you would have
noticed that performing six extra reps
with a 75 One Rate Max load 20 seconds
after performing 10 reps with that same
load seems extremely hard I agree I
think this group would have had
assistance quite a bit so technically
this study may have included a few Force
repetitions so bear this in mind that's
not to say the normal or drop set
group's training was easy I think there
probably would have been occasions where
subjects in these groups required
assistance on the latest sets before and
after the study strength was measured by
back squat Warner at Max and muscle
hypertrophy by thickness of the lateral
thigh across three regions a proximal
middle and distal region all three
groups increased back squat strength but
the gains tended to be best for the
response group for muscle hypertrophy
all three groups experience similar
gains in the middle and proximal lateral
thigh regions at the distal region only
the Response Group appeared to see gains
however I am skeptical that rest pause
training truly produced great distal
lateral thigh gains let me explain why
here are the individual data for the
gains in the distal lateral thigh region
notice how in both the drop set and
normal set groups a few individuals
actually saw a notable loss in size from
training this wasn't really the case
with the Response Group only one
individual saw a loss in size in this
region with her other middle and
proximal regions none of the subjects in
any of the groups experienced a decrease
in size now some people may be wondering
how on Earth did some subjects see a
decrease in distal lateral thigh size
with training I'll address this shortly
but for the drop set and normal set
groups the few individuals experiencing
a loss in size likely dragged the
average gains down for both groups
causing the appearance of these groups
to see lower gains than the rest pause
group some might be thinking sure but
doesn't this data prove that at the
distal region normal and drop set
training made it more likely to see a
decrease in size still meaning rest
pause is superior I can't rule this out
but I think there's a better explanation
remember the groups involve different
people and it seems different people
don't see identical Regional hypertrophy
with the same training this is evidenced
by the fact within each group some
individuals lost size While others gain
size I believe this is an underrated
Point many are unaware of a lot of
people assume in response to the same
exercise every single person grows the
same muscle regions identically but this
data shows this isn't necessarily the
case therefore I think it's more likely
just by Chance the drop set a normal set
of groups had some individuals with a
greater tendency to lose size in their
distal lateral thigh region regardless
of what training they perform my
speculation is this might be a more
accurate explanation of the results
rather than resport's training being
Superior with that out of the way how is
it possible for subjects to lose eyes
I'm unaware of any validated explanation
but this isn't the first study to find
this for example this study involves
subjects training partial back squats
and observed decreases in the size of
lower thigh regions maybe this is some
sort of compensatory mechanism where the
body to support the growth of certain
regions decreases the size of other
muscle regions that aren't stimulated
much via training but this is very much
speculative nonetheless my summary of
this paper is that for hypertrophy the
set systems were pretty much comparable
for strength resport's training was
superior but I think there's a solid
explanation for this particular finding
foreign
[Music]
strength but rest Sports training was
superior but I think this is simply
because the Response Group accumulated
more repetitions at heavier loads versus
the two other groups why does this
matter because the literature finds
virtually a direct relationship between
heavier loads and strength gains for
example this study found training with a
bench press and back squat with two to
four reps with 90 1 MX loads produce the
greater one rate max strength gains on
the two exercises versus training with 8
to 12 reps using a seventy percent One
Rate Max load therefore I don't think
there's anything inherently Superior to
Esports training for strength gains
accumulating repetitions with heavier
load seems to be the key for increasing
100 max strength and this can be done
with both normal set and rest pause
although response tends to be more
practical with moderate to lighter loads
so normal sets may be practically better
for training with heavier loads drop
sets are probably unideal since they
involve reducing loads
[Music]
as we know the initial study analyzed
largely indicates similar muscle
hypertrophy between normal rest pause
and drop sets this style of respport and
drop sets used in this particular study
isn't necessarily identical to how
people use these set systems this
particular study only involved one load
reduction per drop set and many people
tend to use multiple load reductions and
only a single overall drop set likewise
the rest pause in this study involved
only six further reps per set while many
people may perform even more mini sets
of reps net or two failure per resp poor
set but I don't think any of this
changes things a recent meta-analysis
combined the results of the overall
literature comparing drop sets to normal
sets and this includes some studies
which involved multiple load reductions
with a single drop set muscle
hypertrophy was still similar between
both normal and drop sets with rest
pause there's only one other study
exploring it to my knowledge 18 trained
individuals perform at a range of
exercises four days a week for six weeks
a normal set group for each exercise
train three sets of six reps with an
eighty percent of one rate Max load
using two to three minutes of rest
between sets a rest pause group for each
exercise perform to reps the failure
with an 80 100 Max load and then rested
for 20 seconds before performing further
reps to failure they continued this
until they achieved a total of 18 reps
after six weeks muscle I poetry measures
tended to be superior for the rest pause
group however there is a vital potential
limitation with this study it appears as
though the normal set group did not
apply Progressive overload this means
particularly in the later portion of the
study they would have been trading far
from failure since the Response Group
performed all their reps to failure
Progressive overload would have
naturally taken place for them through
rep increases given this vital potential
limitation I'm unsure if this study
qualifies as evidence or S post training
is superior mechanistically a don't
think there's any valid way through
which rest pause or drop sets would be
superior for hypertrophy mechanical
tension appears to be the primary
hypertrophy stimulus as examined in the
previous video to optimize mechanical
tension we want to achieve High motor
unit Recruitment and respective forces
from the individual motor units this is
because achieving this ensures we expose
all the muscle fibers belonging to those
motor units to Mechanical tension some
people think that going Beyond failure
as done with response and drop sets is
what achieves full motor unit
Recruitment and high respective motor
unit forces however this doesn't seem to
be correct this study seems to be the
strongest motor unit modeling study to
date the data implies with a normal set
full mosina Recruitment and high
motunate forces are achieved before
failure even before failure you see the
higher threshold motor units which
contain faster twitch muscle fibers are
slightly fatiguing I think this is a
strong reason why the literature mainly
indicates training to failure is similar
to stopping shy of failure since at the
point of failure no added motor unit
recruitment or increases in motor unit
forces occur I plan to explore the topic
of training to failure more in future
videos now some might accept this but
then say by going Beyond failure with
response and drop sets we're able to
perform a greater number of reps with
filmotuna Recruitment and high forces
they may call these effective reps I
think there are two problems with this
firstly those quote unquote effective
reps are going to be carried out under
increasingly more fatigue and this
fatigue can impair multini Recruitment
and forces and I expect like this goes
somewhere to balancing things out in
fact even very long duration normal sets
may involve some higher threshold motor
units dropping out of recruitment
altogether before failure due to Central
fatigue secondly many seem to assume a
greater number of effective reps always
means more hypertrophy but this
assumption may not be correct there
could be a threshold to the number of
effective reps are required to optimally
build muscle and all set systems may
pass this threshold meaning any extra
effective reps do not stimulate more
gains indeed I think these reasons might
be why the initial study ultimately
observes similar hypertrophy between the
different set systems despite the fact
the drop set and response method
technically involved more quote-unquote
effective reps some may be wondering
about other stimuli behind muscle
hypertrophy such as metabolic stress and
muscle damage drop sets and response
generally tend to involve higher
metabolic stress and muscle damage but
as examined in the previous video there
isn't any compelling evidence metabolic
stress and muscle damage are powerful
drivers of hypertrophy
what is a powerful driver of hypertrophy
though is consistent training tracking
workouts and understanding your progress
is important an alpha progression is a
high quality app that can help neat
graphs can track virtually any measure
long term such as your strength progress
number of workouts body weight and even
set numbers per muscle group and
circumference measures you can add your
own program or use their flexible custom
workout generator you can select what
equipment you have available and specify
whether you want to focus or even
neglect certain muscle groups the
reviews speak to the app's quality 4.9
stars in Google Play and 4.8 stars on
Apple Store the link in the comments and
description gives you two weeks free of
all its features plus twenty percent off
a subscription if you do purchase the
app the house of hypertri will get 50 so
this sincerely helps support these three
videos
[Music]
some individuals may be wondering about
cluster sets cluster sets are similar to
rest pause the main difference being
reps are commonly not performed
intentionally to or near failure with
cluster sets and very low rep numbers
may be used with cluster sets there are
technically numerous ways you can
perform cluster sets but as an example
imagine you select a load you can
perform a maximum of six repetitions
with you may perform three mini sets of
two reps with 30 seconds of rest between
mini sets thereby totaling 6 reps you
may then repeat this however many times
you like since cluster sets enable you
to accumulate reps with heavier loads
it's logical it should be fine for
strength gains indeed a 2021
meta-analysis combine the results of all
the studies comparing cluster sets to
normal sets for strength and found both
produced comparable strength gains as
for hypertrophy the same 2021
meta-analysis combined the data from a
few studies and established similar
approach feed between cluster sets and
normal sets however a limitation is only
five studies were included and and two
of them involved the normal sets
training with very low rep numbers and
one of them did not have the normal set
group Train there to failure plus two of
the studies were only five weeks
moreover since this meta-analysis in
2021 another study has come out
indicating cluster sets may not be ideal
for hypertrophy specifically 22 trained
individuals trained twice a week for
eight weeks on the barbell bench press a
normal set group trained their exercise
each session with four sets of five reps
with an 85 percent One Rate Max load
using five minutes of rest between sets
a cluster set group performed four sets
of five repetitions with an 85 100 Max
load but use 30 seconds of rest between
each repetition per set and three
minutes of rest between sets both groups
experience similar bench press strength
gains supporting the idea cluster sets
are viable for strength for hypertrophy
although gains in the lower region of
the pectoralis major were similar
between both groups growth of the middle
and upper regions was Superior for the
normal group suggesting cluster sets may
not overall be as good for building
muscle therefore I'd say the overall
evidence isn't super clear on whether
cluster sets can truly optimize
hypertrophy again there are many
different ways to perform cluster sets
and it's probable in cluster set designs
that minimize proximity to failure
hypertrophy is probably compromised
while in cluster set designs that
involve some reps close to failure
hypertrophy may be fine
[Music]
with strength accumulating reps with
heavier loads is crucial and this can be
achieved with normal sets cluster sets
and perhaps response though resports
tends to be more practical with moderate
to lighter loads drop sets may be
unideal since they involve load
reductions for hypertrophy based on the
current literature we don't have any
strong evidence to suggest a particular
set system is superior although cluster
sets particularly ones involving reps
very far from failure might be
sub-optimal for hypertrophy I think the
notion many set systems are similar for
hypertrophy is great news as you have
all these options at your disposal you
can train with whichever you like and of
course you can incorporate different set
systems within an overall training
program technically performing a single
drop set or rest poor set can be a time
efficient Training Method with a single
drop set you perform multiple load
reductions and with a single rest poor
set you perform multiple mini sets since
these can be quite fatiguing it may be
best to use these types of response and
drop sets with isolation exercises
demonstrating the time efficiency of
this this Japanese study which was
included in the previously mentioned
meta-analysis on drop sets compared
biceps curls with this single drop set
to three normal sets of reps to failure
bicep skeins were ultimately similar
between both but the drop set only took
around two minutes to complete compared
to the normal sets which took around 7
minutes
two final things I'd like to shout out
coaching cues an underrated channel that
puts out great evidence-based info
surrounding resistance training I'm not
getting paid to promote nor do I know
the creators of coaching cues personally
I'm purely sharing their work as I feel
they're putting out great stuff and many
people sub to this channel May
appreciate their content links to their
pages are in the description and
comments finally I have a free Ultimate
Guide to bench pressing ebook that
covers these areas feel free to get it
in the link in the comments and
description
foreign