stop right now looking for the best
tricep exercise the best bicep exercise
stop hey folks Dr Mike here for
Renaissance periodization and today's
topic is arm specialization when Size
Matters P.S I'm Dr Mike I'm a
competitive bodybuilder Grappler
professor of sport Science creator of a
whole bunch of apps here at RP and this
channel is about how to get you guys to
know stuff and not be fooled by Fitness
industry BS so welcome if you want to
subscribe dope if not and no big deal
for folks that already subscribed we've
got a member section give that some
thought and also uh just randomly um I
just want to share something with you
guys I've had it with Scott the video
guy lately and if you any of you know
the mob or associated with the mafia and
know how to get rid of people just
mention that in the comments and I was
just saying how great your body was UN
and he and he does this thing where he
like tries he knows we're on bad terms
so he's like Mike looking good buddy and
I'm like Scott fucking spare me son of a
bitch seduce me Scott the video guy not
for the eighth time in any case my
strange sexual relationship with the
videographer aside you want big arms I
know you do and you're looking for the
best program for arms which is why you
clicked on our outrageously noou
thumbnailed and titled video I have bad
news for you the ultimate arm program
does not
exist just like the tastiest food does
not exist it's normal to us uh if you
like you know you guys ever sit like a
bus or a plane next to someone you just
like watch over their shoulder as they
like scroll on their phone I would never
do that that's a huge violation of
privacy but I do it all the time and if
someone's searching for best program for
big arms we don't bat an eye at it
because we assume such a thing exists
but if can you imagine someone like you
watch someone Google on the plane like
tastiest food ever search you're like do
you need some kind of love that you're
not getting at home what the fuck does
tastiest food ever mean like how do you
even compare Thai food and Chinese food
it's just two winners it's impossible so
tastiest food doesn't exist
the best program for arms doesn't exist
but with food and cooking there are
Dependable
rules on how to make food that usually
will make it taste better if you follow
the rules rules like um use the
microwave cook with
sadness don't follow any recipes follow
your own heart shit like that no I'm
kidding you know shit like use spices
and to make sure you're sequencing your
uh meal creation appropriate so that
something is not just cooling on the
stove or was supposed to be hot when you
mix it into other stuff these ideas and
rules are Dependable because
professional chefs are trained in them
and then they already know them by heart
so kind of anything that comes out of a
professional chefs Arsenal will taste
better than a regular persons not
because they know exactly how to make
every single food in the perfect food
but because they know these principles
just the same way with lifting there are
Dependable rules on how to create a
program
which means many programs can be created
but all of them have something in common
they follow these Dependable rules and
they're much more effective than not
four big arms so for you I have an
exclusive yeah one time only offer
see
10 10 rules of arm size I didn't mean
for them to be 10 I just started writing
rules down and then there was 10 and I
was like bad ran out of rules so here
they are I'm going to talk about them in
depth with you first strict
technique strict technique allows you to
Target the muscle that you want not
Target and fatigue other muscles that
are irrelevant and keep you safe and
your joints and conductive tissues
pluging along really good so anytime you
say you want big arms you had better
have good technique on your curls on
your extensions on your Skull Crushers
the whole bit if you're doing some
stupid bullshit and you're like I want
big arms just got to go hard and your
Technique is awful that is priority
number one for you to fix if you need
big arms number two deep stretch
stretches if you're training biceps and
you're able to do an incline curl where
your biceps are behind your body if
you're doing triceps at the very top of
the push down let the bar come up and
really stretch the back of your tricep
that is going to cause more muscle
growth than not so a part of good
technique is to have a deep stretch
Incorporated kind of as often as
possible in your exercises rule number
three try every single rep range for its
best stimulus to fatigue ratio to you
what does that mean you you want to try
sets of 5 to 10 for arms you want to try
sets of 10 to 20 for arms you want to
try sets of 20 to 30 reps close to
failure for
arms depending on your genetics and your
training history and the difference
between your biceps and your triceps
some of those may be bigger winners than
others on the stimulus to fatigue ratio
which means what you might try doing
curls for sets of eight right five to 10
rep range and you notice that like your
elbows kind of hurt it's really hard
systemically to lift that much weight
because you don't really get a pump or a
big stretch in your bicep it just feels
like you're just like training elbows at
that point man fuck that and you might
think the barbell curls just not for me
but hold on a second try sets of 10 to
20 reps doing sets of 15ish reps you
might realize holy shit my elbows feel
pretty good and my biceps are getting
crazy pumps and they get sore for a few
days I like it then you might try set of
20 to 30 on that barb alal exercise and
realiz like your joints feel fine but
the biceps never really get pumped they
just get really tired you're like man
fuck this 25 rep bullshit like I'm just
getting tired I'm not getting sore not
getting fatigued in that right Deep Way
in the muscle that I know correlates to
growth it just feels like I'm wasting my
time if you don't limit yourself to rep
ranges and when you try any tricep or
bicep exercises you experiment with a
wide swath of rep ranges you're G to
find Dependable answers and it's going
to lead to one of two things one for
certain exercises certain rep ranges you
know for you work better than others and
then you stick to them and then you have
better gains or
lucky you you find out that everything's
just a little different but everything
works well and then hey great use all
the rep ranges you want no big deal you
just found all winners for most people
it's going to be more of that first
scenario where they realize for some
exercises this rep range is the best the
other two repes aren't that great but
try them all so if someone's like dude
telling you man big arms you need sets
of eight alternating dumbbell curls you
could be like oh that's an interesting
idea to try but I'm not just going to
limit myself to that I'm going to try
that exercise with lower weights sorry
with lower reps with higher reps with
everything in between to see where am I
getting my best stimulus pumps and
soreness and fatigue in the muscle and
my least fatigue I don't have to try as
hard and get as tired and my joints feel
much better than they otherwise would
next Point number
four this is a huge
point the fourth rule of arm size is to
search for multiple effective variations
rather than optimal movements right very
now until Tik Tok on Instagram on
YouTube and on all social media there
are people Googling something they
shouldn't be Googling they're asking
chat GPT something they shouldn't be
asking what's the best movement for arms
what's the best bicep exercise I get
asked this in my fucking messages and in
my uh comments on my my posts all the
time why barbell curl versus Easy Bar
Mike it's a very innocent question but
it's asked once it's asked once it
leaves the user's mouth or keyboard it's
already Dead on Arrival because there is
no such thing as the best movement for
muscle it simply doesn't exist and I can
tell you exactly why even if you take a
movement that is biomechanically
arranged to seem like it's the best and
for the first few weeks or months you're
using it really is the best at some
point there's a process called staleness
we're just doing the same shit over and
over your body's like Fuck this I'm not
growing from this anymore you know what
I'm going to turn up some joint pain for
this motherfucker throw throw some dice
in this bitch face like ah I ain't doing
it your body gets tired tired of doing
the same shit and its responses will not
be optimized after some usually number
of months and then you thought you
discover the one arm alternating
dumbbell core was the best for biceps
four months in you're like dude it's not
working like it used to and it feels
like shit but it's the best the fuck am
I supposed to do like how do I do I do
something worse but it's not worse you
try another also effective variant
because there are multiple exercises
that are very good and now because it's
not stale because you haven't been using
it a few months it's going to be an
incredible stimulus with very low
fatigue for your biceps and now it's the
best exercise but that won't happen
forever because it'll recycle so what I
encourage you to do is stop right now
looking for the best tricep exercise the
best bicep exercise stop what I want you
to do instead is find three to five
exercises for you for biceps and triceps
each that's some total of six to 10
exercises that are very good you don't
care which one's the best they're very
good I was Scott should I make
the politically incorrect Herm
joke fuck it If you happen to be a
single heterosexual male who is not
looking for a monogamous relationship
huge caveat to that do you want the
hottest girl nope why cuz you want three
to five of them hoes in your rotation
you text one hoe and she's like I'm busy
you're like man fuck you send you
probably don't want to do that you're
like that's all right baby haha it's
your boy send and then you DM that other
bitch and you're like hey what's up
Stacy and she's like oh my god I've been
thinking about you you're like in I'm in
boom Uber to her house and then three
days later Stacy's dope but she's not a
redhead and you like them redheads and
Francine happens to be redhead and she's
like hey I just got back from New York
and I'm really tired but like I could
use like a day of like Netflix you're
like I know what that that means send
you got the rotation now me personally
I've never had remotely enough game to
see a woman in real life not sh my pants
definitely not talk to woman and for
sure should operate essentially a Harum
a voluntary harm of course but people
who have sex with lots of other people
will tell you that the idea that there's
like the one hot girl that I'm just
going to bang her and that's it not how
the playing that that's not how the game
works you want a rotation all the girls
in your rotation are hot as fuck but not
one of them is like well that's it
that's wifey material because typically
if you're interested in you're
interested in wifey you don't do the her
and rotation shit anymore that's not a
sustainable practice so just the same
way with exercises you're not looking
for the best bicep moov on fuck that it
doesn't exist but you're looking for
three to five movements for biceps and
three to five for triceps which you
really lean on and when some of them are
going real well and their stimulus to
fatigue ratio super high you cook them
but then when they're not your elbows
start getting creaky the pump's just not
what it used to be flip it in Stacy he's
not available you DM Patricia that's it
it's on isn't that how it works Scott is
that how it works you've had lots of sex
with lots of attractive women before
being that you're a gigachad or whatever
the hell the internet says about you
it's all been a lie you're a good
liar you lie to me about that how could
you all image you know to do what to not
have sex with a lot of women you gota
there's got to be an end to
this all right rule number five we got
our effective exercises we got strict
Technique we got deep stretches we've
tried all the rep Rangers we know it
works for us rule five is you got to
train arms first or at the very least
early in any given session of the week
in which you train them here's the thing
I don't know how many times this has
happened to me but it it seems like
dozens you train you walk into the gym
you know you you always know some people
at the gym uh oh Frank he's great or
that guy I don't know his name but I've
talked to him for two years in the
fucking locker room and they'll tell you
shit you guys know how it is people in
will tell you shit you never asked for
like yeah man how you doing like it's
pretty good fuck November it's fucking
cold am I right like yeah man's fucking
brutal yep and like yeah just got to
bring these arms up you know and you're
like oh very well why are you telling me
this of course you're not a dick like me
so you don't say things like that you go
dope man arm season baby every fucking
day out here and like yep yep and then
you watch them do their workout they
start with wide grip bench then they go
to flies then they go to close grip
bench then they go to dips and then
to two drop sets of rope push downs and
they're like that's it man arms you're
like what but you did the tricep
exercise last your chest was super
exhausted and front delts were totally
cooked you said you wanted arms is the
most important thing you programed you
did them with the least energy at the
very tail end of your workout where
you're are not only physically drained
but psychologically more or less check
the fuck out so if someone's real
serious about getting big big arms you
better hope and when they come into the
gym and arms are on the menu at all most
times either first or second so yeah you
might close grip bench first to get that
overall stimulus but next thing you do
is fucking Skull Crushers and then next
thing you do is rope push downs and then
that's it for triceps you're not trying
to save triceps for last you're trying
to do them first if it's biceps yeah
maybe do some underhand pull-ups first
get the biceps and back involved right
after that it's time for curls and then
later you might do some kind of machine
rowing you wouldn't do pull up pull down
row and then curl you could for overall
great overall development phenomenal
back development but arms if you're
really serious about them you're going
to train them early does that violate
the rule of compounds first or big
muscle groups first yeah is that really
a rule no somebody just made it up and
we're creating a sport performance
context it work great in a saving time
if you're a busy person context it
doesn't work great at all if you want
big fucking arms you want the biggest
arms you can get you start with arms you
get real early in most of your training
sessions that you show up and if I'm in
the gym with you and I see you tell me
you want arms and the first thing you do
is you start fucking going heavy on
curls I'm like what this is a person
that's really doing what they said they
want right it's like someone who's like
desperate to like oh my God I just want
to meet the right person I just I'm so
lonely and they're like oh yeah like
what are you doing tonight they're like
oh I'm just staying at home alone on
Netflix you're like there's places you
can go to meet people like I don't know
I'm tired you're like okay so when you
told me you really need this thing
called not loneliness you're not really
doing anything about it same idea with
arms you want to train him first or
early in the program every single time
you got him on that
rule number six try some compound post
exhausts it's the mirror image of
pre-exhaust what the fuck do I mean by
that if you start your bicep day with
barbell curls and then after that you do
cable curls you might be in a position
where some underhand pull-ups or pull
Downs as the last
exercise your biceps are now the
limiting factor and because you're so in
touch with them your mind muscle
connection with them is Max maximum so
if you're a person that can do like 20
underhand pull-ups regularly after two
bicep exercises you might only be able
to do 10 but every single rep Cooks your
biceps off the bone by pre- exhausting
biceps with their isolation movements
the post exhaust compound movement is
now just another bicep movement so it
multiplies your variation it allows you
to Target the biceps again but with a
movement that's typically not for biceps
underhand pull Downs are a little bit
for biceps mostly for back same idea
with push-ups or dumbbell press or close
grip bench after tricep work if you do
close grip push-ups normally that's a
lot of packs a lot of front dels lot
triceps great but if you do five sets of
push Downs three sets of one arm behind
the neck uh dumbbell extensions and then
you do some close grip push-ups holy
shit your triceps are done every single
rep is triceps to the Limit and of
course it'll hit your chest too because
it's got to wake up and cover the slack
but by the time it wakes up your triceps
are taking Mega damage Mega stimulus so
don't just look at Arms in isolation
literally as like I only do curls or
extensions for arms definitely do that
first but then consider layering in a
post exhausted compound movement that's
still biased to be more arms so close
grip work only you're not going to do
wide grip bench after triceps that's
stupid try that it'll put that last
little Finishing Touch of cooking the
living fuck out of your arms and with a
new variation of a compound you're
normally not exposed to it's a growing a
magical variation out of anything cuz
like if your arms are tired enough
everything's arms after that and that's
exactly what we're exploiting in this
case rule number seven this is another
really really big one I guess these are
all big but some of them are a bit more
nuanced train your arms as often as they
recover well hold on what does recover
mean means your arms are no longer sore
they're no longer tired and your rep and
load performance is typical or better
than typical let's say normally you can
curl 50 lbs uh a barbell curl 50 lbs for
10 reps and then after that for like a
couple days your biceps are feel good
tons and tight a little sore a little
kind of weak and if you try to come in
the next day and curl you might get 50
pounds for like seven reps well that's
not really much of an overload actually
regressing maybe I'm training a little
too of but if you come back two or three
days later you can do 50 for 10 or even
11 reps and your biceps are completely
healed like someone's like hey you ready
to train arms you're like dude fuck
absolutely ready I'm fucking healed and
you know when you're healed you've got
energy your muscles feel nice and full
they're not sore then you hit it again
because if you wait longer than that
that's not how your arms shrink away to
nothing they mostly just maintain their
size for actually at least a week but
you're missing an opportunity to hit it
again I'm gonna make a really what the
fuck is all the sex analogies on this
channel Scott we're getting canceled for
sure let's say you're in a super crazy
text message DMV video flirt SL with
some some some nice young lady you're
talking to on the internet oh boy that's
how love happens thanks 50s kid so you
planned a weekend with her where you're
both arriving across the country
to St Louis Missouri Scott isn't that a
nice place to have a romantic Endeavor I
mean our editor Max St is there I think
hey Max Stasney might be a third if you
pick him up he's a muscular young man
with lots of energy for sex boy oh boy
anyway I assume so let's say you're in a
situation where you're only with that
super crazy psychotic romantic flirt
partner of yours for two days that
that's how long you got the hotel for
and you got flights and shit and you're
not made of a trillion dollars like I
physically am literally made of money
actually so you can't just be like God
fuck it I'll just stay another week you
got a certain amount of time to get it
in if you know what I mean and you mean
that literally as well always use
condoms and and the pill or whatever put
the pill in the condom I don't know how
that works I've never been with a woman
before however long you're there for
you're going to try to get in in as much
as possible which means that once the
flesh is willing you're in again so that
means like you show up to the hotel hit
it orange juice room service nap wake up
in the middle of the night you hit it
again breakfast you hit it again and and
so on and so forth so you can leave and
be like dude I think we did this shit
like five times and she's like yeah I'm
going to need a week and you're like hey
but no missed opportunities and so when
friends she gets back to her area of the
woods you get back to yours and your
friends are like dude how was it you're
like I can honestly tell you fellas we
took every single opportunity to express
our physical love to each other that was
literally available based on the rules
of recovery like if we're trying to do
stuff and we're both still physically
hurting we just need to chill and watch
TV a little bit but once we've recovered
enough to where the willingness is there
and the physical ability to tolerate
tissue damage is there I think it's how
it works Scott is that how that in any
case I know how things work
you are taking every opportunity
possible let's wind that whole crazy
analogy back and get right back to the
real point if you train your arms
seriously according to how you tell
people but you train them once a
week I'm going to assume that it takes
your arms an entire week to recover
which is bullshit in almost every case
most people's arms can recover from hard
workouts man one to three days later
which means if you are a fast recovering
individual and you're not crazy doing a
ton of volume per workout you might be
able to Train Your Arms four times a
week and someone's like dude really arms
four times a week like why like because
I'm recovered every day or every other
day and if I can train my arms hard
because I'm recovered I do it density on
the other hand if it takes me half a
week to recover from arms probably my
arms are fucking enormous then take that
long to recover and it's not a problem
then I'm going to train them twice a
week week but I'm sure shit not spending
any time where I could have been
training arms not training arms so
training arms as often as they recover
means you did two things to do one
determine how quickly your arms recover
if it's every other day motherfucker you
training your arms every other day then
and if you say well God that's a lot of
work do you want big arms or not a lot
of times people say back I train it once
or twice a week legs leg day just once a
week and I'm growing but you tell people
the real deal they say hey I want I want
big arms and you go okay what are you
willing to do for it they're like bro
fucking Rich p man love it kill it or
whatever everything sweet um when you're
not sore tired and you're ready to
perform at your highest level again you
train arms and they're like that would
mean I train arms like four times a week
that's it then you do they're like oh
fuck I don't know how serious I am about
arm size ha I got you pussy you're
backtracking now so if you're really
serious about training arms you train
them when they recover which is by the
way true for every single other muscle
but people don't usually mean that when
they talk about arms because they're
surprised how quickly arms can recover
and if they're recovered trame again so
all that Mike man or that hit philosophy
bullshit the way to get big arms is to
train them once every Epoch so like the
hallene we train arms once the pestene
we TR should fuck out of my face with
that you train when them shits recover
and that means relatively high frequency
training because your arms do not take a
week to recover maybe they take half a
week but maybe more or less they take
like one or two or three
days next rule number
eight the body is a totally integrated
system there are parts of that system
system individual muscles which recover
on their own timelines and not much of
the rest of the body affects them but
there are systemic recovery capacities
and concerns that if you train other
things hard in the body other muscles
hard it drains the ability of other
muscles that are unrelated to get their
best growth that means because we're
dealing with a finite system we have to
maximize our utility to whatever it is
we want to do the most for example if
you take a fighter bomber aircraft
that's capable of having anti-aircraft
missiles to shoot at other planes or
guided bombs to drop on land targets and
you send it out the typical load out
could be like half anti-air missiles and
half bombs but if the mission of the
aircraft is to rain hell on the enemy
down below and the Air Force has gained
air superiority in the battle space you
actually don't need maybe more than two
anti-aircraft missiles maybe zero why
it's not like you're like well fuck it
who cares it's because you only have a
certain number of hard points in order
to attach bombs the more anti-aircraft
missiles you have on there it looks cool
in flight simulator but the fewer bombs
you can have and that means your your
stated goal of pounding the enemy on the
ground hey Scott you ever pound the
enemy on the ground
before maybe not the enemy am I right no
P slick son of a bitch he knows more
than he than he um makes it seem like in
any case if you really want to pound it
in with ground ordinance you got to take
some missiles off because there's only
so many points of attachment on a plane
PL can only take off of so much weight
just the same way your body has a
limited amount of total maximum
recoverable volume it has for its whole
system fourarms plus legs plus calves
plus chest plus black plus arms plus
shoulders that all adds up so if you
want the biggest arms you can have it's
a real good idea to back off a little
bit on the other parts of your body to
give arms that extra advantage of really
being unlimited by systemic concerns and
the difference in volume there can be
really big the difference in the amount
of growth you can elicit by backing off
on some stuff versus not is fucking huge
just like if you take a fighter bomber
it has eight hard points for ordinance
you can drop eight bombs or if you just
don't change anything you can only drop
four bombs four versus eight bombs is a
very different degree of Destruction the
enem is going to feel that very
differently just the same way if you
train back hard and chest hard and
shoulders hard and legs hard and
everything hard specializing on arms is
is a name only now you can still train
arms first in the session you can do a
couple more sets for them maybe push
close to your limits but ideally if
you're real serious about arm
prioritization especially if you're
Advanced you want to back off at least a
little bit on the rest which means your
leg workouts you take them down to
maintenance volume which is onethird of
your typical training volume it's very
small take your chest take your back
take your shoulders all the maintenance
volume folks the definition of
Maintenance volume is enough training
volume to not make you lose any muscle
at all so you will not lose muscle you
just won't be gaining any in those
muscle groups you say well that sucks
I'm missing out on three months of leg
gains why because you have so much
bandwidth now opened up so much systemic
fatigue tolerance is now totally free
because your body's like dude all the
other training is easy as fuck what are
we going to do with the spare reserves
and you're like arms and your body's
like fuck yeah let's do it and all of a
sudden you can train arms more
frequently or heavier or take them close
to True muscular failure versus systemic
failure all these huge advantages St
piling up and then the quality and
quantity of your armor training is just
categorically higher and then after
three months of that you go holy shit
like I made amazing arm gains now it's
back for me to put arms in the back
burner take legs and chest or everything
and just go back to a normal program or
just do arms normally but throw back
everything in like it's normal so that
backing off and the rest that's a really
really big deal you don't need to use it
but if youve sort of really tried to get
big arms and nothing's worked I would
say it's time to really reduce
everything down to maintenance volume
which again is roughly a third of the
typical number of sets you do per week
for muscle group and kick the rest in to
Arms now I'm not saying just take all
that volume and transfer it linearly
into arms I'm saying do the normal
volume you do for arms see how your
recovery progresses week to week if
you've truly reduced everything a lot
your recovery week to week is going to
be easy easy easy easy and you can
either go for longer without D loading
put more weight on each time add more
reps each time or increase the volume
you do in each session much more than
normal either way you slice it you get
better gains more recovery capacity
means more gains and the way you free
that up is to reduce the training of the
other parts of the
body rule number nine eat damn it folks
this keep this part really simple your
muscles are made of things and those
things are not available in your body
normally which is why you eat them in
food things like protein and protein
automatically doesn't make you jacked
because it requires calories in order to
install the protein in your body in
order to feed the rest of the body so
the body doesn't come looking for your
muscles for food so you plenty of
protein plenty of calories just good
fucking nutrition and if you want
something to get bigger typically you
need more calories than you normally
consume cuz you're going to be getting
bigger if I have an office space it's a
3,000 square ft it's a certain amount of
stuff that's going to be in it if I'm
trying to expand my office space to
5,000 square feet I'm going to be buying
more stuff this is not a situation which
is like okay we're just going to move
around the furniture that we have the
3,000 foot space and it's going to be
totally fine the the this room's empty
like well we ran out of stuff time to
buy more stuff just the same way you
need more construction equipment to
build something 5,000 square feet than
3,000 you're going to need more raw
materials protein and good nutritious
calories in order to build bigger arms
because you can build bigger arms
without gaining a bunch of weight or a
bunch of of raw tissue but if you want
big big arms that are much bigger you're
going to have to eat your way up to
it the contrary point is is quite sad
someone it weighs 130 pounds they're
just training like fucking mad and
optimally too just great training they
watched all RP videos and they eat to be
130 and they're already lean and they
train like their arms like crazy and
they get a little minimal like a little
better of a pump but because they're 130
the 130 13 nothing happens I didn't have
this in mind when I started this rant
but there was actually a person who I
can point to directly Tristan Lee was
like roughly 1335 pounds for years
Tristan trained his ass off and got very
very few gains recently Mr coach ifb pro
Jared feather took over Tristan's uh
most of his training and took over
entirely his diet and increased the
calorie so much that Tristan now weighs
like as the recording this video in late
November 2023 um he's like 165 and not
that much fatter just so much bigger
people like oh my God how did he gain
this weight like Assuming he's still
drug free which he says he is I believe
him tentatively as I do everyone
including myself uh is just the extra
calories bro and they got to come from
somewhere so if you have someone who is
130 pounds and they're just trying to
get bigger arms you got to get them to
realize that with the same exact muscle
size and frame that they currently have
130 isn't going to be what gets you
bigger arms 140 could be extra 5 pounds
per arm now that'll be no noticeble but
you got to eat your way up to 140 if you
can ever give your body the nutrition
that it needs to get to 140 there's just
no way fucking literally according to
the laws of thermodynamics that you're
going to be able to get bigger without
introducing more materials and it's sad
when people spend so much time training
and miss out on the weight gain
nutrition aspect so if you want bigger
arms if you want bigger anything you got
to eat up for it maybe for 12 weeks gain
a half a pound or a quarter pound of
body weight per fucking week it's not
that big of a deal deal you gain 4 PB
you gain six PB total that shit goes to
your arms your arms are way bigger
provide that calorie Surplus with plenty
of protein you got to eat for size must
eat for size and a lot of times when
people review various programs
especially in YouTube comments yeah man
this program high volume didn't work for
me man I actually got smaller and
there's all kinds of things I have to
say about that and one of them is like
well did you gain weight and a lot of
times they're like no they're like so
how do you know if it's a good program
if you didn't even gain weight weight
gain something that happens without the
program you just have to eat your way up
to it if you actually gained weight and
you still had shitty results when yeah
it's a bad muscle building program but
if you don't ever give yourself the
nutrition to gain weight you're actually
not in the position to evaluate any
program it's like someone gives you a
fighter jet and and they're like I'll
come back in two days ask you how it was
you come back and you're like what do
you think like nah it sucks okay how did
it fly like what I never put gas in it
what the fuck how can you tell if it
works or not I don't know I just don't
like how it looks what so eating for
growth is it's it's rule number nine
because all the training rules Come
First it is really important and most
people get it right but don't be that
tragic figure that gets it wrong mystery
as to why your arms aren't big you just
don't need enough to fill them shits out
you might even be training really
well lastly rule number
10 your body gets tired of shit your
arms like every muscle will get into
stainless period where they're resistant
to further hypertrophy you can grind in
growth for a while and then arms they
get L tired and they need a break so my
best guess for you as to how to do
things would be to take a few months
really focus on arms grind eat and then
take a break and by break I mean just go
back to normal training where your arms
are trained normally and not in any
special way your arms will relaxed
they'll cool off they'll heal they'll
get reinvigorated for more gains and
then a couple months later you can start
that whole procedure all over again you
just don't want to like prioritize your
arms for two years straight and realize
that the first 6 months were really
great and the last year and a half has
just been you tired and your elbows
hurting so great gains in most Endeavors
and definitely in sport Science are a
matter of what's called concentrated
loading you're really push and push and
push and push and push and then at some
point when the system starts to get
really oh just nothing great is
happening anymore you back off it's just
kind of similar fuck it why not keep
these stupid analogies coming um it's
like banging you know like you fucking
bang for a while everyone's having fun
bang for longer than a while everyone's
like I don't really know what we're
getting out of this take a break Netflix
chill couple gallons of orange juice and
then later in the night you may find
that banging is great again don't just
be like hey we're here for two days in
the hotel right and she's like yeah like
do you think we could have intercourse
physically for 36 hours straight she's
going to be like is anyone winning at
that point like well yeah by fucking
only fans they want to see it she's like
oh shit as long as I get 50% of that
monetization we're in baby but since
shit doesn't work like that with your
arms I don't know if you're monetizing
on only fans Scott how many of our
viewers monetize with their arms on only
fans I would I would pref I think
99% two very different guesses um grind
for a few months when your arms get
tired take a break start later a few
months and that'll be really
good training for muscle
growth is never going to be the same
we were not just going to let you off
with these tips it turns out we have
this thing called the RPI pervy app and
it has preloaded arm specialization
programs in there and they're very good
but I wrote a special one that you can
just copy and paste right into your
fucking app anytime you want and look if
you don't download the app no big deal
we're still friends you can just do this
program that we have displayed for you
right here do it verbatim and it's a
fucking great program so I wrote it for
you to go over it real quick it's Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Friday Saturday so 5
days a week and the reason I spread it
out this weird way is because the arm
emphasis days are every Monday Wednesday
and Saturday and that gives us time to
train other muscle groups really a huge
time to stimulate arms back off let them
rest stimulate back off let them rest
stimulate again Mondays we start with
barbell Skull Crushers for triceps by
the way you can use any exercises you
want but I would keep the relative
positions the same
triceps barbell scull Crushers then that
pre- cooks your triceps then you do
dumbbell flat dumbbell press for chest
but remember because your triceps are
pre-cooked you're already training
triceps again with that exercise you
move on biceps with easy curl and then
you do underhand grip pull Downs so you
hit your back and your chest a little
bit but mostly it's biceps and
triceps Tuesday you hit quads you hit
hamstrings you hit shoulders nothing
crazy maintenance volume come in
Wednesday and now you start with biceps
instead of triceps so you dumbbell curls
on the incline then you do easy
underhand row but remember that's more
biceps than normal because you've pre-
exhausted your biceps then you do cable
tricep pushdowns and then deficit
push-ups again that pre-exhaust means
you're checking your back off you're
checking your chest off but it's way
more arms than it would normally be
Friday you come in again you do stiff
leg a deadlifts leg presses dumbbell
leral raises great nobody lost nobody
found and then on Saturday you do
triceps Easy Bar overhead extension you
do incline dumbbell press again a little
bit of chest and more triceps because of
that order that post exhaust
situation biceps you do free motion
curls facing away from the machine so
you get a big stretch at the bottom and
then for back you do assisted pull-ups
but it's an underhand grip you really
focus on the biceps the entire time so
you've got your chest you've got your
back and you're cooking your arms three
times a week start with two or three
sets on every exercise over the course
of multiple weeks try to increase the
number of sets if you feel like you're
recovering well if you're not not keep
the sets the same increase a rep here
and there 2 and a half to 5 pounds on
the bar here and there you're going to
make amazing progress de lo switch some
of the exercise around switch some of
the orders around hit it again do it two
or three times and fellas and ladies you
will have bigger arm and people will
just respect you more you're GNA walk
into your work and your boss is going to
be like boss and you're like oh I guess
I am in charge thanks and he's like oh
shit those arms he's on his knees
begging typical day at work for you at
that point all right let's wrap this up
what do beginners get out of this what
intermediates get out of this and what
do advanc lifters get out of this if you
are a beginner lifting between zero and
two to three
years what you want out of this
discussion is very simple strict
technique because that's the Baseline
for everything else to build big arms
focus on deep stretches on all of your
lifts that you can and train your arms
first or early in most of the sessions
which you train them if you just do
those three things as a beginner you're
going to get way better arm results
don't even worry about the rest of the
ship for
intermediates you focus on all 10 rules
for arms especially the rules that you
haven't been so much focused about so
for example if you've been doing strict
technique and deep stretches you've done
the compound post exhaust it's really
working that you haven't really ever
tried multiple variants you've just
tried to really dig into the optimal
movements and your arms recover fine but
you're not training as often as they
recover you just train twice a week try
to focus on those more variance and the
more recovery more training to recovery
because you haven't been before the
stuff you've been doing well before it's
already been working for you try to
really round out to make sure you can go
through all 10 rules and be like damn
I'm really doing a good job on all this
which means really the only thing up to
chance now is just genetics because I've
taken care of the eating I'm training
very very well what I got coming to me
is what I got coming what you don't want
is to have small arms and the reason you
have them is because you just didn't do
a good enough job in a way that you
could have easily done so as an
intermediate you want to check all the
boxes that you can check now for the
advanced and again if you're a beginner
immediate you don't understand what I'm
saying to the advanced well that makes
sense because it's for advanced folks
learn which exercises give you your best
stimulus to fatigue ratios you should
already have a very good understanding
of that you want to also when you're
trying to get bigger arms highly reduce
your training volume for the other
muscle groups when arms are your biggest
Focus because big arms on are already
big person they take a lot of training
effort and also the rest of your body
training chest and back and shoulders
and legs as a fucking Advanced person
drains the shit out of your systemic
abilities if you reduce that to
maintenance volume the amount of energy
you've opened up for your arms is
enormous and it's going to make a big
difference and lastly very important
Point especially for the advanced learn
roughly what your minimum effective
volumes are for your arms and learn
roughly what your maximum recoverable AR
volume is for your arms especially in
the context of a prioritized programs
where arms are primary focus and
everything else is secondary Focus
something you can do in the RP
hypertrophy app by the way just by
labeling it enh hands all the
periodization for you the note here is a
big one study after study shows that
when you specialize on a muscle group
the maximum recoverable volume the most
volume you can do and still recover and
benefit from can be much much higher
than it normally is in the context of a
program in which you train your whole
body very hard so for example if you're
training chest and back and legs and
arms and everything all relatively
evenly your maximum recover volume for
biceps and triceps individually might be
like 20 sets a week 20 sets for biceps
20 sets of triceps you do more than that
and you kind of run a ground but if you
really pair down to maintenance volume
your shoulders your chest your back and
your legs and you start again with
minimum effective volume for arms you
might keep climbing to 25 sets to 30
sets even Beyond 35 sets of each biceps
and triceps and you're like oh my God
how the fuck am I still recovering and
making these crazy gains it's because
you backed off on everything else once
you back off and everything else do not
underestimate the peak of your mrv
because it might be much higher than
you're normally going and a lot of folks
that have struggled with arms they'll do
kind of a certain number of sets for
arms and they change all the other stuff
they change the Cadence they do the
stretches they do the good arrangement
of exercises but they never really sink
into the idea of like look you train
your arms with 12 sets a week right 12
sets biceps 12 triceps just a simple
example and they're like yeah yeah works
great if you tried training with more
and they're like well 12 is kind of all
I seem to be able to recover from like
toe dop do of course why don't you
reduce everything else and they're like
okay so maybe like 14 sets now you're
like start with eight sets and go up and
up and up as you recover continue to go
up and they might hit you up a few weeks
later and be like dude I'm doing 22 sets
for arms somehow I'm like still making
gains and you're like well that's
awesome and I mean gains on strength
week after week they're gonna find in
almost every study this is confirmed
if you can recover from 20 22 sets of
arms it's better for growth than 12 sets
for that same individual so when you're
thinking about training volumes
definitely start low but if you've
cleared your fatigue bandwidth by
reducing all the other muscle groups
you're training don't be afraid to
really lean into that volume you may
find that you were doing
70% 50% or even 30% of the volume you
could have recovered from and all of a
sudden biggest reason why you're making
big arm gains is because you can just do
more sets and you had no idea as many
sets was possible until you tried it
give it a shot all science confirm folks
thanks so much for tuning in let me know
if you have any questions about arm
building in the comments below if you've
heard any myths and stuff like that
maybe some other person said hey this is
really good for arms shoot a comment in
the comment section maybe I'll see it
maybe we'll make some more videos about
dispelling myths and stuff like that
folks thanks so much and next time I see
you you better have the biggest arms in
the world and then I'll be impressed
peace