hey rp+ rpu dr. James Hoffman here and
today we're going to talk a little bit
about flexibility and mobility training
for your strength conditioning programs
now today you're going to get a little
flavor of my take on some of this stuff
in a leader course you can look up a
little bit more specific and more
in-depth recommendations from somebody
like I think dr. Quinton ox gonna be
given that one so stay tuned for that
one in the future we're gonna have an
even more in-depth talk on this this is
more just to kind of whet your whistle
and get you excited about talking about
this a little bit more formally so first
off for today we're going to talk about
defining some terms and this is again
kind of my evidence-based opinion so you
can take it or leave it I used to tell
my students they could have their own
opinions on the matter after they passed
my class so you can take that same
option here and then take the class see
if you like it and then take whatever
you can from it and go forth and conquer
in your own way so you're going to hear
my definition of terms how I approach
these two things and make sure we're
clear concise definitions that we're
talking about we're going to talk about
how to actually develop flexibility and
mobility for a strength conditioning
based program and then I'll give you
some practical recommendations on how to
implement this into the real world so
let's get started moving on to the first
slide so flexibility mobility are kind
of hot words in the fitness industry
right now it seems that flexibility
training mobility training can cure all
ails right you need to recover more do
more flexibility you want to snatch more
do more flexibility you want to be able
to bench 500 well you need to be more
flexible is that really the case how
important our flexibility and mobility
in the world of strength conditioning
well it's going to be kind of hard to
say so we have to start breaking it down
a little bit what are these things
actually mean when we say that our
athlete needs to be more flexible or
more mobile what are we actually
suggesting that they need to improve
upon these are things that need to be
made more clear how much time should we
dedicate to these concepts of course
you've heard me and Mike rant about time
effort recoverability are all finite you
don't have infinite time you don't have
infinite effort to allocate to infinite
resources right so as a strength
conditioning coach of sports and sports
scientist you're going to have to weigh
the things that you are doing and
training in terms of their relative
importance so then the question is how
important is flexibility and mobility
training
to my athlete and how much time am I
going to allocate for that and then of
course we gotta weigh the benefits and
risks just like with anything else so
there's probably a distinct benefit to
doing flexibility mobility training but
there probably does come at a distinct
cost as well so those are things that we
want to establish let's move on to the
next one for our purposes I have made
some what I think are really really good
definitions and some guidelines for
flexibility and mobility so obviously
there are two different words they're
going to have two different meanings so
let's look at the slide the first one
we're going to look at is flexibility
the way that I like to look at
flexibility is as follows a nonspecific
evaluation of the range of motion about
a given joint or muscle action so again
nonspecific we're just looking at how
far does a certain muscle action or a
certain joint move in whatever direction
that it goes right so essentially we're
trying to find the full length until the
terminal end where it has to stop so
generally if we're training for
flexibility this implies that we're
trying to increase the terminal range of
motion for that muscle action or joint
movement right and that again could be
external rotation of the shoulder it can
be hip flexion extension can be all
sorts of things right so if we're it's
saying we want to improve flexibility
we're essentially saying we're trying to
do things that will increase the
terminal range of motion for whatever
joint or muscle action of talking about
we can do this bilaterally to sides we
can do it unilaterally just one side we
can look at really really finite
movements and we can look at really
really gross movements like a sit and
reach type thing right so lots and lots
of applications for flexibility no
brainer there right the next one on the
list we see is mobility the first thing
that we have to distinguish from
flexibility is that this is a task
specific assessment meaning it has
characteristics of specificity we're
looking at your ability to do something
whereas with flexibility we were just
looking at how far the joint goes right
regardless of what we're actually doing
regardless of what sport you're in or
what movements are trying to assess
mobility implies that there is some type
of task specificity involved meaning
can't I squat to death can't I crouch
down with an arch back can I do my
hurdling movements for track-and-field
things like that so there's some type of
task that we need to establish right
then once we've established the task
best vissa t we're looking at the range
of motion required to perform
tasks with optimal technique now we're
not saying perform the task with crappy
technique and do a bad job there we're
saying the range of motion necessary to
do it with the best technique that we
reasonably can now you might have heard
other people say like there is no best
technique everyone's a little bit
different and that is largely true right
so there are some commonalities for best
technique that we can look out for and
then there's gonna be a little bit of
wiggle room based on an individual's
anthropometry and preference and stuff
like that but for the most part we
should know what their best technique is
going to look like so we're saying what
is the range of motion required to do
exactly that and then one other piece of
the puzzle that many people seem to
leave off of when we're talking about
mil bill excuse me mobility
we're also regarding the ability to
generate forces needed for athletic
performance within that full range of
motion including all the way up to the
terminal end so now we have at a
specific assessment specific assessment
excuse me we're looking at the range of
motion required to do the task and we're
looking at the intrinsic ability to
generate forces while doing that full
range of motion within the task right so
not just part of the range of motion not
just the beginning not just the middle
we're saying from start to finish
can't I control and generate forces
throughout the entire to the range of
motion so now we see not only is there a
range of motion component there's also a
strength component as well so I think
these are some of the big
differentiating factors between
flexibility and mobility flexibility
nonspecific how far does the joint go
mobility task specific we're looking at
the range of motion needed to have the
best technique and under strength
characteristics to control the body
throughout that entirety of the range of
motion makes sense I think that's pretty
good you know hopefully somebody can
make a better one but I think it's
pretty good starting point all right so
at this point if you're thinking about
it you should probably be realizing in
order for one to be mobile therefore
they should have some degree of
flexibility right because the
flexibility is just how far does the
joint go mobility generally we're gonna
cap that off and say well we might not
need to go all the way but we do have to
hit a certain level of range of motion
right now what we want to do is
establish kind of upper and lower bounds
for these things one thing that I think
people get into the bad habit of doing
is saying like well flexibility training
is in here
only good it can do no wrong therefore I
should try and be as flexible as
possible when in reality there's
probably kind of an upper limit as to
what we need in terms of our mobility
characteristics again being at a
specific assessment and then we probably
don't need to allocate a whole lot of
resources to it anymore right so if you
look at the slide have a couple examples
we have weightlifter guy who's doing a
snatch obviously requires a very large
range of motion and he has to be able to
control that whole range of motion from
that overhead squat position all the way
up whereas the bottom one we have
mystery pretzel Ginger who I have no
idea what she's doing in this picture of
is pretty hilarious she obviously is in
a highly controlled position a lot of
flexibility there probably not much
control so we can kind of see some
differences here and what we're looking
at between somebody who is highly
flexible versus somebody who is very
very mobile for their sport again if we
go to the next slide we can see kind of
a classic example of this the first one
we have is the yogi right somebody who
has incredible range of motion probably
some of the best range of motion
characteristics on the planet they can
do things that are just inconceivable
for a lot of us why because they spend a
lot of time working on flexibility on
the other side we have gymnast who is
somebody who also can achieve really
really big ranges of motion however can
control their bodies within those ranges
of motion as well so I think this is
kind of the dichotomy of the two where
we have flexibility on the side of the
yogi mobility kind of on the side of the
extreme side of the gymnast wherever
they have somebody who can move in
incredible ranges of motion but can
demonstrate almost complete control
throughout the entirety of those ranges
pretty cool and that's also why we
typically see the gymnasts are a little
bit more jacked than Yogi's on average
right let's go on to the next one so in
order for us to kind of establish upper
and lower bounds of course if you per me
rant before we need to have some type of
testing and monitoring in there as well
right so we have to be able to kind of
numerically assess this or at the very
least qualitatively assess it so how can
we do that there's a ton of different
tests out there that you can do
typically we first look at range of
motion tests like goniometer ii and
doing like just basic stretch tests
right so if never done goniometer ii
before it's essentially just put in kind
of um just a marker of the joint angle
and you can look at how far does my
bicep
flexin extent how far does my hip
flexing extend stuff like that really
easy very common in areas of like
athletic training physical therapy stuff
like that in exercise science we tend to
use more flexibility type tests like sit
and reach things like that any are fine
we can also start to get a little bit
fancier we can look at 2d and 3d
movement analyses 2d movement analysis
has come a long way there's a lot of
different apps out there that you can
get download on to your iPhone or your
iPad you can actually just record your
athlete doing whatever they're doing and
you can actually put little vectors on
there it's really really neat some of
them will even actually measure joint
angle changes and stuff which is pretty
cool
on the 3d side it's a lot more
complicated this is where you have to
actually put markers all over their body
put them in a specialized room with all
the cameras and move see how they move
around right a little bit more invasive
but doable and we can actually look at
how their joints actually move around
just pretty cool we used to do this with
the men's golf team and that's why I put
the golf figure on the slide here
because we would actually do the 3d
movement analysis for our golfer swing
we would actually make a little
screensaver for them to give back to
them when they were done but then we've
give the data to the coaches and say
okay now we can actually look at how
they're swinging put some quantitative
to our qualitative as well one that's
really common that I'm just going to
give a little bit of a preface here
functional movement screening
FMS is something that gets lots of hype
the hype calm down for a while and then
it made a small resurgence again more
recently FMS is something that can be
used to assess flexibility mobility and
kind of like structural imbalances what
it is not good for is predicting sport
performance this is where you have to
draw the line so what is the research on
FMS show FMF does not correlate with
performance in any meaningful way
meaning somebody can score really really
well on an FMS test and just be totally
crappy at their sport conversely they
can score really crappy and be the best
NBA player you've ever seen right so it
doesn't really correlate with
performance in any meaningful way
however it can be useful in assessing
flexibility and mobility characteristics
and again this is something that like
athletic trainers physical therapists do
all the time
it's not something we see quite as much
in Sport and Exercise Sciences but
should be acknowledged and can be a
useful tool however you just don't want
to make up protocols on the spot there
are very well-established protocols that
you might have to dip into athletic
training literature to kind of to delve
into but they can be really useful and
then of course you've probably heard me
say this before qualitative analysis
your coaches eye goes a long way if
you've been involved in sport for a long
time or involved in training for a long
time you have a pretty good idea of how
these things are supposed to look if it
looks like smells like tastes
like it's probably right so
you can use your coach's eye and you can
evaluate how the person is moving how
their technique looks or if they look
really stiff rigid and unable to hit the
technique because of flexibility you can
probably tell that right just by looking
at them so obviously we want to have
some numbers to back up our qualitative
if you can only use qualitative that's
okay don't be afraid of using
observation right but we want to
hopefully have some numbers to back it
up as well so there's just some tests
that we can do it's not by any means
comprehensive but here's kind of a quick
simple way to start evaluating
flexibility let's move on so indeed if
you have somebody and one of our goals
is to establish a high degree of
mobility for sport they have to have
some degree of flexibility right so that
essentially would imply that in order to
become more mobile for your sport you
have to Train flexibility at least
concurrently to some degree maybe not
all the time but at least some of the
time so what are the most effective
strategies generally to improving
flexibility
well one of the things that is probably
a no-brainer for everybody is static
stretching now static stretching is not
something you want to do when the muscle
is cold like when you just wake up and
roll out of bed probably something you
want to do after you've trained maybe
later a little like a little while after
the training session maybe not
immediately following the training
session and tons and tons of stuff on
static stretching hopefully we don't
need to talk about this too much but
typical stretch and hold type things
really what this is getting you
accustomed to is kind of the pain
threshold intolerance to be in a loaded
stretched position it doesn't actually
seem to make huge improvements in
flexibility at least in the short term
in the long term it can in the short
term really just improves your tolerance
to being stretched which is kind of
still kind of cool but it takes a lot of
static stretching to make a chronic
improvement dynamic stretching same idea
however this can be used a little bit
more before exercise this generally is a
little bit more full range of motion
active
I usually like our dynamic warmup type
stuff we're doing high knees butt kicks
leg swings arm swings things like that
arm circles can be very useful to get
the person ready to move in a full range
of motion for whatever training session
that they're about to do one of the ones
that always comes up all the time for
our recovery talks is massage and foam
rolling and one of the things that's
really interesting we'll talk about foam
rolling a little bit more specifically
is these typically have very very little
to do with actual physical recovery but
they can have a pretty pronounced effect
on acute flexibility characteristics so
what we have found is that doing
something like foam roll or getting like
a really really high pressure massage in
a certain area can actually down
regulate some of your reflex responses
for a little while your GTO and muscle
spindle responds excuse me muscle
spindle reflex responses and for a short
amount of time probably 20 minutes or
less and that's generous
will allow for a slightly enhanced range
of motion on the affected area which is
pretty cool so we kind of down regulate
our nervous system response which will
let us tolerate a slightly greater
stretch now there's no chronic effect of
doing this this effect is completely
acute and we're talking on the scale of
minutes right not even days without in
minutes very very short however the
benefit of doing this type of this type
of excuse me massage or foam rolling is
that it will allow you temporarily to
train in a full range of motion right
one of the few things that actually can
affect the muscles ability to stretch
and become more flexible is doing loaded
eccentric movements which hopefully most
of you have watched these videos knows
that's like our standard weight training
movement stuff right any of our
resistance training movements have an
upward phase and a downward phase the
downward phase generally is where the
muscle is being stretched under load the
most and it turns out that's probably
one of the best ways to actually
increase the intrinsic muscle ability to
become more flexible so does massage or
foam rolling
play add just a direct distinct role in
increasing flexibility only acutely
right the chronic effect comes from
allowing people to train in a full range
of motion so you have the temporary
effect which allows them to do a little
deeper squats a little
for pressing that deeper squatting
deeper pressing is what allows them to
see chronic gains in flexibility see
where I'm going with that and then last
on this list it's gonna sound weird
vibration vibration is one of those
really crazy weird ones where if you
vibrate somebody for whatever reason
their flexibility the range of motion
goes through the roof for a short amount
of time this is something I have done
with my athletes and on myself and it's
a acute pronounced measurable effect you
do it boom for a little while they're
way more flexible same idea with the
foam roll it's an acute effect but the
chronic effect comes from allowing that
person to hit ranges of motion in their
training that they normally would not
hit makes sense awesome let's move on to
the next one so then the question is
okay those are strategies to make my
person more flexible how can I then make
them more mobile right so obviously all
those things flexibility training is a
part of that so that's number one on our
list the next one number two highly
associative or highly specific full
range of motion weight training weight
training is probably one of the best
things you can do to actually increase
mobility characteristics why well for
range of motion weight training actually
can't help increase the intrinsic
flexibility of the muscle it also trains
the force characteristics of the muscle
throughout the entirety of the range of
motion which is really really important
and part of our definition of mobility
right so highly associated full range of
motion weight training don't overthink
this one right so we're talking about
movements that will go through a full
range of motion of hip flexion extension
horizontal and abduction and adduction
right things like that you don't have to
go well for sprinting we never quite do
a full high bar squat death movement
overthinking a little bit right if you
need to open up like how much sagittal
plane flexion extension you can do high
bar squats probably a good idea or a
straight leg deadlift good idea right
things like that so highly associative
meaning kind of for the movement in
question full range of motion weight
training cannot go wrong this is one of
those things that goes back years and
years and years decades like people will
say weight training makes you slower
makes you less flexible not true right
actually weight training is one of those
things that makes you stronger which
makes you faster and actually increases
flexibility mobility
characteristics now there's something to
be said about becoming a really really
massive bodybuilder and actually gaining
so much tissue that it starts closing
off some of the joint spaces right
that's normal but that comes with the
territory of being a bodybuilder but the
actual strength training doesn't make
you less flexible it actually makes you
more flexible gaining lots of muscle
mass can make you less flexible simply
just from having more tissue in between
your joints can't get around it right so
that's a trade-off and then last we said
first flexibility training number two
ranked full range of motion weight
training related to whatever activity
you're doing number three and probably
the most underrated you still have to go
out and actually practice your sport
movements in support techniques with the
best technique and the best range of
motion that you can a lot of people will
say you know I have a problem I can't do
my range of motion for my sport
movements I'm gonna do everything in the
world to get more range of motion but
practice my sport which is really weird
really strange to me so one of the best
ways to improve technique improve range
of motion characteristics for your sport
is to practice those sport skills and
sport techniques don't throw that out
the window and seek out all these crazy
supplemental pink band behind the head
Schmid flamingos whatever don't do that
stuff that's crazy right what are the
things that are really gonna have a big
impact doing your stretching stuff full
range of motion weight training
practising your sport movements to the
best of your ability right no brainer to
my opinion seems pretty simple but it
does pose some questions right can one
then become too flexible or to mobile I
would say probably so generally what we
find is that and this is on the next
slide by the way flexibility training in
general is very positive and generally
comes with pretty low minimal risks
however training solely for the purpose
of increasing your range of motion the
terminal range of motion is not
inherently good either it does come at
some distinct costs right so what we
have found is that people who really
really pursue high degree of flexibility
tend to have some problems one you can
start running into increases in joint
laxity so you have a tendency for the
joint to displace and unfavorable ways
this could be really really bad
especially if you're involved in contact
or combat sports then the joint can
actually pop out of place in some cases
really really bad so our joints get
you loose for our own benefit we can
actually see decreases in the intrinsic
stiffness of the muscle which plays a
role in its ability to do stretch
shortening cycles and generate for high
forces and high power output so the
actual muscle tissue stiffness gets
loose and gets kind of waxed and then we
can actually see in some cases some
decreases in your ability to actually
generate movement through your neurons
firing appropriately and this is
something they've kind of looked at
having quite validated yet but this is
under also should preface by saying lots
and lots and lots high degrees of
flexibility training so what we need to
know about flexibility is it's generally
not a big deal
right and you should probably train
flexibility as determined by our sport
what we have found though is if you
spend hours and hours and hours a day
especially if you're doing it pre
exercise can predispose you to some sort
of some very very nasty problem let's go
on to the next one
some of the recent studies suggest if
you do a lot of static stretching and
again by a lot we meet ours we're not
talking about like 30 minutes before you
workout or after you workout that's
probably okay we're talking if you're
doing hours of static stretching per day
we've actually documented people will
start having decreases and strength
decreases in power output and their risk
of injury generally goes up which is
usually what most people think is the
opposite most people think stretch so
that you don't get hurt right well to
some degree that's true but if you
stretch too much you actually increase
your risk of injury so what we have
found is that there probably are
diminishing returns on doing flexibility
and mobility training there's probably
some type of upper limit and therefore
one can become too flexible into mobile
for their sport now again there's a
context there for whatever sport that
you're doing if you just want to be most
flexible man in the world that's fine
there's nothing wrong with that go for
it right but if you want to be a rugby
player a weightlifter power lifter
lacrosse player there's probably an
upper bound that we want to seek out and
then we also run into the problem again
of allocating time and resource and then
one other thing to consider is that and
this is not something that has been
fleshed out super explicitly but it's
been suggested and kind of recent
literature is that doing a lot of
stretching especially if you're trying
to use it as a recovery modality which
first of all doesn't work
second of all can
actually start to interrupt some of the
recovery adaptive processes very similar
as to how taking too many NSAIDs can so
we don't want to necessarily start
relying too heavily on doing a lot of
stretching let's move on to the next one
so in order to promote mobility in sport
we generally recommend three big things
right we said do your flexibility
training highly associative full range
of motion weight training and continue
to keep practising your sport techniques
right and again we want to re-emphasize
the thing with mobility is that we're
also training the force generating
characteristics of that range of motion
one of the things that you will find is
that when somebody starts training some
of these things when they start training
for flexibility start trying to increase
the range of motion it actually comes
relatively quickly when you start
putting all these puzzle pieces together
it only takes a couple weeks to actually
start seeing some market improvements in
the range of motion but what happens
when now you were squatting at three
quarters depth now you can squat all the
way well most of us who have figured
that out or have tried who went from
partial squatting the full squatting
figured out that yeah it's a lot harder
right and sometimes you don't have the
strength and the bottom end of that
movement or whatever movement that
you're doing so what does that mean that
means as you are concurrently gaining
range of motion you also need to be
concurrently gaining strength throughout
that range of motion that is a huge
component that I think a lot of people
throw to the wayside where they are
happy to see improvements in flexibility
but then don't actually start training
within that newly achieved range of
motion which is critical so you have to
be strong in that range of motion as
well so again in order to benefit from
that new flexibility and try and gain
more optimal technique you have to be
able to generate and manage your forces
throughout the entirety of that range of
motion so gain range gain strength
concurrently and that will help improve
your technique and keep you safe - let's
go on to the next one so one of the
things that we want to keep in mind is
also we always talk about doing our
training in a phasic fashion right you
always hear me especially on the
webinars people say what's the best way
to do this and we say wrong question
right wrong question gives wrong answers
so we always think about phasic training
so one of the things that we want to
consider is that we might actually
period eyes our flexibility mobility
approach over time
and one of the things that we can start
doing is once we have established kind
of a pattern of some flexibility
training some full range of motion
weight training that's good we'll keep
it going and then hopefully over the
next few weeks we'll actually start to
see improvements in some of those
flexibility mobility characteristics
great
well now weeks months later we might
actually start to see our athlete
hitting the range of motion required to
do his or her sport techniques the best
way that they can which is awesome
that's exactly what we wanted right but
now they've actually achieved the range
of motion that we need the question
starts to become do I need to continue
trying to overload this flexibility
mobility training the answer is probably
no you might be able to actually start
de-emphasizing certain things and
re-emphasizing other things right so for
example when you are trying to pursue
flexibility and mobility you might spend
a lot more time doing things like static
stretching foam rolling even vibration
if that's an option and a lot of that
full range of motion weight training
once the range of motion and technique
that you desired have been established
you might actually take those things
away take the time and resources that
you were allocating to that now put more
into things like sport practice or full
range of motion weight training weight
training being a good option especially
if their strength has not caught up to
their range of motion yet so now we can
start taking that away we have a fixed
amount of MRV per week that we're
working with so we're saying all right
I'm removing that from the equation that
frees up either more recovery time or
more time I can spend training something
else which is a very good option so
again we want to make sure that they are
still able to be strong in that range of
motion so once you start tapering down
the flexibility training it's very
likely that you can start tapering up
either the weight training or the amount
of sport practice they're doing with
that new awesome range of motion and B
the ability to express really really
good technique so let's go on to the
next one so one of the problems that I
ran into a lot when I was coaching was
of course rugby scum of the earth they
are also not very flexible which makes
them even poor quality people so one of
the problems that we had to run into is
we had some guys who were very
inflexible and they could not crouch
down in the scrum which is that really
awkward
Superman binding position where the
groups of guys collide and try to push
each other around right well doesn't
sound like it's that hard to do
but in order to maintain rigidity in the
scrum each person has to maintain a very
very upright and direct posture as they
crouch down so a lot of people have a
hard time actually getting into the
crouched position while maintaining like
a good arch position in their back so we
had a lot of guys who simply were not
flexible enough to do that yet which
seems odd but were early what that would
translate into is they couldn't get down
parallel with a flat back to the ground
so they would do it like this and then
what happens when the other team scrum
they'd have a better position on us
right so what do we have to do well some
really easy strategies to start off with
right start doing some flexibility
training in this case the hamstrings
were a limiting factor their hamstrings
were not up to par in terms of being
able to express the best technique they
could in the scrums right so we said
from my needs analysis ah coming full
circle you like that all the way back to
video 1 my needs analysis identified a
problem with a particular athlete or a
couple athletes and said normally not a
huge deal but this time flexibility is a
limiting factor for them being able to
express really good technique in their
sports skills so we said got to work on
hamstring flexibility what were some
things that we did we did some really
basic stuff some sit and reach some
stretch and hold every now and again we
might even do some like pmf style
stretching not a huge deal 30 seconds of
pop rest hit it again
do a couple reps of that no big deal one
of the things that we did use with
success was vibration and that was we
were lucky enough to have access to a
vibration platform this was something we
would do pre training or even pre
support practice at times it was really
funny a lot of them were not even
flexible enough to do a reasonable bent
over row which most of you know you
don't need to be super flexible to do
that certainly being more flexible as
helpful but we're talking like they were
standing straight up right one of the
things that we did put him on the
vibration platform target the hamstrings
at them for a minute rest is asking for
another minute and that went back to
training all of a sudden now we're at
about 50% instead of the full a hundred
percent like flat back parallel to the
ground now they're like halfway down
which is way better than where they were
before right so now they can do those
bent over rows or whatever it is that
they're doing in an enhanced position
that they normally could not do so we
started doing that we incorporated some
hamstring
to their dynamic warmup and of course
you guys know me we did full range of
motion weight training which included
things like straight leg deadlifts good
mornings back extension include ham
raises bent over rows all with the
fullest range of motion that we can and
of course we really made sure that they
practice their technique not only
unresisted but also under resisted
conditions like they would in a game
right and what we find over time they
started becoming more and more flexible
over time they started getting a little
bit stronger at the bottom end of the
range of motion and over the course of a
couple months next thing you know they
can do the scrum down no problem the
nice thing then is we can actually start
taking things away so you see on the
next slide once we established that we
excuse me once we have established the
requisite flexibility we can start
taking things out right so we started
taking on the stretching vibration and
stuff out we really put a big emphasis
on them doing this full range of motion
as they could in the weight room so
squeaking down a little half inch to an
inch every single set every single time
overtime started add up right we really
emphasize the good technique in the
rugby practices and then the best part
about it is once you achieve that
mobility maintenance is simply achieved
through just periodization in sport
practice so if you are continuing to do
full range of motion weight training
using a variety of movements doing full
range of motion relative to your sport
using a variety of movements and
techniques the mobility characteristics
are generally very easy to maintain so
long as the person doesn't stop training
altogether if you stop training all
together they will probably start
reverting back to their less flexible
state however if you're still doing full
range of motion weight training and
you're still doing rugby in this case
you probably aren't going to revert too
much and even if they revert a little
bit like during their active rest or
down times a little bit of training
brings them back up to speed and it's
relatively short amount of time so again
we want to think face it we don't always
want to think I am doing all this crazy
flexibility mobility training all the
time I may emphasize certain parts of
that and then I might reestablish with
my monitoring program my requisite range
of motion once I've said that ok we've
hit the range of motion I can take some
things away and then hit the gas and
other things see where I'm going with
this
think I'm like a sports scientist yet I
hope so so that's really my big rant on
flexibility mobility training again we
don't want to just use those terms
loosely and just say like oh yeah
flexibility is this mobility is that
flexibility is how far we can move our
joint or muscle actions mobility is a
test specific assessment and includes
the range of motion needed for good
technique and the strength
characteristics within that technique
and we know that there's probably some
upper and lower bounds to those things
meaning we don't necessarily need to
just trying to blankly keep improving
flexibility over time really what we're
trying to do is get our athletes to do
the techniques that they need to be
successful to the best of their ability
once we have done that we can consider a
phase of training model start phasing
some of those things out start
emphasizing some other things and that
will sustain the mobility
characteristics for the majority of the
time after that with some very very very
minimal fluctuations here there make
sense so I hope you guys enjoyed this is
my rant on flexibility and mobility
training we're gonna have a whole other
series coming up on this even more in
depth but hopefully this kind of whet
your whistle and get you thinking a
little bit more critically about doing
flexibility mobility training for your
strength training program
all right RB + RP you great tune again I
will see you next time
you