[Music]
all right guys I'm here
with Dr
Mike hey Bob shut the fuck up hey folks
Dr Mike here for renissance
periodization my biological son Jared
feather IP Pro Father and Son hit the
Olympia Expo we're going to be talking
to people we're going to be asking
people questions let's find stuff out
about the people at the Olympia
Expo there's three of you yes we're
gonna play veryy Fuck Hill with the Lee
Brothers is that the title of the video
tooart get real slow get all the way
down like it I'm G get your number later
dad or just a man you met okay yeah
remember when they tell you with school
like don't talk to strangers what kind
of candy would I have to give you for
you to get in my van sour
Pats yep we watch you a lot do you
really yes are you on the YouTube side
or the only P side you too I said I
follow you and I can't remember for what
your name is it's Dr something all right
folks we're here with Florida Man In the
Flesh go away okay so why did you come
up and talk to me what is it that you
need for
meor what do I do with these
hydration CU you got that fire physique
you're handsome oh what's up Crystal
that's my wife uhoh that's not Elite
lifts you're not the elite lifts guy
right I'm not Elite nor do I live what's
up man nice to meet you shut the fuck up
thank you so much for letting me sign
your Bel um am I allowed to put racial
slurs on here oh well say something to
YouTube oh my
gosh I don't know I just what do you
have to say to our YouTube
[Music]
audience your all right guys I'm here
with Brank you coach harder than last
time how are you buddy I'm doing
fantastic that's awesome what do you
think's the best part of the Olympia I
would say meeting the fans to be honest
it's incredible love the fans they're
great it's incredible how do you like
the impression is he doing
good how does that make you feel that
I'm sexually attracted to you
[Music]
um DJ was in my sa addict recovery
support group and I got to be honest we
made really good strides together until
we well ended up together and then all
that shit went down the train but it was
fun wasn't it most of our channel
members are prophetic masturbators they
never leave the house what are some tips
they can use to meet pretty girls sure
hearing about your bench they love that
they love hearing about your deadlifting
powerlifting they love all that if you
see one on the street maybe like follow
them for2 miles and then get on your
knees maybe start begging yes pleas give
me your number it shows dedication a
real man black hoodie put it over black
hoodie is great A real man can back I
want you guys at the same time to say
your ethnicity on three one two three
Chinese did you forget the white
side this is my wife Jolie you want to
see something funny sure I got one too
baby my man what do you really like like
what's your what's your thing my
favorite part when there's a women's
competition yeah some of them don't do
so well and then some of them need to
pick me up afterwards so I hang around
the show like a scumbag and when I see
the ones that are crying oh no I took
ache girl don't you worry warm and
loving arms you deserve first they're
going to fall into somebody into
somebody's arms they might as well be
mine Mike is her F Mike what he's got
such fatty cheeks I love him so I take
two non-jewish people of all the
restaurants we could have gone to we
just call them people where I'm from
well where I'm from we don't
and I took them to a kosher Jewish
restaurant last night why what the fuck
is wrong with you cuz I heard it was
going to be good it was horrendous so
basically they're like more anti-semitic
now maybe yeah yeah defin I I didn't do
well by us I'm a girl tell me are you a
girl I want to fuck okay what's your
name uh Kelsey kelse you're looking real
good tonight Kelsey how how about you
know when we go to the bathroom you know
we be
fuck when I saw you I wanted for you to
put an immense amount of physical love
onto me would that make you feel strange
no so you're are you from New York I am
have you ever heard my New Yorker guy
Italian guy impression before no I'm
sure I'm going to hear it though what's
your given full name I'd like to know
that before oh wow Don Arthur
saladino hey hey Donnie what are you
fucking doing yeah what that's what we s
hey that sounds too fucking British for
me what are you doing with that hey you
need something more Italian like
fucking pepperoni saladino I like
pepperoni I would take pepperoni over
Arthur if you sign us off for something
in new yor would say h get the fuck out
of
[Music]
here